A few Republicans have suggested that the dismissal of Robert S. Mueller III as special counsel could lead to President Trump’s impeachment, but it is unclear how.
Much of rural America will abandon the president if his tariffs incite a crisis for rural businesses.
President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants.
President Trump has used us-versus-them rhetoric to appeal to voters who are fed up with the status quo. We look at another politician who tapped into America’s divisions decades ago: George Wallace.
For the Kushner patriarch and his family, the pinnacle of American political power has turned out to be a wellspring of trouble, bringing criminal and regulatory inquiries.
His appeal to “forgotten” Americans is one of many parallels linking Mr. Wallace, remembered for conservatism and opposition to integration, to the trajectory of Donald J. Trump.
The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local):
An activist art group has staged an exhibit featuring live rats and a Donald Trump impersonator inside a Trump hotel in New York City.
President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to...
In a story April 1 about the Trump administration's treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must ...
Red paint was splashed across the sign outside President Donald Trump's golf club near his Florida estate.
President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.
Mexico's presidential front-runner launched his campaign close to the U.S. border on Sunday, demanding respect for Mexicans hours after U.S. President Donald Trump again threatened to scrap a key trade pact and erect a wall between the countries.
Despite its bumpy relationship with the Palestinians, the Trump administration is siding with the Palestine Liberation Organization in urging the Supreme Court to reject an appeal from American victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East more ...
Companies in Britain face a deadline to publish gender pay gaps, the Fed’s new chairman will speak and the Saudi crown prince wraps up his American tour.
A senior Republican senator on Sunday warned U.S. President Donald Trump against pulling U.S. troops from Syria, saying it would lead to a resurgence of Islamic State and increased Iranian sway over the Syrian government in Damascus.
Rex Tillerson has all but vanished from the State Department's website as his unceremonious firing by tweet took effect over the weekend.
By Lawrence Hurley
Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he's glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump's national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."
U.S. policy toward China has been misdirected for decades and policymakers are now recalibrating ties, Senator Elizabeth Warren told reporters during a visit to Beijing amid heightened trade tensions between the world's two largest economies.
Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin is making it clear he was fired from his job amid conflicting claims from the White House.
China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in an escalating tariff dispute with President Donald Trump that companies worry might depress global commerce.
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren says chaos in the Trump administration is harming its ability to formulate coherent policy toward North Korea's nuclear program and other important issues in Asia.
South Korean exports grew less than expected in March, adding to worries about the outlook for global demand amid growing fears of a U.S-China trade war and a resurgence in protectionism.
The front-running candidate for Mexico's July 1 presidential election formally opened his campaign Sunday in Ciudad Juarez, the border city that launched some of the country's key resistance struggles.
China has slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as on wine and certain fruits and nuts, in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel, China's finance ministry said.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt may not survive long in his job after reports that he paid below market rate to live in a condo owned by a lobbyist who deals with issues overseen by his agency, lawmakers and a former Trump ...
The traditional alliance between North Korea and China appears to be back on track.
Eric Holder came to town to campaign for the liberal candidate, and his group dumped $165,000 into the race. Joe Biden, Corey Booker and Gabby Giffords endorsed her, and more money came from a fundraiser in San Francisco. Meanwhile, Wisconsin Repu...
North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un clapped his hands and said he was "deeply moved" as he, along with his wife and hundreds of other citizens, watched a rare performance by South Korean pop stars visiting Pyongyang. The concert highlights the thawi...
Mexico's presidential front-runner launches his campaign near the U.S. border on Sunday, amid tension over U.S. President Donald Trump's plan to put a wall between the two countries.
If we learn anything from the recent controversies surrounding the social media giant, it should be that America’s privacy laws need beefing up.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.
A look at our latest featured couples.
The couple met in 2010 while both were working for the New Hampshire Democratic Party.
The couple, both 31, met at the University of Michigan.
Here’s what you need to know about the week’s top stories.
Charles H. Rivkin, an assistant secretary of state during the Obama administration, is now the chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America. He takes over in a time of upheaval.
The case, amid a reinvigorated debate over guns, has been closely watched as it tries to pierce the legal shield protecting gun companies from lawsuits.
A subsidiary that runs FirstEnergy Corp.'s nuclear and coal-fired power plants has filed for bankruptcy after the utility said earlier that it planned to close its three nuclear plants in Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Americans should be able to control their personal information, too.
Advocates as well as opponents of gun control, both plotting next steps after the March for Our Lives rally, think their adversaries will eventually tire.
The North Korean leader attended a concert by South Korean musicians in Pyongyang on Sunday. After watching one group perform, he called the event a “gift for Pyongyang citizens.”
The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools, which was stripped of its power by the Obama Education Department, is pursuing a return under a more for-profit-friendly administration.
“Ready Player One” arrived to $181 million in global sales, giving Steven Spielberg his first unqualified blockbuster since “Minority Report” in 2005.
A cheating scandal that has ripped through the core of Australia's most venerated pastime, cricket, prompted church leaders to provide guidance over the Easter weekend on how to emerge from the moral tailspin.
