The stock market continued to plunge Monday, as investors were unnerved by the unpredictable White House. Stocks are now down 4 percent this year.
President Trump has begun a new push for legislation to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States, White House officials said Monday.
The promotion of Mr. Muzinich, who spent most of his career on Wall Street, elevates a moderate voice within the Trump economic team.
The president was on the losing side of a libel ruling that could make it easier for victims of sexual misconduct to sue when they are called liars.
The Kremlin said it hoped President Trump would follow through on his proposal for such a session, made before last week’s tit-for-tat expulsion of diplomats.
And Washington doesn’t have to stand for it.
A Belarusian escort and her “seduction coach” fear deportation from Thailand, saying they know too much about Russian meddling in the 2016 American election.
On the economics and politics of America’s growing economic disunion.
Brandon Judd, who has reiterated talking points that include pushing for a border wall, has earned President Trump’s praise for his television appearances.
The agency announced a plan to relax Obama-era greenhouse gas rules and signaled that it aimed to make California, which sets its own standards, fall in line.
Israel must temper its lethal response to protests in the Gaza tinder box, or risk an escalation neither it nor the Palestinian leadership can contain.
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce announced duties of up to 25 percent on American goods, including pork, retaliating against steel and aluminum tariffs.
You don’t have to like Amazon to fear Trump’s attack on it.
Spurred by lobbyists, the E.P.A. administrator moves to relax or kill a mileage mandate and undo a crucial tool for combating global warming.
Iran froze its nuclear program after months of talks. If Trump kills that deal, Kim Jong-un will see little reason to trust him in negotiations.
The story of Seneca and Nero may show Trump advisers it’s not too late to come to their senses.
The Trump administration’s second suit against the state called the statute unconstitutional, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions accused California’s leaders of acting as if they were “above the law.”
Republican Senate candidates in states won by President Trump are in primary fights that could leave them weakened in fall contests against vulnerable Democrats.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
The Trump administration is opening the door to a potential White House meeting between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
U.S. President Donald Trump congratulated his Egyptian counterpart, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, on his re-election in a phone call on Monday and reaffirmed the U.S. strategic partnership with Egypt, the White House said.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe plans to visit the United States April 17-20 for talks with President Donald Trump, he said on Monday.
President Donald Trump asked a federal judge on Monday to order private arbitration in a case brought by a porn actress who claimed she had an affair with him.
President Donald Trump's lawyers are asking a New York state appeals court to throw out or freeze a defamation lawsuit by a former contestant on "The Apprentice" who has accused Trump of unwanted kissing and groping.
An aide to Russian President Vladimir Putin said Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump invited the Russian leader to the White House when they spoke by telephone last month, but the two countries haven't started any preparations for such a visit...
U.S. President Donald Trump will discuss "reciprocal trade and investment ties" with Japan's prime minister Shinzo Abe during a visit later this month, the White House said on Monday.
With overcast skies and temperatures in the 40s, President Donald Trump declared it was "perfect weather" on Monday for the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. Nearly 30,000 parents and children were expected to participate in the all-day event.
While President Donald Trump has said illegal immigrants heading toward the United States are trying to take advantage of an Obama-era policy that shields certain people from deportation, the program known as DACA is actually not open to new entra...
He is one of the Republican Party's most-prized recruits, a young U.S. Senate candidate with an outsider resume and a populist message designed to appeal equally to farmers, suburban moms and the national GOP's moneyed elite.
Investor Warren Buffett's oldest son usually focuses on finding ways for his foundation to help farmers in the developing world or get the most out of the crops he's growing in Illinois. But now Howard Buffett has jumped into the border security d...
Trump administration officials said Monday they're crafting a new legislative package aimed at closing immigration "loopholes," hours after the president called on Republicans in Congress to immediately pass a border bill using the "Nuclear Option...
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
A Kremlin aide said on Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump suggested the White House as the venue for a summit with Russia's Vladimir Putin when they discussed the idea of meeting in a telephone call last month.
White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said on Monday he did not see the United States and China responding to each other's tariff moves in a tit-for-tat escalation of trade tensions.
Shares of Amazon.com Inc fell 6 percent on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump again attacked the online retailer over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.  
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday he plans to visit the U.S. this month to discuss North Korea with President Donald Trump ahead of expected summits between the North and the U.S. and South Korea.
President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.
U.S. President Donald Trump intends to nominate Justin Muzinich, an aide to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, to be the deputy secretary of the Treasury, the White House said on Monday.
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
The U.S. Department of Justice on Wednesday sued California over a law that aims to give the state power to override the sale of federal lands, the latest battle between President Donald Trump and the nation's most populous state.
President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.
As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy. 
President Trump’s son-in-law wants to overhaul the penal system, but the attorney general is bitterly opposed. That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.
President Donald Trump won't let up on Amazon. He's been assailing the online retailer for days, zeroing in on a "scam" contract with the U.S. Postal Service that's actually been judged profitable for the post office.
The Trump administration this week will unveil a list of advanced technology Chinese imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to punish Beijing over technology transfer policies, a move expected to intensify trade tensions between the world's two largest...
For months, the stock market plowed through the obstacles the Trump administration threw in its way. Now, the S.&P. 500 is down more than 10 percent from its high.
For years, caravans of immigrants have headed north from Central America. Despite Mr. Trump’s ominous tweets, many do not seek entry to in the United States.
Congressional Democrats raised ethics questions on Monday about the framework of a defense fund set up to help pay legal costs for White House, Trump campaign and transition officials caught up in investigations into Russian meddling in the electi...
The Latest on relations between Russian President Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald Trump: (all times local):
Mexico's interior minister said on Monday that he spoke to the U.S. homeland security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, agreeing to work together to study how to best address the flow of migrants. 
The Latest on former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin. (all times local):
Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin downplayed concerns about his potential successor's lack of managerial experience Monday, saying the key for improving the VA will be surrounding White House doctor Ronny Jackson with a good team "be...
Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley is demanding information from Facebook following allegations that the social media giant mishandled user data.
U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March, with many factories saying they're having a tough time getting supplies in order to meet demand from customers.
Global stock markets fell for a second day Tuesday as investors continued to fret over a looming trade war between the U.S. and China and mounting public scrutiny of technology companies.
The U.S. military said on Monday it had killed five militants after launching an air strike in Somalia against al Shabaab, a militant Islamist group allied with al Qaeda.
House Speaker Paul Ryan stopped by Southwest Airlines Monday during a fund-raising trip to Texas to tout benefits of the new tax law and talk about modernizing the nation's air-traffic control system.
The head of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau asked Congress on Monday to trim the agency's power to write rules and spend money.

Atlantic City's former Revel casino is moving toward its reincarnation as the Ocean Resort Casino.
The Chinese industry body which recommended targeting scrap aluminium in retaliatory trade action against the United States is already exploring what other measures could be taken, an official said on Monday.
Mexican left-wing presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has an 18-point lead ahead of the July 1 election, according to a poll published on Monday that showed him with a growing advantage at the start of formal campaigning.
A video with dozens of news anchors reading a script about "fake stories" put in stark visual terms what for weeks had largely been an academic debate about media consolidation and the Sinclair Broadcast Group's efforts to promote a consistent mes...
Despite advances the country has made since the Rev. Martin Luther King. Jr. was slain while fighting poverty and racism, "the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us," former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.
First, the United States imposed a tax on Chinese steel and aluminum. Then, China counterpunched Monday with tariffs on a host of U.S. products, including apples, pork and ginseng.
The Trump administration on Monday rejected an Obama-era plan to make automobiles more fuel efficient, opening up a long process to weaken current standards and putting California and the federal government on a collision course over vehicle emiss...
Maryland's governor must be more permissive of social media commenters who disagree with him under a settlement to resolve a lawsuit that accused him of censoring constituents by blocking them on Facebook, the American Civil Liberties Union said M...
The Latest on the Syria conflict (all times local):
The U.S. Justice Department on Monday sought court permission to participate in settlement negotiations aimed at resolving lawsuits by state and local governments against opioid manufacturers and distributors.
China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products Monday in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.
President Donald Trump is warning about "caravans" of migrants heading to the U.S., though the caravan of Central American migrants supposedly moving across Mexico toward the border was strikingly immobile Monday.
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has been re-elected with 97 percent of votes, the same proportion that the former military commander secured four years ago for his first term but with a lower turnout, official results showed on Monday.
U.S. factory activity slowed in March amid shortages of skilled workers and rising capacity constraints, but growth in the manufacturing sector remains underpinned by strong domestic and global economies.
Jose Antonio Meade's race for Mexico's presidency so far has looked more like a slog through mud &#8212; a struggle to free himself from the scandal-stained reputation of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party that chose the seemingly apo...
Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi has won a second, four-year term in office, with more than 97 percent of the vote in last week's election, according to official results announced Monday by the election commission, which put turnout at 41....
The last Syrian rebel group in eastern Ghouta near Damascus began withdrawing on Monday under an agreement with the government, state media said, though a military source said a group of insurgents were still rejecting the deal.
China has increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, from frozen pork and wine to certain fruits and nuts, escalating a dispute between the world's biggest economies in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel. 
Malaysia on Monday approved a law against "fake news" that would allow for prison of up to six years for offenders, shrugging off critics who say it was aimed at curbing dissent and free speech ahead of a general election.
Asian shares slipped on Tuesday amid escalating trade tensions and worries over the fading outlook for global tech giants, but investors held their nerves to focus instead on prospects for stronger world growth.
Wall Street shares plunged on Monday as investors fled technology stocks amid resurgent trade war worries, with key indexes trading below their 200-day moving averages and the S&amp;P 500 closing below that pivotal technical level for the first ti...
U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell sharply on Monday, undermined by weakness in the technology sector while a growing trade dispute with China has investors pulling back on concerns over economic growth.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.
Another spring on the Korean Peninsula, another round of war games by the U.S. and South Korean militaries.
Today in History
Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labour costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.
Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labor costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.
In “The Common Good,” Reich argues that it all begins with a shared commitment to fundamental principles.
The Supreme Court is rejecting an appeal from American victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East more than a decade ago.
The U.S. Justice Department sued California over a state law that aims to stop the Trump administration from selling or transferring federal lands to private corporations, hitting the state with yet another legal challenge.
Questions about Sinclair’s size and handling of local broadcasters have been raised for more than a year.
The U.S. military has announced Sunday that it launched an airstrike that killed five extremist militants in central Somalia.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Marcus Molinaro, the Dutchess County executive, was elected mayor of his Hudson River village at age 19. Now he wants to replace Andrew M. Cuomo as governor.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Last month, anchors at local news stations across the country made identical comments about media bias. The script came from their owner, Sinclair Broadcast Group.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Tuesday:
Monday: Stephen Reinhardt’s legacy on the Ninth Circuit, President Trump vows “No More DACA Deal,” and a student mulls Stanford — along with 19 other schools.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Monday:
An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitt's lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil-fuels lobbyist didn't violate federal ethics rules.
A ruling party official apologized to South Korean reporters at their hotel after they were kept from a concert in Pyongyang attended by Kim Jong-un.
Republican Marc Molinaro vowed Monday to change what he called Albany's climate of corruption and behind-closed-doors deals as he formally kicked off his campaign for New York governor.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Kay Cannon, a performer, screenwriter, producer and three-time Emmy nominee, had never directed anything before "Blockers," an R-rated teen sex comedy that Universal Pictures is releasing wide Friday.
In a tight labor market, positions in poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that spells opportunity for recruiters like Ray Wiley.
China's manufacturing activity expanded at its weakest pace in four months in March as export demand faltered, prompting companies to shed staff more quickly as they looked to cut costs, a private survey showed on Monday.
The White House is reviewing Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt's activities after reports he paid below the market rate to live in a condo owned by a lobbyist who deals with issues overseen by the agency, the Wall Street Journal r...
A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan's central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years.
Asian markets were mostly higher in muted trading Monday, as Hong Kong and Australian markets were closed for Easter, and Wall Street and other global markets have been closed for a long weekend after Good Friday.
Mr. Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, wants to curb the power of an agency he has long criticized.
The Turkish president treats his country to up to three speeches a day, broadcast live on multiple channels, in a divisive style fit for an era of strongmen.
Saudi Arabia's crown prince said Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land in an interview published on Monday in U.S. magazine The Atlantic, another public sign of ties between Riyadh and Tel Aviv appearing to grow closer.
A two-pronged strategy contained in the state budget seeks to minimize the impact of the new federal cap on deductions of state and local taxes.
Global markets mostly fell in muted trading Monday, as markets in Hong Kong, Australia and Europe were closed for Easter.
Cherry and apple growers in Washington state are worried their exports to China will be hurt by a growing trade war that escalated Monday when that country raised import duties on a $3 billion list of products.
The Palestinian Authority and Palestine Liberation Organization gained a legal victory at the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday as the justices refused to consider reinstating a $655.5 million jury award won against them by 11 American families over mi...
Judge Reinhardt, a Carter appointee to the Ninth Circuit in California, was a target of conservatives and often overruled by the Supreme Court.
The Games will soon descend onto the Gold Coast’s beaches, bringing with it an array of the world’s best athletes, and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.
New research shows how Elder Michaux, the first minister with a weekly television show, worked with the F.B.I. to discredit the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Fifty years after its release, “2001: A Space Odyssey” seems prescient — an allegory about how destructively artificial intelligence can be misused.
A wave of walkouts and rallies in red states has been organized largely by ordinary teachers.
U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty announced on Monday she will not seek re-election this year amid calls for her resignation over her handling of the firing of a former chief of staff accused of harassment, threats and violence against female staffers in h...
Steve Smith, one of the country’s most revered sportsmen, admits his role in a ball-tampering scheme, prompting national discussion and soul-searching.
