
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherMany farmers across the Midwest voted for Donald J. Trump in the 2016 election but hoped he would never follow through on his threats to impose tariffs on China. They feared that they would suffer if China imposed its own tariffs as payback.Now, Beijing has done just that, proposing tariffs on 106 types of American goods  including soybeans, corn and pork  in retaliation for President Trumps plans to penalize Chinese trade practices.On todays episode: Eldon Gould, a farmer in Illinois who voted for President Trump.Background reading: The Midwest, which accounts for roughly half the nations agricultural output, is a prime target for any tit-for-tat response to American tariffs. That worries rural voters. Trying to calm those fears, American officials held out the possibility that tariffs outlined this week might never go into effect.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va.  President Trump dispensed on Thursday with what he called a boring speech on tax reform here, tossing his text to his fans before launching into a lengthy tirade against immigration that included an accusation that Democrats were embracing dangerous policies to secure immigrant votes.Mr. Trump traveled to West Virginia to promote his $1.5 trillion tax overhaul before a friendly audience. But the president grew tired of his prepared remarks after a few moments and returned to the bitter complaints about the United States immigration laws that have dominated his attention this week and prompted him on Wednesday to ask governors to deploy the National Guard to the southern border.This was going to be my remarks  it would have taken about two minutes, but what the hell  that would have been a little boring, Mr. Trump said, tossing a sheet of paper covered with neat paragraphs of text into the audience. Im reading off the first paragraph, I said, This is boring. Come on. We have to tell it like it is.Instead, he recounted the terrorist attack last October in Lower Manhattan, in which an Uzbek immigrant killed eight people when he drove a truck onto a pedestrian and bicycle path on the West Side Highway.This is what the Democrats are doing to you, and they like it because they think theyre going to vote Democrat, Mr. Trump said. Theyre doing it for that reason, and other reasons.The president later told reporters aboard Air Force One that he intended to deploy 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard troops to the border with Mexico. If Mr. Trump sends the low end of his proposal, it would barely exceed the 1,200 sent by President Barack Obama in 2010 to support other border agencies. Even if Mr. Trump sends 4,000, the top end of his proposal, he would be dispatching fewer than President George W. Bush did in 2006.In a statement on Thursday, the Pentagon press secretary, Dana White, said that the National Guard troops would focus on engineering, logistical support and vehicle maintenance among other things. The statement did not mention the troops taking part in law enforcement.Republican leaders have urged the president to sell the tax cut that he signed in December, and have tried to make economic growth and low taxes the central theme of 2018 as they move toward a difficult midterm election season. But Mr. Trump has refused to keep to the script.Instead on Thursday, he opted to blast immigrants and the countrys immigration laws, including a practice known as catch and release, in which migrants who present themselves at the border are released from custody to await an immigration hearing to determine whether they should be allowed to remain in the United States.Were toughening up at the border, Mr. Trump said. We cannot let people enter our country  we have no idea who they are, what they do, where they came from.We dont know if theyre murderers, if theyre killers, if theyre MS-13, Mr. Trump went on. Were throwing them out by the hundreds.He boasted that he had described immigrants as rapists when he announced his presidential candidacy, saying that he had recently learned that during the journey north made by a caravan of Honduran migrants, women are raped at levels theyve never seen before.Mr. Trump also said his administration had cracked down on MS-13, the transnational gang with links to El Salvador, detailing its brutal methods.This is the kind of stuff and crap that were allowing into our country, and we cant do it, Mr. Trump said.He also repeated his false claim that millions of people voted illegally in the 2016 election.They always like to say, Oh, thats a conspiracy theory, Mr. Trump said. Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people.Mr. Trumps remarks drew enthusiastic applause from an audience of about 200 in a state that he won with 68 percent of the vote, his largest margin of victory in the country.But it also drew rebukes.President Trump is insulting American voters by making up lies, said Jason Kander, a former Democratic candidate for the Senate and now the president of Let America Vote, a voting rights group. President Trumps lies cause the American electorate to lose faith in our system of elections and take our elections less seriously, which is one of his goals. If people dont trust that their vote counts, then they wont vote.The round table on taxes was a lovefest for the president, in which attendees took turns praising him and recounting the ways in which the tax measure and Mr. Trumps agenda had helped them and their families.This is a big deal for our family, Jessica Hodge said, choking back tears after her husband told Mr. Trump that their family had saved $2,417 because of the tax cut. He said they planned to spend it on a kitchen renovation.Thank you for listening to us. Thank you for fighting for us, she added.The president grinned and nodded his approval.Evan Jenkins, a West Virginia House member, and Patrick Morrisey, the states attorney general  who are competing in a May primary to run for the Senate  flanked Mr. Trump and took turns showering him with praise.Youre a man keeping your promises, Mr. Jenkins said. Thanks for keeping your promise.Mr. Morrisey chimed in. Your policies really have made an incredible difference in our state, he said, adding, We had the bulls-eye on us until you got here, so thank you for that.As he wrapped up the event, Mr. Trump asked the audience to weigh in on which man should win the primary next month.Should we do a little test? he said. Whos voting for Patrick? Whos voting for Evan?The applause was loudest for Mr. Jenkins, who represents the district that White Sulphur Springs is in.Mr. Trump also attacked Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, saying that he had opposed tough immigration laws and the rest of the presidents agenda.I thought he would be helpful because he talks, Mr. Trump said of Mr. Manchin, a centrist who is known for seeking compromises with Republicans. But he votes against everything, and he voted against our tax cuts.While Mr. Trump spent little time promoting the tax measure he had come to celebrate, he seemed to feed off the adulation of his crowd and relish his detour off-script. Speaking with reporters aboard Air Force One as he returned to Washington, the president asked how the event had gone.Greeted with silence, Mr. Trump answered his own question, saying he was very happy.Thought it was really great, he added.
WASHINGTON  President Trump said Thursday that the United States would consider slapping tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.Mr. Trump said in a statement that he was responding to unfair retaliation by China, which published a list on Wednesday of $50 billion in American products that would be hit by tariffs, including soybeans and pork. That move was a direct reaction to the tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods that the White House detailed on Tuesday.Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers, Mr. Trump said, adding that he had instructed the United States trade representative to determine whether tariffs on an additional $100 billion in goods were warranted and, if so, to identify the products upon which to impose such tariffs.The announcement came one day after some of Mr. Trumps advisers tried to calm markets and tamp down fears of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies, saying that the tariff threats were the first step in a negotiation process. Mr. Trump said in his statement that the potential for new tariffs would not preclude discussions with the Chinese to protect the technology and intellectual property of American companies and American people, but any new tariffs are unlikely to make that already tough task easier.The move is a high-stakes gamble aimed at cowing China into backing down and forcing it to make the kinds of changes that the United States is seeking  namely reducing the coercive tactics American officials say Beijing uses to try to dominate leading-edge industries like artificial intelligence, robotics and autonomous vehicles. But the move could ultimately bring about the kind of retaliation from Beijing that has spooked stock markets.It also means that the United States would be somewhat more likely to place levies on Chinese products that American households routinely purchase, like furniture, clothing or shoes  an outcome the Trump administration said it sought to avoid with its initial round of tariffs.The presidents announcement was immediately criticized by manufacturers, retailers and politicians from states whose economies depend on agriculture.Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, said Mr. Trump was threatening to light American agriculture on fire.Hopefully the president is just blowing off steam again, but if hes even half-serious, this is nuts, Mr. Sasse said. Lets absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this.A trade war could derail the current global economic expansion and cripple American businesses that depend on business with China. It could also further complicate geopolitical priorities given the Trump administration has enlisted the help of the Chinese in scheduling historic talks with North Korea next month.In a statement, Robert Lighthizer, the trade adviser who is carrying out an investigation into Chinese practices, described the presidents threat as an appropriate response, saying China should have responded to the initial tariffs levied by the United States by changing its behavior.On Friday, a spokesman for Chinas Ministry of Commerce accused the United States of starting the conflict and said that the Chinese position has been made very clear. We do not want to fight, but we are not afraid to fight a trade war.He added that if the United States followed through with its threats, The Chinese side will follow suit to the end and will not hesitate to pay any price and will definitely fight back. It must take a new comprehensive response and firmly defend the interests of the country and the people.Mr. Trumps effort to raise the stakes on Thursday seemed poised to send financial markets spinning, with futures on the Standard & Poors 500-index down and the yen climbing against the dollar. Markets were tame in Asia midday on Friday, which was a holiday in China.Companies potentially caught in the middle of a trade war called on the Trump administration to back down and try to work with the Chinese.The announcement that the administration may issue $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese products is irresponsible and destabilizing, said Dean C. Garfield, the chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, which represents companies such as Amazon, Apple and IBM. We call on both sides to halt unproductive and escalatory rhetoric, recognizing that these words and actions have global consequences.China experts have questioned whether Mr. Trumps aggressive negotiating style will leave Chinese leaders with enough political room to make concessions to the Americans. Bowing to the presidents demands could be seen internally as weakness, and the changes that the administration wants  reducing Chinas dominance in cutting-edge manufacturing and technology  is not something Beijing is likely to agree to.Wang Shouwen, Chinas vice minister of commerce, has repeatedly refused to discuss curbing the Made in China 2025 industrial plan. The Trump administration contends that the program violates international trade rules that prohibit countries from using subsidies to help exporters and discourage imports. Mr. Wang and other officials deny that the program is in violation, but have provided few details on how it might comply.Including this most recent action, the United States would be placing tariffs on a total of $153 billion of Chinese products. The $100 billion threat came on top of the tariffs on $3 billion in Chinese steel and aluminum that he imposed last month and the tariffs on a further $50 billion in Chinese goods that he has threatened to impose in recent days.The total is now so large that China would have trouble finding enough American goods to penalize if it sought to impose a proportional retaliation. China bought only $130.4 billion worth of American goods last year, while the United States bought $505.6 billion worth of Chinese goods.The National Retail Federation blasted the move as a dangerous game of chicken that would put the United States on the losing end of a trading relationship that has benefited American companies and consumers.This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start. We are on a dangerous downward spiral, and American families will be on the losing end, Matthew R. Shay, the president and chief executive of the retail group, said in a statement. We urge the administration to change course and stop playing a game of chicken with the nations economy.The Chinese have tools other than tariffs at their disposal, including limiting the operations of American banks and other service providers in China. The government could also urge the Chinese public not to buy American-brand cars like Chevrolets and Fords, even though those are built almost entirely from Chinese-made parts and assembled in factories in China.The biggest question would be whether China would start retaliating not commercially but through geopolitical actions. While Trump administration trade officials appear to have been operating with considerable autonomy from those responsible for issues like North Korea and Taiwan, policymaking is much more unified in China.That means China could try to raise the temperature in the dispute by installing more military equipment on the artificial islands that it has recently built across the South China Sea, almost to the shores of Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines.China could also step up pressure on Taiwan. Beijing leaders are already deeply upset about recent congressional approval of the Taiwan Travel Act, which urged Mr. Trump to send administration officials to the self-governing island. Beijing regards Taiwan as a breakaway province, and has threatened to use force to reunite it.Chinese experts have made clear that they perceive the ever-larger rounds of American tariffs as part of a broad American challenge that goes beyond dollars and cents. It is more than just a trade issue: It involves geopolitical reasons, Wu Xinbo, the chief of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, said in an interview this week. Trump has mentioned before, if China doesnt agree on economy and trade, the U.S. will reconsider China issues  that includes the South China Sea and Taiwan.President Xi Jinping of China is scheduled to give a major speech on Tuesday at the Boao Forum on the Chinese island of Hainan, which may give more clues to Chinas response. The speech has been billed by other Chinese officials as a moment when Mr. Xi would lay out a blueprint for Chinas economic overhaul and liberalization, a potential peace offering to the Trump administration, said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.President Trumps move may throw a small monkey wrench into Xis plans, Mr. Kennedy said. He may now need to couple such a proposal with the warning that China will continue to defend itself against foreign pressure.

MATAS ROMERO, Mexico  The caravan of Central American migrants that President Trump has portrayed as an emblem of flawed immigration policy in the United States began to splinter on Thursday, as hundreds of people departed this rural town aboard buses and on foot, abandoning the decrepit municipal sports complex where their journey had stalled for five nights.But the movements organizers insisted that the caravan would regroup in the Mexican city of Puebla in the next few days before continuing on to Mexico City, where it would officially end after meetings with government officials and possibly a street protest.Mr. Trump has been fixated on the caravan this week, making it a recurring motif in his tweets, warning that it represented a grave threat to the sovereignty of the United States, and using it as a justification for sending the military to reinforce the southwest border.On Thursday morning, he returned to the subject, declaring that the caravan had mostly dissipated, even though organizers estimated at the time that there were still some 800 migrants gathered at the sports complex.The Caravan is largely broken up thanks to the strong immigration laws of Mexico and their willingness to use them so as not to cause a giant scene at our Border, the president wrote on Twitter.Speaking to reporters earlier this week, Mr. Trump said he had pressured the Mexican government to act against the caravan, a claim that drew a firm rebuttal from the administration of President Enrique Pea Nieto, which said the caravans halt here in Matas Romero was a decision of the organizers, not the result of domestic or international pressure.Mr. Pea Nieto sharply criticized Mr. Trumps plan to send National Guard troops to the border. If your recent statements are due to frustration over domestic politics, your laws, or your Congress, direct yourself to them, not to Mexicans, he said Thursday.Mr. Trump also asserted on Thursday that women migrating north were being raped at levels that nobodys ever seen before. Caravan organizers and participants said they had heard of no such allegations in the 11 days since they began their northward march.In what has become an annual rite, often around Easter week, hundreds of migrants, most of them Hondurans, started their northward procession from the southern border city of Tapachula on March 25. Under the aegis of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, a transnational advocacy group, the migrants moved north en masse  on foot, hitchhiking and on the tops of trains.The size of the group  1,200 or larger  offered security for participants against criminals and other perils that lurk on the migrant trail. For the organizers, the multitude guaranteed more attention to the plight of the migrants, many of whom were fleeing hardship and violence.The caravans organizers originally hoped to lead the group as far as the southwest border of the United States, which many hoped to cross one way or another. Based on past caravans, however, the organizers expected that the vast majority of participants would drop out along the way, choosing instead to travel in smaller groups or stay in Mexico.But the group grew so big, including hundreds of children and infants, that the organizers paused the procession here last weekend, even before it had captured Mr. Trumps attention.The migration authorities, taking advantage of the lull, began registering the migrants this week and issuing them letters of safe passage. The documents offer protection from deportation for either three weeks or a month, depending on whether the migrant intends to apply for legal immigration status in Mexico or leave the country  which for many migrants means applying for asylum in the United States or otherwise trying to cross the border.Told about Mr. Trumps tweet on Thursday declaring the end of the caravan, Irineo Mujica, Mexico director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, shook his head in annoyance.This man is completely wrong, he said in an interview. Were going to keep going.He reflected a moment; his conflict with the American president had come into even sharper focus. Were going to regroup in Puebla and send a message to Trump, he announced. Nobody is going to stop us.The size of the group camped at the sports complex here had gradually dropped over the course of the week as migrants received their safe-travel documents and left on their own. But there were still close to 1,000 on Wednesday, tired and undernourished, sleeping on sun-scorched soccer fields or in the shelter of forlorn buildings.The first of the buses arrived before dawn on Thursday and took some 70 passengers to Puebla, where Pueblo Sin Fronteras plans to hold know-your-rights workshops. Two more buses left with every seat full around midday, one bound for Puebla and the other for Mexico City. Several more buses were expected to take only women and children to Puebla late Thursday.A contingent of about 200 men left, planning to hitchhike to a rail crossing where they hoped to get a ride on the top of one of the freight trains known collectively as La Bestia, or the Beast. The property they were leaving behind was a wasteland of food wrappers, clothes left soggy by a torrential downpour overnight and the odor of improvised latrines in the lee of trees and bushes.Alessandra Lpez, 26, said she hoped to be on board one of the overnight buses to Puebla where she intended to seek guidance on how to prepare a petition for asylum in the United States. Ms. Lpez, who is one of about a dozen transgender migrants in the caravan, said a criminal gang repeatedly tried to force her into prostitution and drug dealing.They tried to kill me, she said. Her hope was to make it to the United States border and apply for asylum.How is it there? she asked. How is it crossing the bridge and asking for asylum?
In the escalating economic showdown between the United States and China, President Trump is trying to put American shoppers first. The administration did not place tariffs on necessities like shoes and clothes, and mostly spared smartphones from the 25 percent levy on Chinese goods announced this week.But by shielding consumers, Mr. Trump has put American manufacturers  a group he has championed  in the cross hairs of a potential global trade war. If the measures stand, along with Chinas retaliatory tariffs, they could snuff out a manufacturing recovery just beginning to gain steam.If you want to spare the consumer so you dont get this massive backlash against your tariffs, then there goes manufacturing, because thats whats left, said Monica de Bolle, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The irony is, you cannot spare manufacturing from anything because manufacturing is globally integrated. The sector sources its parts and components from all over the world.That intricate supply chain often runs directly between the two countries, sometimes in both directions. Chinese factories make wing panels and doors for Boeings Next Generation 737 planes, which are assembled by union workers in Renton, Wash. General Motors makes its Buick Envision, a sport-utility vehicle, in Shandong Province, and sells it to American consumers. Construction workers in Denver use building materials manufactured in China, made in part from ethane gas produced in Texas.A central aim of Mr. Trumps America First agenda is to bring back pieces of the supply chain lying outside the country. The tariffs announced this week are just a bargaining point in a broader negotiation between the United States and China over trade.They are trying to force end-product manufacturers here to use more American content by making it more expensive for them to use Chinese content, said William Reinsch, a trade expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.The United States trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has said that the administration carefully conceived the tariffs using an algorithm that would maximize the impact on China and minimize the impact on U.S. consumers.The result is a list of more than 1,300 targets, many of them obscure products that may not deliver a direct hit to consumers wallets. The victims include industrial robots, chemicals, medical devices and heavy machinery used in everything from processing food to crushing rock.Such industries have been a vibrant piece of the economy, adding 224,000 jobs in the past year, the strongest growth since the recession ended nearly nine years ago. But underpinning that rebound has been a strong global appetite for American goods  demand that could now be weakened.This is a pretty tenuous recovery, and employment is still at much lower levels than it was before the crisis, said Mark Muro, an economist at the Brookings Institution. This is not a super dynamic, healthy industry.Recent job growth has been concentrated in industries that could be affected by American tariffs on China, Chinese tariffs on the United States, or both.Some of the strongest gains in the past year have come from makers of metal products, industrial machinery and transportation equipment. All those industries rely heavily on steel and aluminum, goods that Mr. Trump hit with tariffs earlier this year in a move aimed indirectly at Chinas production.In the latest salvos, the United States took aim at a multitude of technical components  items like circuit breakers, consoles and touch screens. Those tariffs could raise costs for electronics manufacturers, who have been hiring more aggressively lately and whose supply chains run through China.Beijing, for its part, zeroed in on an array of American products, including plastics, a fast-growing export. Chinese companies imported $3.2 billion worth of plastic resins from the United States in 2017, according to the American Chemistry Council, a trade group. Chinese factories turn those resins into building materials, automobile instrument panels, eyeglasses and thousands of other products, many of which end up back in the United States.The plastics tariffs alone could send ripples deep into Trump country. In recent years, companies have announced billions of dollars of investments seeking to capitalize on the boom in American natural-gas production. Some of those investments were to go into new plants in Pennsylvania, Ohio and other states to turn gas into chemicals and plastics, much of it bound for China.Companies arent likely to abandon those plans overnight, said Calvin M. Dooley, president of the American Chemistry Council. But if the trade barriers persist, projects could be in jeopardy. That is going to impede our ability to capitalize on that competitive advantage, Mr. Dooley said.Even with the flurry of measures and countermeasures between the United States and China, the moves so far have touched only a fraction of their $650 billion in annual trade. But they are beginning to signal how much damage could be caused, and who would suffer most.In some cases, the tariffs seem intended to deliver a message rather than a fatal blow. The United States said it would impose tariffs on aircraft parts  an important and high-profile American industry, but not one facing much competition from China. Beijing said it would impose tariffs on cars and S.U.V.s, the third-largest American export to the country. But the move may not hit American automakers as hard as it might seem.China already has a 25 percent tariff on imported cars, so General Motors, Fiat Chrysler and Ford have all agreed to manufacture inside the country as joint ventures with domestic producers, to avoid the extra charge to consumers. Foreign carmakers operating in the United States  Daimler and BMW  do send vehicles to China from factories in the Southeast. A report by analysts at Evercore ISI suggests that those companies, rather than the Detroit automakers, would bear the brunt of the Chinese levies.Tesla might have the most to lose. The electric-car company had been lobbying hard for permission to produce cars in Shanghai, but hasnt reached a deal. It sends vehicles to the Chinese market from its plant in Fremont, Calif., and its chief executive, Elon Musk, has expressed frustration even at the existing duties.Aircraft and their parts are the largest single category of American exports to China, making Boeing a big target. For now, though, Beijing seems to be moving slowly. It said it would impose tariffs on planes between 15,000 and 45,000 kilograms, which includes some older models that Chinese buyers have ordered from Boeing. But it seemed to stop conspicuously short of whacking the companys newer 737 MAX 8, which weighs 45,070 kilograms empty.That near miss is meant to convey to Boeing, and Mr. Trump, what China is capable of, said Richard L. Aboulafia, a longtime aviation and aerospace analyst at the Teal Group.Their attitude toward a trade war assumes that the other side will lie down and stay horizontal, Mr. Aboulafia said. Im not sure the easy and fun approach to trade wars holds up against return fire.
BEIJING  Chinas leaders sound supremely confident that they can win a trade war with President Trump.The state news media has depicted him as a reckless bully intent on undermining the global trading system, while presenting the Chinese government as a fair-minded champion of free trade. And Chinas leader, Xi Jinping, has used the standoff to reinforce the Communist Partys message that the United States is determined to stop Chinas rise  but that it no longer can. China is already too strong, its economy too big.China is not afraid of a trade war, the vice minister of finance, Zhu Guangyao, declared at a news conference to discuss possible countermeasures. More than once, he cited the history of the new China  which began its extraordinary economic revival four decades ago  as evidence that it would never succumb to external pressure.Missing in the bluster and the propaganda are the questionable methods that China has adopted to squeeze foreign companies out of key technology markets  and the fact that in the cold-eyed calculus of economics, China is more vulnerable to a trade war than officials admit.Exports account for a big share of Chinese economic growth. Because the United States buys so much from China, Washington has many more ways to hit Chinese manufacturers. By contrast, the retaliatory tariffs Beijing has proposed already cover more than one-third of what China buys from the United States, leaving it fewer options to strike back.In the political realm, however, Mr. Xi enjoys advantages that may allow him to cope with the economic fallout far better than Mr. Trump can. His authoritarian grip on the news media and the party means there is little room for criticism of his policies, even as Mr. Trump must contend with complaints from American companies and consumers before important midterm elections in November.The Chinese government also has much greater control over the economy, allowing it to shield the public from job cuts or factory closings by ordering banks to support industries suffering from American tariffs. It can spread the pain of a trade war while tolerating years of losses from state-run companies that dominate major sectors of the economy.My impression is that there is in Washington an exaggerated sense of how painful these tariffs might be in China, said Arthur R. Kroeber, managing director of Gavekal Dragonomics, a research firm in Beijing.At worst, he estimated, the American actions could shave one-tenth of a percentage point off Chinas economic growth  hardly enough to force a drastic reversal of policies, given the enormous benefits that Chinese leaders see in the state-heavy economic model they have relied on in recent decades.At the same time, Chinese officials seem to believe they can take advantage of what they consider vulnerabilities in the American political system.The American agricultural sector is quite influential in the Congress, said Wang Yong, a professor of economics at Peking University, explaining why China has targeted farm products such as soybeans with possible retaliatory tariffs. China wants the American domestic political system to do the work.The president and his administration have sent drastically different messages this week.Hours after Chinas announcement on Wednesday, administration officials sought to calm fears that a trade war was imminent, suggesting that they might not pull the trigger on a plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods.But late Thursday, Mr. Trump said he would consider levying an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in response to its unfair retaliation. In a statement, he said, Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers.Mr. Zhu, Chinas vice minister of finance, this week had thanked American soybean farmers and the association that represents them for declaring their opposition to the Trump administrations plan.In addition to soybeans, China threatened to retaliate with tariffs on American cars, chemicals and other products. The 106 goods, many produced in parts of the country that have supported Mr. Trump, were selected to deliver a warning that American workers and consumers would suffer in a protracted standoff.If anyone wants to fight, we will be there with him, Mr. Zhu said, more or less outlining the terms for an American surrender: the removal of unilateral tariffs and a resolution of any grievances through the World Trade Organization. If he wants to negotiate, the door is open.Globally, Chinas strategy has been to isolate the United States, splitting it from allies in Europe and Asia who otherwise share American concerns about heavy-handed Chinese trade policies intended to protect key markets and to acquire technology from foreign firms.Mr. Kroeber said a united front against China would be more effective than American tariffs alone, but so far Mr. Trump has not managed to build one.Instead, Mr. Xi has largely succeeded in occupying the high moral ground on the world stage, projecting China as the sober-minded steward of international agreements on issues  from global trade to climate change  that Mr. Trump has been eager to walk away from.The American side is ready to launch a trade war at the slightest pretext, the partys flagship newspaper, Peoples Daily, wrote in a blistering editorial on Thursday, condemning Mr. Trumps tariffs as totally against the trend of economic globalization.Today, it targets China, and tomorrow may take aim at other countries, it said.The party has also seized on the trade dispute as new evidence that the United States is intent on undermining Chinas rise as a global power, a central narrative used to justify the partys, and Mr. Xis, rule.In December, the state news media also highlighted the new National Security Strategy unveiled by the Trump administration, which declared that China sought to displace the United States in the Indo-Pacific region, expand the reaches of its state-driven economic model, and reorder the region in its favor.The document signaled a bipartisan shift in Washingtons posture toward China after decades of economic cooperation and concessions. The party has argued that the United States is only now challenging China because it fears losing its privileged place in the world order.The latest U.S. measures against China carry a sense of containment, which purportedly is commonplace among U.S. politicians, said an editorial in Global Times, a nationalist state-run tabloid. But they have overlooked the fact that China has grown to be another economic center of the world.It went on to note that Chinas market was now no smaller or less attractive than the American one  a bit of an exaggeration perhaps, but not as big as it would have been a decade ago. And that makes the country a more formidable opponent than Mr. Trump may have anticipated.To take China down, the editorial said, would mean an unimaginably cruel battle for the U.S.
A Virginia woman who lost her job with a government contractor after she was photographed extending her middle finger at President Trumps motorcade last year has sued her former employer for wrongful termination.Juli Briskman directed the gesture toward a string of black sport utility vehicles that zoomed by her on her bicycle on Oct. 28, as Mr. Trumps motorcade was leaving Trump National Golf Course in Sterling, Va. Reporters and photographers in a car behind her captured the moment, which quickly spread online and became a source of many jokes on late-night television.But Ms. Briskmans employer, Akima L.L.C., did not find it funny.When she returned to work the following week, she said, company executives told her she needed to resign. Ms. Briskman, 50, had violated the companys social media policy on obscenity by sharing the image on Facebook and Twitter, they told her, according to the lawsuit filed on Wednesday in Fairfax County Circuit Court in Virginia.The executives also feared blowback from the Trump administration, Ms. Briskman said the executives told her.I was fired from my job because my employer feared unconstitutional retaliation, Ms. Briskman said Thursday afternoon. But on a larger scale, I feel that our democracy is being threatened.Her lawyers assert that Ms. Briskmans gesture was core political speech protected by Virginia law and the Constitution. She is seeking $2,692 for two weeks of severance she said she was promised but never received, as well as compensation for legal fees.Criticism of our leaders should be encouraged, Ms. Briskman said Thursday on Twitter.Akima, which has government contracts in areas that include network operations, cybersecurity and national security, did not respond to a request for comment.Virginia is an at-will state, meaning employers can freely fire an employee at any time and for any reason. There are a few exceptions, such as when a termination violates federal discrimination laws.One of her lawyers, Maria Simon, said on Thursday afternoon that she believed Ms. Briskmans case fell into one of the exceptions.Juli was on her own free time on a Saturday and it was a peaceful protest, Ms. Simon said. This was not done during work. The picture was taken of her. She is being fired for what she was doing peacefully on her own time.In an interview in November, Ms. Briskman said she threw her left hand in the air in a spur-of-the-moment gesture to express her displeasure with Mr. Trump. She said she did not know how many people saw it, other than a Secret Service agent in a vehicle who she believed glanced over at her.But many people did end up seeing it. After the photo was shared widely online that weekend, Ms. Briskman said she posted it on Facebook and Twitter. Neither account identified her as an Akima employee, where she was a marketing analyst.She decided it would be a good idea to alert a human resources official at Akima about the photo on Monday, when she returned to work. She also told her boss later that night when Jimmy Fallon discussed the photo on The Tonight Show.The next day, according to her lawsuit, company executives called her into a meeting. A vice president of the company told her that the photo had become a social media tattoo on Akimas reputation, and she was told she was out of a job.Ms. Briskman said on Thursday that she has another job. Whether I landed on my feet or not is besides the point, she said. It doesnt change the fact that they fired me in violation of Virginia policy.
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.Its bloody combat, Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. This isnt a cold war. Its a scorching hot war. And thats politically expedient for both sides.The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.Government by litigation isnt what the American people voted for, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, and attempting to thwart an administrations elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often, he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues, Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the states attorney general was simple: I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.Xavier Becerra, Californias attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. We dont wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration, he said. But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about ideological judging.The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trumps criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administrations perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitutions allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right, Professor Somin said. On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the states natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder, he said in a statement.The administrations legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said it isnt clear why the federal government claims its not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.He added, Isnt there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administrations complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. Immigration law is the province of the federal government, Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers  to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood, Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: Were not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal governments job of enforcing federal immigration law. Were in the business of public safety, not deportation.A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administrations suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that California ought to prevail on all three issues.Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.Resistance to unpopular federal laws  whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict  is permissible, they wrote, only within the bounds of federalism.The administrations lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the states laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an actual enumeration of the nations residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections, Mr. Sessions said on Monday.Californias lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally  including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The states lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws, Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said the issues in this case will benefit from further development.Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities, he wrote. But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a common core curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administrations efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administrations justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congresss role in passing immigration laws.The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the states chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.California is not the arbiter of these issues, he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.On Monday, the agency took steps to challenge Californias waiver. Though the process may take some time, it is likely to produce another clash between the Trump administration and the state that has emerged as its most determined foe.California, Mr. Becerra said, is ready to file suit.
WASHINGTON  Scott Lloyds unadorned job title betrays little hint of the power he has over the pregnant teenagers in his custody.As director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, he oversees the assistance program for the tens of thousands of refugees who still seek shelter in the United States, even with the Trump administrations crackdown. But as the government official who is also responsible for the care of young, undocumented immigrants who enter the United States without their parents, he spends much of his time trying to stop those who want an abortion.He has instructed his staff to give him a spreadsheet each week that tells him about any unaccompanied minors who have asked for one and how far along they are in their pregnancy. In at least one case he directed staff to read to one girl a description of what happens during an abortion. And when theres a need for counseling, Mr. Lloyds office calls on someone from its list of preferred life affirming pregnancy resource centers.Last fall Mr. Lloyds refusal to let a 17-year-old in Texas leave the shelter where she was living to get an abortion drew an admonishment from a federal judge who said she was astounded the government had been so insistent on keeping someone from obtaining a constitutionally protected procedure. Last week another judge barred him from trying to prevent any girl in his care from getting an abortion, but government lawyers have asked for a stay and plan to appeal.How Mr. Lloyd, an appointee of President Trump, turned a small office in the Department of Health and Human Services that provides social services to refugees into a battleground over abortion rights is part of the larger story of the Trump administrations push to enact rules that favor socially conservative positions on issues like abortion, contraception and gay, lesbian and transgender rights.Unlike some traditional Republicans, many religious conservatives eagerly sought jobs in the administration and the chance to shape policy after eight years of a Democratic president. This was especially true at H.H.S., where the senior ranks are staffed with former activists who have built careers advancing socially conservative causes.Some of those hires at H.H.S. include a deputy general counsel who was a lawyer with the Alliance Defending Freedom, a well-funded conservative legal group that opposes gay rights and abortion and fought the Obama administrations contraception coverage requirements; the chief of staff to the assistant secretary for health, who used to lead an abstinence advocacy group; and the head of the departments Office for Civil Rights, whose work at the Heritage Foundation involved promoting religious freedom initiatives.After a relatively slow start as key personnel were put in place, the department has been responsible for a flurry of new policies. It has told states that they no longer have to follow Obama-era rules that made it difficult to withhold Medicaid funding from Planned Parenthood. It has announced the creation of an entity inside its Office for Civil Rights called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division, which will respond to alleged violations of conscience and religious protections. And its new strategic plan commits the department to protecting Americans at every stage of life, from conception.The result, activists on both sides of the fight say, is that no White House has been as aggressive in shaping policy in a way that hews so closely to the priorities of the religious right.Times are changing, said Roger Severino, the head of the Office for Civil Rights, as he announced the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division this year. And we are institutionalizing a change in the culture of government, beginning with H.H.S.Unlike previous Republican administrations, when it was Congress or the Supreme Court that initiated the biggest changes to abortion law, many of the most significant developments today are occurring at the agency level, largely out of public view. And that troubles liberal advocates like the American Civil Liberties Union, which has sued Mr. Lloyd and won several times.Theres much more action at the federal level under Trump than there has been with other administrations, said Jennifer Dalven, the director of the A.C.L.U.s Reproductive Freedom Project.And when that action occurs mostly under the radar, she added, you dont provoke the same level of outrage from the public. Its quiet. People dont see it. And unlike if you were to overturn Roe v. Wade, you dont have people marching in the streets.Since the week he took office, Mr. Trump has issued several orders that have thrown up roadblocks to access to abortion and reproductive health care.Just three days after his inauguration, he reinstated a policy first implemented by President Ronald Reagan in 1984 that prohibits foreign nongovernmental organizations from performing or discussing abortions as a family planning option if they want to receive American funding.While this decision was something Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush also implemented, the Trump administration went further and expanded its order to say that if these nongovernmental organizations did offer or suggest abortion as an option, they would be ineligible not just for family planning assistance but for funding for a host of other unrelated health concerns  like HIV awareness, malaria and nutrition. That put billions of dollars of American aid in jeopardy.Trump being Trump, he didnt just reinstate, said Ilyse Hogue, the president of Naral Pro-Choice America. He applied it to a much larger pot of money.But the administrations most sweeping changes yet could come with proposed rules it announced in January. The proposals would expand protections for doctors, nurses and possibly a much wider pool of workers more loosely connected to health services who say that assisting with procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery would violate their religious beliefs. The administration is reviewing more than 55,000 comments on the proposals and could issue final rules later this year.Critics say the language is so broad it could apply to virtually anyone, no matter how tangentially connected to the health care procedure or service they consider immoral.If you are the contractor who empties the waste baskets at a health plan and that health plan covers abortion, you can refuse without being fired, said Clare Coleman, the president of the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association.Like his colleagues in other parts of H.H.S., Mr. Lloyd, who declined requests for comment, has a history in the anti-abortion movement. Before he joined the Trump administration, he worked as a policy coordinator for the Knights of Columbus, the Catholic fraternal order, and served on the board of a crisis pregnancy center in Virginia. On the rsum and cover letter he submitted to the department, he listed his work experience as the architect of a late-term abortion ban that is now law in six states.While anti-abortion work has been his passion, Mr. Lloyds job as director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement entails broad responsibilities for helping people of all ages who are trying to resettle in the United States with financial, medical and other assistance. That undocumented minors have been caught up in his personal quest to fight abortion is something of a bureaucratic quirk. Minors are under the care of his office; the placement of adult refugees is overseen by the Department of Homeland Security.The Administration for Children and Families at H.H.S., which oversees the Office of Refugee Resettlement, said in a statement that as the legal guardian for the minors, Mr. Lloyds office is required by law to act with the girls interests in mind. And the Trump administration has determined, the statement added, that the best interests of illegal immigrant children in our care include the protection of mothers and their babies in our facilities, and we will defend human dignity for all in our care.Mr. Lloyd has taken the position that as unauthorized immigrants, the girls are not entitled to the same constitutional protections as citizens. Under questioning from an A.C.L.U. lawyer during a deposition, he said he did not know of any set of circumstances that would cause him to grant an abortion request, though he said that if a girls life were in danger that could potentially sway him. He has denied at least one request for an abortion from a girl who said she had been raped.Anti-abortion groups have welcomed his defiance as a hopeful sign. And they echo what H.H.S. officials have said themselves: A new culture is taking hold inside the Trump administration.If you think this is just an appendectomy, you rush that person to the hospital, said Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the anti-abortion Susan B. Anthony List. But if you think that an abortion is actually taking another persons life, you pause, you think, you consider and figure out other options. And I think thats where the Trump administration is coming from.
Sally Q. Yates spent nearly three decades in the Justice Department, rising to become acting attorney general before President Trump fired her last year for refusing to defend his travel ban. In a conversation in Washington on Tuesday with the reporter Matt Apuzzo of The New York Times, Ms. Yates discussed issues ranging from the wiretapping of a Trump campaign adviser to the presidents interference in criminal investigations.Here are the takeaways.Ms. Yates returned frequently to the difference between public policy and fundamental principles.Elections have consequences, and I think you have to expect in a change in administrations, a change in party, that there are going to be policy decisions that are made that you dont think are a good idea, she said. What worries me more than any of that is the relentless attack on democratic institutions and norms, and the impact that that can have on our country not just during the term of a Trump presidency, but in the years to come as well.On issues like criminal justice (she supports lesser sentences for nonviolent drug offenders; the Trump administration doesnt) and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (she believes its prohibition on sex-based discrimination extends to gender identity; the Trump administration doesnt), she gave her opinions but offered only mild criticism of Mr. Trumps course.But when it came to the presidents penchants for pressuring the Justice Department, questioning the legitimacy of judges and attacking the news media, Ms. Yates did not hold back.His interference with the Justice Department  she declined to say whether it constituted obstruction  is especially worrisome, she said.Through Democratic and Republican administrations alike, at least since Watergate, there has been a time-honored norm that the White House stays completely away from criminal investigations or prosecutions, she said. And whether or not Mr. Trumps refusal to abide by that norm actually has an impact on the decisions made at D.O.J., she said, the damage is done by the publics loss of confidence that the Department of Justice is acting independently and is making those decisions based on facts and law and nothing else.Ms. Yates refused to discuss the details of how the Justice Department obtained a surveillance warrant against the Trump campaign adviser Carter Page, citing the open investigation by the departments inspector general. But she said she had absolutely no reason to believe that anything inappropriate was done in connection with the FISA warrants during the time that I was there.Attorney General Jeff Sessions and congressional Republicans have alleged that the department abused its authority when it obtained the warrant against Mr. Page in October 2016 as part of an investigation into Russian election meddling. Last week, the inspector generals office said it would open an inquiry.Pressed on whether the protocol for such warrants had been followed to the letter, Ms. Yates said that every warrant application goes through many, many layers of review and in excruciating detail, and folks are very, very careful and serious about that process.Had she seen any politicization of the process, Mr. Apuzzo asked.Oh gosh, no, Ms. Yates said.Around 5 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 27, 2017, Ms. Yates was on her way to the airport when she got a call from her deputy, Matthew S. Axelrod.After you left, I went on the New York Times website, and youre not going to believe what I read, she said Mr. Axelrod told her. It looks like President Trump has done some sort of travel ban.The ensuing chaos  visa holders and permanent residents stuck in airports; a flood of legal challenges  meant the Justice Department had only about 72 hours to make a choice, and Ms. Yates said Mr. Trumps calls for a Muslim ban were part of the discussion.It became apparent to me that to defend this, we would have to advance an argument that the travel ban had absolutely nothing to do with religion, she said. And I didnt believe that to be the truth.Normally, if theres a reasonable legal argument to be made in defense of an executive order or action, the department will make that argument, she said. In this case, though, by definition to me, advancing an argument thats not grounded in truth is not reasonable.Ms. Yatess stand made her a hero to many Trump opponents. Her name, Mr. Apuzzo noted, was emblazoned on T-shirts. Politico called her the face of institutional resistance.I did my job, she responded. Thats not being a hero. Theres an old Southern expression, You dont congratulate a man for not robbing a bank. I also dont think that you necessarily canonize someone for doing his or her job, either.Pressed on whether her fierce statements against the administration, including in a New York Times Op-Ed from which Mr. Apuzzo quoted, made her a leader of the resistance, Ms. Yates said she was simply speaking out about things that I think are troubling.If that makes me part of the resistance, then so be it, she said, but thats not, like, a career goal of mine.It is a time-honored tradition to leave wiggle room when denying that you intend to run for office. So when Ms. Yates said that was not anything Ive ever felt drawn to, Mr. Apuzzo asked, to laughter: Full stop? Close the door?You know, she said, I did the full stop, close the door a couple times before when I was asked this, and my husband said, Please just dont say never, because he wants me to.So for my husbands sake here, Ill say I cant see it. I cant imagine that that would ever happen. For Comers sake, Im not saying absolutely never. But its pretty darn close to that.

WASHINGTON  President Trump denied on Thursday knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to a pornographic film actress who claims to have had a sexual encounter with him, an assertion that threatened to complicate his legal battle against her.Mr. Trump made his first public remarks about the matter aboard Air Force One as he returned to Washington from White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., where he had held a round table on tax cuts. Asked by a reporter if he knew about the payment to the actress, Stormy Daniels, whose given name is Stephanie Clifford, he said, No.Asked why Michael D. Cohen, his personal lawyer, had made the payment, Mr. Trump said: Youll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael is my attorney, and youll have to ask Michael Cohen.The president said he did not know where the money had come from, and ignored a question about whether he ever set up a fund Mr. Cohen could draw from.Ms. Clifford has said that she was paid $130,000 before the 2016 election to buy her silence. She is now suing Mr. Trump to abrogate a nondisclosure agreement that was supposed to prevent her from discussing the relationship. She claims the agreement is null and void because Mr. Trump never signed it.The presidents comments on Thursday could create a predicament for him and his legal team. Ms. Cliffords case is based on the notion that the confidentiality agreement is invalid because Mr. Trump was not a party to it. By saying he was not aware of the agreement, Mr. Trump appeared to confirm that argument, which would mean neither party is legally bound by it, thus potentially paving the way for Ms. Clifford to break her silence without consequences.Ms. Cliffords pugnacious lawyer, Michael J. Avenatti, quickly issued a statement to respond to Mr. Trumps claim. He said that the presidents professed ignorance of the payment would improve his clients case, suggesting that he would use legal discovery to expose the back and forth around the payment.Our case just got that much better, Mr. Avenatti said in the statement. We very much look forward to testing the truthfulness of Mr. Trumps feigned lack of knowledge concerning the $130,000 as he stated on Air Force One.As history teaches us, it is one thing to deceive the press and quite another to do so under oath, he added.Later, Mr. Avenatti appeared to exult on Twitter about what he suggested were undisciplined comments by Mr. Trump that would give Ms. Clifford the upper hand in the legal dispute.Good (actually GREAT) things come to those who wait!!! Mr. Avenatti wrote. The strength of our case just went up exponentially. You cant have an agreement when one party claims to know nothing about it. #nodiscipline.Mr. Cohen did not respond on Thursday to requests for comment. Charles Harder, a lawyer representing Mr. Trump in his legal wrangling with Ms. Clifford, also did not respond to requests for comment on the presidents remarks and how they could affect his case.Mr. Trump and a company affiliated with him filed papers in court on Monday seeking to force Ms. Clifford to raise her disputes through private arbitration, not lawsuits.Arbitration would shield the case from public view, sparing Mr. Trump the public spectacle that would attend a lawsuit with a discovery process and a trial. Mr. Avenatti said at the time that he would vigorously oppose the effort to resolve the case privately. In fact, on Thursday night, he said that Mr. Trumps remarks had made him more determined than ever to try to depose the president.If the president didnt know anything about the payment, then he obviously didnt know anything about the agreement, in which case you cant have an agreement, Mr. Avenatti said in an interview on MSNBC. And then there is no such thing as an NDA, he added, referring to a nondisclosure agreement.Now if, on the other hand, what he said on Air Force One is not accurate  and I, for one, have serious questions as to its veracity or accuracy  theyve got a whole host of problems, Mr. Avenatti said.The president and his lawyers have been working to prevent Ms. Clifford, who sat for a lengthy interview that aired on 60 Minutes last month, from making further public statements.In February, she said that she believed that Mr. Cohen had violated the agreement and that she, as a result, was no longer bound by it. Mr. Cohen secretly obtained a restraining order late that month to prevent her from speaking.Then last month, Mr. Trumps legal team filed a motion asking to move the case from state court to federal court, which may have been an effort to increase the likelihood that it would be resolved in arbitration.



WASHINGTON  After months of fraught negotiations and stalled talks, the Trump administration is aiming to announce a preliminary deal on the North American Free Trade Agreement this month, moving to resolve one trading conflict as a separate clash with China looms.A final agreement is far from guaranteed, but the White House is revising some of its more aggressive demands, particularly related to automobiles, which had been a source of tension with Canada and Mexico. A new proposal would require an automobile to contain components made by workers earning a specific wage level to qualify for Naftas preferential tariffs. The administration had previously demanded that vehicles contain a large percentage of auto parts produced in the United States.The new proposal is aimed at stopping United States automakers from shifting production to Mexico in search of cheap labor, according to people familiar with the plan.President Trump, who earlier this week called Nafta an embarrassment, said at an event in West Virginia on Thursday that a deal could be announced shortly. Were working very hard on Nafta with Mexico and Canada, he said. Well have something I think fairly soon.Mr. Trump said that his aides were pushing to have something concrete finished before next weeks Summit of the Americas in Peru but that a quick deal was not assured.They said, Oh, lets have Nafta before. I said, Dont rush it. Well take it nice and easy, get it done right or well terminate it, the president said.The talks, which appeared to be on the brink of collapse just a few months ago, kicked back into gear in recent weeks as political and practical realities prompted a newfound urgency among American negotiators. For a revised Nafta to be approved by the current Republican-controlled congress, the Trump administration would probably have to finalize it before the end of May to allow time for congressional review given the House and Senate calendar.Other trade tensions helped jump-start the discussions, including the administrations new steel and aluminum tariffs. The White House temporarily exempted Canada and Mexico from the tariffs through May 1, saying it would make those exemptions permanent if the three nations could agree to a revised Nafta. The administration must now make good on that promise and negotiate a deal that would allow key allies to continue importing metals into the United States. Canada is a top supplier of metal to the United States military.A quick resolution would also allow negotiators to bypass complications stemming from the upcoming Mexican elections on July 1, which appear likely to usher in a left-leaning president who has sharply criticized Mr. Trump over his broadsides against Mexico. And the White House could promote a revised Nafta as a political win ahead of the congressional midterm elections in November, while giving the presidents top trade advisers room to turn their attention to resolving a potential trade war with China, which has  fired back against American trade actions with punitive measures of its own.White House trade advisers are meeting with their Mexican and Canadian counterparts in Washington this week to try to hammer out areas of consensus on the most difficult issues of the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland of Canada and Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo of Mexico were expected to kick off trilateral talks on some of the pacts thorniest issues over dinner in Washington on Thursday night.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada struck an optimistic note on Thursday, saying the countries were having a very productive moment, a sharp change in tone from previous comments about a Nafta resolution.We are in a moment where we are moving forward in a significant way,, Mr. Trudeau said. Hopefully there will be some good news coming.He is expected to attend the two-day Summit of the Americas in Peru next week, alongside Mr. Trump and President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico.Yet hurdles remain, including how far the United States is willing to go in surrendering many of its negotiating goals, given Mr. Trumps frequent and vocal criticism of Nafta. Negotiating partners are still waiting to see whether the United States will compromise on the tough requests it has made over the past eight months of negotiations. Many of those demands, including those linked to American auto production, have angered business groups and lawmakers, who say such requirements would actually hurt companies and workers by shifting more manufacturing out of the United States.A quick resolution would necessitate concessions from the Trump administration, potentially resulting in a deal not significantly different from the one Mr. Trump has denounced as a travesty and embarrassment.Unless the United States is quite a bit more flexible, I dont see how its possible to have a quick agreement, even just an agreement in principle, said Antonio Ortiz-Mena, a senior vice president at the Albright Stonebridge Group and a former Mexican diplomat in the United States.Some concessions appear to be in the offing. The United States has now backed away from a proposal that would require half of the value of an automobile to be manufactured in the United States to qualify for Naftas preferential tariffs. Instead, it is proposing a system that would require a certain proportion of auto parts to be made by workers earning certain wages.That proposal is likely to be more palatable to Canada and could also encourage Mexico to ultimately pay higher wages. And it could help Mr. Trump court the votes of congressional Democrats, who complain that Mexicos low wages are the reason companies have relocated auto production from the United States.Still, the proposal is likely to face opposition from Mexican negotiators, given that their current wage scales are too low to qualify. And some auto executives also criticized the new proposal, saying it would be nearly as difficult for companies to comply with as earlier ideas, and could ultimately push manufacturing out of North America to cheaper areas.Other key areas of dispute also remain: Negotiators have so far concluded work on only six of the trade agreements roughly 30 chapters, and little progress has been made on contentious issues like mechanisms for settling trade disputes or rules for government purchases.Yet the renewed push to revise Nafta could usher in an agreement that until recently seemed at risk of collapse. Both supporters and critics of the Trump administration have pointed to the trade deal that the United States recently concluded with South Korea at the end of March as a possible precedent. Mr. Trump fiercely criticized that pact, but in the end his administration declared victory after renegotiating fairly modest changes.Labor unions, which have backed Mr. Trumps plan to dramatically remake trade policy, were disappointed with that deal, which did not include changes to labor standards, investment rules or content requirements for automotive manufacturing.You see what you get if your priority is speed over quality, said Celeste Drake, trade and globalization policy specialist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A quick deal thats not a good deal  is that what the administration wants to sell in these next few months? Or is it really looking to take the time it needs to get a good deal?Even an agreement in principle would not rule out the possibility of months or years of wrangling over an eventual deal. Patrick Leblond, senior fellow at the Center for International Governance Innovation, noted that Canada and Europe signed an agreement in principle for a trade pact in the fall of 2013, but that the final deal did not come into effect until September 2017, after almost being derailed.As trade negotiators repeatedly point out, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, Mr. Leblond said.

The United States ground war in Syria started in late 2015, when the Obama administration ordered a small deployment of roughly 50 troops. The American public saw little of the engagement: a few photos of familiar-looking soldiers in familiar-looking armored vehicles. The White House and the Pentagon stressed that the war in Syria against the Islamic State was being waged by Kurdish and Arab allies  small groups that American commandos were just advising and assisting. The American war, it seemed then, was primarily fought from the sky, taking the form of thousands of airstrikes.[The Times is reintroducing the At War blog, a forum for the firsthand experiences of global conflict.]As the months passed, the number of American troops on the ground increased.Today roughly 2,000 American troops live in Syria. The Islamic States de facto capital, Raqqa, is littered with rubble and explosives, and some of the Islamic States holdouts occupy a small slice of the Euphrates River Valley. President Trump has said he wants the Pentagons forces to leave.I want to get out  I want to bring our troops back home, Trump said on Tuesday during a news conference with leaders of Baltic nations. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.Trumps statement ran almost directly opposite Pentagon plans, which were communicated at roughly the same time Tuesday by Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the top officer at the militarys United States Central Command. On Wednesday, Trump adopted the Pentagons view. The White House released a statement saying that the American military was going nowhere until the Islamic State was eradicated in Syria.Amid all the mixed messaging, images of newly built American bases in the Syrian city Manbij had already started appearing online. They showed armored vehicles, watchtowers and a fluttering American flag  above outposts that no longer look so hasty.The Associated Press reported Wednesday that United States troops were building new positions near the front line close to the Syrian-Turkish border, a corridor no longer bordered by the Islamic State. This is now terrain held by Turkish-backed militants and Turkeys uniformed military, which is threatening a new offensive into the city to rid it of United States-backed Kurdish militias. The American forces now must deal with the remnants of the Islamic State in the region and also act as a main deterrence against advancing Turkish forces.Neither the apparently expanding network of American outposts nor their occupants look aligned with the war that was supposed to be waged by only small groups of Special Operation forces. The structures look much like the fighting positions once seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, which projected a clear message: Were here for a while.Photos from Manbij show American bases, marked by their flags, camouflage netting and armored vehicles, including M-ATVs and MRAPs  troop transports, designed to withstand roadside bombs, that became common sights on the roads in Iraq and Afghanistan.A tweet posted Tuesday by StrategicNews1 shows a male service member, shirtless and in shorts, near a mortar pit. Behind him was a bunker with ammo crates inside. Its walls were built with sandbags, and the roof was made from what looked like an Air Force cargo pallet. To his right was an Emtas, an enhanced 120-millimeter mortar system with a range of four miles.At the far corner of the screen was a wheeled mortar system, still stored.Behind the soldier was a pink lawn chair. He looked ready to settle in.


WASHINGTON  Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russias interference in the 2016 election, transformed this week what has appeared to be a weakness  his relative lack of independence  into a strength.Since he was appointed in May by Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, the scope of Mr. Muellers power has been intensely debated. President Trumps allies have portrayed the special counsel as running amok as his focus expanded to the business dealings of Mr. Trumps associates. The presidents critics have worried that Mr. Mueller is too vulnerable to potential Trump administration interference.The tension is familiar when the president comes under scrutiny by law enforcement, as the vast powers of the executive branch are at stake. Similar tensions cropped up during the Watergate, Iran-contra, Whitewater and Valerie Plame leak investigations. Now they have spurred the first significant legal fight arising from Mr. Muellers work, as Paul Manafort, Mr. Trumps onetime campaign chairman, battles charges related to payments he received from a pro-Russia government in Ukraine.Manaforts fight over Muellers authority goes to a central question in our republic, going all the way back to Platos question, Who guards the guardians? said Neal Katyal, a former Justice Department official who drafted its special counsel regulations in 1999. The central debate is how much independence do you want, versus how much accountability for the prosecution. There needs to be a balance between these two competing goals.Last month, Mr. Manafort asked Judge Amy Berman Jackson of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia to dismiss his indictment. Portraying Mr. Mueller as out of control, Mr. Manaforts defense lawyers contended that criminal allegations arising from their clients Ukraine dealings either exceeded the limits of the special counsels assigned jurisdiction or that Mr. Rosenstein had improperly given Mr. Mueller a blank check to prosecute anything. Mr. Manafort has also filed a  lawsuit making similar arguments.Mr. Muellers original assignment from Mr. Rosenstein was to look into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and any links to Trump campaign officials, with the ambiguous addition of any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation.In a response this week, Mr. Muellers team insisted that Mr. Manaforts Ukraine dealings, in light of his campaign role, were relevant to investigating links between Russia and the Trump campaign. The team also argued that Mr. Manafort had no right to challenge Mr. Muellers jurisdiction. (It did not, however, invoke the widespread belief that Mr. Mueller is using the Ukraine charges to pressure Mr. Manafort to divulge what he knows about 2016 events as part of a plea bargain.)But members of Mr. Muellers team also backed up those arguments with a striking move: They emphatically pointed to their subordination to Mr. Rosenstein  the acting attorney general for the Russia investigation because Attorney General Jeff Sessions is recused from it.While Mr. Rosenstein has testified that he knows about and approves of what Mr. Mueller is doing, the filing went into significant new detail, including disclosing that Mr. Rosenstein wrote a memo on Aug. 2 blessing the idea that Mr. Muellers jurisdiction extends to Mr. Manaforts Ukraine-linked dealings.The acting attorney general appointed the special counsel, defined his jurisdiction, understands the scope of his investigation and has specifically confirmed that the allegations that form the basis of Mr. Manaforts prosecution are within Mr. Muellers purview, the filing said. In these circumstances, no serious question of political accountability can be raised.Mr. Muellers assertive use of a Trump appointees control over his investigation as a shield against Mr. Manaforts attack was a remarkable moment in the history of recurring tensions over the independence of investigations touching on high-level executive branch officials.After the Watergate scandal, in which President Richard M. Nixon forced the Justice Department to fire the prosecutor investigating him, Congress enacted a law permitting the appointment of an independent counsel who would report to a panel of judges rather than to a presidential appointee.Although the Supreme Court upheld Congresss constitutional power to make that arrangement in a 1988 case, both political parties came to see it as a bad idea. In 1999, when the independent counsel statute expired, lawmakers did not renew it.As a replacement, the Justice Department created a regulation to permit the appointment, from outside the government, of a special counsel who would exercise day-to-day independence but remain subject to control by the attorney general, who could veto decisions like whether to file charges or expand jurisdiction. At the same time, it limited the attorney generals power to fire a special counsel to cases of misconduct.But that regulation has rarely been used. The most high-profile case arising during George W. Bushs administration  the appointment in 2003 of Patrick J. Fitzgerald to investigate who leaked the identity of Valerie Plame Wilson, a C.I.A. official  bypassed its envisioned arrangement.Mr. Fitzgerald, then a United States attorney in Chicago, was appointed as a special counsel by James B. Comey, then the deputy attorney general, after Attorney General John Ashcroft recused himself from the investigation. Mr. Comey also delegated his supervisory powers as the acting attorney general to Mr. Fitzgerald, permitting the prosecutor to take major investigative steps independent of the supervision or control of any officer of the department.By contrast, after Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey in May from his subsequent job as F.B.I. director and Mr. Rosenstein appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel, Mr. Rosenstein invoked the regulation  meaning he retained supervisory control.At the time, some Democrats greeted that arrangement with suspicion. They worried that Mr. Rosenstein  a Trump appointee who had helped with Mr. Trumps firing of Mr. Comey by writing a memo criticizing Mr. Comeys handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation  would keep Mr. Mueller on a short leash.During a June hearing, for example, Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, pressed Mr. Rosenstein to instead create a more independent special counsel who could oversee himself, like Mr. Fitzgerald.Are you willing to do as has been done before? she demanded.Mr. Rosenstein demurred. While noting that Mr. Bush could have fired Mr. Fitzgerald for any reason  so working under the regulation gave Mr. Mueller greater protection  he also said there were other complicated legal issues that led him to his decision. (One of the complexities may have been that Mr. Mueller was not a current Justice Department employee at the time of his appointment, unlike Mr. Fitzgerald in 2003, so Mr. Mueller most likely could not have been delegated attorney general supervisory powers, Mr. Katyal said.)The anxieties of that period make it all the more striking that, 10 months later, Mr. Muellers team is stressing his subordination to Mr. Rosenstein to repel Mr. Manaforts attack.Still, several specialists cautioned that Mr. Muellers subordination could revert to a weakness if Mr. Trump were to fire Mr. Sessions or Mr. Rosenstein, putting someone else in charge of the special counsel.Against that backdrop, Julie OSullivan, a Georgetown University law professor and a former federal prosecutor, worried about the lengths the filing went to in detailing Mr. Rosensteins approval for Mr. Muellers actions.Muellers lack of independence was viewed as a real problem, but now its a response to any attack on the indictment, she said. I do wonder, though, if he hasnt put Rosenstein in additional jeopardy.
WASHINGTON  Whether it is the Paris climate accord or the Iran nuclear deal, President Trump has moved methodically to dismantle the foreign policy legacy of his predecessor Barack Obama. Except for Syria, on which Mr. Trump has faithfully echoed Mr. Obamas hands-off policy.Mr. Trumps statement on Tuesday  that I want to bring our troops back home; I want to start rebuilding our nation  underscored again how similarly he and Mr. Obama view the United States role in the overlapping conflicts in Syria.Both men have doubted the wisdom of a long-term American military commitment in the country. Both have complained that Saudi Arabia expects the United States to bear the burden of a costly war against President Bashar al-Assad. Both have viewed Syria primarily through the prism of combating the Islamic State.Though Mr. Trumps aides made much of his order to fire Tomahawk missiles at Mr. Assads airfields last spring  an order that Mr. Obama famously refused to give four years earlier  it was the exception that proved the rule.Mr. Trump, a former senior adviser said, does not believe that Syrias civil war is a vital national security interest of the United States. Neither did Mr. Obama, which is why he initially rebuffed proposals to funnel weapons to the rebels in Syria or to impose a no-fly zone over parts of the country.Both men retreat from the idea of getting deeply involved in other countries civil wars, said Robert S. Ford, the last American ambassador to Syria. Both of them are instinctively more concerned about the American economy and things at home, even if they have very different visions of America.Mr. Ford, who now teaches at Yale and is a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute, said Mr. Trump, like Mr. Obama, was right to worry about mission creep in the militarys operations in Syria.The American-led coalition, Mr. Ford noted, has recently bombed Syrian forces, backed by Iranian militias and Russian mercenaries, who were advancing on oil fields held by the Syrian Democratic Forces, a mostly Arab faction that is fighting with the United States against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.This wasnt about ISIS, Mr. Ford said. This was about keeping the Syrians out of the oil fields held by our buddies.The Trump administrations debates over Syria carry a distinct echo of those during the Obama administration. Both presidents confronted aides pushing more aggressive options. In Mr. Trumps case, the Pentagon is pleading for more time to mop up in Syria, warning that a hasty exit will jeopardize the gains made in the campaign against the Islamic State. In Mr. Obamas case, the C.I.A. and the State Department both advocated arming the rebels.At a National Security Council meeting on Tuesday, a frustrated Mr. Trump pressed his top military advisers for how long it would take to root out the remaining Islamic State fighters and to train local forces to stabilize Syrian territory freed from the militant group.In 2012, Mr. Ford recalled, a skeptical Mr. Obama quizzed his aides about how arming a ragtag band of Syrian rebels could lead to a negotiated end to the war.Both leaders also share the same skepticism of the motives of allies. Mr. Obama railed against Saudi Arabia, which had lobbied Washington to arm the rebels, as a free rider. Mr. Trump said Tuesday that if Saudis were so eager for the United States to stay engaged in Syria, they should help finance the campaign.I said, Well, you want us to stay, maybe youll have to pay, Mr. Trump said during a news conference, apparently referring to a call he had with King Salman of Saudi Arabia. It is very costly for our country. And it helps other countries a hell of a lot more than it helps us.Mr. Trump is more transactional in his approach than was Mr. Obama. The former president, his aides said, tended to focus on whether a strategy was financially sustainable over time, while the current president views foreign affairs as a strict balance sheet.Trump administration officials insist there are other differences. Mr. Trump, they said, agreed to arm the Syrian Kurds  a crucial step that enabled these battle-hardened soldiers to fight alongside American troops in retaking the Syrian city of Raqqa.Mr. Obama did not arm the Kurds, mainly because his aides were caught up in a debate over whether it would antagonize Turkey. The Turks view the Kurdish militia as closely linked to the Kurdistan Workers Party, a separatist group known as the P.K.K., which threatens Turkey. Mr. Obama did come around to supporting the idea of arming the Kurds, but only at the end of his presidency.Mr. Trump, officials said, has given his military commanders more flexibility to deploy troops, which they said had accelerated the defeat of the Islamic State. But analysts said Mr. Obama planted the seeds for the victory by orchestrating the multinational military campaign to begin with.While Obama and Trump may share an aversion to escalating the conflict, their instincts led in different directions, said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a former deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama. Obama was more focused on diplomacy with the key players, while Trump has shown little inclination to focus on the diplomatic track.Mr. Obamas diplomatic ambitions, some argue, are the key to understanding why he shunned deeper involvement in Syria.For Obama, it was fear of alienating Iran from a nuclear deal, the jewel in the crown of his foreign policy, said Frederic C. Hof, a former special envoy to Syria in the Obama administration. For Trump, it is an instinctive belief that anything the U.S. is doing in the Middle East is a waste of time and money.Yet Mr. Obama, too, lamented that American military adventures in the region usually ended in ashes. He often drew an analogy to Libya, where he had authorized a military intervention in 2011 that left the country in shambles.With their reluctance to get involved, Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump may find themselves united in another way. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump regularly castigated Mr. Obama for withdrawing American troops from Iraq too abruptly in 2011  a decision that he said allowed the Islamic State to take root and flourish.Now, as Mr. Trump pushes his commanders for a speedy exit from Syria, he faces the same danger.What the Department of Defense is worried about is a three-plus-year military campaign against ISIS going down the drain, Mr. Hof said. If you wanted to write a script for the resurgence of an Islamist regime, this is it.
Lisa Murkowski, a Republican senator from Alaska, is not known for her fiery speeches or public charisma; in interviews, she is sometimes so cautious that you can almost hear the strain of her self-editing. Murkowski is, however, exceptionally comfortable in one-on-one informal encounters, where she is skilled in the art of the folksy, quick connection. On Saturdays, she and her husband, Verne Martell, a well-liked former small-business owner, occasionally hit their local Anchorage Costco, which entails hours of active listening to constituents in the toilet-paper aisle (Verne wants to slit his wrists, reports Murkowskis cousin Anne Gore). She spends less time than most senators sequestered in a private car, because 80 percent of her state can be reached only by flight. And because Murkowski never takes her upgrades on flights to and from Alaska (the optics of traveling in first class are terrible), she is forever mixing and mingling with her constituents on planes, not infrequently while in line for the bathroom.Murkowski was in just such a line, on a flight out of Wrangell, Alaska, on July 5, when one of her constituents, a 39-year-old financial adviser, looked up from her seat and recognized her. Hi, Lisa, she said. Im Kerri Willoughby. Do you remember me? Murkowski said she did and greeted her warmly by name  like a friend, Willoughby said.Willoughby is a member of a group of liberal, activist women from Juneau who call themselves the ReSisters. In March 2017, the group published an open letter to Murkowski in The Alaska Dispatch News, laying at her feet their concerns about President Trump. The letter said they hoped the senator, as a strong female leader, would have their backs on reproductive choice, affordable health care and defending the foundations of our democracy. A few months later, Murkowski  who is more popular with women than men and is strong with moderates generally  met with the group to hear them out.By the time Willoughby and the senator crossed paths on the plane, several weeks after their first encounter, the vote on the new health care bill was imminent. The Republican Party had staked its reputation on its promise to roll back the Affordable Care Act and could afford to lose the votes of only two of the 52 Republican senators. (Vice President Mike Pence would provide the deciding vote in the case of a tie.) Senator Susan Collins of Maine had made it clear that she was a no; John McCain, Rand Paul and Murkowski had expressed reservations but not yet declared their decisions.On the plane, Willoughby took the opportunity to ask Murkowski what everyone wanted to know: Have you decided which way you are going to vote on the health care bill? Murkowski told Willoughby that the last bill she saw was unpassable, adding, We have to get this right.Willoughby left the flight feeling hopeful that Murkowski would not vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Three weeks later, Murkowski did, in fact, cast one of the three decisive votes that killed the bill. One of Willoughbys fellow ReSisters, Julie Nielsen, a fisheries biologist with a side passion for health care reform, was so happy that she put a bright pink sign in the window of her office overlooking one of the main shopping streets in Juneau. Thank you Lisa!! read the sign. In the middle of the O in you, she had drawn a big heart.At a celebration rally in Anchorage a few days later, 200 people, many wearing pussy-hat pink, showed their appreciation. Over and over, the organizer screamed, Thank you! and the ralliers screamed back, Lisa! Barely known outside her own state before the Trump era, Murkowski, to moderates and liberals across the country, became an improbable hero, a symbol of resistance and integrity; hundreds of grateful phone calls poured in, as well as calls from the press and from governors wanting to collaborate with her on rethinking health care policy. Murkowski, a Slate headline read, had stood up for womankind over the threats of men; Bustle, a website for women, instructed readers on how to write letters to Murkowski that would make sure she knew they cared.The love-in lasted barely four months. Then came the tax bill. Liberals railed against its breaks for the rich; environmentalists bemoaned a provision allowing for drilling in Alaska. Murkowski stayed silent but ultimately announced a few days before the bill came to the floor that she would support it. The responses to her anodyne Twitter feed, which generally features photos of ribbon-cutting-type ceremonies or Alaskas many waterways, turned almost entirely venomous (Sell Out!!! Shame on you!! read a typical one). Murkowskis vote should hardly have come as a surprise; there is no more core value to Republicans than cutting taxes and no dream more dear to most Alaskans than ever more oil drilling.Nonetheless, it was a blow to those who had recently come to hold her in such high regard. It was a tough loss from our end, because we really did think we could get her, says Angel Padilla, the national policy director for the Indivisible Project, a liberal activist group that had helped coordinate protests against the bill in Murkowskis offices. Nielsen, the biologist, said this spring that she was disillusioned with Murkowski. The pink sign? I felt like ripping it up, she told me.When I met with Murkowski at her Washington office in February, she could evaluate those episodes with some distance. We talked in a small, windowless meeting room inside the Hart Senate Office Building. Murkowski, like the room itself, was notably unadorned (although Murkowski, unlike the room, is photogenic); in Alaska, accessibility trumps formality. Everyone in Alaska just calls her Lisa, Jonathan Kreiss-Tomkins, a state legislator, told me. Shes a mononym, like Charo.Liberals disappointment with Murkowski had not escaped her. You know, Murkowski said, one minute youre the darling of the world. Weve come together, and weve stood up against the administration. And then when you vote for something the administration supports, everyone says, What happened? Its like, Well, what did you expect me to do? Murkowski looked almost baffled. Im still a Republican.On Aug. 16, about three weeks after the health care vote, Murkowski, along with a few staff members, sat in a rental car outside a hotel in Bethel, a town in western Alaska. They were waiting for someone named Ephraim, a staff member specializing in fisheries, so they could all head to dinner. Ephraim, Murkowski said. Hes a great guy. From Juneau. Hes my fish guy. Great guy. She peered out the window. But very late.While we waited, Murkowski talked about her family: The five brothers and sisters, the husband, Verne, who encouraged her to start her career in state politics while he looked after their two sons (now 25 and 26). The arrangement worked well, but lately even her marriage was feeling the strains of her political life. Its gotten harder, she said, staring straight ahead through the windshield, with the strangeness of politics right now. Because hes got his opinions, too. And I just sometimes  well, not sometimes, most times  when I come home, I am just, I dont really want to talk about politics. I want to talk about the flooring that you laid in the living room today.It had been a grueling eight months for Murkowski, peaking with the Affordable Care Act repeal vote. She was clearly as appalled as anyone by the combative culture of the Trump White House, the peculiar barrage of gratuitously insulting tweets. In June, Trump tweeted that he had seen Mika Brzezinski at Mar-a-Lago and that she was bleeding from a face-lift. Stop it! Murkowski tweeted back. The Presidential platform should be used for more than bringing people down.I had my mom voice on that day, Murkowski would tell me later. Karina knows. She looked at Karina Petersen, her communications director. I wanted it all in caps with three exclamation points. Petersen laughed. We talked her down to one exclamation point, Petersen said.Murkowski is one of only a handful of Republican senators who have shown some degree of independence from Trump. The Republican dissenters fall into a few categories. There are the critics, the most vociferous of whom are Jeff Flake and Bob Corker, both senators who are not running for re-election. There are the strayers, among them Murkowski and Collins, who have criticized Trump and also voted against him on major legislation. Rand Paul, the staunch libertarian, votes with Trump less often than any other Republican senator, but he has also gone out of his way to defend him. Lindsey Graham votes with the president slightly more often than Murkowski and Collins, but he joins them in yet another category: the pragmatists. Those senators have staked out the now-controversial position that they would rather get something done than nothing, even if it means compromising with Democrats. Murkowski, who has exercised her independence in all three ways, has nonetheless managed to bring back to her state its most long-desired spoils  more opportunities for drilling and more opportunities for building in previously protected wilderness.Murkowski landed in the Senate essentially by fiat: In 2002, her father, Frank Murkowski, then a senator, was elected governor of Alaska and had to choose a successor. He publicly considered an up-and-coming mayor from Wasilla, Sarah Palin, then rejected her. Instead, he appointed his daughter Lisa, who had been a state legislator for all of four years. The blatant act of nepotism dogged Frank Murkowski, who went on in 2006 to face Palin in a primary challenge for governor, which she easily won.That history still seemed fresh in 2010, when Palin backed another Republican, Joe Miller, a friend of Palins husband and a Tea Party favorite, in his challenge to Lisa Murkowski in the Republican Senate primary. I think shes out for her own self-interest, Murkowski said of Palin on the evening of the election. To the surprise of many Alaskans, Miller won. Do you believe in miracles? Palin tweeted to her followers.From the moment the result was announced, friends and supporters began texting Murkowski to urge her to run in the general election as a write-in candidate. Leadership told her not to do it, that she was going to jeopardize the seat and have a Democrat win, says Andrew Halcro, a former Republican state legislator and a friend who served with Murkowski. I think at that point, Lisa recognized, I dont have any friends. Murkowski decided to mount the write-in campaign.She ran as a Republican, but in both Alaska and Washington, the party seemed comfortable moving on without her. The National Republican Senatorial Committee spent more than $1 million funding Miller, with the Tea Party Express adding $600,000. Not long after she started the campaign, Murkowski learned, while she was in Alaska, that Senate Republicans were considering voting the next day to remove her from her position as the ranking member on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. I have basically been written off by the senatorial committee, she said, recalling her state of mind in a memoir by Arlen Specter, the moderate former senator from Pennsylvania, and Im not going back begging and pleading. My relationships will either stand on their own or not. In the end, she held on to her post.Murkowski, whom Palin had tried to cast as part of the entrenched establishment, suddenly became the underdog, a shift that galvanized her campaign. Her team passed out plastic bracelets that said, fill it in, write it in, with the correct spelling of her name. Murkowski defeated Miller, with the help of traditional Democratic constituencies like women and Alaska Natives. It was an unusual coalition for a Republican, said Mark Begich, at the time Alaskas other senator and a Democrat.Murkowski quickly established that she had returned to the Senate, as she told a reporter from The Hill, with a stiffer, straighter spine. A month after her election, she voted with Democrats to repeal the Pentagons dont ask, dont tell policy. She publicly criticized remarks that Mitch McConnell, the new Republican Senate majority leader, made about the partys priorities. The Hill headline called Murkowski A Thorn in McConnells Side. Im sure she would have liked that, Begich said. It was no secret. She was not a happy camper.Some of Murkowskis best friends  and donors  are Republicans. But among her closest confidantes are a crew of female extended family members whose politics range from liberal to staunchly conservative, professional women with whom she regularly texts, drinks sauvignon blanc and exchanges family gossip. In the weeks before the vote on the Affordable Care Act repeal, she was on the receiving end of several group texts from those women, many of whom seemed to be encouraging her to vote against the bill.In mid-July, Murkowski sent the group a text with a photo showing her bare, pedicured feet and a thick pile of paper on her lap. Sunday morning with the health care bill, she wrote. A cousin wrote back: People I run into are telling me that they are worried about you and the pressure you must feel. Like I tell Jack  the cousins son  go be a leader today. Ive got your back. Another added: We are tough, and you will be the voice of reason on this. I can feel it.Murkowski went to college on the East Coast at Georgetown and then went to Willamette University College of Law. She has long supported abortion rights and has a strong network of frankly feminist friends, many of whom shared her outrage during the presidential election when the Access Hollywood tape became public. The day after it aired, she told Alaskan reporters that the tape, in which Trump bragged about grabbing womens vaginas, showed Trumps true character. She did not sleep the night the news broke, she said, because she was worrying about what it all meant for the countrys leadership. I cannot and will not support Donald Trump for President, she tweeted.Then he was elected. This is good for Alaska, she assured her constituents in an interview. Trump had made it clear during his campaign that he supported drilling for fossil fuel, and Alaskas economy is built, to a crippling degree, on oil revenues. Decreasing production and dropping oil prices have created a fiscal crisis in the state, which has only amplified the desire among many Alaskans to drill in long-protected regions, specifically on the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, or ANWR, which serves as a home to polar bears, caribou and hundreds of bird species. A Republican president could finally make that possible. But Murkowski also knew that the administration was set on repealing the Affordable Care Act, and many of her constituents had come to depend on it, especially its expansion of Medicaid.Murkowski made it clear where she stood on certain issues that would come up in the repeal bill. She announced to the State Legislature that she was concerned about possible rollbacks of the Medicaid expansion and said in no uncertain terms that she would not support a repeal bill that defunded Planned Parenthood, which Alaskans also depend on for community health care. And yet, in subsequent months, the bill  written by 13 male Republicans  kept turning up, in revision after revision, with significant cuts to the nonprofit organizations funding.By early summer, the young staff members answering the phone in Murkowskis office were subject to scores of aggressive calls from citizens on both sides of the debate. Within the office, there was tension among high-ranking staff members about what she should do. Throngs of health care reporters chased Murkowski down Senate halls, a stress she did not always handle well. Hey, Murkowski snapped at CNNs Manu Raju when he followed her down a Senate hallway to try to get a comment on what she thought of the House health care repeal bill. Would you please be respectful? she asked, her own tone harsh.Finally, in late July, she voted against a procedural motion that would have allowed the repeal bill to come to the Senate floor. Dan Sullivan, Alaskas other senator and a fellow Republican, told the press that Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke had called with a threatening message. Sullivan was concerned, he said, that some of the administrations pro-energy policies are going to stop. It was a brazen threat to a member of another branch of government, as if Trump had shown up on the Senate floor to shake a fist in Murkowskis face.In those tense days leading up to the votes, Patty Murray, a Democratic senator from Washington State, occasionally called Murkowski and Collins, who she knew were under considerable pressure, to offer support  and see if anything had changed. On the issue of Planned Parenthood, Murray told me, this is something they have run on, fought for, worked with all of us on for many years.To the extent that there is any remaining spirit of bipartisanship in the Senate, Murray believes it is fostered at monthly dinners that the female senators try to have together. They are sometimes held in the Capitols Strom Thurmond Room (ironically, says Heidi Heitkamp, a North Dakota Democrat; Murray has said that Thurmond once tried to fondle her in an elevator). We play some music; we drink a little wine, says Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democratic senator from New York. Once, the group went bowling, complete with shirts embroidered with nicknames. Murray believes that the conversation was different among female senators than among male ones. Men, when you hear Chuck Schumer  the Democratic minority leader in the Senate  and I dont want to frame it just about Chuck, they share information so they can get information to get things, Murray says. We listen to each other to see why we believe. You can go to a gym and find out if the Republicans are having a vote at 4 and feel youve got some power. We actually want to understand each other.The day of the final vote, Collins joined Murkowski, who was talking to McCain on the Senate floor, to provide moral support and find out if he was with them or not. You two are right, he told them. When Pence turned up to try to persuade McCain to vote for the repeal, Collins left to give them some privacy. Collins walked past Murrays seat, and the senators exchanged glances.At the first Republican caucus lunch held after the health care repeal failed, Senator David Perdue of Georgia lashed out at the dissenting senators; later, in a news release, he called for more accountability for committee leaders who voted against the party, implying that he thought they should lose their senior posts. Suffice it to say, it was a harsh lunch with some heavy criticism, Collins told me. It was uncomfortable, definitely, but I was more annoyed. And I did not go to lunch the next day. To try to send a little message of my own.Murkowski did go; she knew she had already weathered worse from her Republican Senate colleagues. I would much rather have that airing and be there, she said, than find out later that there was another gathering and that they talked about us.In August, when I flew to Alaska to meet with Murkowski, I shared a taxi from the airport in Bethel with a woman who had flown in from a nearby island village with her toddler son to see a doctor. She gave the driver a voucher instead of money: Medicaid paid for both her flight and her cab ride.Later that day, I joined 30 or so people in the backyard of a community health center that was hosting a barbecue in Murkowskis honor. The guests, mostly employees of the center and their families, stood in line for hamburgers and Alaskan ice cream (Crisco, sugar, blueberries) and waited for her to arrive. Once she appeared  she wore a kuspuk, a longish hooded shirt with a large pocket in front  she made the rounds, introducing herself, thanking the staff members for the work they did and giving a brief speech, her voice just audible over the crackling sound of a partygoers hand riffling through a bag of Fritos. A third grader, perhaps the one soul there struck by Murkowskis celebrity, buried his head in his mothers bosom as she handed over a jar of home-preserved salmon.One woman at the barbecue  the only one wearing a suit  had flown from Washington to present Murkowski with a plaque from the National Association of Community Health Centers. She thanked Murkowski formally; many others expressed their appreciation for her vote against the repeal bill  and for her resolve. I just really want to thank you for standing up to him, said one of the community health centers social workers, a longtime transplant from New Jersey.Back in Murkowskis Washington office, her staff debated how to manage her newly heightened profile. Murkowski had no interest in becoming the face of an anti-Trump movement. For months she wanted to operate discreetly under the radar, as she strategized to find a way to get Congress to agree to open ANWR for drilling. In January, shortly after Trumps inauguration, she approached McConnell to propose that they attach the ANWR provision to a bill that could not be filibustered, and thus would require only 50 votes to pass. McConnell agreed, and soon after was when we really got things going, but we did it quietly, she told a newsletter that covers the energy industry. She wanted to avoid environmentalists typical attempts to erode and undercut those efforts, she said.When details of the Senate tax bill started to emerge in the fall, it became clear that many Republicans hoped the ultimate bill would contain a provision that opened up a portion of ANWR for drilling, as well as language that would eliminate the individual mandate for health insurance, which most economists argue would gut the Affordable Care Act. Nonprofit organizations like the Center for Popular Democracy tried to rally grass-roots activists in Anchorage and raised money to fly a handful of Alaskans to Washington to show up at Murkowskis office. I thought she would realize she could not maintain her political success, and her popularity, if she was to repeal any part of Obamacare, says Jennifer Flynn Walker, the director of mobilization for the organization.But in Alaska, most residents knew that she would vote for the tax bill. You have to understand, ANWR is like the holy grail for Alaskan politicians for the past 40 years, Halcro says. For just as long, environmentalists have fought  and in the past, recruited Republicans like McCain and Collins to their side  to protect ANWR. But in the end, every Republican senator present, including Murkowski, voted for the tax bill, and for the opening up of the refuge.Murkowskis approval rating in Alaska, which soared among progressives after the health care bill, dropped lower than it had in at least seven years. On MSNBC, Representative Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat, attacked Murkowski for supporting the tax bill. She got what she wants, he said, and that was her price  to sell out the Affordable Care Act and the American people.Whatever the polls said, Murkowski clearly considered passing legislation opening ANWR an unmitigated success. At a celebration for the tax bill, Murkowski beamed alongside Trump. This is a bright day for America, so we thank you for that! she told him. In January, she tweeted her support for his State of the Union address. That month, she also posted a photograph of a Washington Post article that the president had sent her about a wilderness region where she hoped to build a road. Lisa  We will get it done, Trump had written on the clip.When I went to see her in Washington in February, Murkowski made some of her typically plucky, but not exactly blistering, critiques. Trump, she said, should not be using degrading and foul language. She brought up Trumps characterization of Democratic senators who did not vigorously applaud his State of the Union address. In my view, she said, to suggest that a duly elected member of Congress who fails to applaud you is somehow treasonous, these statements are not only unnecessary; they are wrong. She glared a little. I continue to believe that some of the statements, some of what the president sets out there is really not helpful to where we are as a country.The day I visited the community health center with Murkowski back in Bethel was the same day Trump tweeted that two sides shared blame for the violence that occurred at a white-supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va. Murkowski had not minced words then: What the president said yesterday was wrong, she tweeted. She could not just stand by and say nothing, she told me, where there is evil, where there is hatred. That week in August was a strange time of upheaval, with Trump swinging wildly, attacking even his own party members.I could not help asking in Bethel: Did Murkowski worry, as some psychiatrists were suggesting publicly, that Trump was mentally unfit to be president? She was wearing sunglasses, so I could not read her expression. She paused. I dont really know him, she said. I dont know what to make of it.In her office in Washington, Murkowski was again talking about Trump when an aide poked her head in to say that Mitch McConnell was on the line. Murkowski, who was in midthought, did not move but looked at the aide steadily for a moment, as if to say: And? The aide looked nervous  McConnell had asked to pull her out, she emphasized, at which point Murkowski got up to take the call. When she came back to the office a few moments later, she looked upbeat. They had been discussing something about funding for wildfire relief, and McConnell was apparently taking her opinion under close advisement. Its nice to be loved, she said. Again. She thought for a moment. Its important to know that people know, Dont forget to check in with Murkowski.





WASHINGTON  At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency, four of them high-ranking, were reassigned or demoted, or requested new jobs in the past year after they raised concerns about the spending and management of the agencys administrator, Scott Pruitt.The concerns included unusually large spending on office furniture and first-class travel, as well as certain demands by Mr. Pruitt for security coverage, such as requests for a bulletproof vehicle and an expanded 20-person protective detail, according to people who worked for or with the E.P.A. and have direct knowledge of the situation.Mr. Pruitt bristled when the officials  four career E.P.A. employees and one Trump administration political appointee  confronted him, said the people, who were not authorized to speak publicly.The political appointee, Kevin Chmielewski, was placed on administrative leave without pay, according to two of the people with knowledge of the situation. Mr. Chmielewski was among the first employees of Donald J. Trumps presidential campaign, serving as a senior advance official. The two people, who are administration officials, said that Mr. Chmielewski flagged some of his concerns about Mr. Pruitt directly to the White Houses presidential personnel office.Two of the career officials, Reginald E. Allen and Eric Weese, were moved to jobs where they had less say in spending decisions and less interaction with Mr. Pruitt, the people said. A third career official, John E. Reeder, joined American University as a temporary executive in residence after being told by the E.P.A. to find a new job. And John C. Martin, who served on the security detail, was also removed from the team and had his gun and badge taken away after raising concerns about how Mr. Pruitts security was being handled.A sixth official, Mr. Pruitts chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, also raised questions about Mr. Pruitts spending, according to three E.P.A. officials. He remains in his job but is considering resigning, agency officials said. Mr. Jackson came to the agency from the office of Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, who like Mr. Pruitt had been a major critic of regulatory moves made under President Barack Obama, and is a prominent climate change skeptic.Approval was required by the staff officials for certain of Mr. Pruitts expenditures, and Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski, Mr. Jackson and Mr. Reeder at various points each voiced concerns to Mr. Pruitt directly about his spending, according to the two administration officials.Neither Mr. Jackson nor any of the five officials who left or were removed after questioning Mr. Pruitt would comment when contacted by The New York Times. Before their reassignments or removals, Mr. Weese was the head of Mr. Pruitts protective detail, and Mr. Reeder, Mr. Allen and Mr. Chmielewski each served as deputy chief of staff.The White House declined to comment on Thursday, referring questions to the E.P.A., though President Trump, as he boarded Air Force One, said he had confidence in Mr. Pruitt.And in speaking to reporters on the plane, he described Mr. Pruitt as very courageous, while suggesting he was reviewing the complaints about him. Ill make that determination, Mr. Trump said. But hes a good man, hes done a terrific job. But Ill take a look at it.The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the reassignments were related to objections to spending and other management issues. We dispute the veracity of the accusations, said Jahan Wilcox, a spokesman for the agency.The staff tumult comes to light as Mr. Pruitts stewardship of the agency is under  mounting scrutiny. He is the subject of an investigation by the E.P.A.s inspector general, who is examining some of the spending and security issues. The White House confirmed on Wednesday that it was conducting its own examination.Several current and former E.P.A. employees said morale at the agency had suffered as they watched the friction play out between Mr. Pruitt and the officials. Christopher Zarba, a career E.P.A. employee who retired in February after leading the agencys scientific advisory boards, said it was well known in the office that Mr. Allen had been sidelined for challenging Mr. Pruitt.Brilliant, a natural leader, an off-the-charts-talented guy, Mr. Zarba said of Mr. Allen. He had to push back on Pruitt on some of the trip and office modification expenses to keep everything legal, and we speculated he might have been removed for that reason.A senior political appointee, who came to the agency with the Trump administration and works on policy issues, offered a defense of Mr. Chmielewski: Kevin is one of the most upstanding public servants and nicest all-around people. Just because he stood up to what was clearly a bad idea, they are trying to sabotage the poor guys reputation.Mr. Pruitt declined to be interviewed for this article, but he has spoken with conservative media organizations. In those interviews, he has cried foul about a flurry of media reports about his regular first-class travel, his use of an obscure administrative provision to increase the salaries of two favored aides (over White House objections) and his below-market rental agreement for accommodations in Washington with the wife of an energy lobbyist whose clients won favorable treatment from the E.P.A.The disclosures, he has suggested, were the handiwork of critics who were resorting to personal attacks to derail the deregulatory agenda being pursued by his agency and the Trump administration. Since taking the administrators job in February 2017, Mr. Pruitt has advanced one of the administrations most aggressive regulatory rollbacks, including regulations intended to tighten rules related to coal-burning power plants, oil and gas drilling, auto and truck air emissions, and pesticides.Yet the revelations about his staff turnover, which have not been previously reported, demonstrate that concerns about his spending and leadership resonated within his own team well before they became the subject of media reports and investigations by the E.P.A. inspector general and the White House.Agency records obtained through open-records requests show the critical role that Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski and Mr. Reeder played in reviewing Mr. Pruitts travel plans. In some instances, several agency officials said, pushback by the officials prevailed.For instance, in a conversation with one of Mr. Pruitts closest aides, Mr. Chmielewski sharply objected to a proposal to buy a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership that would have allowed Mr. Pruitt to take unlimited private jet trips for official business, according to two administration officials. The membership was not purchased.Mr. Chmielewski also objected to a proposal to spend about $70,000 to replace two desks in Mr. Pruitts office suite, including his personal desk and one at a security station outside his office. Asked about the proposed desk purchases, Mr. Wilcox, the E.P.A. spokesman, said that the administrator never considered the proposal. Pasquale Perrotta, who became head of Mr. Pruitts security detail after Mr. Weese was removed, insisted that the security desk be upgraded to a bulletproof model, according to current and former E.P.A. employees with direct knowledge of the discussions.The bulletproof security desk was not purchased, but two new desks were ordered for Mr. Pruitts personal office: a brown maple wood stand-up desk, with brass locks, that was purchased from a craftsman and an oversize desk with ornate woodworking that had been in a federal government warehouse in Virginia and was refurbished for Mr. Pruitt at a cost of $2,075. E.P.A. employees gawked at the size and grandeur of Mr. Pruitts refurbished desk, with some comparing it to the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office, officials said in interviews.Still, Mr. Pruitt and his team obtained many of the perks he wanted. Staff members questioned, but nonetheless approved, frequent trips that routed Mr. Pruitt through hub airports that allowed him to spend weekends at his home in Oklahoma. The administrator also had charter flights approved after they were already taken, the public records show.This memorandum responds to your request for written approval for the Administrator and three EPA employees to use a charter service to fly from Denver to Durango, CO on August 4, 2017, read a memo written in late August, after the trip was completed. The approval covered a charter flight to tour the Gold King Mine near Silverton, Colo., after Mr. Pruitts commercial flight to Denver was delayed. This 40-minute flight cost $5,719, the records show.Other memos released through the open-records law show that Mr. Allen handled requests for renovations to Mr. Pruitts office. I spoke to Gayle and we can proceed as it is not part of the $5,000, read an email to Mr. Allen in April 2017, as staff members were being pressed to find a way to spend more on office renovations than was allowed under federal guidelines. In this case, the expenditure involved a biometric lock and was not counted against Mr. Pruitts furniture budget. Approved, Mr. Allen wrote back.The documents do not reflect the behind-the-scenes friction between Mr. Pruitt and the senior officials, but several agency staff members said in interviews that they avoided putting objections into writing because they suspected there would ultimately be an investigation into the matters.Mr. Weese, the security official, questioned Mr. Pruitts desire to use flashing lights and sirens in his motorcade  a perk more commonly associated with the presidency  according to three of the people who worked with or for the E.P.A.Mr. Pruitt, who often ran late, wanted to use the lights and sirens to expedite local trips in Washington to the airport or to dinner, including at least one trip to Le Diplomate, a trendy French restaurant that he frequented. Such use was not consistent with agency policy, but Mr. Weese was unsuccessful in stopping it.The agency said Mr. Pruitt played no role in deciding when the sirens and lights would be used. The security detail for the past 15 years has used them in very limited fashion, Mr. Wilcox said.Mr. Weese was also reluctant to sign off on requests for Mr. Pruitt to travel in first class based on security concerns. Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski and Mr. Reeder, too, questioned the use of taxpayer money to pay for first-class airfare. Only after Mr. Weese was replaced by Mr. Perrotta did Mr. Pruitt regularly fly first class, agency staff members said.There were also questions raised about a request that Mr. Pruitt be issued a bulletproof sport utility vehicle with so-called run flat tires, which keep a vehicle moving even when sustaining gunfire. And they challenged Mr. Pruitts expanded security detail of approximately 20 members, three times the size of his predecessors. Unlike his most recent counterpart under Mr. Obama, Gina McCarthy, Mr. Pruitt has security officials follow him wherever he travels, and also stay on duty overnight.He wanted to be treated like he was the president, said David Schnare, a prominent conservative lawyer and climate change skeptic, who served on the Trump administration transition team at the E.P.A., after an earlier 30-year stint at the agency that started in the late 1970s.Mr. Wilcox, the agency spokesman, said the larger security team was justified, given threats against Mr. Pruitt. They run the variety of direct death threats  Im going to put a bullet in your brain  to implied threats  If you dont classify this particular chemical in this particular way, Im going to hurt you.There was a particularly intense dispute over a request to construct a special security booth in Mr. Pruitts office so he could have confidential conversations without being overheard by career agency employees, according to interviews and public documents first reported by The Washington Post.Mr. Chmielewski suggested converting a broom closet at a cost of about $10,000, one person who worked with the agency said. But Mr. Perrotta wanted a special chamber with sound-dampening privacy products and ceiling baffles that would prevent anyone from intercepting voice or data transmissions. The documents show that the final cost of the new chamber was close to $43,000.Mr. Perrotta also remains an executive at a private security firm, Sequoia Security Group, which separately received a contract from the E.P.A. to conduct a security sweep of Mr. Pruitts office, a deal that is now the subject of an investigation by the agencys inspector general. He did not respond to a request for comment.The various challenges to Mr. Pruitts spending and security priorities did not sit well with him, according to the people who worked with or for the E.P.A., and soon the offending aides were removed.Mr. Allen, a decorated 30-year retired Army officer, was transferred to a different office within the E.P.A., where he mostly works alone, according to two agency officials, one of whom described the setup as an unmarked grave.Mr. Weese was transferred from the security detail to a more general position in the agencys criminal investigation division.Mr. Reeder remains an employee of the E.P.A. while on temporary leave to work at American University. He has been a senior executive at the agency since early in George W. Bushs presidency, but left for American University after many of his responsibilities were taken away from him.Mr. Martin, who served on Mr. Pruitts security detail, raised concerns about Mr. Perrotta and matters related to Mr. Pruitts security arrangements, such as the soundproof booth. He was then told he could no longer be part of the security detail, which he had been a part-time member of for more than a decade, according to two people with knowledge of the events. Mr. Martin became the target of an inquiry by the agencys inspector general, which ultimately cleared him of wrongdoing, according to documents reviewed by The Times.The removal of Mr. Chmielewski, the former Trump campaign official, proved more complicated.As a presidential appointee, Mr. Chmielewski was classified as a member of the senior executive service pay system, and remained in close contact with top aides to both Mr. Trump and Vice President Pence.Even while at the E.P.A., Mr. Chmielewski helped facilitate trips for Mr. Pence and sometimes traveled with him. And he had a personal connection with Mr. Trump, who had called him to the podium during a campaign rally in April 2016 in Maryland, where Mr. Chmielewski grew up.Where the hell is Kevin? Mr. Trump said at the  event. Hes a star. Where is Kevin? Get Kevin up here.Some internal agency memos detailing Mr. Pruitts travel plans list Mr. Chmielewski as the coordinator, and as the senior political appointee, he had to ensure that they were properly authorized. Privately, he urged Mr. Pruitt to rein in his spending, initially in person, and then through intermediaries when he got frozen out, according to the two administration officials.When Mr. Chmielewski returned from a trip to Asia with Mr. Pence in February, he was asked to resign and turn in his credentials. Mr. Pruitts aides informed the White House that they were dissatisfied with Mr. Chmielewskis unresponsiveness during his travels, including a time when he could not be reached in Hawaii, where he was preparing for a visit by Mr. Pence.An anonymous complaint filed with the E.P.A.s inspector general alleged that Mr. Chmielewski could not get the appropriate level of security clearance for his duties because of various indiscretions. After a brief investigation, the inspector general dismissed all the allegations in the complaint as unfounded, according to documents reviewed by The Times.Mr. Chmielewski told associates that he believed the complaints were an effort by Mr. Perrotta and others to discredit him.Separately, Mr. Chmielewski has been the subject of allegations that he was the source of leaks about Mr. Pruitt, and also that he was staying free in the same Capitol Hill home where Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trumps first campaign manager, lives. Someone familiar with the arrangement acknowledged that Mr. Chmielewski, a longtime friend of Mr. Lewandowski, had slept at the home, but said it was only one night and on a couch.The crescendo of criticism of Mr. Pruitt has rallied his defenders, including the Tea Party Patriots and the Heritage Foundation, who in recent days have blasted out endorsements of his management of the agency on social media and in opinion columns. It has also empowered his critics, even from within his own Republican Party.William K. Reilly, who led the E.P.A. under President George Bush, called Mr. Pruitt a third-rate ideologue and said he was aware of staff members who had been sidelined at the agency for raising questions about Mr. Pruitts spending.I think hes well beyond his sell-by date, Mr. Reilly said. Any administration but this one would have discharged him long ago.

WASHINGTON   German Chancellor Angela Merkel will be visiting President Donald Trump in Washington in the coming weeks.That's according to the White House, which says details of the visit are still being worked out.Germany's daily Bild is reporting that Merkel plans to visit Trump on April 27. It would mark her second visit to Trump in Washington and her first since being sworn in for a fourth term last month.The German government didn't comment on the report.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump (all times local):4:55 p.m.The White House says President Donald Trump was referring to the plight faced by migrants when he said those who make the journey to the U.S. from Mexico are "raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before."Trump said Thursday at a tax event in West Virginia that "yesterday it came out" that during "this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before."Trump had previously mentioned a caravan of migrants working its way north through Mexico, so it appeared to some that he was suggesting the caravan was besieged by violence.But White House spokesman Hogan Gidley says it has been "a widely reported fact for years" that there is "extensive and extreme victimization of those making the journey north with coyotes/smugglers in general."___3:15 p.m.President Donald Trump is alleging without evidence that voter fraud is a huge problem in California.At a tax event in West Virginia on Thursday, Trump says that "in many places, like California, the same person votes many times."He says, "They always like to say, \'Oh, that\'s a conspiracy theory.\' Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people."After the 2016 election, Trump alleged repeatedly and without evidence that voting fraud cost him the popular vote. Earlier this year he disbanded a voter fraud commission amid infighting and lawsuits as state officials refused to cooperate.While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., past studies have found it to be rare.___3:10 p.m.President Donald Trump is seething over immigration policies at a tax event in West Virginia.Trump on Thursday complained about catch-and-release policies and family based migration, in which immigrants sponsor their relatives to join them in the U.S.Trump also noted he\'d been criticized for saying in his campaign kickoff speech that Mexico was sending rapists across the border. But he says that "yesterday it came out" that during "this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before."It\'s unclear what he was referring to, but a White House spokesman pointed to past reports of women being raped by smugglers.Trump announced this week that he was requesting the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.___2:45 p.m.President Donald Trump is taking shots at Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin while visiting West Virginia.Speaking at a tax event Thursday, Trump referenced the fact that Manchin did not vote for his tax plan. He told the audience that they would get "a chance to get a senator that\'s going to vote our program." He added that "you\'re not getting that help right now."Trump says: "Joe Manchin, he\'s really not helped us."Six Republicans are competing in a GOP primary to challenge Manchin, who is running for re-election. Trump easily carried the state in 2016.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump plans to see two GOP Senate candidates during his visit to West Virginia.Trump is scheduled to hold a discussion on taxes in White Sulphur Springs later Thursday.Among those expected to attend are a congressman, Evan Jenkins, and the state\'s attorney general, Patrick Morrisey.They\'re among six Republicans competing in the May 8 for the party\'s Senate nomination. The incumbent is Democrat Joe Manchin, who is seeking another term in November.Trump, who overwhelmingly won West Virginia in the 2016 president election, has stayed neutral in the Senate primary so far.___10:50 a.m.President Donald Trump is ready to discuss his tax overhaul with business owners and families in West Virginia.The White House says Trump will hear from West Virginia companies that provided benefits to workers due to the tax law, as well as from families and elected officials. The companies include two community banks and a truck dealership.Republican officials expected to attend include the governor, Jim Justice, and Sen. Shelley Moore Capito.Trump signed the $1.5 trillion tax package into law in December. The Republican measure cut taxes on corporations and the wealthy, and gave more modest savings for many middle-class and lower-income Americans.The trip marks Trump\'s fourth visit to the state as president.___9:25 a.m.The Trump administration hasn\'t determined how many troops it will seek to have deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border.That\'s according to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen. She says: "We\'re going to be sending as many troops as we need."President Donald Trump has signed a memo clearing the way for the deployment of National Guard troops to the border. Ultimately, it will be up to the four border-state governors to finalize the numbers and precise timing.Nielsen says the administration wants the National Guard\'s help providing surveillance along the border and maintenance for border patrol vehicles and aircraft to free up law enforcement assets for securing the border.Nielsen says she\'ll be speaking again Thursday with California Gov. Jerry Brown about earning his support for the deployment.___8:05 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the Mexican government for breaking up a "caravan" of Central American migrants and avoiding "a giant scene" at the U.S. border.In a tweet, the president credits "the strong immigration laws of Mexico and their willingness to use them." The tweet comes hours after Trump signed a proclamation directing the deployment of National Guard troops to assist in securing the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump has seized on news reports that the migrant group was traveling toward the U.S. Organizers of the migrant group said they never intended to reach the U.S. border.Trump adds that "Border crossings are at a still UNACCEPTABLE 46 year low."___1:32 a.m.President Donald Trump has signed a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen says she\'s been working with governors of the southwest border states to develop agreements on where and how many Guardsmen will be deployed.
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE   President Donald Trump told reporters on Thursday he was looking into allegations about Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, who is under fire for renting a condo at below-market rates from a lobbyist's wife, but added that Pruitt had done a fantastic job in the post.Trump also shot down a rumor floated earlier in the day that he was considering replacing Attorney General Jeff Sessions with Pruitt.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Editing by Peter Cooney; Writing by Lisa Lambert)
MEXICO CITY   Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday delivered a sharp rebuke to Donald Trump over the U.S. leader\'s plan to send National Guard troops to the border, urging him not to thrust Mexico into U.S. domestic politics."If your recent declarations are due to frustration over issues to do with internal policy, your laws, or your Congress, direct yourself to them, not to Mexicans," a stern-looking Pena Nieto said in a pre-recorded address to the nation.Mexico\'s Senate and the country\'s leading presidential candidates have all condemned Trump for his border plans in recent days, and Pena Nieto said he agreed with all of them.(Writing by Dave Graham)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump continued his attacks on Amazon.com on Thursday, targeting the newspaper, owned privately by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, as the company\'s "chief lobbyist" in a Twitter post.Trump, who regularly lashes out against what he perceives as critical articles in the Post and other prominent U.S. news outlets, took issue with a trade story headline on China retaliating with trade penalties against U.S. products."The Fake News Washington Post, Amazon\'s "chief lobbyist," has another (of many) phony headlines," Trump wrote.(Reporting by Washington newsroom;Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump on Thursday indicated he continued to back Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, who is under fire for paying low rent on a condo owned by a lobbyist.When asked if he still has confidence in Pruitt, Trump, who was traveling to West Virginia, said, "I do."(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Writing by Lisa Lambert; Editing by Alistair Bell)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt (all times local):5:15 p.m.President Donald Trump is praising Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Scott Pruitt as "a good man" who has done "a terrific job" but says he\'s looking into a series of critical stories that suggests Pruitt may have abused his power.Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One on Thursday that Pruitt has done "an incredible job. He\'s been very courageous."But Trump also says that he\'ll "take a look at" the reports and "make that determination."Pruitt is at the center of a swirl of ethics questions after it was revealed that he lived in a bargain-priced Capitol Hill condo with ties to a fossil fuels lobbyist.Administration officials have sounded increasingly doubtful about whether Pruitt will remain on the job long-term.___1:25 p.m.President Donald Trump says he has faith in the embattled chief of the Environmental Protection Agency.Trump was about to board Air Force One Thursday when he was asked if he still has confidence in Scott Pruitt.  The president responded: "I do."Pruitt is at the center of a swirl of ethics questions after it was revealed that he lived in a bargain-priced Capitol Hill condo with ties to a fossil fuels lobbyist.Administration officials have sounded increasingly doubtful about whether Pruitt will remain on the job as a White House review of his actions continues.Pruitt has tried to shore up his position in a series of interviews with conservative news outlets.___1:15 p.m.Trump administration officials are sounding increasingly doubtful about whether Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt will remain on the job.In an interview Thursday on Fox News, White House spokesman Hogan Gidley says bluntly: "I can\'t speak to the future of Scott Pruitt."He adds: "We don\'t have any announcements to make as regards to staffing right now, but we\'re aware and you know, we believe that some of these questions need to be answered."Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Wednesday said that President Donald Trump is not OK with some of the details that have emerged, including news this week of enormous raises awarded to two of Pruitt\'s closest aides. Pruitt has said he didn\'t approve the raises and doesn\'t know who did.___9:15 a.m.An Environmental Protection Agency lawyer says he wasn\'t provided the full facts when he ruled there was no ethics violation in Administrator Scott Pruitt\'s lease of a bargain-priced condo.EPA ethics lawyer Kevin Minoli issued an opinion last week saying Pruitt was paying fair-market value. In a letter dated Wednesday, Minoli says that was based on the assumption that Pruitt occupied only one bedroom for $50 a night, as outlined in the lease.Media reports later disclosed that Pruitt\'s college-aged daughter occupied a second bedroom while she interned at the White House last summer. Minoli said he did not consider the value of a second room in his analysis.Pruitt paid about $1,000 a month, less than a third of what other nearby two-bedroom homes list for.___1:05 a.m.In a marked change in tone, the White House says President Donald Trump is not OK with recent revelations involving the embattled head of the Environmental Protection Agency.For his part, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is denying he knew about big raises given to two of his closest aides and insisting he did nothing wrong in renting a bargain-priced condo tied to an energy lobbyist.Pruitt spoke in a series of interviews with Fox News and other conservative media outlets in an attempt to shore up his eroding position in an administration that has seen other top officials depart after ethical missteps.Trump spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked if Trump was OK with Pruitt\'s actions, Sanders replied: "The president\'s not."
WASHINGTON   Special counsel Robert Mueller\'s team currently considers President Donald Trump to be a subject  not a criminal target in the wide-ranging investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with Trump associates.The designation, first reported by The Washington Post and confirmed by The Associated Press , has raised questions about what legal threat Trump personally faces from the special counsel and whether it has any impact on his decision to sit for an interview with prosecutors.A few of the main issues at play:__Q: WHAT IS A \'SUBJECT\' OF AN INVESTIGATION?A: The answer is complicated.  The Justice Department typically places people involved in investigations in three categories: witnesses, subjects or targets.Witnesses are people who have observed events of interest to an investigation but are not suspected of a crime. Targets are people the government is gathering evidence against to support a criminal prosecution.Subjects fall in between. In Trump\'s case, being a subject might suggest Mueller\'s team believes he is more pivotal than a mere witness might be."A subject means we\'re still looking at you," former federal prosecutor Sharon McCarthy said. "You\'re a person of interest in this investigation."And even within the category of subject, there is ambiguity, she said, noting the government can say "you\'re a subject trending to witness or you\'re a subject trending toward target."__Q: IS TRUMP IN THE CLEAR?A: The short answer is no.The subject designation suggests Mueller is still probing Trump\'s actions. And designations can change. Plenty of people who have begun as subjects in federal investigations end up facing charges.Still, it\'s unclear that Mueller is interested in pursuing charges against Trump  or would even be able to if he wanted.It is not known if Mueller\'s office has concluded that there is insufficient evidence to consider Trump a target. It\'s also possible that prosecutors agree they\'re bound by a Justice Department legal opinion that contends that a sitting president cannot be indicted.__Q: IS MUELLER ABLE TO INDICT TRUMP?A: In the past, the Justice Department has said no. But only Mueller and his team know whether they\'ll test that opinion, and they\'re not talking.Mueller has been presenting evidence before a grand jury in Washington but so far, witnesses with the most direct information about Trump\'s actions in the White House have spoken privately with prosecutors . That could be an indication that their statements are being used to support a report rather than criminal charges.The Washington Post reported that Mueller is compiling a report addressing whether Trump obstructed justice. Mueller is required to compile a report explaining his prosecution or declination decision at the conclusion of his investigation. The report would go to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who could decide to make it public or turn it over to Congress for possible impeachment proceedings.__Q: WHY DOES MUELLER WANT TO INTERVIEW TRUMP?A: Mueller\'s team has said it wants to hear from the president to understand his intent and his thinking during several key episodes during the early part of his administration.Those include the firings of former FBI Director James Comey and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn as well as conversations Trump had with Comey in which, the former FBI director has said , the president encouraged him to end an active investigation into Flynn.All of the topics currently known appear to be aimed at determining whether the president obstructed justice. The Post also reported that Mueller has indicated that interviewing Trump was necessary to complete his report on possible obstruction of justice.__Q: WHAT ARE THE ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF TRUMP BEING QUESTIONED?A: The president has proclaimed his innocence and says he has nothing to hide, so submitting to an interview might be the easiest way to prove that to the American public.It could also be a major step toward concluding the investigation, since any refusal to speak could set off a long legal fight that might theoretically involve courts and grand jury subpoenas.Trump might enjoy the experience, too. After months of headlines about what witnesses have told Mueller\'s team, Trump would have an opportunity to tell his own side of the story and try to correct others\' recollections.It\'s hard to imagine a sitting president refusing an interview with investigators. It might make sense from a criminal defense perspective, but the appearance of ducking questions wouldn\'t be pretty.And he wouldn\'t be the first to speak either. Bill Clinton, for instance, appeared in 1998 via closed-circuit television before a grand jury to discuss his relationship with Monica Lewinsky.__Q: HOW ABOUT THE ARGUMENTS AGAINST TRUMP GIVING AN INTERVIEW?A: There are many. For one thing, he doesn\'t have to. Absent a grand jury subpoena, there\'s almost certainly no way to compel Trump to talk if he doesn\'t want to or if his lawyers won\'t let him.Besides, the prosecutions so far in Mueller\'s case make clear that he takes false statements seriously and treats them as criminal offenses. Trump\'s statements as president have often stretched the truth, and the last thing his lawyers want is for him to be in a situation where he might make a misstatement or find his words contradicted by documents.Even if a misstatement weren\'t intentional, there likely would be questions about specific dates and memories that the president might not recall or might answer incorrectly. But the president has spent considerable time testifying under oath in civil cases for years and has shown deftness in deflecting tough questions and explaining away apparent inconsistencies.Defense lawyers also could argue there\'s no basis for a president to be questioned about constitutionally protected activities, such as his decision to fire Comey.___
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and his ongoing criticism of Amazon (all times local):5:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says his administration is "going to take a pretty serious look" at Amazon and says: "We\'ll see what happens."Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One during his trip home from West Virginia that the company he\'s been railing against for days on Twitter is "just not on an even playing field."He says that, "in addition to having the Washington Post...what they have is a very uneven playing field."Trump\'s complaints about the company have been criticized for appearing to be in response to negative stories by the newspaper. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos also owns the Washington Post.____5 p.m.Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting.Trump\'s attacks over the last week targeted what Amazon is best known for: rapidly shipping nearly any product imaginable to your door. But the company Jeff Bezos founded more than two decades ago is now a sprawling empire that sells groceries in brick-and-mortar stores, hosts the online services of other enterprises in a network of data centers, and recently branched into health care.Amazon relies on an in-house lobbying team as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success.Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don\'t call it a "timeline."Wary of charges of hypocrisy for publicly telegraphing military strategy after criticizing former President Barack Obama for the same thing, the White House has ordered Trump\'s national security team not to speak of a "timeline" for withdrawal. That\'s even after Trump made it clear to his top aides this week that he wants the pullout completed within five or six months.It wasn\'t the result top national security aides wanted. Trump\'s desire for a rapid withdrawal faced unanimous opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence community, all of which argued that keeping the 2,000 U.S. soldiers currently in Syria is key to ensuring the Islamic State does not reconstitute itself.But as they huddled in the Situation Room, the president was vocal and vehement in insisting that the withdrawal be completed quickly if not immediately, according to five administration officials briefed on Tuesday\'s White House meeting of Trump and his top aides. The officials weren\'t authorized to discuss internal deliberations and requested anonymity.If those aides failed in obtaining their desired outcome, it may have been because a strategy that\'s worked in the past  giving Trump an offer he can\'t refuse  appears to have backfired.Rather than offer Trump a menu of pullout plans, with varying timelines and options for withdrawing step-by-step, the team sought to frame it as a binary choice: Stay in Syria to ensure the Islamic State can\'t regroup, or pull out completely. Documents presented to the president included several pages of possibilities for staying in, but only a brief description of an option for full withdrawal that emphasized significant risks and downsides, including the likelihood that Iran and Russia would take advantage of a U.S. vacuum.Ultimately, Trump chose that option anyway.The president had opened the meeting with a tirade about U.S. intervention in Syria and the Middle East more broadly, repeating lines from public speeches in which he\'s denounced previous administrations for "wasting" $7 trillion in the region over the past 17 years.What has the U.S. gotten for the money and American lives expended in Syria? "Nothing," Trump said over and over, according to the officials.The intensity of Trump\'s tone and demeanor raised eyebrows and unease among the top brass gathered to hash out a Syria plan with Trump, officials said: Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary James Mattis, CIA chief Mike Pompeo and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan.At one point, Dunford spoke up, one official said, telling Trump that his approach was not productive and asked him to give the group specific instructions as to what he wanted.Trump\'s response was to demand an immediate withdrawal of all American troops and an end to all U.S. civilian stabilization programs designed to restore basic infrastructure to war-shattered Syrian communities.Mattis countered, arguing that an immediate withdrawal could be catastrophic and was logistically impossible to pull off in any responsible way, without risking the return of the Islamic State and other terrorist groups in newly liberated territories, the officials said. Mattis floated a one-year withdrawal as an alternative.Trump then relented  but only slightly, telling his aides they could have five or six months to complete the mission to destroy the Islamic State and then get out, according to the officials. Trump also indicated that he did not want to hear in October that the military had been unable to fully defeat the Islamic State and had to remain in Syria for longer.The president had spoken. But what to say about it publicly?In a brief and vague statement released the day after the meeting, the White House said the U.S. role in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" and emphasized that the U.S. was counting on other countries and the U.N. to deal with Syria\'s future. But it offered no specificity as to the timing of a U.S. withdrawal."The president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, said Thursday. "We\'ve always thought that as we reach finale against ISIS in Syria, we\'re going to adjust the level of our presence there. So in that sense, nothing has actually changed."Pentagon officials stressed that no formal order had been handed down to the military to alter course or start a withdrawal. Nonetheless, the officials said Trump was clear in his intent.For Trump, any notion of a "timeline" comes with significant political risk. After all, he had regularly bashed Obama on the campaign trail for forecasting his military moves in advance. In fact, Trump was so critical of Obama for putting an arbitrary deadline on the 2011 Iraq withdrawal that he dubbed Obama "the founder of ISIS," arguing that Obama had signaled to al-Qaida sympathizers in Iraq that they need only wait the U.S. out.And Trump\'s whole strategy for dealing with Afghanistan, for example, is based on the idea that the U.S. presence should be "conditions-based" and not time-based."I\'m not like other administrations, where they say we\'re going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn\'t work that way," Trump said last year, shortly after becoming president.___This story corrects attribution of Thursday quote in paragraph 17 to Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, not Gen. Joseph Dunford.___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is preparing to impose new sanctions on powerful Russian business and political figures under a law passed last year in response to alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election.Three officials said Thursday that the Treasury Department would implement the sanctions under the Countering America\'s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, known as CAATSA, which was overwhelmingly passed by Congress in 2017 and signed into law by President Donald Trump despite some objections. The law aims to punish Russia for interfering in the U.S. election as well as actions intended to subvert democracy in Europe. The law also authorizes the president to impose sanctions on Iran for destabilizing activity in the Middle East and North Korea for its nuclear and ballistic missile programs.The officials would not say how many or which Russians would be hit by the sanctions, which are expected to be announced early Friday. But they noted that a number of Russian oligarchs and politicians and affiliated businesses have already been identified by the Treasury and State Department as potential targets. Two officials said the sanctions would affect at least some those who appeared on that list, which was compiled and published in January. Last month, the U.S. targeted 19 Russians and five other entities with sanctions in the first use of the law.The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss the actions ahead of the announcement, which is expected early Friday. An inter-agency team was briefed on the outlines of the announcement on Wednesday, they said. The sanctions will freeze any assets that those targeted have in U.S. jurisdictions and bar Americans from doing business with them.The State Department declined to comment.Trump has been criticized by many for not taking a stronger stance on Russia election interference and destabilizing actions.But during a news conference on Tuesday with Baltic leaders, Trump argued that his administration is taking action."Nobody has been tougher on Russia than I have," Trump said.White House officials have noted that the administration has expelled dozens of Russian diplomats and shut down two Russian consulates in response to Russian behavior, including the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain that has been blamed on Moscow.
CAIRO   Qatar\'s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.Trump met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House on March 21 and his meeting with Qatari Emir will be followed by a meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed.The White House said Trump would meet al-Thani to discuss ways to advance "common security and economic priorities" between the United States and Qatar.Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut off travel and trade ties with Qatar last June, accusing it of backing their archrival, Iran, and supporting terrorism. Qatar has denied the charges and has said the boycott was an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty and rein in its support for reform.(Reporting by Mohamed El-Sherif; Editing by Toni Reinhold)
CAIRO   Qatar\'s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.Trump met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House on March 21 and his meeting with Qatari Emir will be followed by a meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed.The White House said Trump would meet al-Thani to discuss ways to advance "common security and economic priorities" between the United States and Qatar.Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut off travel and trade ties with Qatar last June, accusing it of backing their archrival, Iran, and supporting terrorism. Qatar has denied the charges and has said the boycott was an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty and rein in its support for reform.(Reporting by Mohamed El-Sherif; Editing by Toni Reinhold)
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE   President Donald Trump said Thursday he didn\'t know about the $130,000 payment his personal attorney made to Stormy Daniels, issuing a firm denial in his first public comments about the adult-film actress who alleges she had an affair with him.Asked aboard Air Force One whether he knew about the payment, Trump said flatly: "No."Trump also said he didn\'t know why his longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen, had made the payment."You\'ll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael is my attorney. You\'ll have to ask Michael," he said. He added that he didn\'t know where Cohen had gotten the money. Trump didn\'t answer a question about whether he set up a fund that Cohen could tap.Until now, Trump had avoided questions on Daniels, though the White House has consistently said Trump denies there was a relationship. Still, he has been dogged by the focus on the porn actress, who says she had a sexual encounter with him in 2006 and was paid to keep quiet as part of a nondisclosure agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election. Daniels is now seeking to invalidate that agreement.Her attorney, Michael Avenatti said in a statement: "Our case just got that much better. And we very much look forward to testing the truthfulness of Mr. Trump\'s feigned lack of knowledge concerning the $130k payment as stated on Air Force One."Avenatti, who has sought to have Trump give sworn testimony, added, "It is one thing to deceive the press and quite another to do so under oath."He later argued on MSNBC that Trump\'s statement could create legal problems, saying: "If the president didn\'t know anything about the payment, then he obviously didn\'t know anything about the agreement, in which case you can\'t have an agreement. And then there is no such thing as an NDA."Cohen didn\'t immediately respond to requests for comment Thursday.Daniels, one of several women pursuing potentially damaging legal action against Trump, has kept up the highest profile in the media, helped by a punchy Twitter feed, a widely viewed interview on CBS\' "60 Minutes" and a camera-ready attorney who has become a fixture on cable news.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, has offered to return the $130,000 as she tries to "set the record straight." She\'s said she had sex with Trump once in 2006, and their relationship continued for about a year. Trump married his current wife, Melania, in 2005, and their son Barron was born in 2006.On "60 Minutes," Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with her suggesting he should be spanked with a magazine that featured his picture on the cover and then giving him a "couple swats." She also said she was threatened to keep silent about the relationship while she was out with her young daughter.Daniels argues the nondisclosure agreement is legally invalid because it was only signed by her and Cohen, not by Trump.Cohen has said that he paid the $130,000 out of his pocket and that neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.However, Avenatti told "60 Minutes" he has documents showing that Cohen used his Trump Organization email address in setting up the payment and that the nondisclosure agreement was sent by FedEx to Cohen at his Trump Organization office in Trump Tower.Earlier this week, Trump asked a federal judge to order private arbitration in the case. Trump and Cohen filed papers in federal court in Los Angeles asking a judge to rule that the case must be heard by an arbitrator instead of a jury.Avenatti said they would oppose private arbitration, arguing it should be heard by the American public.Avenatti also wants Trump to give sworn testimony in the case, but a federal judge ruled this week that those efforts were premature. If ultimately successful, it would be the first deposition of a sitting president since Bill Clinton had to answer questions in 1998 about his conduct with women.Trump faces a number of allegations about his sexual exploits long before he ran for president.Former Playboy model Karen McDougal recently told CNN that she had an affair with Trump that started in 2006 and ended in 2007. She filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.Trump is also facing a New York defamation lawsuit filed by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on "The Apprentice." Zervos has accused Trump of unwanted sexual contact in 2007 and sued him after he dismissed the claims as made up.A judge ruled the lawsuit can move forward.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said in a statement on Thursday that he has instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. tariff actions.The statement said the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and James Dalgleish)
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE   U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he would take a very serious look at policies that might affect online retailer Amazon.com Inc.Speaking to reporters while traveling back to Washington from West Virginia, he accused Amazon of not operating on a level playing field.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Editing by Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is hoping to counter Chinese efforts to bolster its economic influence in the Americas during his inaugural trip to Latin America next week amid an escalating trade fight and his harsh rhetoric on immigration.The White House said Thursday that Trump is set to attend the Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru, and will travel to Bogota, Colombia, to promote good governance and democracy in the Western Hemisphere. The trip will bring the president face to face with the targets of some of his fiercest ire and follows his announcement that he will direct the deployment of National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border.The deployment has sparked widespread outrage in Mexico, which had already been enraged by Trump\'s pledge to construct a border wall.Trump is also set to face scrutiny over his recently announced tariffs on steel and aluminum  though exporters to the U.S. who will be in attendance have been granted temporary waivers.Administration officials said no news is expected at the summit on the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement or any on new sanctions on the Venezuelan government. Trump will hold meetings with several regional partners, though the final roster was still being finalized. Trump will meet with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos in Bogota.Trump is not expected to hold a meeting with Cuban leader Raul Castro, who will be attending the summit in one of his final acts before stepping down from office later this month.As China has sought to make inroads in the region by funding infrastructure works and investing in businesses, the White House said Trump will argue that the U.S. should be the "partner of choice" for the region. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross will also travel to Lima to participate in an associated summit for business leaders, the White House said.
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE   U.S. President Donald Trump, in his first public remarks about an intimate relationship he has been accused of having with an adult film star, said on Thursday he did not know about a $130,000 payment made by his lawyer to actress Stormy Daniels to keep her quiet.The White House has denied that Trump had sex with Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford. Daniels has said she and Trump had sex once in 2006.Asked why his lawyer, Michael Cohen, paid the money if the allegations were untrue, Trump told reporters on Air Force One,  "You\'ll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael\'s my attorney."Asked if he knew about the payment to Daniels, Trump said "No."Asked if he knew where the money came from to pay Daniels, Trump told reporters, "No, I dont know."Cohen has said he paid Daniels out of his own pocket.Last month, Daniels sued Cohen to be released from the non-disclosure agreement she signed in October 2016 in exchange for the $130,000 payment from him.Daniels\' attorney, Michael Avenatti, said Trump\'s admission that he did not know about the agreement bolstered his client\'s case to be released from the deal."Good (actually GREAT) things come to those who wait!!! The strength of our case just went up exponentially. You can\'t have an agreement when one party claims to know nothing about it," Avenatti said on Twitter.Avenatti has said he wants to question Trump and Cohen about the agreement, which was signed the month before Trump was elected president."We very much look forward to testing the truthfulness of Mr. Trump\'s feigned lack of knowledge concerning the $130k payment as stated on Air Force One," Avenatti tweeted. "As history teaches us, it is one thing to deceive the press and quite another to do so under oath."Last week, a federal judge said Avenatti\'s request to depose Trump and Cohen was premature.Cohen wants to force Daniels to use arbitration, as opposed to open court, to settle the dispute over the agreement.In an interview that aired last week, Daniels told CBS\'s "60 Minutes" program that she and Trump had sexual relations only once, but he had kept in touch with her. She said she was not attracted to Trump, who was 60 at the time. Daniels was 27 in 2006.In filings with the U.S. Justice Department and Federal Election Commission, watchdog groups have said the payment amount may have exceeded campaign contribution limits and violated U.S. law.A former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, has described having a 10-month affair with Trump, also starting in 2006, which the White House has said Trump denies.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by Peter Cooney and Alistair Bell)
BERLIN   German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit U.S. President Donald Trump on April 27, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday, as differences over a nuclear deal with Iran and trade cast a shadow over the transatlantic relationship.Merkel\'s trip, three days after French president Emmanuel Macron\'s state visit to the U.S. capital, will come just before the expiry of an exemption for the European Union from U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum.The twin visits would give the European Union\'s two leading national leaders the opportunity to lobby for the bloc to be exempted permanently from the steel and aluminum tariffs. The tariffs are suspended for the EU until May 1.Merkel\'s visit to the United States, first reported by mass-selling daily Bild, will also take place shortly before a May 12 deadline that Trump has set to improve an international deal to curb Iran\'s nuclear program.Her office had no immediate comment on the planned visit.Merkel, in a telephone call with Trump last week, urged  dialogue on trade policy between the EU and the United States, "taking into account the rules-based international trade system".Merkel\'s relationship with Trump got off to a frosty start after his November 2016 election.Before a phone conversation on March 1 to discuss the war in Syria and Russian nuclear arms, the two leaders had not spoken to each other for more than five months.Trump has threatened to withdraw the United States from an accord between Tehran and six world powers, signed in 2015 before he took office, unless France, Britain and Germany help to agree a follow-up pact by that date. Trump does not like the deal\'s limited duration, among other things.(Reporting by Steve Holland in Washington and Rene Wagner and Andreas Rinke in Berlin; Writing by Thomsa Escritt and Paul Carrel; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump, engaged in an escalating confrontation with Beijing over trade, will urge Latin American leaders next week to work with the United States - not China - on trade, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday.Trump\'s trip to Lima, Peru for the Summit of the Americas has been prefaced by aggressive moves on trade and immigration.In a telephone briefing with reporters ahead of the trip, the U.S. official, who declined to be named, said China\'s trade policies had "not been productive for the hemisphere and that the United States should remain the partner of choice" for Latin American countries.Just 11 hours after the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products, China shot back with a list of similar duties on U.S. imports, including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.The dispute has roiled financial markets and angered U.S. lawmakers in agricultural states who worry about the economic impact of retaliatory tariffs on crops.Trump has also been sparring with Mexico and Canada on an overhaul of the North American Free Trade Agreement. In addition, his administration is arguing with Argentina over biodiesel and had threatened tariffs on imports of steel from top supplier Brazil.But in his address to the Summit of the Americas, Trump will suggest that the United States is a better trade partner than China, which is the top trade partner for Latin American countries ranging from Brazil, the region\'s largest economy, to Uruguay.Substantive discussions on NAFTA are not expected at the summit, the official said.It was also unclear how much emphasis Trump would place on stopping illegal immigration from the region into the United States, a major pledge of his presidential election campaign.Leading up to the summit, Trump has announced he wants to post National Guard troops along the southern border with Mexico, and has ramped up tough rhetoric against illegal immigration from Honduras and other parts of Central America.Trump also plans to address the crisis in Venezuela with regional leaders, the official said, adding that the U.S. government was still examining next steps on sanctions, with new announcements not expected for several months.Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has in recent weeks said he would attend the summit, despite being told not to by Peru\'s government.But on Thursday he played down plans over his possible attendance."We\'re evaluating it, for me it\'s not a priority," Maduro said in a televised news conference, in response to a reporter\'s question. "You know that those Summits of the Americas are a terrible waste of time."(Reporting by Roberta Rampton and Lisa Lambert in Washington, additional reporting by Vivian Sequera in Caracas; editing by Caren Bohan, David Gregorio and Rosalba O\'Brien)
WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va.   Tossing his "boring" prepared remarks into the air, President Donald Trump on Thursday unleashed a fierce denunciation of the nation\'s immigration policies, calling for tougher border security while repeating his unsubstantiated claim that "millions" of people voted illegally in California.Trump was in West Virginia to showcase the benefits of Republican tax cuts, but he took a big and meandering detour to talk about his tough immigration and trade plans. He linked immigration with the rise of violent gangs like MS-13 and suggested anew that there had been widespread fraud in the 2016 election."In many places, like California, the same person votes many times. You probably heard about that," Trump said. "They always like to say, \'Oh, that\'s a conspiracy theory.\' Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people. And it\'s very hard because the state guards their records. They don\'t want us" to see them.While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., past studies have found it to be exceptionally rare.Trump initially claimed last year that widespread voting fraud had occurred in what appeared to be a means of explaining away his popular-vote defeat. Earlier this year the White House disbanded a controversial voter fraud commission amid infighting and lawsuits as state officials refused to cooperate.In recent weeks, Trump has been pushing back more against the restraints of the office to offer more unvarnished opinions and take policy moves that some aides were trying to forestall. His remarks in West Virginia, like so many of his previous planned policy speeches, quickly came instead to resemble one of his free-wheeling rallies."This was going to be my remarks. They would have taken about two minutes," Trump said as he tossed his script into the air. "This is boring. We have to tell it like it is."As he has done before, Trump conjured images of violence and suffering when he described the perils of illegal immigration, though statistics show that immigrants commit crimes at a lower rate than citizens. He dubbed MS-13 gang members "thugs" and said his administration\'s crackdown on the group was "like a war.""MS-13 is emblematic of evil, and we\'re getting them out by the hundreds," said Trump, who sat on stage at a long table in a gym draped in American flags and decorated with signs that read "USA open for business." \'\'This is the kind of stuff and crap we are allowing in our country, and we can\'t do it anymore."Invoking the lines of his June 2015 campaign kickoff speech, in which he suggested that some Mexican immigrants were rapists, the president mused about the threat of violence among immigrants and appeared to make reference to a caravan of migrants that had been working its way north through Mexico toward the United States."Remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower when I opened? Everybody said, \'Oh, he was so tough,\' and I used the word rape," he said. "And yesterday it came out where this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before. They don\'t want to mention that."It was not clear what Trump was referring to. White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said Trump wasn\'t talking about the caravan but rather about extreme victimization of those making the journey north with smugglers in general. And press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders later said that she was "not sure why the media is acting like this isn\'t a well-established fact  women and young girls are brutally victimized on the journey north."Trump also defended his proposed tariff plan, which many of his fellow Republicans fear will start a trade war with China. He criticized West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat who has expressed openness to working with the White House, for opposing the GOP tax plan. He praised attendees Rep. Evan Jenkins and state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, both running in the Republican primary for Senate next month, suggesting an applause test between the two. And, of course, he reminisced about his 2016 electoral victory in the Mountain State.All of that overshadowed any time spent promoting the tax plan.It underscored the frustration of many congressional Republicans with the president\'s frequent indiscipline. Many members of his own party have blamed the president\'s lack of focus for helping to stymie their agenda, and they are eager for him to focus on the tax cut, the most significant legislation achievement on which to run in the upcoming midterm elections.While Trump went off script, the attendees an assemblage of state politicians, local business owners, workers and families  stayed dutifully on task, talking about how the tax cuts have helped them.One woman, Jessica Hodge, tearfully told Trump: "I just want to say thank you for the tax cuts. This is a big deal for our family." Jenkins said that "West Virginians understand your policies are working" and that Trump was "welcome to come back any time."___Lemire reported from New York.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey
MEXICO CITY   Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday sharply rebuked Donald Trump over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, joining with opponents to tell the U.S. leader not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico.Trump has been unable to get the U.S. Congress or Mexico to fully fund his planned border wall, and Trump said Thursday he will probably keep National Guard troops along the Mexican border until it is built.In an unusually combative address, a stern-looking Pena Nieto urged Trump to stop sowing discord between the two nations and demanded a more respectful tone in bilateral relations."If your recent declarations are due to frustration over issues to do with internal policy, your laws, or your Congress, direct yourself to them, not to Mexicans," Pena Nieto said.For months Mexico has been locked in tortuous negotiations with the United States and Canada to rework the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), but hopes have risen recently that some kind of preliminary deal could be within reach."President Trump: if you want to reach agreements with Mexico, we stand ready," Pena Nieto said, before adding: "We will not allow negative rhetoric to define our actions."Pena Nieto and Trump have had a strained relationship ever since the New Yorker launched his campaign in 2015 with the claim that some Mexican migrants are criminals and rapists.The White House says mobilizing the National Guard was part of Trump\'s strategy to stop illegal immigrants from entering the country, whom he blames for serious crime.Pena Nieto has faced criticism for failing to take a tough line against Trump in the past. Trump\'s comments have thrust the countries\' relationship into the center of Mexico\'s presidential campaign, where Pena Nieto\'s party is trailing.All the country\'s presidential candidates on Thursday criticized Trump\'s plan to militarize the border.The front-runner in the race, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, said Trump\'s scheme was political "propaganda" based on misinformation that aimed to stir up "xenophobia" and "racism.""This great threat on the southern border of the United States that he says is there, does not exist," said the leftist Lopez Obrador, who has a double-digit lead in most polls."This anti-Mexican policy has worked politically because unfortunately there are conservative sectors in the United States with little information and he knows how to awaken an anti-Mexican sentiment," he added during a campaign event in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo.Ricardo Anaya, the second-place contender who heads a right-left coalition, echoed a Senate motion on Wednesday calling on the government to end cooperation with the United States on migration and security if Trump did not back down."You cannot negotiate or cooperate with threats," he said.Jose Antonio Meade, candidate of Pena Nieto\'s Institutional Revolutionary Party, also attacked the border plan, and independent Margarita Zavala called it a "historic error" and a "hostile act" in a letter addressed to Trump.Barring Meade, all of the candidates are trenchant critics of the president, but Pena Nieto namechecked all four of them and the Senate motion in his scolding of Trump."As president of all Mexicans, I agree with (their) remarks," he said. "No one stands above the dignity of Mexico."(Reporting by Michael O\'Boyle and Daina Beth Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Chris Reese)
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE/WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump said on Thursday he would take a look into ethics allegations against Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt over his condo lease and other issues, but added the official was doing a "fantastic job."Pruitt has loyally executed Trump\'s deregulatory agenda with plans to roll back Obama-era programs cutting emissions from power plants and vehicles. His efforts to slash regulations have helped make Trump popular in coal, natural gas, and oil-producing states."I think that Scott has done a fantastic job," Trump told reporters on Air Force One after a trip to West Virginia. "I just left coal and energy country. They love Scott Pruitt."Still, Trump said he would make a determination about the ethics issues. The White House is probing Pruitt\'s lease of a room in a high-end Washington neighborhood for $50 a night in a townhouse co-owned by the wife of energy industry lobbyist Steven Hart, who lobbies for companies regulated by the EPA.Pruitt has told the Washington Examiner in an interview that he was "dumbfounded" his renting of the room in a townhouse was controversial and said his ethics officials reviewed the lease.But the EPA\'s ethics office suggested there still could be questions about Pruitt\'s housing arrangement.Pruitt, a vocal doubter of mainstream climate change science, also is facing criticism for frequent first-class air travel, spending on costly items in his office, including a $43,000 soundproof telephone booth, and for a trip to Morocco in which he promoted U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas.While Trump appears to support Pruitt, the president can be fickle. Last autumn, Trump said he had confidence in Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, even after their relationship was strained by differences of opinion on Iran and Russia policy. Trump fired Tillerson in March.\'APPEARANCE OF FAVORITISM\'In late March, the EPA\'s ethics office cleared Pruitt of accepting an illegal gift from a lobbyist with the condo lease, saying a number of other rooms nearby were available for rent for a similar or lower price.But the office issued a memo, dated on Wednesday and seen by Reuters, that the earlier review did not consider whether Pruitt had violated other ethics rules with the lease.Kevin Minoli, a top ethics official in the EPA\'s Office of General Counsel, said in the memo that the review did not address issues such as a rule requiring officials to avoid behavior that could result in their impartiality being questioned."It is important to note that the federal ethics regulations regarding impartiality apply regardless of whether something involves receiving a prohibited gift," he wrote.In a separate statement about the memo, Minoli said it explained the ethical issues beyond the scope of the original review.The impartiality rule requires that government officials avoid doing things that could create an "appearance of favoritism in government decision-making," according to the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.In the memo, first reported by CNN, Minoli also said he did not have access to enough information to determine whether Pruitt\'s actual use of the townhouse was consistent with the lease.Trump\'s support for Pruitt, which he also voiced on Tuesday, comes even as U.S. lawmakers, including three fellow Republicans, called for his resignation over the ethics questions.More questions surfaced as Trump commented on Pruitt. Five EPA officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs over the past year after they complained about Pruitt\'s spending, a report by the New York Times said.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner and Jeff Mason; Writing by Richard Valdmanis; Editing by Frances Kerry and Peter Cooney)
MEXICO CITY   Mexico\'s Senate issued a stern rebuke to U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday, urging its government to end cooperation with the United States on migration and security over Trump\'s plans to deploy the National Guard along their shared border.In a motion which passed the Senate floor unanimously, the lawmakers also condemned Trump\'s aggressive rhetoric toward Mexico, describing the president\'s decision this week to send troops to the border as "one more insult.""(Trump\'s) conduct has been permanently and systematically, not only disrespectful, but insulting, based on prejudices and misinformation and making frequent use of threats and blackmail," Laura Rojas, the head of the Senate\'s foreign relations committee, said in support of the motion.The Trump administration is working with four southwestern U.S. states to deploy the Guard troops, who will not be involved in law enforcement, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has said.The Mexican Senate\'s resolution is non-binding and unlikely to trigger policy changes.After the motion passed, the Mexican foreign ministry issued a statement saying it would maintain close contact with the U.S. Homeland Security Department about its plans for the border.Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray discussed the situation with Nielsen, the ministry said."In all communications on the matter, Mexico\'s government has informed the government of the United States that if the announced deployment of the National Guard turned into a militarization of the border, that would gravely damage the bilateral relationship," it added.The Trump administration\'s announcement was also condemned by the front-runner to win the Mexican presidency in a July 1 election, leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador."No to the militarization of the border, no to the wall," Lopez Obrador wrote in a post on Twitter. "Yes to mutual respect and cooperation for development."Jose Antonio Meade, the candidate of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, urged candidates to stand together in denouncing the deployment of troops on the border."I call for all political forces to unanimously show our strongest condemnation of these types of aggressions," he said in a statement.(Reporting by Julia Love; additional reporting by Dave Graham; Editing by Michael Perry and Clarence Fernandez)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is off, way off, on the U.S. trade deficit with China. He repeatedly uses an inflated number for the trade gap as the world\'s two largest economies escalate their dispute over imports and exports.He\'s also taking liberties as he makes his case for a new crackdown on the southern border to stop illegal immigration, including requesting the deployment of the National Guard.Here\'s a look at his recent comments:TRUMP: "Because of the Trump Administrations actions, Border crossings are at a still UNACCEPTABLE 46 year low. Stop drugs!" - tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump\'s numbers are dated, and he\'s taking credit for a reduction in apprehensions at the southwest border that began before he took office.The detentions tend to follow a predictable pattern: The numbers begin to rise around January, peak in the spring, and fall as temperatures rise in the summer.But fiscal year 2017, which lasted from Oct. 1, 2016, to Sept. 30, 2017, was an anomaly, with numbers dipping after the 2016 election and plummeting after Trump took office, through April 2017, which logged the fewest arrests in a single month since the Homeland Security Department was created in 2003. Indeed, thanks to that drop, the 2017 fiscal year logged the fewest Border Patrol arrests in 45 years.But  and this is a big but  the numbers have been slowly ticking up since that banner month of April. And since the fall of 2017, the numbers have stabilized, returning to the typical arrest rates seen in the 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 fiscal years.The Department of Homeland Security released new statistics this week that show 50,308 arrests in March  a whopping 203 percent increase from March 2017, when there were only 16,588 arrests, and up 37 percent from the previous month. Trump has called the spike a "crisis," though the numbers are on par with years prior.Apprehensions at the border are a useful but imperfect gauge of illegal crossing, since nobody knows exactly how many people cross without being detected.___TRUMP: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!" - tweet WednesdayTRUMP: "When you\'re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can\'t lose!" - tweet WednesdayTHE FACTS: He overstates the trade deficit by $163 billion.He does this by counting Americans\' purchases of goods from China as a loss for the U.S., while ignoring what China buys from the U.S. He also ignores another big part of the equation  trade in services.Last year, Americans bought about $505.6 billion in goods from China while China bought about $130.4 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was just over $375 billion.Factor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion.As for intellectual property theft, it\'s not clear where Trump gets his figure of $300 billion, though it may be a plausible estimate.Illicit activities such as counterfeit goods, pirated software, theft of trade secrets and copyright and trademark infringement cannot be precisely measured. An independent bipartisan U.S. commission estimated that U.S. interests lost $300 billion from global intellectual property theft in 2013, with China the main culprit. The commission, in a 2017 update, gave a wide-ranging estimate, $225 billion to $600 billion, with thefts led by "thousands of Chinese actors."The Trump administration this week announced planned tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports; Beijing responded with plans to penalize imports from the U.S. by the same amount. This followed an opening salvo of U.S. penalties on steel and aluminum imports from overseas, including China, and Beijing\'s retaliatory taxes on $3 billion of U.S. products.___U.S. Customs & Border Protection southwest border apprehension statistics: https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/stats/sw-border-migration2017 U.S. trade statistics: https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/Press-Release/current_press_release/exh20.pdfIntellectual property theft report: http://www.ipcommission.org/report/IP_Commission_Report_Update_2017.pdf___Associated Press writers Christopher Rugaber, Josh Boak and Elliot Spagat contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd

ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE   U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he would probably station a few thousand National Guard troops at the 2,000-mile-long (3,200-km) Mexican border until the wall he wants to build there to keep out illegal immigrants is done.No funding for the entirety of Trump\'s proposed wall is currently in place. Both the Mexican government and the U.S. Congress so far have refused to fully pay for it. Trump vowed as a candidate that he would get Mexico to pay for his wall.Hounded by headlines about alleged affairs with various women and a continuing probe of possible collusion between his presidential campaign and Russia, Trump has recently escalated the anti-immigrant rhetoric that helped him get elected.In a storm of Tweets this week, he has warned that illegal immigrants are threatening U.S. security and jobs, a theme that has resonated in the past with conservative Republican voters.Trump last month signed a federal spending bill from Congress that contained $1.6 billion to pay for six months of work on his wall. He had asked for $25 billion for it.En route back to Washington from an event in West Virginia where he talked about the 2017 Republican tax overhaul, Trump was asked by reporters how many National Guard troops he wanted at the border. He said: "Anywhere from 2,000 to 4,000."He said the administration was looking at the costs. "It depends on what we do," he said. "Were looking from 2,000 to 4,000 and probably keep them, or ... a large portion of them, until such time as we get the wall."The deployment was likely to aggravate tensions with Mexico, a key U.S. ally that has already expressed concern.On Wednesday, the administration said it was coordinating with the governors of the four U.S. states that border on Mexico on deploying the Guard, a reserve wing of the U.S. armed forces that is partly under the supervision of state governors.The Guard would not be involved in law enforcement, but would assist U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel with stopping illegal immigrants from entering the country, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said on Wednesday.The Pentagon said it set up a Border Security Support Cell "to ensure we surge our capacity to meet the president\'s enhanced border security goals," said a Pentagon spokeswoman.Speaking with reporters at a press briefing on Thursday, Pentagon officials said they did not yet know where funding for sending Guard troops to the border would come from.They said other details were still unknown, such as how many troops would be deployed and whether they would be armed.A Pentagon spokeswoman said the military was looking into possibly building a wall at its Barry Goldwater Air Force Range in the desert in Arizona along the Mexican border.The administration\'s move has drawn criticism from Democrats. "At a time when apprehensions of migrants on our southern border are at a near 50-year low, deploying National Guard troops to the border is far from a logical effort," Democratic Senator Tom Carper said in a statement."It is imperative that this administration sit down with leaders in Congress on both sides of the aisle who want real solutions to our immigration challenges, rather than using political ploys to fire up President Trumps base and distract from growing controversy," Carper said.(Additional reporting by Phil Stewart and Idrees Ali in Washington; editing by Kevin Drawbaugh, Peter Cooney and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods on Thursday in a dramatic escalation of the trade dispute between the two countries.Trump\'s surprise move came a day after Beijing announced plans to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.And it intensified what was already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle since World War II. Global financial markets had fallen sharply as the world\'s two biggest economies squared off over Beijing\'s aggressive trade tactics. But they had calmed down Wednesday and Thursday on hopes the U.S. and China would find a diplomatic solution.Instead, the White House announced after the markets closed Thursday that Trump had instructed the Office of the United States Trade Representative to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate and, if so, to identify which products they should apply to. He\'s also instructed his secretary of agriculture "to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests.""China\'s illicit trade practices  ignored for years by Washington  have destroyed thousands of American factories and millions of American jobs," Trump said in a statement announcing the decision.The latest escalation comes after the U.S. on Tuesday said it would impose 25 percent duties on $50 billion of imports from China, and China quickly retaliated by listing $50 billion of products that it could hit with its own 25 percent tariffs. The Chinese list Wednesday included soybeans, the biggest U.S. export to China, and aircraft up to 45 tons (41 metric tons) in weight. Also on the list were American beef, whiskey, passenger vehicles and industrial chemicals.Earlier in the week, Beijing announced separate import duties on $3 billion of U.S. goods in response to the Trump administration\'s duties on all steel and aluminum imports, including from China.U.S. officials have sought to downplay the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. But economists warn that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could escalate. And already, tensions between the world\'s two biggest economies have rattled global stock markets.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer called China\'s move "unjustified" and said Trump\'s proposal was an "appropriate response to China\'s recent threat of new tariffs.""Such measures would undoubtedly cause further harm to American workers, farmers, and businesses," he said in a statement. "Under these circumstances, the President is right to ask for additional appropriate action to obtain the elimination of the unfair acts, policies, and practices identified in USTR\'s report."The clash reflects the tension between Trump\'s promises to narrow a U.S. trade deficit with China that stood at $375.2 billion in goods last year and China\'s ruling Communist Party\'s development ambitions. Trump says China\'s trade practices have caused American factories to close and lead to the loss of American jobs.Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said earlier Thursday in an interview with Fox Business Network that negotiations were ongoing. But, he said, "at the end of the day, China\'s unfair and illegal trading actions are damaging to economic growth, for the U.S., for China and for the rest of the world."He also called Trump "the first guy with a backbone in decades ... to actually go after it. Not just whisper it, but to go after it with at least preliminary actions."One trade policy expert said he doubted that Trump\'s rhetoric would help forge any deal with China."Mr. Trump is upping the ante, but the lack of a clear game plan and an incoherent messaging strategy from the administration is setting this up for an all-out trade war rather than a fruitful negotiation," said Eswar Prasad, professor of trade policy at Cornell University.Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., a frequent Trump critic, called the escalation "the dumbest possible way" to punish China."Hopefully the President is just blowing off steam again but, if he\'s even half-serious, this is nuts," Sasse said in a statement. "Let\'s absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us."Any additional tariffs would be subject to a public comment process and would not go into effect until that process is complete.___Associated Press writers Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak contributed to this report.
HONG KONG   Most Asian stock markets turned higher Friday as investors brushed off initial worries about the Trump administration\'s latest threats of yet more tariffs on Chinese imports, indicating concerns were easing about a brewing trade battle between the world\'s two biggest economies.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index edged 0.1 percent higher to 21,672.94 while South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 2,427.21. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 crept 0.1 percent higher to 5,783.40 and Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng jumped 1.1 percent to 29,852.93 after trading resumed following a holiday as investors caught up with the previous day\'s global gains. Singapore\'s share index rose while Indonesia\'s fell. Mainland Chinese markets remained closed for a holiday.TRADE TIFF: In an announcement that came after U.S. stock trading closed Thursday, President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an extra $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods. The surprise move was a further escalation of the deepening trade dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies, which just days earlier announced plans for $50 billion in import duties on each other\'s goods. The tariff threats had roiled financial markets but they had rebounded by Thursday on investor hopes the U.S. and China indicated would find a diplomatic solution.MARKET INSIGHT: The latest Trump tariff announcement means the "trade war rhetoric is unlikely to leave the picture anytime soon," said Stephen Innes, head of Asian trading at OANDA. "With the seismic shifts in sentiment this week the last thing this market needs is more confusion."WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended higher. The S&P 500 index climbed 0.7 percent to 2,662.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1 percent to 24,505.22. The Nasdaq composite added 0.5 percent to 7,076.55.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude fell 34 cents to $63.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 17 cents to settle at $63.54 a barrel on Thursday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost 31 cents to $68.02 per barrel in London.CURRENCIES: The dollar slipped to 107.25 yen from 107.40 yen The euro rose to $1.2245 from $1.2241.
MANBIJ, Syria   Even as President Donald Trump mulls a U.S. pullout from Syria, insisting that the Islamic State group is "almost completely defeated," the extremist group is showing signs of a revival.Despite being kicked out of the main towns they once occupied near the Iraqi border, the militants have regrouped elsewhere and revised their tactics, recently mounting a brazen attack on a border city in eastern Syria and expanding their footprint inside the Syrian capital itself.Talk of a U.S. troop withdrawal has alarmed the United States\' main ally in Syria, the Kurds, who fought alongside the Americans to roll back the Islamic State group. They fear not only an IS resurgence, but also that without U.S. troops in the country, Turkey, Russia and Iran will fill the void and wrest control of northern and eastern Syria.The White House said Wednesday that the U.S. military mission against IS in Syria is coming to a "rapid end," but offered no timetable for the withdrawal of the 2,000 U.S. troops other than to say they will leave just as soon as the last remaining IS fighters can be vanquished.Trump, however, has signaled to his advisers that ideally, he wants all troops out within six months, according to three U.S. officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren\'t authorized to discuss what transpired in a meeting with the president.Developments on the ground, however, suggest it will be difficult, if not impossible, to completely snuff out the group before then."Daesh is not over," said the commander of the U.S.-backed Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body administering this strategic northern Syrian town."Daesh still has cells present in all areas and every now and then there are problems in areas where the cells are still operating," said the commander, who spoke on condition he be identified only by his nom de guerre, Mohammed Abu Adel, in line with regulations, and referred to IS by its Arabic acronym.Speaking to the Associated Press on Wednesday, he said the U.S. statements about a pullout were a cause for "concern on the street level" but that Kurdish officials were receiving reassurances from U.S. generals on the ground that American troops were staying.Last week, an explosion killed two coalition personnel, an American and a Briton, during an operation to capture a known IS member in Manbij, where U.S. troops maintain a large presence. It was the first such blast to hit the U.S.-led coalition since it deployed in the town months after the U.S.-backed forces liberated it from IS in 2016 following fierce battles that lasted nearly three months.Since then, the town has served as a model of stabilization, but officials are now expressing concern about IS attempting to re-emerge.The U.S.-backed forces  a mix of Kurdish and Arab fighters known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, or SDF,  routed IS militants from almost all the territory the extremists controlled in northern Syria, including the group\'s de facto capital of Raqqa, in October. In November, a coalition of Iranian, Iraqi, Syrian and Russian forces secured the militant\'s last urban stronghold, Boukamal, in eastern Syria on the border with Iraq.That seemed to herald victory over the militants. The various sides then turned their attention to pursuing their own interests in the disintegrated country.The IS militants kept a sliver of territory along the Euphrates River near Boukamal, and some nebulous zones of control in the desert of eastern Syria and on the border with Iraq  but nothing that seemed beyond containment.But in a surprise attack, the militants stormed Boukamal on Monday, triggering heavy fighting before Iranian-backed Shiite militias beat them out, according to a war monitoring group and Syrian opposition activists with connections to the region. Approximately 400 Islamic State fighters crossed the Euphrates River and ambushed the town, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group, killed 11 pro-government fighters in clashes, and losing five of their own.From their desert territory the IS militants have harassed forces at oil stations, as well, according to Mohammad al-Ayed, director of the Palmyra News Network.U.S. and Kurdish officers had warned of an IS resurgence when Turkey attacked the town of Afrin in northwestern Syria in March to drive out the main Kurdish militia, known as the YPG.The YPG forms the backbone of the Syrian Democratic Forces, America\'s main partner in Syria, which then shifted hundreds of fighters from operations against IS in eastern Syria to the front lines against Turkey in Afrin.That forced a pause in operations against the main IS holdout in Syria. The U.S.-led coalition has cut its airstrikes against IS by half since the Kurdish-led fighters moved away from eastern Syria, said coalition spokesman Col. Ryan Dillon.The U.S. relies on ground maneuvers by the Syrian Democratic Forces to flush out IS fighters and expose them to airstrikes, Dillon said. "If the SDF are not constantly putting pressure on ISIS elements, that allows them to quietly reconsolidate," he added, using an alternate acronym for the Islamic State group.Meanwhile, with the Syrian government focused on vanquishing the rebels in their stronghold of eastern Ghouta, near Damascus, IS militants surged from a pocket of territory they hold on the southern edge of the capital to snatch a neighborhood right from under the government\'s nose.Some 120 pro-government fighters were killed in the battle of Qadam, according to the Observatory, losses that went unmentioned in state media. Other clashes between the two sides brought the government forces\' death toll to 204 in 23 days, the Observatory said.IS has lost almost all the territory it once controlled in Syria and Iraq, land that had encompassed a third of those countries. But the pockets it still holds provide protection.IS fighters have excellent knowledge of the desert areas along the Syria-Iraq border, dating back to the early days of the Islamic State group and even before, when the group was called al-Qaida in Iraq, said Jalal al-Hamad, a Europe- based Syrian activist who monitors the war with an organization called Justice for Life.IS has extensive tunnels there and can move relatively undetected, avoiding Syrian and Russian airstrikes, al-Hamad said, though American planes can detect them. The militants use bad weather, particularly dust storms, to cross the Euphrates, he said.The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces control about 25 percent of Syria, and the Kurds are hoping to emerge from the conflict with a degree of self-rule in their territory.But they fear that an American withdrawal will leave them unable to hold on to much of that. It would allow Turkey, which succeeded in capturing Afrin, to carry out its threat to attack Manbij and try to take other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border.It would also, they warn, cede the east completely to Damascus\' allies Russia and Iran, which have set up a series of bases in the country during seven years of war.Ilham Ahmed, a senior Kurdish official in Syria\'s Raqqa province, said an American pullout would open the way for "total chaos in Syria."Trump appears to be unconcerned with such potential consequences, dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria amid disagreements with his aides and national security team."As far as Syria is concerned, our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS," Trump said. "We\'ve completed that task."The uncertainty puts U.S. officials in Syria in a difficult position, particularly vis-a-vis their local partners.Dillon, the coalition spokesman, said he would not speculate on anything that\'s going to happen in the future."We\'re going to keep doing what we\'re doing until we\'re told otherwise," he said.___Issa reported from Beirut. Associated Press writer Josh Lederman in Washington contributed to this report.
SPOKANE, Wash.   Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year in farm products, is also certain of the result."It\'s a strategy that\'s working," he said.If farmers are worried, so are Republican politicians, who depended on small-town America to hand them control of Congress and know how quickly those voters could take it away. Just seven months before the 2018 midterm elections, Trump\'s faceoff with China over trade has exposed an unexpected political vulnerability in what was supposed to be the Republican Party\'s strongest region: rural America.The clash with China poses a direct threat to the economies in both red and blue states, from California\'s central valley to eastern Washington through Minnesota\'s plains and across Missouri and Indiana and into Ohio.They are regions in which the GOP\'s quest to retain its House and Senate majorities this fall is tied directly to Republican voters\' views about their pocketbooks and Trump\'s job performance. The signs of fear and frustration about both are easy to find.In southwestern Minnesota, soybean farmer Bill Gordon says the volatility in the markets makes it harder for farmers like him to market their crop and lock in profitability. The state is the country\'s fourth-largest exporting state, and the state\'s top farm export market is China.A Trump voter, Gordon said right now he\'s disappointed, not angry, over what\'s happening. But the trade tensions could affect his vote in the open race for the region\'s congressional seat, where the farm vote is significant."I vote for the people who represent rural America," he said. "It\'s not a party line."Trump says he\'s simply fighting against unfair business practices with a geopolitical rival.After the Trump administration announced plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports Tuesday, China lashed back within hours, matching the American tariffs with plans to tax $50 billion of U.S. products, including soybeans, corn and wheat.Trump escalated the standoff further on Thursday by asking the U.S. trade representative to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, which had previously released plans to impose retaliatory tariffs on frozen pork, nuts and wine in response to Trump\'s intent to apply duties to imported aluminum and steel.The soybean industry, perhaps more than any other, illustrates the potential harm to Republican candidates in the fall.Soy production is concentrated in the Midwest. Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Indiana and Missouri account for over half of all soy produced in the United States. And more than 60 percent of U.S. soy exports have been sent to mainland China in recent years.Trump won 89 percent of America\'s counties that produce soy, according to an Associated Press analysis of Agriculture Department and election data. In those counties, on average, two out of three voters supported Trump in 2016.Many Republican candidates who represent rural areas Trump won in 2016 are being forced to choose between his trade policies and community interests. Vulnerable Republicans are walking a tightrope.In eastern Washington, seven-term Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers had already found herself in an unexpectedly tight race. She has urged the White House to "reverse course" on the Chinese tariffs in recent days.Jared Powell, a spokesman for McMorris Rodgers, said her office had asked the Trump administration for clarification on the effects of the tariffs."She is doing what she can to speak out publicly," Powell said.Overall, an estimated 2.1 million jobs could be affected by the trade dispute nationally, with a majority coming from counties that Trump won, according to an analysis by Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution."We\'re in kind of a farm crisis," said Bob Worth, who grows soybeans, corn and spring wheat with his son on 2,200 acres (3.4 square miles) near Lake Benton in southwestern Minnesota. He wouldn\'t say how he voted in 2016, but he offered kind, if measured, words for Trump."I\'m going to believe in the man," added Worth, who\'s also on the board of the Minnesota Soybean Growers Association. "He\'s doing this for business reasons only. I don\'t know if he knows how much he\'s hurting agriculture."Matt Aultman, a grain salesman and feed nutritionist in Greenville, Ohio, west of Columbus, said farmers there are keeping a close watch on the talk in Washington. Farmers pay attention to two things: prices and weather. And a trade fight that affects prices won\'t go unnoticed."It directly affects our pocketbooks and the way we plan for the following years," he said. "Are we going to pay all the bills this year? Are we going to buy a new piece of equipment? Do you get your kids a couple new pair of shoes?"In California\'s central valley, Republican Rep. Jeff Denham has avoided the issue altogether in recent days. His opponent, Democrat and longtime family farmer Michael Eggman, said Trump\'s trade policies would shatter his community.The district is home to Blue Diamond Almonds, among smaller nut producers, who send much of their product to China and suddenly face the prospect of 15 percent tariffs."We all know how hard it is to make ends meet as a small family farmer, and Trump is not making it easier," Eggman said. "Jeff Denham, who claims to be a local farmer, hasn\'t said one word about it. Where\'s the outrage?"Denham, through a spokeswoman, did not address the president\'s moves directly but said the congressman supports "free and fair trade" and a plan that\'s "carefully thought out."___Peoples reported from New York. Karnowski reported in Minneapolis. AP data journalist Larry Fenn in Seattle contributed to this report.
TOKYO   U.S. stock futures slid and the yen rose against the dollar on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump proposed additional tariffs on China, aggravating trade tensions and smothering a revival in broader investor risk appetite.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan lost 0.25 percent. The index has spent the week swinging wildly in and out of negative territory amid the back-and-forth of the U.S.-China trade dispute.Australian stocks slipped 0.35 percent and South Korea\'s KOSPI lost 0.3 percent. Japan\'s Nikkei fell 0.15 percent.The S&P 500 E-mini futures were down 1.2 percent , pointing to a lower start for Wall Street later in the session.The Dow and the S&P 500 posted gains for a third day in a row on Thursday, the longest stretch of gains  in about a month, as investor fears of an escalating trade conflict between the United States and China abated, turning the focus to upcoming earnings.Trade tensions, however, returned to the fore after Trump said late on Thursday that he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China, fuelling the trade dispute between the world\'s two  economic superpowers.Trump said in a statement the extra tariffs were being considered "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade measures."Trump\'s order to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate, and recent trade actions and rhetoric in recent weeks, is an example of how battles can turn to wars," said Dan Ivascyn, group chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co (PIMCO)."This is another reason investors should be reducing risk."The dollar, which had risen to a one-month high against the yen on Thursday on an earlier easing of trade fears, slipped against its Japanese peer after Trump\'s latest trade offensive.The greenback was down 0.3 percent at 107.080 yen , pulling back from 107.490, its highest since March 1. It was up 0.8 percent on the week.The dollar had risen to a one-month peak versus the yen, bolstered by Wall Street\'s bounce on Thursday when the United States appeared to signal a willingness to resolve the trade dispute.The yen, a perceived safe-haven currency, is often sought in times of market turmoil and political tensions.The dollar dipped 0.15 percent to 0.9621 Swiss franc, another safe-haven currency.The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2248 .The dollar index against a basket of six major currencies was down 0.1 percent at 90.359. The index has risen 0.4 percent this week.Treasury debt prices gained and yields declined as investors sought the safety of government bonds.The 10-year Treasury note yield fell 2 basis points to 2.811 percent, pulling back from Thursday\'s nine-day high of 2.838 percent.Crude oil prices fell as risk aversion gripped the broader markets.U.S. crude slipped 0.6 percent to $63.14 a barrel and Brent was down 0.55 percent at $67.94 a barrel. Oil had gained on Thursday, helped by higher equities and Saudi Arabia\'s unexpected hike in crude prices.Beyond the trade turmoil, financial markets are focused on Friday\'s U.S. non-farm payrolls report, which could determine the pace of future Federal Reserve interest rate rises and consequently the dollar outlook.The U.S. March employment report is expected to show non-farm payroll growth of 193,000 jobs versus 313,000 in the prior month, according to the latest Thomson Reuters poll of economists. The unemployment rate is expected to drop to 4.0 percent from 4.1 percent in February.(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Additional reporting by the New York markets team; Editing by Eric Meijer)
WASHINGTON   For more than a year, Wall Street has largely ignored the unpredictability and chaos that has plagued Donald Trump\'s administration, confident that the businessman-turned-president\'s policies would juice the economy and that a team of mainstream advisers would keep more controversial proposals at bay.Now the financial markets are showing that their patience with Trump has its limits.A triple whammy of tariffs, Twitter threats against one of the nation\'s largest companies and high-level staff shake-ups have rattled Wall Street in recent weeks. The S&P 500 has fallen 1 percent amid turbulent daily price swings since March 1, the day Trump said he intended to levy tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Wednesday was another roller coaster day for Wall Street amid back-and-forth tariff threats by the U.S. and China. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 501 points after the opening bell but made it all back, and more.The repercussions of a jagged drop in the stock market are both economic and political. If the market fluctuations continue, they could dampen business and consumer confidence and ultimately slow U.S. economic growth. For Trump and the Republican Party, that could be a devastating development in a midterm election year, when the party is largely pinning its hopes of keeping control of Congress on economic success and Americans seeing a benefit from the tax overhaul the president signed in December.Republican leaders have been urging Trump, both publicly and privately, to spend the year selling the merits of the new tax law, which permanently slashed corporate tax rates and included big rate cuts for wealthy individuals, alongside more modest cuts for the middle class. Instead, Trump has aggressively pursued tariffs that may initially satisfy his supporters\' desire to crack down on China and other nations, but risk sparking a trade war that could devastate some of the American industries that Trump has pledged to protect."Farmers and ranchers shouldn\'t be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country," said Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, whose state depends on agriculture exports. "It\'s not fair, and it doesn\'t make economic sense."White House officials scrambled Wednesday to calm both the markets and Republicans, leaving open the possibility that some tariffs ultimately won\'t be implemented if China lowers barriers to U.S. exports."Don\'t overreact, we\'ll see how this works out," said Larry Kudlow, Trump\'s new chief economic adviser. "At the end of this whole process, the end of the rainbow, there\'s a pot of gold."That still left plenty of investors on edge.Companies surveyed for the Institute for Supply Management\'s services index released on Wednesday said that while they\'re still expanding, they\'re worried about the tariffs and volatile swings in prices for lumber, steel and aluminum that make planning difficult."If there is follow-through on both sides to go ahead with higher tariffs, clearly there will be negative implications everywhere," said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets. "As of now, the impact is on confidence, and uncertainty is never a good thing for the economy."Wall Street\'s fluctuations could be particularly problematic for Trump given how closely he\'s tied his own success to stock market gains. Unlike most of his predecessors, who rarely commented on Wall Street\'s highs and lows, Trump has frequently cast market highs as a direct result of his presidency and policies. He notably hasn\'t tweeted or commented on the recent volatility, though his spokeswoman said he wasn\'t rattled."We may have a little bit of short-term pain, but we\'re certainly going to have long-term success," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters.Beyond Trump\'s tariff threats, investors have also been put off by the sudden departure of senior administration officials with close ties to Wall Street and the business community. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, the former CEO of Exxon, was ousted last month. White House economic adviser Gary Cohn, the former president of Goldman Sachs, also announced that he was resigning. The morning after Cohn\'s resignation, the Dow Jones industrial stock average opened roughly 1 percent lower.Adding to the market uncertainty: Trump\'s tweets about Amazon. He\'s spent the last several days misleadingly saying that the online retailer doesn\'t pay taxes and has hurt the finances of the U.S. Postal Service. Amazon shares have lost nearly 14 percent of their value since the middle of March.So far, Trump\'s trade strategies and taunting have done little to derail the economy as a whole. Employers are expected to have added a healthy 185,000 jobs in March, according to estimates for the monthly jobs report being released Friday. This would come after a strong gain of 313,000 jobs in February.But lurking beneath that growth is a rising sense of uncertainty about what might happen next in Trump\'s economy.David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer for Cumberland Advisors, said investors are now pricing in the risks of a trade war and other issues stemming from Trump\'s words and actions. He said he has yet to see a proper analysis showing that tariffs help the economy, although he said "I hope" the White House turns out to be correct that a showdown with China won\'t damage the U.S. economy.Kotok then paused and added, "But hope is not a strategy."___Editor\'s note: Washington Bureau Chief Julie Pace has covered the White House and politics for the AP since 2007. AP Economic Writer Josh Boak has covered the U.S. economy for AP since 2013.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on $100 billion (71.3 billion) more Chinese imports, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world\'s two largest economies.The further tariffs were being considered "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade actions, which included a proposed $50 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods, Trump said in a White House statement."This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start," said National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay."We are on a dangerous downward spiral and American families will be on the losing end," Shay added in a statement, urging Trump "to stop playing a game of chicken with the U.S. economy."Financial markets, roiled for days by the trade fight and Trump\'s management of it, whipsawed again on the new threat. After a bullish regular trading day, U.S. equity futures sold off sharply in after-market-hours trading.U.S. stock futures <ESc1> slid 1 percent and the dollar dipped against other major currencies, while Asian shares flitted in and out of positive territory. Chinese  markets were closed for a holiday. [MKTS/GLOB]Doug Kass, who runs hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management Inc, added: "Our president is going to make market volatility and economic uncertainty great again."In his statement, Trump said the U.S. Trade Representative had determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."The tit-for-tat escalation of tariff announcements, which have stirred fears that trade unfolded surprisingly rapidly . They have stirred fears that the two countries will spiral into a trade war that will crush global growth.Chinese state media slammed Trump\'s threat of more trade action against China as "ridiculous"."This latest intimidation reflects the deep arrogance of some American elites in their attitude towards China," the state-run Global Times said in an editorial.On Tuesday, USTR proposed 25 percent tariffs on more than 1,300 Chinese industrial and other products from flat-panel televisions to electronic components. China shot back 11 hours later with a list of proposed duties on $50 billion of American imports, including soybeans, aircraft, cars, beef and chemicals. "Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers," the Republican president said.Republican lawmakers from Western and Midwestern states have voiced worries about a big hit to U.S. farming exporters.\'THIS IS NUTS\'On the new tariff threat, Republican Senator Ben Sasse said in a statement: "Hopefully the president is just blowing off steam again but, if he\'s even half-serious, this is nuts."Lets absolutely take on Chinese bad behaviour, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this," said the lawmaker from the farm-belt state of Nebraska.The U.S. Department of Agriculture is looking for ways to assist farmers affected by China\'s tariffs, USDA undersecretary Bill Northey told Reuters, but did not offer specifics.White House officials have suggested throughout the week that talks with the Chinese could help resolve trade issues between the two countries. China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017. Trump has demanded that China cut the trade gap by $100 billion.A senior U.S. official who requested anonymity told Reuters no formal negotiating sessions had yet been set, but that the United States was willing to negotiate with China.The U.S. tariffs are aimed at forcing changes to Chinese government policies designed to transfer U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies and allow them to seize leadership in key high-technology industries of the future.The USTR\'s "Section 301" investigation authorizing the tariffs alleges China has systematically sought to misappropriate U.S. intellectual property through joint venture requirements that often cannot be negotiated without technology transfers, something China denies.TARIFF TARGETS NOT YET CHOSENA USTR spokeswoman said that the $100 billion second-round of potential tariffs had not been determined yet and would be selected by USTR career staff - not political appointees - along with economists and trade experts.The new list will be proposed in the same manner as the first round and will go through a similar public comment period before any of them are activated, the spokeswoman said.A further $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods would likely expand the scope of Trump\'s attack to more consumer goods. The first round of $50 billion in tariffs mostly targeted industrial goods and electronic components.The two biggest categories of U.S. imports from China last year were communications and computer equipment, totalling $137 billion according to U.S. Census data. Cellphones and computers, key portions of these categories, were spared from the initial tariffs list.Apparel and footwear, both labour-intensive industries in China, made up a combined $39 billion in U.S. imports.Dean Garfield, chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, a tech industry lobbying group in Washington, said the additional tariffs were "irresponsible and destabilising.""We need the U.S and China to come to the table and identify solutions to these serious problems," he added.(Reporting by Steve Holland and David Lawder; Additional reporting by Eric Beech, Ginger Gibson and Caren Bohan in Washington and Jennifer Ablan, Caroline Valetkevitch, Trevor Hunnicutt and Daniel Bases in New York; Writing by Chris Sanders; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh, Peter Cooney & Shri Navaratnam)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Five trips to Iraq. More than 15,000 documents. One collapsed caliphate.We published the results of a yearlong investigation, in which Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State that were abandoned by the militants. It shows that ISIS fighters, known for their brutality, were also effective administrators.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which followed our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covered the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here.The U.S. military, meanwhile, is spending about $1 million on makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners in Syria, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid.____2. China is not afraid of a trade war.That was a senior Chinese finance official, who also said that the new China would never succumb to external pressure. But our correspondent says China is more vulnerable than officials admit.Heres a blow-by-blow account of what has transpired in the U.S.-China trade conflict so far. And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers like Eldon Gould, above, worry about the effect on American agriculture.____3. President Trump was in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., to promote his tax overhaul. But he tossed aside his prepared remarks  literally threw them  and instead went on a lengthy tirade about immigration.He boasted about calling immigrants rapists during his election campaign and said that female migrants are raped at levels theyve never seen before as they travel north through Mexico. Our reporter is in Mexico with the migrant caravan he referred to.Aboard Air Force One on the way back to Washington, Mr. Trump denied knowing of any hush money paid to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who claims she had an affair with him.____ 4. Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, above, is under increased White House scrutiny.Ethics questions have threatened his good standing with the president and driven away some senior staff members. For instance: the arrangement to pay $50 a night for a room in a Capitol Hill apartment  owned in part by the wife of a top energy lobbyist.At least five officials at the agency were reassigned or requested new jobs after they raised concerns about Mr. Pruitts spending and management.____5. Brazils top court ruled that former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva can be sent to prison while he continues to appeal his corruption conviction.Its an explosive decision that appears to quash Mr. da Silvas bid to return to power. The 72-year-old is a towering and divisive figure in his countrys politics  with a considerable lead in the polls for Octobers presidential election. Above, a No prison for Lula poster in Rio de Janeiro.Mr. da Silva has called his prosecution a ploy to keep him off the ballot.____6. Women who worked for the world-famous architect Richard Meier say his history of sexual misconduct was common knowledge at his firm  but no one had the power to stop it.We first revealed the accusations against Mr. Meier last month. He has since taken a leave of absence from his firm and said that while our recollections may differ, I sincerely apologize to anyone who was offended by my behavior.Meanwhile, four more women who used to work for him, above, have come forward to accuse him of sexual misconduct.____7. More middle-class families are sending their offspring to two-year colleges as a way to keep costs down. Many plan to transfer to four-year institutions later on.Byria Hamblin, above, graduated from Lone Star College near Houston, then transferred to Tulane University in New Orleans, which costs more than $50,000 a year.She said that when she tells her new friends there where she spent her first two years, she often hears, I really should have done that.____8. Were doing an open casting call for the new season of our illustrated web video series, Conception. We will choose some accounts for the second season of the series, which will explore parenting today.We want to hear from all types of parents  from all over the world and all points on the political spectrum  about the issues affecting your families. Were interested in stories from those who have chosen not to become parents, too.____9. After a long absence because of back injuries, Tiger Woods is back at the Masters as one of the early favorites. The toll his training regimen took on his body serves as a cautionary tale.The question now: Will he be the golf champion of old? We have live scores, updates and analysis.____10. Finally, a new EP called Universal Love: Wedding Songs Reimagined features covers of pop hits  with a same-sex twist. The artists, above, include Bob Dylan, who recorded the 1929 song Shes Funny That Way, from the Great American Songbook catalog, as Hes Funny That Way.If we view music as something that brings people together, shouldnt these popular songs be open to everyone? the albums co-producer asked.On the late-night shows, Dr. Evil, of Austin Powers fame, dropped by Jimmy Fallons show to announce that hes running for president under the slogan Make the World Evil Again.He said his running mate would be the only man whos more hated right now than Donald Trump: Mark Zuckerberg.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON   Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting.Trump\'s attacks over the last week targeted what Amazon is best known for: rapidly shipping just about any product you can imagine to your door. But the company CEO Jeff Bezos founded more than two decades ago is now a sprawling empire that sells groceries in brick-and-mortar stores, hosts the online services of other companies and federal offices in a network of data centers, and even recently branched into health care.Amazon relies on a nearly 30-member in-house lobbying team that\'s four times as large as it was three years ago as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success. The outside roster includes a retired congressman from Washington state who was a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee when he stepped down.Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017."Amazon is just not on an even playing field," Trump told reporters Thursday aboard Air Force One. "They have a tremendous lobbying effort, in addition to having The Washington Post, which is as far as I\'m concerned another lobbyist. But they have a big lobbying effort, one of the biggest, frankly, one of the biggest."Bezos owns the Post. He and the newspaper have previously declared that Bezos isn\'t involved in any journalistic decisions.Earlier in the week, Trump alleged that Amazon is bilking the U.S. Postal Service for being its "delivery boy," a doubtful claim about a contract that\'s actually been judged profitable for the post office. And he has charged that Amazon pays "little or no taxes," a claim that may have merit. Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the left-leaning Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, said in February that Amazon "has built its business model on tax avoidance." Amazon reported $5.6 billion of U.S. profits in 2017 "and didn\'t pay a dime of federal income taxes on it," according to Gardner.The company declined to comment on Trump\'s remarks and did not immediately respond to a request for comment about its lobbying operations.Amazon has grown rapidly since it launched in 1995 as a site that sold books. It has changed the way people buy paper towels, diapers or just about anything else. And its ambitions go far beyond online shopping: its Alexa voice assistant is in tablets, cars and its Echo devices; it runs the Whole Foods grocery chain; the company produces movies and TV shows and it designs its own brands of furniture and clothing.The company is in the midst of launching an independent business with JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway that is seeking to lower health care costs for employees at the three companies. Given the three players\' outsize influence the alliance has the potential to shake up how Americans shop for health care and the initiative sent a shudder through the industry when it was announced in January.Amazon Web Services is angling for a much larger share of the federal government\'s market for cloud computing, which allows massive amounts of data to be stored and managed on remote servers. The CIA signed a $600 million deal with Amazon in 2013 to build a system to share secure data across the U.S. intelligence community.A partner of Amazon Web Services, the Virginia-based Rean Cloud LLC, in February scored what appeared to be a lucrative cloud computing contract from the Pentagon. But the contract, initially projected to be worth as much as $950 million, was scaled back to $65 million after Amazon\'s competitors complained about the award.Lobbying disclosure records filed with the House and Senate show Amazon is engaged on a wide variety of other issues, from trade to transportation to telecommunications. The company also lobbied lawmakers and federal agencies on the testing and operation of unmanned aerial vehicles. Amazon has been exploring the use of drones for deliveries, but current federal rules restrict flying beyond the operator\'s line of sight.The $15.6 million Amazon spent on lobbying last year was $2.6 million more than in 2016, according to the disclosure records. The bulk of the money  $12.8 million  went for Amazon\'s in-house lobbying team. The nearly 30-member unit is led by Brian Huseman, who worked previously as chief of staff at the Federal Trade Commission and a Justice Department trial attorney.As most large corporations do, Amazon also employs outside lobbying firms  as many as 14 in 2017.In Amazon\'s corner is former Washington congressman Norm Dicks of the firm Van Ness Feldman. Dicks was serving as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee when he ended his 36-year congressional career in 2013. He represented the company on information technology matters and "issues related to cloud computing usage by the federal government," according to the records, which show Van Ness Feldman earned $160,000 from Amazon last year.Amazon brought aboard four new firms in 2017, according to the records. Newcomers Ballard Partners, BGR Government Affairs, Brownstein Hyatt, and McGuireWoods Consulting lobbied for Amazon on transportation, taxes, drones and other issues.___Associated Press writer Joseph Pisani in New York contributed to this report.___
PHOENIX   President Donald Trump said Thursday that he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking, but it wasn\'t clear who would be called up or if they would even be allowed to carry guns.Trump\'s comments to reporters on Air Force One were his first estimate on guard levels he believes are needed for border protection. It is lower than the 6,400 National Guard members that former President George Bush sent to the border between 2006 and 2008.Trump said his administration is looking into the cost of sending the troops to the border and added "we\'ll probably keep them or a large portion of them until the wall is built."Earlier Thursday, Ronald Vitiello, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection\'s acting deputy commissioner, cautioned against a rushed deployment."We are going to do it as quickly as we can do it safely," Vitiello told Fox News Channel.He said that guard members would be placed in jobs that do not require law enforcement work, an apparent reference to undertaking patrols and making arrests.The Republican governors of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas have backed the deployment but it was unclear Thursday how Democratic California Gov. Jerry Brown would respond to Trump\'s call.Brown\'s office repeatedly referred requests for comment to the California National Guard, which said the state first must be informed where money for the deployment would come from, how long it would last and clearly define the operation\'s objectives.In Washington, Marine Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie told reporters at the Pentagon that it has not yet been determined how many, if any, of the troops in the border security operation will be armed.Trump ordered the deployment because "we are at a crisis point" with illegal immigration, Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen of the Department of Homeland Security said."We\'d like to stop it before the numbers get even bigger," she said.Nielsen said guard members would provide support to border officials, "help look at the technology, the surveillance, in some cases we\'ll ask for some fleet mechanics" and free up agents trained in law enforcement for other duties.Arrests along the U.S. border with Mexico jumped to 50,308 in March, a 37 percent increase from February, and more than triple the same period last year. Border arrests rose 10 of the last 11 months after falling in April 2017 to the lowest since the Department of Homeland Security was created in 2003.In Mexico, the country\'s politicians condemned Trump\'s deployment decision and Mexico\'s Senate passed a resolution Wednesday calling for the suspension of cooperation on illegal immigration and drug trafficking in retaliation.In 1997, camouflage-clad U.S. Marines ordered to patrol the border for drugs in West Texas shot and killed 18-year-old Esequiel Hernandez Jr. while he was herding his family\'s goats near the tiny village of Redford, Texas, along the border.That shooting sparked anger in the region and ended the President Bill Clinton-era military presence along the international line.After Sept. 11, Bush sent unarmed National Guard units to the border to support federal agents.The troops that Bush sent improved lighting at border crossings, extended existing fencing along the international boundary, built roads, monitored remote cameras, operated communications equipment and sat in mobile observation towers watching for people sneaking into the U.S.Their presence was especially felt in Palomas, Mexico, a smuggling hub south of the village of Columbus, New Mexico, where the increased presence and equipment was credited with easing illegal northbound immigrant travel.President Barack Obama in 2010 deployed National Guard troops to the border over fear of increasing drug-trafficking violence.Those troops worked on intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support, analysis and training, and support efforts to block drug trafficking.They temporarily supplemented Border Patrol agents until Homeland Security could recruit and train additional officers and agents to work on the border. While some were armed for their own self-defense, they were not authorized to make arrests.During the last two border deployments, the guard\'s supporting role was criticized by some people who thought they should be more involved in enforcement.There are now more than 20,000 Border Patrol agents along the U.S.-Mexico boundary and Trump wants to add 5,000 more to the force\'s currently funded level of about 21,000.Guard members sent to the border to help don\'t always come from border states. Some of the first sent under Bush\'s two-year deployment were from Utah.Democratic Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon said she would not send troops if asked because she is "deeply troubled by Trump\'s plan to militarize our border." And Republican Vermont Gov. Phil Scott said he "would not be eager" to send troops because so many other states are closer to the border with Mexico.Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, a Republican, said he would be willing to send National Guard members to the border "who are experienced and who have done that before.Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a Democrat, said he would never deploy National Guard troops "based simply on the whim of the President\'s morning Twitter habit."A fifth-generation Arizona rancher who is an outspoken supporter of Trump\'s border wall said he was "absolutely elated" by the president\'s National Guard deployment plans.Jim Chilton\'s ranch in Arivaca, Arizona stretches 14 miles (23 kilometers) along the border, separated from Mexico by barbed wire cattle fence.When Bush deployed troops "there was no traffic by drug packers and immigrants," he said. "The problem for the National Guard guys now is that they will die of boredom because the Sinaloa Cartel will know where they are and won\'t send their drug packers through."___Lucey reported from aboard Air Force One. Associated Press staff writers Nomaan Merchant in Houston, Bob Christie and Jacques Billeaud in Phoenix, Morgan Lee in Santa Fe, New Mexico, Russell Contreras in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Zeke Miller and Robert Burns in Washington and Elliott Spagat contributed to this report.
NEW YORK   U.S. stock futures fell more than 1 percent late on Thursday after U.S. President Donald Trump said he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China.S&P 500 e-mini futures <EScv1> were down 1.4 percent in trading for the overnight session. Dow futures <1YMcv1> were down 1.7 percent.Trump, in a statement, said he proposed the additional tariffs "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. actions that included $50 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods."These potential trade wars are not good for the market," said Stephen Massocca, senior vice president at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. "I don\'t think the market will perceive them as good for the economy, so therefore they\'re not good for the market. It doesn\'t surprise me that as the rhetoric heats up, the market is weak."Hedge fund manager Doug Kass, who runs Seabreeze Partners Management Inc, said he was shorting the Standard & Poor\'s 500."The hastily crafted policy like we have seen from Trump over the last two, three days and now tonight in a world that is flat and ever-more interconnected is dangerous."The probabilities of a recession in the last half of 2019 and early 2020 are increasing in odds and maybe quite dramatically, Kass added, saying: "The bottom line is that our president is going to make market volatility and economic uncertainty great again.During the regular session, the Dow and the S&P 500 posted gains for a third day in a row, the longest streak in about a month, as investors\' worries of an escalating trade conflict between the United States and China began to ease.On Wednesday, Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the administration was involved in a "negotiation" with China rather than a trade war.Bob Smith, president and chief investment officer at Sage Advisory Services Ltd Co in Austin, Texas, said the markets were going to react adversely to Trump\'s latest statement."Anything thats twice as large as the last number is going to elicit a response, and I think that were just going to be going on this hayride for a while until they get themselves around the table and start talking turkey ... at some point the markets going to get fed up with it."(Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch and Trevor Hunnicutt; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration\'s recent trade actions toward China were not intended to punish any industries or the markets, but Beijing should shoulder the blame for any hit to the U.S. economy, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Thursday."Our intention is not to punish anybody. Our intention is to open markets and investments and lower barriers -- that\'s the deal," Kudlow told reporters at the White House. "Any damage to our economy comes from China\'s restrictive practices ... blame China, don\'t blame Trump."(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
WASHINGTON   White House trade adviser Peter Navarro on Thursday defended U.S. trade action toward China, saying it ultimately would lead to free trade after imbalances are corrected and that the Trump administration would help American farmers who could take an economic hit in the process."We have the backs of farmers in this administration ... and we will do everything that we can to help them," Navarro told CNBC in an interview.(Reporting by Susan Heavey; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
SEOUL   Oil prices fell on Friday along with equities as U.S. President Trump\'s threat of new tariffs on China reignited fears of a trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies.President Trump said on Thursday he had ordered U.S. trade officials to consider an additional $100 billion tariffs on China, escalating tensions with China.Brent crude <LCOc1> for June delivery was down 38 cents, or 0.6 percent, at $67.95 per barrel by 0143 GMT.U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude for May delivery <CLc1> was down 43 cents, or 0.7 percent, at 63.11 a barrel.Shanghai September crude futures <ISCc1> were untraded due to public holidays in China, after falling 0.8 percent on Wednesday. Shanghai trading will resume on Monday.While oil market watchers were wary of the brewing trade war between the United States and China, they did not expect to see steep falls amid signs of tightening supplies."The most recent rumblings from President Trump have seen oil prices fall convincingly, but given the supporting narrative, it should attract some dip buyers," said Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia/Pacific at futures brokerage OANDA in Singapore.The Energy Information Administration (EIA) reported a 4.6 million-barrel draw in U.S. crude inventories last week, compared with analysts\' expectations for an increase of 246,000 barrels. [EIA/S]"U.S. oil inventories remain a volatile gauge, but they still provide a good litmus test for the short-term," Innes said.Meanwhile Saudi Arabia said on Thursday it would raise its official selling price for May crude for Asian customers."The move...suggests that Saudi Arabia is not looking to remove production curbs anytime soon," ANZ bank said in a note.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  and some non-OPEC producers including Russia are committed to cutting output by around 1.8 million barrels per day through the end of 2018 in a bid to clear a global overhang and support prices.Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the oil cartel, has said production cuts could be extended in one form or another.OPEC and its allies should keep the cuts to ensure healthy price levels as a way to boost investment in the industry and avoid a supply and price shock in the long run, Qatar\'s Energy Minister Mohammed al-Sada told Reuters.(Reporting by Jane Chung; Editing by Aaron Sheldrick)
(Reuters) - A U.S. District Court judge in California refused to issue an order blocking Qatar and one of its lobbyists from disseminating emails and other documents that top Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy has alleged in a lawsuit were stolen in a hack of his and his wife\'s computers. Broidy filed the lawsuit in a Los Angeles federal court last month, accusing Qatar of stealing and leaking emails to reporters in retribution for Broidy\'s attempts to influence the Trump administration in favor of regional rivals of Qatar. In a court filing on Wednesday U.S. District Judge John Walter rejected Broidy\'s applications for a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction to restrict Qatar and any of its agents from hacking or disseminating his emails and computer files, citing a lack of evidence that Qatar was behind the hack. Qatar has denied involvement in any hacking. So has Nicolas Muzin, a lobbyist for Qatar who is also a defendant in the case. Judge Walter said in the filing he had "serious concerns" about whether his court had jurisdiction over Qatar. He also said while Broidy had found IP addresses in Qatar linked to the hack he failed to identify the location of the alleged computer in Doha, a city of 1.3 million to 1.5 million people, behind the hacking or show it had a relationship to the government. Broidy has not shown that Qatar or Muzin "are responsible for the unauthorized access of Plaintiffs\' email accounts" or that they disseminated "the allegedly illegally-obtained emails and documents to various media outlets," Walter said. Lee Wolosky, a lawyer for Broidy, said temporary restraining orders are typically hard to get, especially when not all parties have been properly served with court papers, as is the case with Muzin because he is not currently on U.S. soil. Wolosky said he would pursue relief through another motion, an avenue left open by the judge."We will continue to litigate this case vigorously," Wolosky said in an email. In his lawsuit Broidy claims that Qatar, embroiled in a diplomatic and trade dispute with the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and others in the region, has sought to use the hacked emails to hinder his advocacy for Qatar\'s rivals. In an emailed statement Muzin said he was "pleased that the Court quickly saw through Elliott Broidy\'s specious allegations."Mitchell Kamin, a lawyer representing Qatar, declined comment on Wednesday\'s decision.(Reporting by Nathan Layne and Karen Freifeld in New York; Editing by Chris Reese)
TOMS RIVER, N.J.  The tables inside the hotel room were full and Andy Kim, the candidate responsible for filling them, was pleasantly surprised. It was a weeknight fund-raiser after all, rescheduled once already, for this relatively unknown Democratic challenger in a Republican district and a thick fog on Route 37 had obscured the tiny sign directing drivers to the hotel.Seven months before Election Day this is not normal, to be able to pack a room on a weekday, he told a crowd of about 150 supporters, each of whom contributed at least $10 to listen to Mr. Kim and snack on donated croissants.Ever since the election of President Trump, Democrats across the country have seen a predictable surge in energy among a base eager to take on the White House. What has been perhaps less expected is the uprising against the president coursing through more moderate suburbs, including many Mr. Trump won. Democrats buoyed by recent victories in Republican districts have lofty aims in suburban New Jersey as they work to wrest control of the House from the G.O.P., given Democrats surprise victories in Virginia, Alabama and, most recently, Pennsylvania.In New Jersey, which has been described by Democrats and Republicans as the most suburban state in the country, the revolt has been especially muscular and has put into play Republican-held congressional seats that until this year had hardly been on the Democratic radar. Voters have grown increasingly angry with Mr. Trump, viewing many of his actions as damaging the states fortunes.Under the new federal tax overhaul pushed by Mr. Trump, which severely limits the deductibility of local taxes and mortgage interest payments, over 10 percent of New Jersey households will see their taxes rise, more than any other state, according to the Tax Policy Center, a research group. And Mr. Trump has been adamant about blocking any federal funding for a new rail tunnel under the Hudson River that would ease travel for tens of thousands of commuters.As a result, New Jersey has become a key focus of the partys effort to win the 24 seats it needs to retake the House. National leaders, outside groups and statewide officials have launched a concerted effort targeting four of the five New Jersey districts held by Republicans, including the Third Congressional District where Mr. Kim is running.Already, two Republicans  Representatives Rodney Frelinghuysen and Frank LoBiondo  have announced retirement, while a third, Representative Leonard Lance, has had his race declared a tossup  by the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan organization that analyzes elections.Super PACs and labor groups are mapping out plans for New Jersey, though they are mostly waiting until after the party primaries in June before making official endorsements or announcements about resources devoted to the races.We view New Jersey House races as some of the best pickup opportunities in the country, said Josh Schwerin, a spokesman for Priorities USA, one of the largest progressive super PACs, and are keeping an eye on them as we decide where to play in the future.Still, despite the Democratic mobilization motivated by Mr. Trump, Democrats in New Jersey face a difficult road. Mr. Kim, for example, is seeking to unseat Representative Tom MacArthur, a wealthy self-funded Republican who has been so well entrenched in his district that the Democrats barely put up a fight in 2016. No matter the anger at the White House, Mr. MacArthur can count on strong support from reliably Republican areas like Ocean County and the Cook Political Report has continued to rate the district as likely Republican.But all those headwinds have not dampened the enthusiasm or financial support for Mr. Kims long-shot effort in this district, which cuts across the southern part of the state, from Burlington County to Ocean County. As of April 1, the first-time candidate with a background in national security has raised over $1.1 million with donations trickling in from all 50 states.Mr. MacArthur does have some vulnerabilities, having voted with Mr. Trump more often than anyone else in the states delegation.In the Third District, some voters say their dislike for Mr. Trump has colored their view of Mr. MacArthur, who voted in favor of the tax law and was instrumental in the Republican effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act.My problem with MacArthur is that hes not protecting us, with health care and taxes and guns, hes doing affirmative damage to me and this district, said Susan Lavine, 64, a small-business owner from Moorestown, N.J. Ms. Lavine said she voted for Mr. MacArthur in the past two elections because, I thought he was a moderate. But she has since changed her mind and is now supporting Mr. Kim.Despite Mr. MacArthurs support for the tax bill and his opposition to the affordable care act, his campaign said that his voting record has tended to be more moderate and that his work on local issues, such as financing for a military base in the district, will mean more than the political polarization fomented by the Trump White House.Those are the kinds of issues that voters in Burlington look to as to what defines moderate for them, as opposed to some group in Washington, said Chris Russell, a strategist for the MacArthur campaign.Mr. MacArthurs political team also noted that the Republican who lost to Gov. Philip D. Murphy last year, Kim Guadagno, won the district by the same margin Mr. Trump did in 2016, which Mr. MacArthurs campaign said shows that the district remains loyal to the G.O.P.National Republicans are also confident that when the election gets closer, and the stakes of the local elections become more clear, enthusiasm will ramp up among their base. And in New Jersey, they argue, the familiarity of the incumbent on a local level could be an advantage, as opposed to the relative unknown of someone like Rick Saccone, who lost in the Pennsylvania special election last month.Having your own brand, and having people know who you are is extremely important, said Matt Gorman, the communications director for the National Republican Congressional Committee. He said well-known incumbents are also able to run on issues, rather than simply against the president, as they work to galvanize voters. Thats why people like Lance and others were able to win seats in districts that Clinton won in 2016, Mr. Gorman said.Nonetheless, Mr. Kim has enjoyed widespread support, including the endorsement of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., underscoring the shifting political dynamics in New Jersey.For the first time in about a decade, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is focused on more than two Republican-held seats, its typical strategy, and is taking aim at all five, though the seat held by one Republican, Chris Smith in the Fourth Congressional District, is considered safe.Mr. Biden announced recently that he was also endorsing Mikie Sherrill, the Democrat running in Mr. Frelinghuysens district.In the 11th district, Ms. Sherrill has attracted national attention with her impressive biography  a former Navy helicopter pilot and a former federal prosecutor  and she has raised more than $1.2 million in 2017 alone. In the Second District, which Mr. LoBiondo held for more than 20 years, Jeff Van Drew, a state senator, has quickly attracted the endorsements of major statewide political players, including George E. Norcross, a powerful South Jersey power broker.Besides a national mobilization to win Democratic seats in New Jersey, candidates are also benefiting from Mr. Murphys determination to strengthen his partys dominance in the state. He appointed the former finance director of his campaign, Liz Gilbert, to be the state Democratic Partys executive director and he has directed the state party to invest more heavily in this years elections than it customarily would.He didnt want that to end in November when he won election, Ms. Gilbert said of Mr. Murphys desire to keep his political machine cranking. He wanted it to be part of his governing as well.At the fund-raiser for Mr. Kim, the optimism that the states suburbs were tilting in the Democrats favor was palpable.In Toms River, where its totally Republican all the time, Democrats just picked up three council seats, said Barbara Ann Reilly, the president of the Brick Democratic Club, referring to elections last year. I even had a group of Republicans that came to my fund-raiser and sponsored a table.

WASHINGTON   The emir of Qatar (KUH\'-tur) will be meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House next week.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani will be meeting with Trump on April 10.She says Trump looks forward to discussing ways to strengthen ties between the two countries and "advance our common security and economic priorities."Qatar has been under siege since early June, when the UAE, Saudi Arabia, and its other neighbors severed ties over claims the small, gas-rich monarchy was funding terrorism, disrupting Gulf unity and fomenting opposition across the region.  Qatar has denied the charges.A top fundraiser for Trump also filed a lawsuit last month against Qatar and lobbyists working for the state, alleging they hacked his and his wife\'s emails as part of the ongoing dispute.
ANKARA   Turkish Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci has sent a letter to U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross seeking an exemption from new U.S. import tariffs on steel and aluminium, a Turkish official said.Last month, U.S. President Donald Trump imposed import tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent for aluminium. An adviser to President Tayyip Erdogan said at the time that Turkey could respond with its own measures.(Reporting by Nevzat Devranoglu; Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by David Dolan)
WASHINGTON   When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn\'t on the line.When Trump tapped John Bolton to be his next national security adviser, Kelly wasn\'t in the room.And when Trump spent a Mar-a-Lago weekend stewing over immigration and trade, Kelly wasn\'t in sight.Kelly, once empowered to bring order to a turbulent West Wing, has receded from view, his clout diminished, his word less trusted by staff and his guidance less tolerated by an increasingly go-it-alone president.Emboldened in his job, Trump has rebelled against Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely. It\'s all leading White House staffers and Trump allies to believe that Kelly is working on borrowed time.In recent weeks, Trump has governed at breakneck pace, ousting aides and issuing surprise policy announcements on Twitter, recreating the helter-skelter feel of his first months in office. Kelly\'s allies maintain that his retreat is strategic. They suggest that the belief that Kelly was Trump\'s savior was an overstated idea all along and that the chief of staff is now content to loosen the reins and allow an increasingly comfortable president to govern from his gut.But those close to the president say that Trump has increasingly expressed fatigue at Kelly\'s attempts to shackle him and that while Trump is not ready to fire Kelly, he has begun gradually freezing out his top aide.Trump recently told one confidant that he was "tired of being told no" by Kelly and has instead chosen to simply not tell Kelly things at all, according to a person who was not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity.In Trump\'s West Wing, once the rumors begin that an aide\'s exit is forthcoming, the "stink" on that staffer never leaves, according to one of the nearly dozen White House aides, former administration officials and outside advisers who spoke to The Associated Press under the same conditions.As Kelly\'s public profile and behind-the-scenes influence has faded, speculation has risen that chaos could return."It\'s not tenable for Kelly to remain in this position so weakened," said Chris Whipple, author of "Gatekeepers," a history of modern White House chiefs of staff. "More than any of his predecessors, Donald Trump needs an empowered chief of staff to tell him what he does not want to hear. Trump wants to run the White House like the 26th floor of Trump Tower, and it\'s simply not going to work."Kelly was once a fixture at the president\'s side, but Trump has now cut him out of a number of important decisions.For months, Kelly made it a practice to listen in to many of the president\'s calls, particularly with world leaders. While he is still on the line for some of those conversations, Kelly was not part of the call Trump made to Putin last month from the White House residence during which Trump ignored advisers\' advice against congratulating the Russian president on his re-election.Although Kelly had agitated for the removal of outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster, he counseled Trump against hiring Bolton, a neo-conservative media commentator. Trump did it anyway, offering the job to Bolton in a one-on-one meeting in the Oval Office and telling his chief of staff about it later.As Trump spent the Easter weekend at his Florida resort and tweeted about his tariffs plan, Kelly was out of state, though the men did consult by phone. While Kelly has fumed about the ethics questions swirling around Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, Trump was at least initially more supportive of Pruitt, telling him, "We\'ve got your back."The president also has cast aside the constraints the retired four-star Marine general tried to place on Trump about whom he could see and speak to. Those restrictions led shunned advisers to try to undermine the chief of staff in the press and with Trump. For months, former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was barred from the White House, only to return when Kelly was overruled by Trump, according to four White House aides and outside advisers.Many in the West Wing believed that Kelly\'s attempts to curtail Trump\'s interactions with Lewandowski, as well as Trump allies such as David Bossie and Anthony Scaramucci, were always destined to fail and alienate the president, who has privately contemplated recreating the freewheeling nature of his campaign and Trump Tower office. Kelly also has clashed with Trump\'s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, who had his security clearance downgraded after a policy change written by the chief of staff.Some White House aides contend that Kelly has been intentionally giving Trump more leeway to be himself and that Kelly recognizes that\'s what Trump wants. But allies acknowledged Kelly\'s receding power and said he\'s trying to keep his head down and focus on policy, such as the plan to mobilize the National Guard along the U.S. border with Mexico.The White House declined to make Kelly available for an interview. In public, Trump praises his chief of staff, telling Marines in California last month that Kelly probably "likes what you do better than what he does, but he\'s doing a great job."The speculation surrounding Kelly echoes the treatment of his predecessor, Reince Priebus, who was the subject of months of questions about how long he would last on the job. Priebus eventually resigned under pressure.Kelly also no longer commands the same respect among some quarters of the staff. His role came under harsh scrutiny this year over his handling of the controversy surrounding ousted White House aide Rob Porter, who was accused of domestic abuse.Kelly\'s shifting version of events elicited frustration from former communications director Hope Hicks, who had been dating Porter, and dismayed a number of West Wing staffers. That episode frustrated Trump, who still remains agitated about an interview that Kelly gave to Fox News months ago in which he suggested that Trump had "evolved" in his thinking about the need for a wall on the Mexican border.Kelly, who took the job last July, had previously told confidants he hoped to be on the job for a year. One person familiar with his thinking said the chief of staff recently voiced doubt he would make it that far.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Jill Colvin contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey
AMMAN, Jordan   Germany\'s foreign minister says his government will exert "considerable efforts" to protect the Iran nuclear deal despite Berlin\'s misgivings about Iran\'s ballistic missiles program and its involvement in the Syria conflict.In a visit to Jordan, Heiko Maas called for a "firewall" between the nuclear deal and Iran\'s other activities.Under the deal, Iran agreed to curbs and inspections on its nuclear program in exchange for relief from international sanctions.President Donald Trump has set a mid-May deadline to reach agreement with European nations to toughen restrictions on Iran. The White House says Trump will withdraw from the deal if there\'s no agreement on new punishments.The head of Israel\'s Mossad intelligence agency said on Wednesday he is "100 percent certain" that Iran remains committed to developing a nuclear bomb.
WASHINGTON   White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Thursday said he expects the United States and China to work out their trade differences over time and that trade barriers likely "will come down on both sides.""There is a process here. There\'s going to be some back and forth, but there\'s also some negotiations," he said in an interview on Fox Business Network. "I think we are going to get a deal over a period of time."(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the effects of recent tariff increases on April 12, its chairman said on Thursday."In enforcing our trade laws, we should always take a targeted approach to address unfair practices while avoiding harm to U.S. workers and job creators," chairman Kevin Brady said in a statement.Brady said witnesses would discuss how their businesses would be impacted by the tariffs that were recently announced by President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, and possible retaliation by other countries.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Lisa Lambert)
(Reuters) - While people who voted for President Donald Trump are still largely supportive of his immigration policies, their approval has eroded somewhat since he took office, according to Reuters/Ipsos polling.As Trump plans to send troops to the U.S.-Mexico border, here are some key findings from an ongoing Reuters/Ipsos immigration poll:ALL ADULTS** 41 percent said in March they approve of Trump\'s immigration policies, down from 48 percent in February 2017.** 21 percent said they "strongly approve" of Trump\'s handling of U.S. immigration, down from 27 percent in February 2017.** 38 percent said they "strongly disapproved," up from 31 percent in February 2017.GRAPHIC: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IwCrd1TRUMP VOTERSWhile about nine in 10 Trump voters still approve of the president\'s immigration policies, they are somewhat less enthusiastic about his performance now on one of the key issues he campaigned on.** 85 percent approve of Trump\'s handling of immigration, down from 88 in February 2017.** 51 percent said they "strongly approve" of Trump\'s handling of immigration, down from 57 percent in February 2017.HISPANICSMost Hispanics disapprove of the president and his immigration policies. Their disapproval has risen since he took office.** Overall, 27 percent of Hispanics said in March they approve of Trump\'s handling of immigration, down from 38 percent who said so in February 2017.** 10 percent of Hispanic adults "strongly approve" of Trump\'s immigration policies, down from 19 percent who said so in February 2017.WOMEN** 38 percent of all women approve of Trump\'s handling of immigration, down from 44 percent in February 2017.** 85 percent of women who voted for Trump approve of his immigration stance, down from 89 percent in February last year.TRUMP\'S POPULARITYThe president\'s overall approval rating stood at a five-day rolling average of 39 percent as of April 2.(Reporting by Maria Caspani, Editing by Chris Kahn)
WASHINGTON   The United States is willing to negotiate with China on trade, but only if talks are serious, as previous attempts produced little progress, a senior U.S. official told Reuters late on Thursday as trade tensions between the two nations escalated.No formal negotiating sessions have been set, the official said. "There is ongoing communications with the Chinese on trade," said the official, who requested anonymity to discuss the Trump administration\'s trade strategy.The official said Republican President Donald Trump, who has already sought $50 billion in new tariffs on China, will insist on "verifiable, enforceable and measurable deliverables" from China in any trade negotiations.The comments came as Trump said late on Thursday he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade actions.In a statement, Trump said the U.S. Trade Representative had determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."The senior official said: Weve had a type of negotiation in different forums where China has made lots of different commitments that they havent followed through on."We dont want to go down that path. But the president has been clear, the administration has been clear, were not trying to start a trade war. Were simply trying to get fair and reciprocal treatments so were open to those conversations.The official said China had committed seven times to stopping forced technology transfers, a practice in which China  allegedly seeks to obtain U.S. intellectual property (IP) through joint venture requirements, something that China denies."This president is not going to tolerate hollow commitments or refusal to change bad practices. And if the way that we effectuate that is through negotiations, thats great," the official said.The Trump administration on Tuesday targeted 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s IP, sending world financial markets gyrating.China retaliated the next day with a list of duties on U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON   U.S. military policy toward fighting Islamic State militants in Syria remains the same following discussions with President Donald Trump this week, and the military has not been given a timeline for withdrawing troops, the Pentagon said on Thursday.Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting this week to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer to defeat Islamic State but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.Trump wants to ensure Islamic State militants are defeated but wants other countries in the region and the United Nations to step up and help provide stability in Syria, the official said.Trump had signaled his desire to get U.S. forces out of Syria in a speech last week, and officials said he had privately been pressing for an early withdrawal in talks with his national security aides."We\'ve always thought that as we reach finality against ISIS in Syria we\'re going to adjust the level of our presence there, so in that sense nothing actually has changed," Marine Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, told a Pentagon briefing.McKenzie said Trump has not given the U.S. military any timeline."... one of the things that we haven\'t been given is a timeline and that is actually very effective ... (The) president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," McKenzie said.The United States is conducting air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including special operations forces whose advice has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State, also known as ISIS.The Pentagon and State Department have said a longer-term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State\'s defeat is a lasting one.The militant group is widely expected to revert to guerrilla tactics once the last remnants of its once self-styled "caliphate" are captured by U.S.-backed forces.When asked whether the Pentagon would assist in stabilizing efforts, Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said: "Our mission is a military mission, but we will always support and provide the conditions necessary for our diplomats to be successful."(Reporting by Idrees Ali and David Alexander; Editing by Alistair Bell and James Dalgleish)
MEXICO CITY   Migrants in a caravan that drew criticism from U.S. President Donald Trump began packing up their meager possessions and boarding buses to Mexico City and the nearby city of Puebla on Thursday.The migrants had been camped out at a sports field in southern Oaxaca since the weekend. Trump had said they were marching toward the U.S. border, though that was never among the organizers\' plans.Trump wrote on his Twitter account Thursday that "the Caravan is largely broken up thanks to the strong immigration laws of Mexico and their willingness to use them so as not to cause a giant scene at our Border."On Thursday, one bus left the camp before dawn en route to the central city of Puebla, where organizers hope to hold a migrants\' rights symposium. Another left at midmorning carrying migrants to Mexico City, where some want to set up meetings with international organizations to talk about the plight of migrants fleeing violence and poverty.At its height last week, the caravan consisted of almost 1,500 people mostly from Central America. Many have been given temporary transit visas which they intend to use to request asylum in the United States.Others say they plan to ask for humanitarian visas to stay in Mexico.Mexican Interior Minister Alfonso Navarrete Prida said Thursday the government was granting the humanitarian visas "to guarantee humane treatment to those women who were pregnant or had small children."Navarrete Prida said the migrants had decided to disperse, not because of pressure from the U.S. or  Mexican government. "This wasn\'t the product of a tweet," he said."The decision to demobilize a caravan isn\'t in the hands of the government, it is up to the migrants themselves," he said. "Every time the different levels of government have tried to stop the caravans in past years, and they have happened for more than ten years, it has been met with resistance, it backfired," Navarrete Pride said. "It wouldn\'t have been possible to dissolve this year\'s caravan if it wasn\'t a decision by the migrants themselves."
PHOENIX   The Latest on President Donald Trump\'s order for the National Guard to deploy to the U.S.-Mexico border (all times local):5:15 p.m.Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds is prepared to send National Guard troops from the Midwest state to the U.S.-Mexico border if President Donald Trump\'s administration requests the help.Reynolds\' press secretary Brenna Smith confirmed the Republican governor\'s support Thursday.She says Reynonds "supports a safe, secure border and supports the rule of law."Smith adds the Iowa National Guard had not been asked to deploy as of Thursday evening.The remarks came after Trump said he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the border with Mexico to combat illegal immigration and drug smuggling.___5:05 p.m.A fifth-generation Arizona rancher who is an outspoken supporter of President Donald Trump\'s border wall is "absolutely elated" by the president\'s plans to deploy the National Guard at the border.Jim Chilton\'s 50,000-acre (20,200-hectare) ranch in Arivaca, Arizona stretches 14 miles (23 kilometers) along the border and is separated from Mexico by a four-strand barbed wire cattle fence.Chilton says he often sees people sneak from Mexico into the United States across his property but they usually get away because the closest Border Patrol station is 80 miles (129 kilometers) away.He says he saw none from 2006 to 2008 when former President George W. Bush sent National Guard members to the border.___4:05 p.m.Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson said his state is willing to send National Guard troops to assist President Donald Trump\'s plans to send up to 4,000 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border.Hutchinson said he spoke Thursday with Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about the border plans.Hutchinson told The Associated Press that Arkansas Guard members "who are experienced and who have done that before" could be sent.Hutchinson is a Republican and a former undersecretary of the Homeland Security Department.Hutchinson tweeted that the effort would "add to our nation\'s security at an important time."___3:55 p.m.New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez was among those on a call with other border governors and federal officials to discuss efforts to bolster border security.The Republican governor on Thursday reiterated her support for National Guard troops assisting the Border Patrol in New Mexico to combat illegal crossings and drug smuggling.Her spokesman Mike Lonergan says officials "cannot allow criminal activity to come across the border where it will only increase crime in New Mexico\'s communities."During the call, Martinez also talked about the need to keep law enforcement officers who are members of the National Guard on the job in New Mexico\'s cities and counties.It\'s unclear whether the troops would be mobilized from volunteers.Martinez\'s office says New Mexico officials with the federal government in coming weeks to determine how many troops might be deployed and their specific tasks.___3:50 p.m.Montana Gov. Steve Bullock says he\'ll never deploy National Guard troops "based simply on the whim of the President\'s morning Twitter habit."Bullock, a Democrat, said in a statement Thursday that the responsibility of sending Guard soldiers anywhere is one of the most difficult things he faces.Trump signed a memorandum on Wednesday that would allow the use of National Guard troops to help fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking on the U.S.-Mexico border.That morning, the president wrote in a tweet that the nation\'s border laws are weak and "we will be taking strong action today."Bullock administration officials say the request for troops would have to come directly from the governor of a border state, and Montana had received no such requests as of Thursday.___2:09 p.m.President Donald Trump has said that he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the US-Mexico border.Speaking on Air Force One Thursday, Trump gave his first estimate on guard levels.Asked about the cost, he said the administration was looking at it.Trump says he plans to keep the guard members there until a "large portion of the wall is built."Former President George W. Bush sent 6,400 National Guard members to the border between 2006 and 2008.They performed support duties aimed at freeing up federal agents to focus on border security. T___1:55 p.m.A U.S. official says the National Guard\'s arrival on the Mexican border would put more Border Patrol agents on the "front lines."Ronald Vitiello (vi-TEL-oh), U.S. Customs and Border Protection\'s acting deputy commissioner, tells Fox News that the guard would replace agents who are not doing "enforcement work."He wasn\'t more specific, but Border Patrol agents are often assigned to process arrests, manage short-term detention facilities and perform other administrative and support work.Vitiello says guard members will be in jobs that do not require law enforcement work, an apparent reference to being on patrol and making arrests.He cautions against immediate deployment. He said the Pentagon has work to do with state governments, and Customs and Border Protection needs to deliver a complete list of what it wants.___12:15 p.m.Oregon Gov. Kate Brown says she won\'t let National Guard troops from her state be stationed at the Mexican border if President Donald Trump requests them.Brown is a Democrat and in a Tweet Wednesday said she was "deeply troubled by Trump\'s plan to militarize our border."Trump this week said the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border had reached "a point of crisis" in his proclamation directing National Guard deployment to the southern border.Brown is a frequent Trump critic. She says Oregon hasn\'t been contacted by federal officials about border troop deployment.___11:55 a.m.California Gov. Jerry Brown\'s administration says it needs answers from President Trump\'s administration before deciding whether to commit National Guard troops to help protect the border with Mexico.That includes where money for the deployment would come from, how long it would last, and if there are clearly definable objectives.The Democratic governor\'s decision is a big unknown after other border state Republican governors welcomed the Guard\'s deployment.California has opposed most of Trump\'s policies and Trump\'s administration is suing over three state immigration laws.Brown\'s administration pointed Thursday to a California National Guard statement saying it\'s promptly reviewing the request, as it did similar federal requests for staffing in 2006 and 2010.The California National Guard already has 55 members helping fight drug trafficking on the southern border.___11:45 a.m.U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has said it\'s unclear how many National Guard troops will be deployed to the border with Mexico following President Donald Trump\'s proclamation ordering the deployment.She said Thursday that determination won\'t happen until specific missions are set at specific locations and U.S. officials discuss deployment with the governors of the four U.S. states that share the border with Mexico.Trump issued the proclamation Wednesday and said the deployment will fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.___11:00 a.m.U.S. officials say they have not determined yet whether National Guard troops sent to the border with Mexico to fight illegal immigration will be armed.Marine Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie told reporters at the Pentagon Thursday that it has not yet been determined how many, if any, of the National Guard troops participating in the border security operation will be armed.President Donald Trump on Wednesday said the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border had reached "a point of crisis" in his proclamation directing National Guard deployment to the border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has said she had been working with governors of the southwest border states to develop agreements on where and how many Guardsmen will be deployed.___10:45 a.m.National guard contingents in U.S. states that border Mexico say they are waiting for guidance from Washington to determine what they will do following President Donald Trump\'s proclamation directing deployment to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.The National Guard in Texas said in a statement Thursday said the deployment is in "very early planning stages."With troops in all states, the National Guard has been called on by past presidents and governors to help secure U.S. borders.The Texas Guard says it has "firsthand knowledge of the mission and operating area" that will allow it to move seamlessly into the new role.Governors of the border states of Arizona and New Mexico have welcomed deployment of the Guard along the southwest border as a matter of public safety.___9:00 a.m.Mexican senators and presidential candidates put aside differences to condemn U.S. President Donald Trump\'s decision to deploy National Guard troops to the border.The country\'s Senate passed a resolution Wednesday calling for the suspension of cooperation on illegal immigration and drug trafficking in retaliation for Trump\'s move.Presidential candidate Ricardo Anaya went further, saying Mexico should limit anti-terrorism cooperation until the National Guard is withdrawn. Anaya is the candidate of a left-right coalition in the country\'s July 1 presidential election.Ruling-party candidate Jose Antonio Meade said that "independently of our political differences, it is time for all the presidential candidates to unite in defense of the sovereignty and dignity of the nation ... to reject and repudiate thus kind of measure."The Mexican government said guard members "will not carry weapons or have immigration or customs duties."
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration signed off Thursday on selling more than $1.3 billion in artillery to Saudi Arabia, giving a vote of confidence to the Saudi military as young Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman concludes a marathon tour of the United States.Since Prince Mohammed arrived in the U.S. two weeks ago, the administration has green-lighted more than $2.3 billion in arms sales to the kingdom, including more than $1 billion in missiles while the crown prince was in Washington. The latest deal includes about 180 Paladin howitzer systems, artillery-firing vehicles on tracks. The vehicles look like a combination of a tank and a cannon, and launch 155mm shells.The Trump administration told Congress on Thursday that it plans to approve the sale, the State Department said, triggering a 30-day window in which lawmakers could act to try to stop it. Typically, the administration obtains informal approval for such deals from key lawmakers before making them public, indicating that Congress is unlikely to act to block the sale.The Defense Security Cooperation Agency, part of the U.S. military, said the sale would "contribute to the foreign policy and national security of the United States" by boosting the capabilities of a key U.S. partner that contributes to "political stability and economic progress in the Middle East." The agency said the artillery would help the Saudis modernize their military and improve their ability to cooperate with the U.S. military.Yet the sale comes amid continuing concerns in Congress and by humanitarian groups about alarming rates of civilian casualties inflicted by the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen. Even President Donald Trump has raised his concerns about that in the past, and for a while, the U.S. stopped selling certain munitions to the Saudis while demanding that they improve their targeting. The U.S. is not engaged in the Saudis\' bombing campaign in Yemen, but has supported the coalition with refueling, targeting information and other logistics.The Trump administration and the United States more broadly have laid out the red carpet for Prince Mohammed, the 32-year-old heir to the throne, who is on an ambitious mission to modernize Saudi Arabia and improve its image in the West. After stops in Washington, New York and Boston, the crown prince has spent this week on the West Coast meeting with prominent business and entertainment leaders. He plans a final stop in the energy hub of Houston on Saturday before returning to Saudi Arabia.During Trump\'s visit to Riyadh last year  the first stop on his inaugural foreign trip  the two nations announced that the U.S. would sell $110 billion in military equipment to Saudi Arabia. They said the deal could grow to $350 billion over a decade and include tanks, combat ships, missile defense systems, radar and communications, and cybersecurity technology. Tens of thousands of U.S. jobs could be created, the State Department said at the time.But no details were announced then, owing in part to the fact that the individual sales require approval from Congress that Trump by himself could not guarantee. Officials said the $1.3 billion in artillery and $1 billion in missiles announced during Prince Mohammed\'s visit are both part of that broader package.___AP National Security Writer Robert Burns contributed to this report.___
NEW YORK   JPMorgan Chase & Co Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon complimented the administration of President Donald Trump in an annual letter to shareholders on Thursday, saying tax cuts and deregulatory efforts were helping his bank make more money.Dimon, who runs the biggest U.S. bank, drew a contrast between Trump\'s moves and those of other elected officials who he said had not struck the right balance for the economy between regulation and free commerce.He praised the Trump administration for insisting that "rules around cost-benefit analysis be properly applied" and for trying to give regulators "the proper authority to use common sense."Using nearly half of the 46-page letter to promote his views on public policies, Dimon played to his roles as the public face of Wall Street and the chairman of the Business Roundtable, a CEO lobbying group.Dimon said new federal tax law and "a more constructive regulatory environment" adopted since the 2016 presidential election give him hope that JPMorgan will be able to invest more of its excess capital to grow the bank and expand into new markets.He emphasized JPMorgan\'s ability in the new climate to earn a return on tangible equity of 17 percent, two points higher than the target before corporate tax cuts were enacted and nearly four points greater than the company delivered in 2017.Offering bank investors a view of the company stock, Dimon contended that it still made financial sense for JPMorgan to buy back shares "even at or above two times tangible book value" per share, which was $53.56 at year-end. JPMorgan shares closed at $110.99 on Wednesday.To show that government regulation needs to be "smart," Dimon included a reprint of a 1992 newspaper essay by the late liberal U.S. senator and Democratic Party presidential candidate George McGovern, who recounted how he had learned late in life that regulations could crush businesses.Dimon, 62, has said in the past that he was a Democrat, but in recent years he has avoided siding with a political party. He  said in the letter that partisanship causes bad public policy.He called for "improved merit-based immigration," particularly for those who get an advanced degree in the United States. "We need skilled individuals in America," he wrote.He also said the U.S. should revisit the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, which Trump has rejected.Interviewed later on Thursday morning on Yahoo Finance, Dimon said he and other CEOs had talked to Trump about trade policy a month ago."Obviously, we weren\'t very effective," Dimon said. ""We told him what we thought and it wasn\'t what he thought at the time."Asked how Trump was doing as president, Dimon said he chose to address specific policy actions: "I am not going to assess a president after a year."(Reporting by David Henry in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
MOSCOW   The foreign ministers of Russia and China jointly denounced what they described Thursday as the unilateralism of the United States, criticism that underlined their growing rapport on global issues.Speaking in Moscow after talks with his Russian counterpart, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi strongly criticized Washington\'s move to hike tariffs on Chinese products."If the U.S. thinks that it can get advantages through protectionism, its calculus is wrong," Wang warned.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, when asked about Russia\'s view of the U.S.-Chinese trade conflict, said the U.S. action reflects the Trump administration\'s unilateralist approach to international concerns.He cited as examples the U.S. push to renegotiate a nuclear deal with Iran and the terms of an international climate agreement."It has nothing to do with diplomacy. It\'s an attempt to enforce its own interests while completely ignoring the interests of others," Lavrov said.Russia\'s recently reinvigorated support for China reflects its disappointment with Washington after the Kremlin hoped for improved relations under President Donald Trump.Trump has approved higher duties on Chinese telecoms, aerospace and other technology goods, but left time to negotiate by announcing a comment period through May 11.Chinese regulators made a $50 billion list of items on which the country could increase tariffs to retaliate, including soybeans and small aircraft.Wang warned that Washington\'s move would hurt the global economy and international trade, denouncing it as "typical unilateralism and an undisguised attempt at hegemony.""The international community must jointly oppose such unilateralism and violation of rules," he said.Wang\'s trip to Russia follows a Moscow visit earlier this week by new Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe, who said it was a signal to the U.S. of increasingly close Russia-China military ties.As part of their burgeoning military cooperation, Moscow and Beijing have conducted joint drills, including exercises in the South China Sea and joint navy maneuvers in the Baltics.Moscow\'s hopes for warmed Russia-U.S. ties under Trump have withered amid the investigations of alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and myriad other disputes, most recently the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain."We in Russia stand for direct dialogue to solve any outstanding issues," Lavrov said. "We never dodge negotiations. It\'s our American partners who do."He pointed to the last-minute cancellation of a meeting of Russian and American cybersecurity experts and Washington\'s refusal to hold a meeting on cultural issues."Unilateralism is always bad and particularly so when it becomes the main foreign policy tool," Lavrov said. "China and Russia have repeatedly shown their readiness to search for reasonable compromises based on taking interests of all interested parties into account."Moscow and Beijing have forged what they describe as a "strategic partnership," expressing their shared opposition to the "unipolar" world  the term they use to describe the United States\' perceived global domination.Russian President Vladimir Putin has developed warm personal ties with Chinese President Xi Jinping, and the two leaders regularly exchange visits. Putin is set to go to China in June for a meeting of the security grouping dominated by Moscow and Beijing.While greeting Wang on Thursday, Putin hailed the Chinese legislature\'s unanimous decision last month to reappoint Xi as president with no limit on the number of terms he can serve. Wang conveyed Xi\'s congratulations on Putin\'s re-election, also last month."I would like to express hope that after the Russian presidential election and important political events in the People\'s Republic of China, we will continue our course aimed at further strengthening bilateral ties," Putin said.
WASHINGTON   Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump\'s campaign played any role in providing it, three sources familiar with the inquiries said.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had deleted 70 Facebook accounts, 138 Facebook pages and 65 Instagram accounts that it said were "controlled" by the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a Russian propaganda arm based in St. Petersburg.Last September, Facebook disclosed that it had suspended about 470 "inauthentic accounts" that it believed were "likely operated out of Russia" and had purchased 3,000 ads which "appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages."And on Wednesday, the social media platform said the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify on April 10 and 11 to Congress.In an indictment in February, Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating possible Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, charged IRA and 13 Russians with conspiring to interfere in U.S. politics and elections. Moscow denies tampering in U.S. elections and President Trump denies any coordination between his campaign and Russian officials.Among the issues investigators on the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee and Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee are digging into are whether IRA and other Russian organizations used any Facebook data, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Also, whether the use of such data had any impact on the U.S. election, and how much Facebook data may have been acquired by Russian entities, the sources said.Zuckerberg last month disclosed that in 2013, Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, who ran a company called Global Science Research (GSR), created a personality quiz app that was installed by about 300,000 Facebook users.Zuckerberg said that because of the way the Facebook platform worked at the time, this gave Kogan access to data of "tens of millions" of friends of users who took the quiz.On Wednesday, Mike Schroepfer, Facebook\'s Chief Technology Officer, acknowledged in a public posting that "the Facebook information of up to 87 million people - mostly in the US - may have been improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg said Facebook learned in 2015 that Kogan shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. The London-based consulting firm received millions of dollars from the Trump campaign and a political action committee supported by financier Robert Mercer, who supported Trump. Zuckerberg said Kogan "misused" Facebook\'s data.Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Wednesday that it "did not use any" data it acquired from Kogan\'s company in work related to the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. The firm added that it took legal action against GSR, and that it "immediately deleted the raw data" from its server when it learned from Facebook that the data had been "improperly obtained."Representative Adam Schiff, the House intelligence committee\'s top Democrat, sent Kogan a letter requesting correspondence and message traffic on his dealings with Cambridge Analytica and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, any material related to Russia, and that Kogan agree to an interview.Kogan said in an email to Reuters that he knows nothing about Facebook data being obtained by Russia and had never heard of the Internet Research Agency "until a few weeks ago."(Reporting By Mark Hosenball; editing by John Walcott and Grant McCool)
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   Impoverished Central American migrants travelling in a "caravan" through Mexico that angered U.S. President Donald Trump said they would stick together for safety even though the group will end its journey in Mexico City rather than at the U.S. border.Since peaking at around 1,500 people, the caravan has dwindled under pressure from Trump and Mexican migration authorities, which vowed to separate those migrants with a right to stay in Mexico from those who did not.By issuing permits to the migrants, authorities shielded them from imminent deportation from Mexico.By Thursday morning, migrants were boarding buses to leave the town of Matias Romero in the southern state of Oaxaca, where their journey was held up by authorities at the weekend.Salvadoran Andres Rodriguez, 51, waited with a small backpack and a gallon of water in a field sprawling with men, women and children, mulling over a document that gave him 20 days to reach any border out of the country.Despite knowing the permit protected him, and that travelling alone would be faster, he feared if he left the caravan he would be exposed to the robbery and assault that befall many migrants on the long slog to the U.S. border."It\'s much safer," he said. "Everyone is supporting us. One person alone is much more vulnerable. Much more dangerous."Rodriguez, a builder, said he fled his home in El Salvador in the middle of the night with only the clothes on his back, a few dollars, a nephew, and his son, a student who had received a written death threat from a gang he had refused to join or pay."To be young, in my country, is a crime," Rodriguez said. "I\'m old - they\'ll do nothing to me. But to my son, if we go back ... they\'ll kill him."Plagued by gang violence and poverty, El Salvador and neighbouring Honduras have murder rates that are among the world\'s highest.Trump\'s tweets criticizing the caravan have showered it in far more publicity than its organizers, U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, ever expected. But his proposal to militarize the border has sparked a diplomatic row with Mexico.Mexico\'s President Enrique Pena Nieto rebuked Trump on Thursday over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, urging Trump not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico. [L2N1RI1PN]Stranded in Matias Romero since Sunday, a handful of women and children boarded a bus before dawn on Thursday, headed for the central city of Puebla, where the caravan was due to make another stop before concluding its journey in Mexico City.By mid-morning, others packed bags in a field strewn with discarded clothes and trash as two more buses waited, but only for those who could afford a ticket.The caravan, which set off from Mexico\'s southern border on March 25, aims to raise awareness about the plight of migrants, and has been running annually since 2010, the government said.Once in Puebla, organizers plan to hold a three-day conference with U.S. and Mexican immigration attorneys.On a street just outside the park, 30-year-old Guatemalan Manuel Flores brandished a temporary Mexican visa, but said he would stay with the caravan regardless."I don\'t even need to be here, but I\'m staying for them - for my family. Because they need this. They can\'t go home," he said, pointing to a group of seven new friends from Honduras and El Salvador, with whom he had cooked a great vat of seafood soup.Bonded by the travails of their odyssey, they were already discussing setting up a restaurant together in Texas.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Editing by Dave Graham,  Rosalba O\'Brien, Toni Reinhold)
BOGOTA, Colombia   Texas Republican congressman Pete Sessions quietly visited Venezuela this week and met with President Nicolas Maduro at the invitation of the socialist government in a peacebuilding mission that has raised some eyebrows in Washington.It's not clear what prompted the previously undisclosed visit by the Dallas congressman to the politically turbulent South American nation.Caroline Booth, a spokeswoman for the congressman, said it was related to work Sessions has done over the past year as an intermediary to resolve issues in Venezuela, but she declined to elaborate. She added that as chairman of the powerful House Rules Committee he routinely works to ensure countries adhere to international standards and the rule of law.The two-day trip came as Maduro's government is making a full-court press to prevent the Trump administration from imposing crippling oil sanctions on the OPEC nation for what the United States considers Maduro's flaunting of human rights and democratic norms.A U.S. official said the private trip was not taxpayer funded and that Sessions had received a letter of invitation from the Venezuelan government and met with Maduro. He said State Department officials played no role in organizing the trip, which ended Tuesday and added that they were not invited to sit in on Sessions' meetings as they were by Sen. Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat, who arrived in Caracas on Wednesday for his own meetings with Maduro and government officials.The U.S. official agreed to give details on Sessions' trip only on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss it publicly.Durbin is in Venezuela to push for the release of a Utah man, Joshua Holt, who has been jailed in Caracas for nearly two years on what the U.S. considers trumped-up weapons charges. The senator also planned to deliver a stern message to Maduro that he must guarantee upcoming the presidential election will be free and transparent.Sessions doesn't have other obvious links to Venezuela, besides writing a letter in 2004 to the country's banking regulators in support of financier Allen Stanford, a former Sessions donor who in 2012 was convicted in Texas and sentenced to 110 years in prison for running a $7 billion-plus Ponzi scheme.He also voted in favor of a bipartisan House bill last year directing the Trump administration to secure international support for a humanitarian package for Venezuela and to work with regional governments to ensure protection for human rights and transparent elections in the country.Sessions has been in Congress since 1997, representing a wealthy Dallas district that is home to Exxon and other oil companies that were once major players in Venezuela's oil industry but have since ended or dramatically reduced their investments in the country as oil production has collapsed and the bankrupt Maduro government falls behind on payments.Texas is also home to Citgo, a wholly owned subsidiary of Venezuela's state oil company. Last year, several of the company's executives, including five who hold U.S. passports, were arrested by Venezuelan authorities in a corruption investigation that critics say is politically motivated.Sessions, whose father is former FBI Director William Sessions, hasn't faced a serious challenge for re-election in more than a decade and didn't even have a Democratic opponent in 2016. But his district narrowly supported Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, prompting speculation that it could flip this cycle.___Associated Press writer Will Weissert in Austin, Texas, contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   The U.S. trade deficit rose for the sixth straight month in February, reaching the highest level since October 2008 and defying President Donald Trump's efforts to rebalance America's lopsided trade with the rest of the world.The Commerce Department said Thursday that the trade gap  the difference between what America sells and what it buys in foreign markets  widened to $57.6 billion in February from $56.7 billion in January. Exports of goods and services hit a record $204.4 billion; imports set a record $262 billion.The news comes amid a U.S. trade dispute with China that has rattled global financial markets and raised fears among U.S. farmers and businesses that depend on access to the Chinese market. The trade deficit in goods with China narrowed in February to $29.3 billion from $36 billion in January.The United States ran a $77 billion deficit in the trade of goods in February, the highest level since July 2008. That was partially offset by a $19.4 billion surplus in services such as education and banking, lowest since December 2012. The services surplus was dragged down $1 billion in payments for broadcast rights for the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, which count as a services import.Exports of cars and auto parts posted big increases in February as did imports of pharmaceuticals, crude oil and civilian aircraft.Trump campaigned on a pledge to take aggressive action to reduce America's massive trade deficits. In March, he slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum but exempted most major countries except China and Japan. China counterpunched this week with tariffs on $3 billion in U.S. products.On Tuesday, the U.S. proposed slapping tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports, and Beijing responded within hours with plans to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft. The two countries have signaled that they will seek to settle their differences before the tariffs take effect.The president views trade deficits as a sign of economic weakness and as the result of bad trade agreements and unfair practices by America's trading partners. Most economists say they are caused by bigger economic forces, mainly the fact that the United States consistently spends more than it produces.The trade gap has continued to rise since Trump entered the White House partly because the U.S. economy is strong and American consumers have an appetite for imported products and the confidence and financial wherewithal to buy them.____
SEOUL, South Korea   The rival Koreas held preparatory talks Thursday for a summit later this month between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in amid a global diplomatic push to resolve tensions over the North's nuclear program.The meeting of working-level officials at the border village of Panmunjom was to discuss security, protocol and media coverage issues for the planned April 27 summit. South Korea's presidential Blue House said the two sides agreed not to disclose the contents of the discussions until a final agreement is reached.The Koreas agreed on the date for the summit after a high-level meeting last week. South Korean officials have said the summit will focus on North Korea's nuclear disarmament, although the North hasn't confirmed this through its state-run media.A separate summit between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump is anticipated by the end of May.The two Koreas agreed Thursday to hold another preparatory meeting to work out the details of the April 27 summit, which is to take place in the South Korea-controlled side of the border village, Panmunjom. The Koreas will need to agree on how Kim will arrive at the venue, and there has been media speculation that he would cross the military demarcation line that bisects the Koreas by foot in a symbolic gesture. The Koreas also need to determine how many times he and Moon would meet that day and whether parts of the meetings would be broadcast on live television.The Koreas have held only two summits since the 1950-53 Korean War.Kim made a surprise visit to Beijing last month and met President Xi Jinping, which appeared to be aimed at improving both countries' positions ahead of Kim's planned summits with Moon and Trump.In setting up separate talks with Beijing, Seoul, Washington, and potentially Moscow and Tokyo, North Korea may be moving to disrupt any united front among its negotiating counterparts. By reintroducing China, which is North Korea's only major ally, as a major player, the North also gains leverage against South Korea and the United States, analysts say.The North's diplomatic outreach comes after an unusually provocative year in which it conducted its most powerful nuclear test to date and test-launched three intercontinental ballistic missiles designed to target the U.S. mainland. It's widely seen as an effort by the North, squeezed by heavy sanctions, to break out of isolation and improve its economy.South Korea says Kim has expressed a willingness to negotiate nuclear disarmament in his talks with Moon and Trump.Some analysts say getting the North to commit to denuclearization and agree to a robust verification regime could be a difficult process and take many years. North Korea has been repeatedly accused over the past two decades of using disarmament talks to ease outside pressure and win badly needed aid, while secretly pushing ahead with weapons development.
ANKARA   Turkey, Iran and Russia pledged on Wednesday to accelerate efforts to bring stability to Syria, underlining their joint commitment to the country a day after President Donald Trump raised the prospect of withdrawing U.S. troops.A statement by the three countries after a summit meeting of their leaders in the Turkish capital Ankara said they were determined to "speed up their efforts to ensure calm on the ground" in Syria.While their decision to work together has done little to reduce violence, in part because of their own military interventions on opposing sides, it underlined their central role just as questions grow over Washington\'s presence in Syria.A senior U.S. official said Trump wanted U.S. forces out of Syria relatively soon. "We\'re not going to immediately withdraw but neither is the president willing to back a long-term commitment," the official said.Around 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in northern Syria on a mission to battle the remnants of an Islamic State force that once controlled the area. Trump had said on Tuesday it was time to pull them out.Iran\'s President Hassan Rouhani said developments in Syria, where the Syrian army and its allies have driven back rebels in recent years, showed that the United States had "failed to topple the Syrian government" of President Bashar al-Assad."They wanted to fuel insecurity in order to maintain their own interests but they have gained no success," he told a news conference after talks with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin. He added, however, that he believed U.S. forces would stay in Syria.RIFTS CONTINUEIran and Russia have both strongly supported the Syrian president, while Turkey backed anti-Assad rebels. Those differences have continued on the ground despite their political cooperation aimed at winding down some of the violence.Turkey has waged a military campaign to drive Kurdish YPG fighters from northwestern Syria\'s Afrin district, while Russian air power and Iran-backed militias have supported Syrian army offensives in the Idlib and Ghouta regions.Iran\'s state television quoted Rouhani as telling Erdogan and Putin that Afrin should be handed over to Syria\'s army."The developments in Afrin can only be useful if they do not violate Syria\'s territorial integrity, and control of these areas should be handed over to the Syrian army," Rouhani said.Erdogan has said the Turkish army will extend its military operation after Afrin to the town of Tel Rifaat and then further east along Syria\'s border with Turkey - a prospect which has angered Tehran."Whatever the intentions are, Turkey\'s moves in Syria, whether in Afrin, Tel Rifaat or any other part of Syria, should be halted as soon as possible," a senior Iranian official told Reuters before Wednesday\'s talks.Seated alongside Putin and Rouhani, Erdogan focussed on areas of common ground, saying that Turkey wanted to build a mobile hospital to help treat civilians coming from formerly rebel-controlled parts of eastern Ghouta, on the edge of Damascus, which the Syrian army has taken over.Rebel fighters and civilians who were evacuated from eastern Ghouta have been taken to the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib, which borders Turkey.Erdogan proposed providing a bakery to help feed refugees and build housing on both sides of the border."We can save these people from tents and container cities by building housing. We can, all together, make that zone safe," Erdogan said.(Additional reporting by Denis Pinchuk, Ece Toksabay and Tuvan Gumrukcu; Writing by Dominic Evans; Editing by Catherine Evans and Richard Balmforth)
WASHINGTON   Democrats and Republicans each want to wield the stalemate between President Donald Trump and Congress over immigration as a weapon in November\'s congressional elections.Fanned by tweets from President Donald Trump about a crisis on the Mexican border that others reject as manufactured, each party is using immigration to fire up voters in House races across the country. Democrats think it can help them reach minorities, young people and suburban moderates repelled by Trump\'s strident anti-immigrant stances, while Republicans are using promises to crack down on immigration to energize their conservative political base.Democrats are using the issue to emphasize inclusivity and are targeting border regions, suburbs and areas with immigrant populations. Republicans plan to make immigration a law-and-order issue that appeals to conservatives throughout the U.S.The debate is likely to roil races in California, Texas, Florida, Arizona, perhaps New Mexico and Virginia\'s Washington, D.C., suburbs. One diverse Southern California House district centered on the sprawl of Orange County has already become a testing ground for each party\'s strategy.The retirement of 13-term Republican Rep. Ed Royce makes the seat a prime target for Democrats seeking a 23-seat pickup in November, enough to grab House control.Seventeen GOP, Democratic and independent candidates are vying in a multiparty June 5 primary, a group that includes a Republican who has worked to scuttle pro-immigrant sanctuary city laws. It also features a Democrat who fled Vietnam as a child and whose campaign website praises "the open arms of a country" that offered "my shot at the American Dream."Trump has tweeted this week about "ridiculous" laws making it hard to send arrivals from Mexico "back where they came from." On Wednesday, he signed a proclamation directing National Guard troops to secure the U.S.-Mexico border.Democrats think Trump\'s harsh stance will send liberal, minority and moderate voters their way. Although the economy and health care register higher as voter concerns, Democrats see advantages from touting Congress\' attempt to shield young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.That effort collapsed in February after Trump rejected $25 billion to build his treasured border wall with Mexico in exchange for offering possible citizenship for Dreamers who were brought illegally to the U.S. as children and who have been temporarily protected by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program."Immigration is one of those cultural touchstone issues" that shows Democrats are ready to "stand up to Trump," said Mike Lux, a liberal Democratic consultant.Democrats say GOP incumbents vulnerable to attacks over immigration include Reps. Carlos Curbelo of South Florida, David Valadao of California\'s Central Valley and Will Hurd of West Texas. Their districts are around 70 percent Hispanic.While the U.S. population is around 18 percent Hispanic, 62 congressional districts had at least double that mark in 2016, the most recent breakdown available, according to the nonpartisan Pew Research Center. Underscoring how Hispanics tend to vote Democratic, just 13 of those districts are represented by Republicans, three of whom are retiring: Florida\'s Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, New Mexico\'s Steve Pearce and Texas\' Blake Farenthold.The GOP position on the issue isn\'t monolithic.Over two dozen Republican moderates are co-sponsoring a bipartisan bill by Hurd and others to protect "Dreamers" and strengthen border security. Over 40 are backing an attempt by Rep. Jeff Denham, R-Calif., to prod House leaders to permit votes on several immigration measures. Both efforts seem like longshots but let backers underscore their willingness to compromise.Other Republicans envision sharply conservative campaigns raising the specter of sanctuary cities, where local authorities limit cooperation with federal immigration officials, and casting such policies as enabling immigrants in the U.S. illegally to commit crimes and grab jobs. That could help with conservatives nationwide, including places like Arizona and northern and central Florida, they say.Many voters view Democrats "as the party of protecting illegals over citizens," said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Congressional Leadership Fund, a political committee aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. "This issue works across the country."Bliss\' group ran TV ads attacking Democrat Conor Lamb on immigration in the waning weeks of last month\'s special election in an open, overwhelmingly white House district in western Pennsylvania that heavily backed Trump in 2016.The spots said Lamb favors "amnesty to millions of immigrants" and as an Obama administration official encouraged sanctuary cities, "which put illegal immigrants who commit crimes back on the street."Lamb won narrowly. But such arguments could help Republicans energize conservatives concerned about "the proliferation of non-English speaking people in this culture, a sense that we\'re losing what America used to be," said GOP strategist Whit Ayers.In California, Shawn Nelson is among several GOP contenders running in the Orange County contest. A member of the county board of supervisors, Nelson helped push that body to join a federal lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of California\'s sanctuary law."Even if you\'re not seeing illegals crossing the border into your state, they\'re potentially stealing your jobs, they\'re potentially making you less safe," John Thomas, Nelson\'s chief strategist, said of the issue\'s appeal.One of Nelson\'s Democratic opponents is Mai Khanh Tran, a pediatrician who was evacuated to the U.S. from Vietnam in 1975.Tran policy adviser Jack Hipkins says her message that America is "supposed to be open and inclusive and diverse" could attract Republicans displeased with the party\'s harsh tone. The district is roughly evenly divided among whites, Hispanics and Asians.The top two finishers in the primary will meet in the Nov. 6 election.
TOKYO   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un told Chinese President Xi Jinping during talks in Beijing last week that he agreed to return to six-party talks on his nation's nuclear program and missile tests, the Nikkei newspaper said on Thursday.Months of chill between Beijing and Pyongyang appeared to suddenly vanish during Kim's secretive visit, with China saying that Kim had pledged his commitment to denuclearization.Quoting multiple sources connected to China and North Korea, the Nikkei said that, according to documents issued after Kim and Xi met, Kim told Xi that he agreed to resuming the six-party talks, which were last held in 2009.North Korea declared the on-again, off-again talks dead at the time, blaming U.S. aggression. The talks grouped the two Koreas, the United States, Russia, Japan and host China.The sources said it was also possible that Kim could convey his willingness to resume the talks to U.S. President Donald Trump at a summit set to take place in May, but that it was far from clear if that meant the talks would actually resume.Chinese officials were not immediately able to comment.China has traditionally been secretive North Korea's closest ally, though ties have been frayed by Kim's pursuit of nuclear weapons and missiles and Beijing's backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.North Korea has said in previous talks that it could consider giving up its nuclear arsenal if the United States removed its troops from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan.Some analysts have said Trump's willingness to meet Kim handed North Korea a diplomatic win, as the United States had insisted for years that any such summit be preceded by North Korean steps to denuclearize.(Reporting by Elaine Lies; Editing by Nick Macfie)
ST. PAUL, Minn.   The Latest on former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty's announcement that he's running for his old job again (all times local):3:50 p.m.Democrats and Republicans alike are sounding off about former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty's decision to run for his old job.Pawlenty officially entered the race Thursday after months of speculation. His name recognition and fundraising prowess makes him a top contender in a crowded Republican field to replace Democratic Gov. Mark Dayton.Minnesota's Democratic Party chair Ken Martin says Pawlenty left the state's budget in shambles after his first stint as governor. Dayton entered office with a $6.2 billion budget deficit.Fellow GOP candidate Jeff Johnson says Pawlenty's recent stint as a lobbyist for the nation's largest banks and disavowal of President Donald Trump before the 2016 election makes him a poor candidate.Big spending outside groups from both parties have signaled they'll focus on the race.___3 p.m.Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty is running for his old job.The two-term governor announced Thursday he's entering the 2018 race after months of speculation and taking concrete steps toward a run. He's immediately a top competitor in a crowded Republican field that has struggled with fundraising.Pawlenty brings widespread recognition in Minnesota and unparalleled fundraising ability in the race to replace outgoing Democratic Gov. Mark Dayton. But his five years lobbying in Washington for the nation's biggest banks also brings political risk.It's a shot at a return to politics for Pawlenty, who left office in 2011 and ran a short-lived 2012 presidential campaign. He declined calls to run for the U.S. Senate earlier this year.
Dr. Ellen Stofan, the former chief scientist at NASA, will become the first woman to lead the National Air and Space Museum, the Smithsonian Institution announced on Thursday.At NASA, Dr. Stofan, who has a background in geology, was a top adviser to Charles F. Bolden Jr., then the administrator for the department, where she helped lead in the development of a long-term plan to get humans to Mars.Ellens scientific background, leadership skills, communication acumen and strategic thinking have positioned her superbly to lead the National Air and Space Museum, David Skorton, the director of the Smithsonian Institution, said in a statement. Her passion for science coupled with her love of education will ensure that the museum will continue to be a global treasure and world leader through its extensive programming, exhibitions and scholarship.Space has been a part of Dr. Stofans life for almost its entirety. Her father was a NASA rocket scientist and at the age of 4 she attended her first rocket launch at Cape Canaveral, an event that spurred her own career.It is an incredible honor to join the National Air and Space Museum family at this important point in the museums history, Dr. Stofan said. Space and aviation inspire our next generation of explorers, and there is no better place to experience this than at our museums on the Mall and at the Udvar-Hazy Center.Dr. Stofan joins the museum at a time when interest in space interest might be climbing. In the new budget recently passed by Congress and signed by President Donald J. Trump, NASA was a big winner, to the tune of a $1 billion increase. She will be overseeing an institution with more than 300 full time employees and a budget of $48 million, 70 percent of which comes from federal appropriations.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Dr. Evil made a surprise appearance on The Tonight Show on Wednesday to talk about  what else?  the Trump administration.Jimmy Fallon announced that hed just heard about a White House firing that wasnt yet reported in the news. Then in came Dr. Evil, the famous Austin Powers character played by Mike Myers, Fallons guest on that evenings show.Dr. Evil said he was more of an ideas guy, and he was the one who first thought to build a wall on the United States-Mexico border. Then he clarified, in typical Dr. Evil fashion: I wanted it to be a moat, filled with spiky blowfish.He took some backhanded swipes at Trumps immigration policy, and at Ben Carson, the secretary of housing.Dr. Evil ended the segment by declaring his own candidacy for president. He said hed be running under the campaign slogan Make the World Evil Again, and that his running mate would be the only man whos more hated right now than Donald Trump: Mark Zuckerberg.[ Looking for something great to stream on Netflix or Amazon Prime? Heres the best of whats new to streaming services this month. ]On Late Night, Seth Meyers delved into Trumps attacks on Amazon, his increasingly aggressive patrol policies on the southern border, and his habit of calling babies losers. But before all that, Meyers declared there was one Trump-related topic that he has no interest in.John Cena has an important message to deliver on a topic of great salience to the publics well-being.ASAP Rocky didnt just perform a couple of songs on The Tonight Show. He transformed the shows set, and made the performance feel almost like a full-on music video, replete with low-key special effects.Seth Rogen, who recently made his own headlines in the Stormy Daniels saga, will talk to Kimmel on Thursday.Heres whats coming up on TV Thursday. Read on for previews of the days episodes, and ideas for what to stream on the web.
BEIJING   The Latest on the escalating trade dispute between China and the United States (all times local):2:40 p.m.A spokeswoman for the agricultural department of Virginia says the state would suffer if China follows through on new tariffs for U.S. imports.Elaine Lidholm said Wednesday that China is the state's largest export market for agricultural goods, and farming is its biggest private industry. So new tariffs could jeopardize businesses dealing in Virginia soybeans, pork, apples and wine.China hasn't set a date for new tariffs it said it might impose on more than 100 American products in response to President Trump's plans for new tariffs on Chinese goods. It says the plan depends on when the U.S. imposes its tariffs. And there's still time for the countries to negotiate a deal.___2:00 p.m.China's threat to raise tariffs on U.S. goods could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft targeted for possible retaliation in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.Economist Lu Feng at Peking University's School of National Development says that should help minimize China's losses in the event President Donald Trump goes ahead with a planned tariff hike and Beijing responds.
ST. PAUL, Minn.   Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty announced Thursday he will run for his old job, ending months of speculation about a return to politics following his short-lived 2012 presidential campaign.The two-term Republican governor had been inching toward a run for months, quitting his Washington lobbying job and filing a campaign committee so he could begin fundraising. His entry blows up a crowded group of candidates that has struggled to raise money, and may entice spending by national conservative groups eager to win in a left-leaning state.Pawlenty joined the race via a 2-minute campaign video that featured the sweater-clad, salt-and-pepper-haired politician speaking to the camera in a living room. He made only one reference to his eight years as governor, instead going heavy on such conservative issues as expanding vocational schools, cracking down on ineligible enrollees in the state\'s public health care programs and cutting taxes on Social Security income.Pawlenty was treated as the presumptive GOP front runner by both parties well before Thursday. His shadow kept big-money donors on the sidelines for months, making it difficult for Republicans already in the race to build their campaigns. And Democrat-allied groups started to attack Pawlenty while he was still publicly flirting with a bid.The former governor spent the weeks leading up to his launch putting campaign pieces in place, including recruiting staff and filing a formal campaign committee in mid-March  a necessary step to begin fundraising in earnest. He also started an aggressive outreach campaign to Republican activists who will vote on the party\'s endorsement, testing messages that were deeply critical of his Democratic successor, Gov. Mark Dayton.The 71-year-old Dayton\'s decision not to seek a third term set off a wide-open race to replace him. Despite Minnesota\'s liberal history and talk of a wave election in 2018, Republicans see hope for breaking through two years after Donald Trump nearly beat Hillary Clinton in Minnesota.For Pawlenty, a return to his old perch would be political redemption. Marketing himself as a "Sam\'s Club" Republican, he flamed out early as a presidential hopeful in 2012, quitting after a third-place finish in the Iowa straw poll.Despite his unparalleled fundraising ability and name recognition, Pawlenty still faces a climb. His career since leaving office gives fodder to both Democrats and his GOP rivals.Pawlenty joined the Financial Services Roundtable in 2012, making more than $1 million a year while lobbying on behalf of the nation\'s largest banks until he left the job in mid-March.And Pawlenty is re-entering a Republican Party drastically different from his previous electoral wins  and, in the eyes of some Republican voters, with the possible baggage of being a once-vocal critic of Trump.  As Pawlenty made his run official, some Republican rivals tried to dismiss him, criticizing both his lobbying work and disavowal of Trump in the run-up to the 2016 election."He\'s the last person Republicans should want at the top of the ticket in 2018," said Hennepin County Commissioner Jeff Johnson, a top GOP candidate this year who lost the 2014 race to Dayton.Democrats started laying the groundwork for a campaign against Pawlenty months ago. They bashed his high-powered lobbying job and accused him of mishandling the state\'s finances while governor, saddling the Legislature with a $6 billion budget deficit when he left office."As governor, he deprived thousands of Minnesotans of affordable health care. He jeopardized our children\'s education. He devastated our budget, and left roads and bridges across the state to crumble," Democratic Party chairman Ken Martin said.While Pawlenty is the last Republican to win statewide office, that was 12 years ago. And he never got more than 47 percent of the vote, winning both of his elections with the help of third-party candidates seen as drawing off some of the Democratic vote.
BEIJING   China\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft for possible retaliation in a trade spat with Washington.That should help minimize China\'s losses if U.S. President Donald Trump goes ahead with a planned tariff hike and Beijing responds, said economist Lu Feng at Peking University\'s School of National Development."Compared with the U.S. list, which focuses on high-tech, China\'s list is more diversified," said Lu. "The impact to China\'s overall economy is under control."The two sides have not set a date for raising duties. Trump has approved higher duties on Chinese telecoms, aerospace and other technology goods but left time to negotiate by announcing a comment period through May 11. Beijing says its timing depends on what Trump does.Already, the threat of disruption has jolted the business world. Share prices of American exporters of aircraft, farm equipment and grain sagged Wednesday after Beijing announced its list of 106 products.Others picked for a possible 25 percent rise in Chinese import duty include beef, electric vehicles, industrial chemicals, orange juice and tobacco.Losers, including Chinese consumers who might face higher food prices, will likely outnumber winners."It definitely will affect my choices," said Wang Xiaoyu, a 20-year-old student in Beijing. "For daily necessities, mobile phones or electronics, I am more likely to choose domestic brands or choose products with the same price as U.S. products before the price hike."While importers that buy big volumes of American soybeans and other goods might struggle to fill the whole gap, those shortfalls could create business opportunities for rival suppliers."The obvious \'winners\' would be the other major suppliers of these products," said Adam Slater of Oxford Economics in an email.The biggest impact of higher Chinese duties would fall on American soybean farmers. China accounted for almost 60 percent of their exports and $12.4 billion in revenue for the year that ended on Aug. 31.Farmers in Brazil, Argentina or Australia might step up to supply Chinese buyers who use soybeans as animal feed and to produce cooking oil.A 25 percent price hike for American pork, whiskey and tobacco could make sources in Europe, Russia, Japan and elsewhere more attractive.It was unclear whether Beijing might try to make an exception for Chinese-owned U.S. exporters such as pork producer Smithfield Foods. WH Group, which bought Smithfield in 2013, opened a facility in the center Chinese city of Zhengzhou to produce its brands but uses meat imported from the United States.At the same time, American meat producers might save money if weaker Chinese demand depresses the price of soybeans they use to feed cows and pigs.Higher prices for American small aircraft and aviation technology also could give French and German competitors a chance to gain market share.U.S. aviation-related exports to China totaled $13.2 billion in 2016. That accounted for 58 percent of Chinese imports, giving potential rivals plenty of room to grow."We will continue in our own efforts to proactively engage both governments," said Boeing Co. in a statement. "A strong and vibrant aerospace industry is important to the economic prosperity and national security of both countries.Other potential winners include developing countries that might replace China as a supplier to American markets, according to William Jackson of Capital Economics.Mexico produces many of the goods targeted for U.S. tariffs on Chinese imports such as televisions and electrical circuits, he said in a report. South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand export semiconductors and other technology."To the extent that the tariffs do result in the U.S. importing from elsewhere, other emerging markets might stand to benefit," wrote Jackson.___AP Writer Sam McNeil and AP researcher Yu Bing contributed.
MADISON, Wis.   The blowout win by Rebecca Dallet makes Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court the nation\'s highest in percentage of women justices, the latest example of the strength of the liberal, female candidates in the year of the #MeToo movement.Dallet made advocating for women\'s rights a centerpiece of her winning campaign over a conservative, male opponent. She captured the endorsement of Planned Parenthood and a host of liberals on her way to a 12-point win Tuesday.In January, Dallet and her 16-year-old daughter participated in the women\'s march in Milwaukee, joining with thousands of other women across the state and country demanding to be heard."Strategically, politically, it was really, really effective," said Ryan Owens, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin who heads the Tommy G. Thompson Center on Public Leadership.Dallet\'s win comes as a record number of women are expected to run for office this year, both in Wisconsin and across the country. The drive to elect more women comes as Democrats try to feed off of frustration with the election of President Donald Trump and actions by his administration and the GOP-controlled Congress to such issues as health care and immigration.Dallet\'s ability to nationalize the race and promote herself as a slightly liberal moderate "was persuasive to a lot of people," Owens said.That was seen in her first television ad, which accused President Donald Trump of attacking civil rights and "our values." The ad featured images of Dallet in her kitchen with her husband and three daughters as she says, "Looking out for others, it\'s just how my mom raised us and how we\'re raising our daughters too."Dallet won three months after a special Wisconsin state Senate race victory by another female candidate, Democrat Patty Schachtner. Two Democratic women are among the crowded field running for governor, including one who garnered national attention after releasing a campaign video showing her breastfeeding her baby.Democratic U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin is up for re-election in November. One of her two Republican challengers, state Sen. Leah Vukmir, is a staunch conservative who has made her anti-abortion record a central argument of her candidacy.A host of other women have filed to run for legislative races in Wisconsin, where Republicans hold a 63-35 majority in the Assembly and an 18-14 edge in the Senate. Women comprise 25 percent of the state Legislature  32 out 127 lawmakers.Marquette University Law School polling data showed that women were more likely to think favorably of Dallet, giving her an advantage reflecting the rise of gender as a salient political factor, said pollster Charles Franklin.Dallet said in a statement Thursday that women helped fuel her win because of her record and "they know I understand the importance of defending our rights and standing up to special interest influence."Her opponent, Michael Screnock, was backed by anti-abortion groups, the state Republican Party and GOP Gov. Scott Walker, who the day of the election signed into law a bill restricting abortion coverage for state workers.Dallet\'s message appeared to resonate with voters."I feel woman judges are more compassionate and have better understanding," said 81-year-old Gary Geller, a retired salesman from Madison who voted for Dallet in the February primary.Dallet\'s victory, while hailed by liberals as a sign of momentum, won\'t break the conservative hold on Wisconsin\'s high court. Three women and one male justice make up the majority, while Dallet joins two other liberal women. One of them, former Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson, is the longest-serving women Supreme Court justice in the country. Abrahamson, now 84, was appointed to the court in 1976, becoming its first female member. She remained the only woman on the court for nearly 20 years, but since 2007 women have been a majority of justices.Abrahamson, who is up for re-election next year, did not immediately respond to a request for an interview Thursday.The only other state with as many women on its high court is Washington, where six of its nine justices are women, but in percentage terms Wisconsin will have the most, according to the University of Minnesota\'s Smart Politics.Wisconsin is one of 11 states where a majority of justices are women. Iowa is the only state where no women are on its Supreme Court, while 12 states have just one.___Follow Scott Bauer on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sbauerAP .
WASHINGTON   The United States and China, the world\'s two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other\'s goods.The United States on Tuesday said it would impose 25 percent duties on $50 billion of imports from China, and China quickly retaliated by listing $50 billion of products that it could hit with its own 25 percent tariffs. Earlier in the week, Beijing announced separate import duties on $3 billion of U.S. goods in response to the Trump administration\'s duties on all steel and aluminum imports, including from China.U.S. officials sought to downplay the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. Even so, economists warned that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could escalate."The seeds of a more serious conflict are there," said Adam Slater, lead economist at Oxford Economics, a consulting firm.Some of the largest American brands, from Apple to Boeing to Kentucky Fried Chicken, are increasingly intertwined with the Chinese market. They either sell billions of dollars of goods there or make some of their products in China, or both.So h did we get here, and what might the impact be?:__WHY DID THIS DISPUTE BLOW UP?President Donald Trump says Beijing is violating its free-trade commitments by pressuring foreign companies to hand over technology to potential Chinese competitors in exchange for market access.A U.S. trade official said Wednesday that the administration was moved by concerns that China is increasing its use of unfair trade practices, expanding them from industries such as steel to high-tech industries where U.S. companies dominate.A key irritant is Beijing\'s long-range industry plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025." It calls for establishing Chinese global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields. Foreign companies complain that the initiative will limit or outright block their access to those industries.Trump has also pledged to narrow the U.S. trade deficit with China, which Washington estimated at $337.2 billion last year, a record for any country.__WILL U.S. CONSUMERS END UP PAYING MORE?Not yet. The United States plans to impose tariffs on mostly machinery and high-tech goods typically purchased by businesses. The duties would mostly steer clear of the billions of dollars of consumer goods that the U.S. imports from China, such as iPhones, toys, and shoes. Only about one-tenth of China\'s goods exports to the United States would be affected.Still, economists say many companies might try to pass their extra costs from the tariffs onto consumers. Prices would rise, though likely only slightly. Kathy Bostjancic, an economist at Oxford Economics, estimates they could raise inflation by just one-tenth of a percentage point.__WILL THE DISPUTE HURT U.S. ECONOMY?The steps taken so far shouldn\'t have much of an impact. Only about 2.5 percent of all U.S. imports are affected by the tariffs. And imports from all countries amount to just 15 percent of the economy.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody\'s Analytics, estimates that the tariffs threatened so far could slice U.S. growth by just one or two-tenths of a percentage point this year."So far, at least, this is relatively minor," he said. "It\'s going to take a lot to derail this economy."Still, specific industries would feel some pain if threats of higher tariffs are carried out. China is the top overseas market for U.S. soybeans. And China has included soybeans on its list of 106 products that would be hit by retaliatory tariffs.Automakers such as Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz would also be hit. BMW exports 89,000 cars a year from the U.S. to China, while Mercedes-Benz sends 65,000 cars, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein. Tesla expects to sell about 15 percent of its Model S and Model X cars in China this year.__WHAT WILL LIKELY HAPPEN NEXT?So far, no tariffs have actually been imposed. And some U.S. officials say they\'re at least partly intended as a negotiating ploy. U.S. officials say they\'ll hold hearings on the administration\'s proposed target list of 1,300 products in mid-May and haven\'t set a deadline for when the tariffs would take effect.Nor has China set a date for imposing tariffs on the 106 products it has targeted."It will be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented, and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said.___Associated Press Writer Joe McDonald in Beijing contributed to this report.
BRISBANE, Australia   A judge ruled Thursday that a Frenchman will not be tried for killing two British backpackers in an Australian hostel in 2016 because of mental illness.Justice Jean Dalton decided in the Mental Health Court in Brisbane that Smail Ayad was not criminally culpable for the knife attack at Home Hill in Queensland state because he had been suffering paranoid schizophrenia and thought local farmers and hostel staff were trying to kill him.Ayad will be held in a mental health facility in Brisbane before he can be sent home to France.U.S. attention to the tragedy intensified last year when the victims, Mia Ayliffe-Chung, 20, and Tom Jackson, 30, were included in a list of 78 global attacks that the White House said were "executed or inspired by" the Islamic State group and under-reported by the media.Ayliffe-Chung \'s mother, Rosie Ayliffe, responded with an open letter to U.S. President Donald Trump rejecting the decision to label her daughter\'s death as a terror attack."My daughter\'s death will not be used to further this insane persecution of innocent people," Ayliffe wrote.Police had said that Ayad shouted "Allahu akbar"  an Arabic phrase meaning "God is great"  during the attack, but that there was no indication that he had been motivated by extremism.In August 2016, Ayad, then 29, dragged Ayliffe-Chung from her hostel bed and stabbed her repeatedly in front of dozens of backpackers and then stabbed the hostel manager in the leg. The manager survived.Ayad then jumped from a balcony, fracturing his spine, before stabbing a dog to death and then inflicting fatal wounds to Jackson, who was trying to shield Ayliffe-Chung.Dalton said killing the dog was telling."This was an extraordinary action and I think, in the context of all this offending, points to how frightened he was and how ill he was," Dalton said.Ayad smoked up to four marijuana cigarettes a day for years before the attack and was under the delusion that 50 local farmers and hostel staff wanted to kill him and burn his body in a pizza oven, lawyers told the court."He thought that a cleaner at the hostel had told him he would be killed when he went to check out and he thought the owner of the hostel was making excuses as to why he couldn\'t leave," Dalton said."He interpreted her as telling him that he had to die," she added.Ayad had been charged with two counts of murder, one count of attempted murder, one count of serious animal cruelty and 12 counts of serious assault.
ISLAMABAD   Preparing to head to Kabul, Pakistan\'s prime minister on Thursday reiterated his country\'s full support for Afghanistan\'s efforts to revive the long-stalled peace process with the Taliban.Shahid Khaqan Abbasi\'s remarks came on the eve of his key visit to Afghanistan, which could help ease tensions between the two neighbors. The visit, Abbasi\'s first visit since becoming prime minister last year, followed an invitation from Afghan President Ashraf Ghani."We stand for peace in Afghanistan," Abbasi told a counter-terrorism conference in Islamabad.In Kabul, Abbasi is expected to discuss a range of issues, including how to facilitate talks between Kabul and the Taliban, during the day-long visit Friday.Pakistan is under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies. Pakistan also insists its influence over the Taliban has been exaggerated.Pakistan has, however, praised Ghani\'s overture to the Taliban in which he offered to recognize the radical religious group as a political party. The offer also said no pre-conditions would be attached to any future peace talks.The Taliban have not given an official response to the offer but have reiterated their demand to talk to the U.S. before holding talks with the Afghan government.In January, President Donald Trump lashed out at Pakistan, saying the United States had "foolishly" given Pakistan more than $33 billion in aid over the last 15 years and had gotten nothing in return but "lies & deceit." Washington later confirmed it is withholding $255 million in U.S. military aid to Pakistan this year.In Afghanistan, Javid Faisal, deputy spokesman for the chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, said Pakistan\'s support was critical to talks with the Taliban and that Abbasi\'s visit would help improve the troubled Afghan-Pakistan relations.Also in Kabul, Abdul Rahim Ayoubi, a lawmaker from Afghanistan\'s southern Kandahar province which is the spiritual heartland of the Taliban, said the Afghan government should be talking to Pakistan\'s military intelligence agency, known as the ISI, because it allegedly is able to influence the Taliban.He said Pakistan\'s civilian government has no ability to force the Taliban to come to the table and that "the power in Pakistan is with the ISI."At the Islamabad conference on Thursday, Abbasi also rejected criticism that Islamabad is not doing enough to curb militant hideouts on its soil and insisted the international narrative against Pakistan is flawed."Nobody wants peace in Afghanistan more than Pakistan because we are the most affected" by terrorism, he said.___Shah reported from Kabul, Afghanistan
OTTAWA   The United States, Mexico and Canada are "moving forward in a significant way" at talks to modernize the NAFTA trade pact, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday.Trudeau\'s remarks to reporters in Quebec City were the latest in a series of upbeat comments by officials in the three countries about the chances of striking some kind of deal soon on the North American Free Trade Agreement."I believe we\'re in a moment where we\'re moving forward in a significant way. Hopefully there will be some good news coming," Trudeau said."We know these negotiations, there are good moments and there are slower moments. But right now we\'re having a very productive moment of engaging with the United States and Mexico," he added.Mexican officials say that with enough progress, the leaders of the three nations could make an announcement at a regional summit in Peru next week.The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump is pressing for a deal in principle to avoid clashing with Mexican presidential elections on July 1.Any such agreement would likely tackle a main issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, officials say.Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland will hold talks in Washington on Friday with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo, said a Canadian government source.Freeland said on Wednesday that there was still work to do before the talks could be wrapped up.Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday criticized Trump\'s plan to send National Guard troops to the border.But Moises Kalach, head of the international negotiating arm of Mexico\'s CCE business lobby, insisted NAFTA negotiators are not entering into that debate."We are staying away from those things," he said on local radio.Uncertainty over the future of the $1.2 trillion pact  rattled markets earlier this year but that concern appears to be abating. Bank of Montreal is confident that the talks will result in a positive outcome, Chief Executive Darryl White said on Thursday.That said, only six of the roughly 30 chapters have been closed and wide differences remain on topics such as dispute resolution and government procurement.Canadian officials feel the three governments could produce "a symbolic agreement in principle that signaled they had reached a consensus on five or six key issues," a source familiar with Canada\'s negotiating position said on Wednesday.(Reporting by David Ljunggren; additional reporting by Matt Scuffham in Toronto and Julia Love in Mexico City; editing by Grant McCool)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. military has canceled a training exercise off the coast of Djibouti and paused air operations from the country after two air mishaps this week raised questions about the state of military readiness, U.S. officials said on Thursday."U.S. air operations in Djibouti are on hold and U.S. Naval Forces Central Command has canceled the remainder of exercise Alligator Dagger in response to two separate aviation incidents in Djibouti," the military said in a statement.On Tuesday, a U.S. Marine Corps jet crashed in Djibouti. The pilot was in stable condition. In a separate incident, a CH-53 helicopter suffered "structural damage" during a landing at Arta Beach, Djibouti.This is the latest in a recent spate of accidents involving U.S. military aircraft, raising questions about readiness.A U.S. Air Force pilot with the traveling Thunderbirds exhibition squad was killed early Wednesday when his F-16 jet crashed at Nellis Air Force base in Nevada.On Tuesday, a U.S. Marine Corps helicopter crashed during a training mission in Southern California. All four crew members are believed to have been killed."We\'re going to look at each one ... I\'m certainly not prepared to say that it\'s a wave of mishaps or some form of crisis," Marine Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, told a Pentagon briefing on Thursday.The accidents come as President Donald Trump ordered National Guard troops along the border with Mexico.Speaking with reporters at the same press briefing on Thursday, Pentagon officials said they did not yet know where the funding for the National Guard troops would come from, but that military readiness would be appropriately funded."I can assure you that our resources will still be dedicated to ensuring that our war fighters get what they need when they need it," Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said.White said the military was looking into building a wall at its Barry Goldwater Air Force Range in Arizona along the Mexican border.Officials said most other details, such as how many troops would go to the border and whether they would be armed, were still unknown.They added that the U.S. military had created a border security support cell that would coordinate between the Pentagon and Department of Homeland Security.(Reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and James Dalgleish)
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO   Janet Yellen cashed in with her first paid visit to Wall Street since stepping down as Federal Reserve chair, discussing rate hikes and U.S. President Donald Trump at events on Monday that included a dinner for 40 at a CEO\'s Manhattan penthouse.Two people familiar with the events hosted by investment bank Jefferies, including the evening gathering with its chief executive Richard Handler and billionaire investors Carl Icahn and Daniel Loeb, said it was billed as Yellen\'s first such engagement since leaving the Fed two months ago.In a brief telephone interview, Yellen, who ran the U.S. central bank the last four years, confirmed she was paid and said she revealed no confidential information."I talked about the economy and general perspectives on monetary policy," she told Reuters late on Wednesday, declining to say how much she earned or to provide more details.The program included a question-and-answer session with more than 100 Jefferies clients, where according to a third source she stuck close to the message of three or four interest rate hikes this year that her successor, Jerome Powell, has delivered since taking charge in early February.Later, over the penthouse dinner of lobster, beef short ribs and matzo in the trendy Tribeca neighborhood, Yellen held court with executives from hedge funds, private equity firms and companies, according to two people briefed on the gathering.She spoke about her meetings with Trump including last year\'s job interview about staying on for another term as Fed chair, and expressed some concern that the stimulus from tax cuts and government spending could overheat the economy, one of the sources said.The second source said she considered inflation to be in check and unlikely to spike, so rates would stay relatively low.The open bar and discussions with big investors ran past sunset, until the college basketball final between Villanova and Michigan tipped off on television.Rob Citrone, head of the multi billion-dollar hedge fund firm Discovery Capital Management, was among those at the large rectangular dining table, according to the second source. Representatives for Discovery, Icahn Enterprises and for Loeb, who runs Third Point, did not comment or respond to a request.Cashing in after years in public service is a well-trodden path for U.S. policymakers and regulators, highlighting the demand among investors for any exclusive insights they can offer.In the case of former Fed chiefs, who can earn an annual salary in one night and have no constraints on expressing their views provided they do not broach confidential matters, those insights could potentially move markets.Yellen\'s predecessor Ben Bernanke waited just over a month after leaving the Fed in 2014 before earning some $250,000 for a private talk in Abu Dhabi. He followed that up with similarly priced private dinners with investors in New York, at which he predicted rates would remain low for a long time.Former Fed Chair Alan Greenspan waited only a week after stepping down before addressing a private dinner in 2006 hosted by Lehman Brothers, the investment bank whose collapse two years later sent the global financial crisis into high gear.\'AN AMAZING EVENING\'Under Yellen, who earned just more than $200,000 per year as chair, the Fed finally turned the corner from its crisis-era policies of near-zero interest rates and trillions of dollars of bond-buying.At the Monday dinner, investors asked her repeatedly about the Fed\'s more than $4 trillion in bond holdings and the pace of coming rate hikes, though Yellen was careful not to appear to speak for Powell, according to one of the people who spoke to Reuters. When asked about Trump, she said there was no pressure or interference on monetary policy from the White House.In tapping Powell, a Republican, Trump broke with a non-partisan precedent last year in denying Yellen, a Democrat, a second four-year term as Fed chief.Larry Hatheway, who as a former UBS official helped host Greenspan at a paid event last decade, said attendees "hope to hear an unconstrained view on things that matter related to the former job, (and) that matter for market participants.""The biggest beneficiary is probably the speaker ... who is obviously rewarded fairly handsomely, and to some extent the organizers who are then seen in a better light by their clients," added Hatheway, who is now group head of investment solutions at GAM Investment Management, in Zurich.Reuters was not able to reach David Zervos, the Jefferies Group LLC [JGLL.UL] chief strategist who conducted the larger forum for investors and who later tweeted a link to a photograph of himself with a smiling Yellen on Instagram. "An amazing evening last night hosting Janet Yellen for our clients in NY," read the tweet, posted Tuesday.The third meeting on Monday was with a group of women at Jefferies at which Yellen discussed being a female leader, said one of the people familiar with the program.All three sources who spoke to Reuters requested anonymity.The Fed raised rates last month at its first meeting under Powell, and forecasts showed policymakers were split between three or four total hikes this year as economic growth and inflation were seen rising.Yellen joined the Brookings Institution think tank immediately after stepping down and spoke publicly there in February about the economy. Last month she discussed her Fed tenure at the University of Pennsylvania.In recent months she was listed as a speaker-for-hire by the Washington Speakers Bureau, which did not respond to a request for comment.Her profile page, alongside that of Bernanke and Greenspan, says she travels from Washington and fees vary based on event location.(Additional reporting by Suzanne Barlyn, Lawrence Delevingne and Sinead Carew in New York; editing by David Gregorio and Chizu Nomiyama)
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO   Janet Yellen cashed in with her first paid visit to Wall Street since stepping down as Federal Reserve chair, discussing rate hikes and U.S. President Donald Trump at events on Monday that included a dinner for 40 at a CEO\'s Manhattan penthouse.Two people familiar with the events hosted by investment bank Jefferies, including the evening gathering with its chief executive Richard Handler and billionaire investors Carl Icahn and Daniel Loeb, said it was billed as Yellen\'s first such engagement since leaving the Fed two months ago.In a brief telephone interview, Yellen, who ran the U.S. central bank the last four years, confirmed she was paid and said she revealed no confidential information."I talked about the economy and general perspectives on monetary policy," she told Reuters late on Wednesday, declining to say how much she earned or to provide more details.The programme included a question-and-answer session with more than 100 Jefferies clients, where according to a third source she stuck close to the message of three or four interest rate hikes this year that her successor, Jerome Powell, has delivered since taking charge in early February.    Later, over the penthouse dinner of lobster, beef short ribs and matzo in the trendy Tribeca neighbourhood, Yellen held court with executives from hedge funds, private equity firms and companies, according to two people briefed on the gathering.She spoke about her meetings with Trump including last year\'s job interview about staying on for another term as Fed chair, and expressed some concern that the stimulus from tax cuts and government spending could overheat the economy, one of the sources said.The second source said she considered inflation to be in check and unlikely to spike, so rates would stay relatively low.The open bar and discussions with big investors ran past sunset, until the college basketball final between Villanova and Michigan tipped off on television.Rob Citrone, head of the multi billion-dollar hedge fund firm Discovery Capital Management, was among those at the large rectangular dining table, according to the second source. Representatives for Discovery, Icahn Enterprises and for Loeb, who runs Third Point, did not comment or respond to a request.Cashing in after years in public service is a well-trodden path for U.S. policymakers and regulators, highlighting the demand among investors for any exclusive insights they can offer.In the case of former Fed chiefs, who can earn an annual salary in one night and have no constraints on expressing their views provided they do not broach confidential matters, those insights could potentially move markets.    Yellen\'s predecessor Ben Bernanke waited just over a month after leaving the Fed in 2014 before earning some $250,000 for a private talk in Abu Dhabi. He followed that up with similarly priced private dinners with investors in New York, at which he predicted rates would remain low for a long time.     Former Fed Chair Alan Greenspan waited only a week after stepping down before addressing a private dinner in 2006 hosted by Lehman Brothers, the investment bank whose collapse two years later sent the global financial crisis into high gear.\'AN AMAZING EVENING\'Under Yellen, who earned just more than $200,000 per year as chair, the Fed finally turned the corner from its crisis-era policies of near-zero interest rates and trillions of dollars of bond-buying.At the Monday dinner, investors asked her repeatedly about the Fed\'s more than $4 trillion in bond holdings and the pace of coming rate hikes, though Yellen was careful not to appear to speak for Powell, according to one of the people who spoke to Reuters. When asked about Trump, she said there was no pressure or interference on monetary policy from the White House.In tapping Powell, a Republican, Trump broke with a non-partisan precedent last year in denying Yellen, a Democrat, a second four-year term as Fed chief.Larry Hatheway, who as a former UBS official helped host Greenspan at a paid event last decade, said attendees "hope to hear an unconstrained view on things that matter related to the former job, (and) that matter for market participants.""The biggest beneficiary is probably the speaker ... who is obviously rewarded fairly handsomely, and to some extent the organizers who are then seen in a better light by their clients," added Hatheway, who is now group head of investment solutions at GAM Investment Management, in Zurich.Reuters was not able to reach David Zervos, the Jefferies Group LLC [JGLL.UL] chief strategist who conducted the larger forum for investors and who later tweeted a link to a photograph of himself with a smiling Yellen on Instagram. "An amazing evening last night hosting Janet Yellen for our clients in NY," read the tweet, posted Tuesday.The third meeting on Monday was with a group of women at Jefferies at which Yellen discussed being a female leader, said one of the people familiar with the programme.All three sources who spoke to Reuters requested anonymity.The Fed raised rates last month at its first meeting under Powell, and forecasts showed policymakers were split between three or four total hikes this year as economic growth and inflation were seen rising.    Yellen joined the Brookings Institution think tank immediately after stepping down and spoke publicly there in February about the economy. Last month she discussed her Fed tenure at the University of Pennsylvania.     In recent months she was listed as a speaker-for-hire by the Washington Speakers Bureau, which did not respond to a request for comment.Her profile page, alongside that of Bernanke and Greenspan, says she travels from Washington and fees vary based on event location.(Additional reporting by Suzanne Barlyn, Lawrence Delevingne and Sinead Carew in New York; editing by David Gregorio and Chizu Nomiyama)


(Reuters) - Fourteen states filed suit on Thursday accusing the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of failing to issue regulations for curbing emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse pollutant, from existing oil and gas operations as required under the Clean Air Act.The legal challenge, led by New York state, came nine months after a federal appeals court sided with environmental activists who sued to block the EPA from freezing enforcement of its own rules to control methane leaks from new or modified fossil fuel facilities.In both instances, EPA chief Scott Pruitt has been accused of putting the interests of oil and gas companies ahead of the  agency\'s obligation to protect air quality, including the control of heat-trapping pollutants that scientists blame for global climate change.Pruitt, who was a leading EPA critic as attorney general of the oil-producing state of Oklahoma before beginning his tenure as head of the EPA, has said he does not believe greenhouse gas emissions are the principal driver of climate change.As EPA administrator, Pruitt has moved to carry out U.S. President Donald Trump\'s campaign pledge to roll back or reconsider a slew of environmental protections deemed burdensome by the industry, including climate change regulations.In March 2017 Trump signed an order to undo climate rules. And the EPA that month halted efforts to collect data from fossil fuel operations to prepare performance standards that states would have to follow in devising methane-control measures for existing wells, pipelines, storage tanks, pumping stations and other facilities.It was EPA\'s "unreasonable delay" in developing those standards that Thursday\'s lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Washington, cited as a Clean Air Act violation."The EPA has a clear legal duty to control methane pollution from oil and gas operations," New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said. "Its continued refusal to do so is not only illegal, but threatens our public health and environment."The lawsuit prepared by his office was joined by California, and 12 other states including Illinois, Pennsylvania, New Mexico, Vermont and Iowa, as well as the District of Columbia and the city of Chicago.Pruitt was named as the sole defendant in the complaint, which seeks a court order compelling the EPA to devise and issue the emissions standards in question.An EPA spokeswoman said the agency does not comment on pending litigation.Methane, the main component of commercially distributed natural gas, is also a byproduct of oil extraction. Pound for pound, it traps significantly more heat in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide, the most prevalent greenhouse gas, though its effects are shorter-lived.The oil and gas industry accounts for nearly third of all U.S. methane emissions, according to an EPA report cited in the lawsuit. The overwhelming bulk of those emissions, equivalent to 328 million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year, come from facilities in existence prior to 2012, the complaint said.The lawsuit cited an Environmental Defense Fund study that found the industry could cut methane emissions 40 percent below projected 2018 levels at an average annual cost of less than a penny per thousand cubic feet of natural gas produced. The study said that reduction could save the U.S. economy more than $100 million a year.(Reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Editing by Toni Reinhold)
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico   Mexican politicians put aside differences Thursday to condemn U.S. President Donald Trump\'s decision to deploy National Guard troops to the border.In the midst of a hotly contested campaign ahead of the July 1 presidential elections, President Enrique Pena Nieto praised even opposition candidates he usually quarrels with, as they joined in criticizing Trump\'s latest move."The presidential candidates, independently of their natural differences, all of them coincided in rejecting these measures that run counter to good relations between neighbors," Pena Nieto said in a broadcast message.He mentioned all four candidates, including front runner Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, at whom he has levelled veiled criticism in the past, in part because Lopez Obrador has pledged to undo some of Pena Nieto\'s market-oriented reforms if elected.Lopez Obrador said on Wednesday that "we will not accept the use of force, the militarization of the border. Problems aren\'t solved that way; peace and tranquility are derived from justice." Lopez Obrador said Mexico should send a line of white-clad peace demonstrators to the border.Pena Nieto added, addressing Trump, "if your recent statements are derived from your frustration with (U.S.) domestic politics, with your laws or your congress, deal with them, not with us Mexicans. We will not allow any negative rhetoric to define our actions."The country\'s Senate passed a resolution Wednesday calling on Mexico\'s government to suspend cooperation with the U.S. on illegal immigration and drug trafficking in retaliation for Trump\'s move.Presidential candidate Ricardo Anaya went further, saying Mexico should limit anti-terrorism cooperation until the National Guard is withdrawn. Anaya is the candidate of a left-right coalition in the country\'s July 1 presidential election.Ruling party candidate Jose Antonio Meade said that "independently of our political differences, it is time for all the presidential candidates to unite in defense of the sovereignty and dignity of the nation ... to reject and repudiate thus kind of measure."Others took Trump\'s decision with a grain of salt after the Mexican government said Guard troops "will not carry weapons or have immigration or customs duties."The newspaper El Heraldo said in a headline Thursday "U.S. deploys National Guard ... tin soldiers."On the border, Mexicans unanimously rejected the measure, but also agreed it wouldn\'t have much practical effect."The attitude of militarization seems to us like just one more insult that we Mexicans don\'t deserve," said Ramon Galindo, the state government representative in Ciudad Juarez, across the border from El Paso, Texas."Having soldiers on the other side won\'t make absolutely any difference at all," Galindo said, noting that migration, trade and cross-border exchanges are a reality.Jorge de Santiago, a maquiladora worker whose house sits right on the border, said of the deployment: "It looks bad, but it doesn\'t do much. It\'s pure populism, just meant to frighten people."
WASHINGTON   Facebook isn\'t just a company. It\'s a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It\'s tricky and it\'s going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we\'re going to keep the wild, wild West  I don\'t think it\'s sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook\'s reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia\'s use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital\'s pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it\'s questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress\' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that\'s not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama\'s final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook\'s vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team\'s newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he\'s open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he\'d get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he\'s encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November\'s elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook\'s biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission\'s charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who\'s written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government\'s antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook\'s largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg\'s net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook\'s market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
___China-US tariff spat: Mostly losers, but some winners tooBEIJING (AP)  China\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. goods could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers. Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft targeted for possible retaliation in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.___Stock market is its old, volatile self again after long calmNEW YORK (AP)  Volatility is the name of the game in the stock market this year. Big swings in price are the norm, not only on a day-to-day basis but also hour to hour. Wednesday\'s turnaround from big early losses to solid gains is just one example. Traders pin part of the blame on Washington, D.C., but they also see this rise of volatility as a return to normalcy following an unusually calm 2017.___As Trump tweets, Amazon seeks to expand its business empireWASHINGTON (AP)  Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting. Amazon relies on an in-house lobbying team as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success. Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017.___Long-term US mortgage rates fall; 30-year at 4.40 percentWASHINGTON (AP)  Long-term U.S. mortgage rates fell this week, benefiting potential homebuyers with the spring buying season underway. Mortgage buyer Freddie Mac says the average rate on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages dipped to 4.40 percent from 4.44 percent last week. The average rate on 15-year, fixed-rate loans declined to 3.87 percent from 3.90 percent last week.___US trade gap rises 6th straight month to 9 -year highWASHINGTON (AP)  The U.S. trade deficit rose for the sixth straight month in February, reaching the highest level since October 2008 and defying President Donald Trump\'s efforts to rebalance America\'s lopsided trade with the rest of the world. U.S. exports and imports both set records.___YouTube shooter\'s bizarre videos key to suspected motiveMENIFEE, Calif. (AP)  Police say the videos posted by the woman who wounded three people in a shooting at YouTube headquarters are central to the motive. Police and relatives say Nasim Aghdam was angry with YouTube\'s policies. She was virtually unknown in her native Iran, where people expressed shock that she would lash out violently in a country that has more social media freedoms.___Delta: Data of \'several hundred thousand\' customers exposedATLANTA (AP)  Delta Air Lines now says that payment-card information about "several hundred thousand" customers may have been exposed by a malware breach last fall. The airlines says that the malware attack may have exposed customers\' names, addresses, credit card numbers, card security codes and expiration dates. Delta offered the additional details about the attack on Thursday, a day after saying that only a "small subset" of customers was affected.___Obama-era clean-air rule on methane emissions blocked againWASHINGTON (AP)  An on-again, off-again effort to restrict harmful methane emissions on federal lands is off  again. A federal judge in Wyoming has halted the clean-air rule indefinitely. The judge says it "makes little sense" to force oil and gas companies to comply with the Obama-era rule when the Trump administration has moved to roll back the 2016 regulation. The Interior Department rule forced energy companies to capture methane gas burned or wasted at drilling sites on public lands.___Gov\'t: Goodyear tires may have caused 95 deaths or injuriesDETROIT (AP)  The U.S. government\'s road safety agency says it has received allegations that defective Goodyear motor home tires caused crashes that killed or injured 95 people during the past two decades. The allegations were revealed in an information-seeking letter sent to Goodyear by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Late last year, the agency began investigating whether Goodyear\'s G159 tires are unsafe. Goodyear says it\'s cooperating with the investigation.___Stocks jump as trade war fears ease; Amazon, Facebook rallyNEW YORK (AP) Global stock indexes kept climbing Thursday as investors around the world grew more optimistic that a trade dispute between the U.S. and China, the two largest economies in the world, will resolve without too much damage. In the U.S., banks rose along with interest rates, retailers and consumer-focused companies kept rising, and industrial and technology companies turned higher.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index climbed 18.15 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,662.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 240.92 points, or 1 percent, to 24,505.22. The Nasdaq composite added 34.44 points, or 0.5 percent, to 7,076.55. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks rose 11.26 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,542.93.Benchmark U.S. crude added 17 cents to $63.54 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 31 cents to $68.33 per barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline and heating oil both remained at $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas fell 4 cents to $2.68 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Today in HistoryToday is Thursday, April 5, the 95th day of 2018. There are 270 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 5, 1764, Britain\'s Parliament passed The American Revenue Act of 1764, also known as the Sugar Act, which was repealed in 1766.On this date:In 1614, Indian Chief Powhatan\'s daughter Pocahontas married Englishman John Rolfe, a widower, in the Virginia Colony.In 1792, President George Washington cast his first veto, rejecting a congressional measure for apportioning representatives among the states.In 1887, Anne Sullivan achieved a breakthrough as her 6-year-old deaf-blind pupil, Helen Keller, learned the meaning of the word "water" as spelled out in the Manual Alphabet. British historian Lord Acton wrote in a letter, "Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely."In 1915, Jess Willard knocked out Jack Johnson in the 26th round of their fight in Havana, Cuba, to claim boxing\'s world heavyweight title.In 1925, a tornado estimated at F-3 intensity struck northern Miami-Dade County, Florida, killing five people.In 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an executive order creating the Civilian Conservation Corps and an anti-hoarding order that effectively prohibited private ownership of gold.In 1955, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill resigned his office for health reasons. Democrat Richard J. Daley was first elected mayor of Chicago, defeating Republican Robert E. Merriam.In 1964, Army Gen. Douglas MacArthur died in Washington, D.C., at age 84.In 1976, reclusive billionaire Howard Hughes died in Houston at age 70.In 1986, two American servicemen and a Turkish woman were killed in the bombing of a West Berlin discotheque, an incident which prompted a U.S. air raid on Libya more than a week later.In 1988, a 15-day hijacking ordeal began as gunmen forced a Kuwait Airways jumbo jet to land in Iran.In 1991, former Sen. John Tower, R-Texas, his daughter Marian and 21 other people were killed in a commuter plane crash near Brunswick, Georgia.Ten years ago: President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin opened farewell talks at Putin\'s heavily wooded retreat on the Black Sea. Actor Charlton Heston, big-screen hero and later leader of the National Rifle Association, died in Beverly Hills, California, at age 84.Five years ago: Kansas legislators gave final passage to a sweeping anti-abortion measure declaring that life began "at fertilization." (Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback, a Republican, signed the measure two weeks later.) A federal judge in New York ordered the Food and Drug Administration to lift age restrictions on the sale of emergency contraception, ending a requirement that buyers show proof they were 17 or older if they wanted to buy it without a prescription. (After months of back-and-forth legal battles, the Obama administration agreed to lift the age limits.)One year ago: President Donald Trump declared that a deadly chemical attack in Syria the day before had crossed "many, many lines" and abruptly changed his views of Syrian President Bashar Assad. But he refused to say what the U.S. might do in response. A senior U.S. defense official said a North Korean missile test ended in failure when the rocket spun out of control and plunged into the ocean in a fiery crash. YouTube TV, Google\'s new streaming package of about 40 television channels, made its debut.Today\'s Birthdays: Movie producer Roger Corman is 92. Former U.S. Secretary of State and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell is 81. Country singer Tommy Cash is 78. Actor Michael Moriarty is 77. Pop singer Allan Clarke (The Hollies) is 76. Writer-director Peter Greenaway is 76. Actor Max Gail is 75. Actress Jane Asher is 72. Singer Agnetha (ag-NEE\'-tah) Faltskog (ABBA) is 68. Actor Mitch Pileggi is 66. Singer-songwriter Peter Case is 64. Rock musician Mike McCready (Pearl Jam) is 52. Singer Paula Cole is 50. Actress Krista Allen is 47. Actress Victoria Hamilton is 47. Country singer Pat Green is 46. Rapper-producer Pharrell (fa-REHL\') Williams is 45. Rapper/producer Juicy J is 43. Actor Sterling K. Brown is 42. Country singer-musician Mike Eli (The Eli Young Band) is 37. Actress Hayley Atwell is 36. Actress Lily James is 29.Thought for Today: "A man is only as good as what he loves."  Saul Bellow, Canadian-born American author (1915-2005).
CHERRY HILL, N.J.   The number of women running for the U.S. House of Representatives set a record Thursday, most of them Democrats motivated by angst over President Donald Trump and policies of the Republican-controlled Congress.Their ranks will continue to swell, with candidate filing periods remaining open in more than half the states.In many places, women are running for congressional seats that have never had female representation."It\'s about time," said Kara Eastman of Nebraska, one of two Democrats trying to win a primary and the right to challenge a GOP incumbent in a district centered in Omaha.A surge of women into this year\'s midterm elections had been expected since the Women\'s March demonstrations nationwide just after Trump\'s inauguration in January 2017. Numbers analyzed by The Associated Press show that momentum is continuing.After Virginia released its candidate list Thursday, a total of 309 women from the two major parties have filed candidacy papers to run for the House. That tops the previous record of 298 in 2012.The AP analyzed data going back to 1992 from the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University and did its own review of candidate information released by the states.While just over half the nation\'s population is female, four out of every five members of the U.S. House are men. The women\'s candidacies won\'t necessarily change that. They still have to survive party primaries and win the general election, often against an incumbent with name recognition and a large reservoir of campaign cash.Even with the record numbers, women are still outnumbered by male candidates. But experts say the sheer number of women running combined with so many House seats open due to retirements or resignations provides one of the best opportunities for women to make real gains in terms of representation and a change in priorities.Many of the female candidates have focused their campaign messages on health care, education, early childhood development, family leave and workplace equality.Eastman said she was motivated by Republican attempts to cut health coverage for low-income people and rollbacks of environmental protections.She decided to run after her mother, who has since died, was diagnosed with cancer for the fifth time and saw her prescription drug prices soar even though she was covered by Medicare."It\'s a great thing for me to show my 16-year-old daughter," Eastman, who runs a children\'s health care nonprofit, said of her candidacy.Mikie Sherrill spent years in the Navy flying helicopters before leaving the military for a career as a federal prosecutor. For her first foray into politics, she chose this year to challenge Republican Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, a powerful lawmaker who serves as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and was first elected in 1994.Frelinghuysen has since announced his retirement, creating a bigger opening for Sherrill."After a lifetime of service and taking numerous oaths to support and defend the Constitution, when I saw that our democracy seemed to be under attack, I felt called upon to serve again and felt a responsibility to serve my country again," Sherrill said.She is a leading contender in the Democratic primary and could be part of a wave of women running in Republican-leaning districts. In Indiana, for example, women are running in each of the state\'s nine congressional districts  only two of which are currently represented by Democrats.Not all the women running are Democrats.Tiffany Shedd, one of four Republicans in a primary for the chance to unseat Democratic Rep. Tom O\'Halleran in a rural Arizona district, said she entered the race after she told her husband the district needed someone better. He responded that he knew an ideal candidate  a "coward" who wouldn\'t run.When she realized he meant her, she took up the challenge.Shedd said she\'s glad to see so many women running, even if most of them are on the other side of the aisle."I hope that we eventually live in a world where there\'s no articles written about that because it\'s no longer a thing," she said.A previous surge of women running for Congress came in 1992, in the wake of Anita Hill\'s testimony alleging sexual harassment by Clarence Thomas, who was then a nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court. The Senate committee weighing his nomination was all-male. That year was labeled the "Year of the Woman" because women were elected to the U.S. House and Senate in record numbers.In recent years, the number of women in Congress has held steady in large part because the number of women running hasn\'t increased substantially from year to year. Currently, there are 83 women in the U.S. House, out of 435 seats.Campaigns for the House aren\'t the only ones drawing high interest from female candidates this year.Forty women are running so far in governors\' races, a total that already surpassed the previous record of 34 in 1994. And 29 women are on ballots for U.S. Senate races, a number that will grow as filing deadlines approach in more states. The record number of female Senate candidates is 40, set in 2016.___Linke is an Associated Press visual journalist who reported from Washington, D.C. Associated Press writer Christina A. Cassidy in Atlanta contributed to this report.___
Want the Australia Letter by email? Sign up and forward to your friends for heaps of global coverage and provocative Australia insight. ______When Francesca Donner, director of The New York Times Gender Initiative, arrived in Australia a few weeks ago, she was almost immediately swept up in the wave of #MeToo and news media activities.In addition to public panels on the #MeToo movement, there were conferences, university discussions and a dinner with young female New York Times readers to talk about our coverage.Everyone, it seemed, had something to say about #MeToo.On her way back to New York, Francesca jotted down a few impressions about Australias gender movement and how it compares with whats happening in the United States.Her thoughts raised as many questions as they answered, and we hope youll share your insights as we unpack the issue.Notebook from SydneyBecause Im director of the New York Times Gender Initiative, many people I met on my travels wanted to talk me about women and Trump and women and sexual harassment and women and Harvey and women and the workplace and women and women and women.But they also had a few things to share, too.The rumblings from women and people in their 20s and 30s began almost at once:Australian politics is a boys club. The journalists here dont cover politicians as aggressively as they do in the U.S. Exhibit A (and B and C and D): Barnaby Joyce!And the press! The press! There are so few publications we identify with! Most young people just turn away and shrug.And the defamation laws! Its almost impossible for the press to cover sexual harassment. Meanwhile, sexual harassment is rife in universities, at workplaces and on and on!And yet.The Sydney Opera House was hosting a day all about women called All About Women. Attendees who were mostly women (and a few odd men out) turned out in the thousands. The festival aired around the country on local TV stations. People tuned in.And yet.The ABC devoted episodes to International Womens Day and two ABC national radio stations (Fran Kelly and Richard Glover) invited me on to talk Harvey Weinstein and, you guessed it, women.And yet.Gay marriage had been recently legalized. And the city of Sydney would pay homage to the passing of the law at its 40th Anniversary Mardi Gras celebrations. And yet.Barnaby Joyce, the former deputy prime minister, a champion of family values, who had fathered a child with a staff member who was not his wife, and accepted a rent-free townhouse from a millionaire politician, had stepped down from his post. On the surface it looked like progress but underneath, was it? It got me thinking: What should women (and others) in Australia realistically expect from a gender movement? Are hopes pinned too high? Or do expectations not go far enough? So here are my questions for you, Australia: How do you think the movement in Australia compares with the wave of accountability sweeping the rest of the world?And what does gender progress in a macho country like Australia look like, anyway? Tell us what you what you think. Send feedback to nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join us in our Facebook group and well feature some of your comments in next weeks newsletter.Now lets catch up with news of the week, and what to watch on Netflix on April.______The Chinese government has long sought to shape and control information, but the scope and intensity of the Communist Partys censoring effort has intensified and Hong Kong booksellers like Lam Wing-kee are the ones paying the price.I never expected anything like this, just as a poor man never dreams of striking it rich overnight, Mr. Lam said.______Sometimes the most memorable stories are those of a single individual who hit a fork in the road, and took off in a surprising direction.This is one of those stories capturing the life of a violin prodigy, who left the music behind, almost.______News and Features Australians Are the Worlds Biggest Gambling Losers, and Some Seek Action: The average Australian adult loses around $900 to gambling each year  more than double the rate of Americans  and electronic gaming machines are getting the blame. An International Final Four: Which Country Handles Student Debt Best? In America, college student loan defaults are a really big problem. In Australia? No worries. No Hat, No Play: Its strange the things you miss when you move away. Momofuku Seiobo Champions Caribbean Food With Australias Bounty: Paul Carmichael, the chef, delivers a profoundly pleasurable experience at the Sydney location of David Changs restaurant group. South Africa Says Australia Retracted Claim of Persecuted White Farmers: Australia has disavowed its home ministers view that white farmers needed refuge in a civilized country, South Africas top diplomat says.Sports A Hero of Australian Surfing Paddles Out One Last Time: Mick Fanning, a three-time world champion whose list of accomplishments includes punching a great white shark, is preparing his exit from pro surfing. Cricket Hero Breaks Down in Tears on TV Over Cheating: A cheating scandal over a plot by Australias team captain has seized the cricket world and turned into a national embarrassment. Australian Cricket Has Its Own Deflategate, and a Nation Reels: Steve Smith, one of the countrys most revered sportsmen, admits his role in a ball-tampering scheme, prompting national discussion and soul-searching. At the Commonwealth Games, Competing for Medals and Relevance: The Games will soon descend onto the Gold Coasts beaches, bringing an array of the worlds best athletes, and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact. What to Do in Australias Gold Coast: There is no shortage of bland but familiar luxury. If you dig a little, though, there is a lot more to the city than its glittery facade.______Dont Fix Facebook. Replace It. Tim Wu argues that in the wake of Facebooks latest scandal, we need better options that are designed to protect our privacy.The Autocrats Playbook. Michelle Goldberg says you dont have to love Amazon to see the risk of Donald Trumps threats against the company.How to Talk About Race and Genetics. A much-discussed Sunday Review essay by David Reich asks: How should scientists handle the eventuality that for a few traits, average differences among populations will be discovered?______Heres our monthly guide to whats on Netflix in Australia, which always seems to be popular with our readers and subscribers.My personal pick: The Lobster. If I even tried to explain it, I would fail miserably  but its definitely a memorable film. Its about love. And dictatorship. Maybe.Heres a New York Times review to give us all a hand.
WASHINGTON   An on-again, off-again effort to restrict harmful methane emissions on federal lands is off  again.A federal judge in Wyoming has halted the clean-air rule indefinitely, saying it "makes little sense" to force oil and gas companies to comply with the Obama-era rule when the Trump administration has moved to roll back the 2016 regulation.The Interior Department is accepting comments on its proposed rewrite and expects to issue a final rule this summer.In the meantime, Judge Scott Skavdahl said enforcing the earlier rule would provide "minimal public benefit" while imposing potentially significant costs on industry."Sadly, and frustratingly, this case is symbolic of the dysfunction in the current state of administrative law," Skavdahl wrote in an 11-page opinion Wednesday in Casper, Wyoming. "Unfortunately, it is not the first time this dysfunction has frustrated the administrative review process in this court."Skavdahl\'s ruling is the latest in a back-and-forth series of court decisions and administrative actions as the Trump administration tries to weaken or delay a rule imposed in the waning days of the Obama administration.The November 2016 rule forced energy companies to capture methane gas burned off or wasted at drilling sites on public lands.Methane emissions are a key contributor to climate change. Methane, the main component of natural gas, is far more potent at trapping heat than carbon dioxide but does not stay in the air as long.Many companies consider the federal rule unnecessary and overly intrusive and note that companies have an economic incentive to capture the methane so they can sell it.A federal judge in San Francisco reinstated the rule in February, even as the Trump administration proposed a new one that would significantly weaken the original.Courts in Wyoming and California have issued conflicting opinions on the rule, and a bid by Congress to overturn the measure failed in the Republican-controlled Senate.Dan Naatz, vice president of government affairs for the Independent Petroleum Association of America, cheered the latest court decision."A new rule is coming out," he said. "The agency is taking comments on it now." Trying to enforce Obama-era rule in the meantime would only cause confusion, he added.But Peter Zalzal, a lawyer for the Environmental Defense Fund, said the ruling "effectively punishes" law-abiding companies that have been complying with the new standards, "while rewarding those in the oil and gas industry that are recklessly wasting a valuable public resource and squandering tax payers\' hard-earned money."The environmental group pledged to appeal the case, likely ensuring another legal round in the much-litigated case.
SYDNEY   Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country's privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, without their authorization.Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said Thursday that the Privacy Act requires all organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. Customers must also be adequately notified about the collection and handling of personal information.Each breach of the Privacy Act can involve a 420,000 Australian dollar fine ($323,000). The privacy commissioner can also seek a court injunction and require offenders to pledge, under threat of further court action, to prevent further breaches.

FAIRFAX, Va.   The woman who lost her job after displaying her middle finger to President Donald Trump\'s motorcade is suing her employer.In the lawsuit filed Wednesday in Virginia, Juli Briskman claims Akima LLC violated state employment law because the government contractor feared retaliation.Briskman was on a weekend bike ride in October 2017 and was photographed making the offensive gesture when Trump\'s motorcade drove by. Her face was not visible, but she told her bosses what happened after the photo went viral.Briskman claims she was forced to resign for violating Akima\'s social media policy after she posted the photo on her Facebook page. She did not mention Akima.Briskman says Americans should not have to choose between "principles and their paychecks."Akima has not returned an email seeking comment.
(Reuters) - The city of San Francisco filed a lawsuit against U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday, asking a federal court to overturn his December decision to revoke legal guidance designed to protect minorities, the indigent and disabled.City Attorney Dennis Herrera said in a statement that his lawsuit focuses on six of the 25 different legal memos that Sessions rescinded, and accused the Trump administration of "trying to gut protections for the poor, people of color and people with disabilities under the guise of regulatory reform."A spokesman for Sessions did not have any immediate comment on the lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.In December 2017, Sessions announced he was doing away with legal guidance that he deemed to be "unnecessary, inconsistent with existing law, or otherwise improper."One such document, for instance, gave guidance on how state and local governments should accommodate disabled employees and integrate them into the work place, in order to protect them from discrimination and comply with a Supreme Court decision related to the Americans with Disabilities Act.Another cited the need to tread with care before imposing fines on juveniles who cannot pay them and how fines could lead to repeat offences.Thursday\'s lawsuit challenges the decision to rescind the memos under the arcane Administrative Procedure Act, or APA, which governs the process the federal government must follow when drafting new regulations.The lawsuit alleges that the Justice Department erred by failing to seek public comment before rescinding the documents, or providing a basis for the decision.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Dan Levine; editing by Tom Brown and Richard Chang)
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: During five trips to Iraq, Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State, gathering more than 15,000 pages of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Weve just published the results of our yearlong investigation. It shows that ISIS, known for its brutality, was also effective at wielding power through paperwork. Heres a closer look at some of the documents we collected, including tax collection forms, religious edicts and the will of a suicide bomber.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which follows our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covers the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here. Separately, President Trump wants to bring home the 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria. He dropped plans for an immediate withdrawal, but instructed military commanders to wrap up the mission within a few months. The latest dispute between the U.S. and China has been defined by reciprocity, with each side announcing matching tariffs.But if things continue to escalate, Beijing will have less room to maneuver and could resort to more unconventional measures, our senior economics correspondent writes.For now, the White House is trying to calm fears of a possible trade war. Administration officials hinted on Wednesday that tariffs outlined earlier in the week might never go into effect, but reiterated that China must stop what President Trump calls unfair trading practices. Heres how the showdown could affect U.S. manufacturers. Our correspondent in Mexico spoke with some of the Central American migrants cited by President Trump to justify sending troops to the southern border. (The caravans have also excited the conservative news media.)The group of more than 1,000 people, mostly women and children, is fleeing violence and poverty, but its members face an uncertain future. Who wants to leave their country, the comfort of their home, their families? one asked. White House officials confirmed plans on Wednesday to mobilize the National Guard to the border with Mexico, but gave few details about timing, the number of troops or their mission there. The countrys top court ruled today that former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva can be sent to prison while he appeals his conviction on corruption and money laundering charges.Mr. da Silva, 72, who was president from 2003 to 2011, was sentenced last year to almost 10 years in prison. His chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff, was removed from office in 2016. Mr. da Silva is the front-runner in the presidential election in October, and the courts decision raises questions about the legitimacy of the vote. Facebook said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm, far more than an earlier estimate of 50 million.The companys chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is scheduled to testify to Congress next week. Heres a guide to our coverage of the Cambridge Analytica story. Thousands of Google employees are urging their chief executive to end the companys involvement in a Pentagon program to improve the targeting of drone strikes. You cant be serious! That was the response of Sinclair Broadcast Groups chairman to criticism of a script about media bias that dozens of TV anchors at its stations were instructed to read out. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly and his lawyers worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. Now a judge has made the settlements public. U.S. stocks were up on Wednesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Flying somewhere? Take advantage of the changes at airports. How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry, with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Cambridge Analyticas parent company apparently helped Rodrigo Duterte win the Philippine presidential election, our former Europe Morning Briefing writer, Patrick Boehler, noted on Twitter. [South China Morning Post] As a onetime employee of Blockbuster Video, I was tickled to learn that a video store in Bend, Ore., is still operating under the name of the chain.Its the last one in the lower 48 states (there are six others in Alaska), and how they continue to do business is fascinating. [GeekWire] Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science Putting out a yearbook after a school shootingAfter the deadly attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High in February, the staff of the Aerie, the schools yearbook, had to decide how to honor the 17 people who died.This has to be remembered for the rest of our lives, one of the yearbooks editors told our reporter. Best sellers, via the Oval OfficePresidents past, present and future are represented on the latest hardcover nonfiction best-seller list.It includes a collection of Obama-era photographs, an inside account of the Trump White House, a book about the meaning of faith by former President Jimmy Carter, and an open letter to whoever becomes the first female president. Are you a teacher?We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think about the protests over pay and benefits, and what conditions are like at your school. Best of late-night TVMike Myers  in the form of his Austin Powers character Dr. Evil  told Jimmy Fallon that the wall between the U.S. and Mexico was actually his idea. Except, I wanted it to be a moat, filled with spiky blowfish. Quotation of the dayTariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating. Eswar Prasad, a professor of international trade at Cornell University, on the risk of a full-blown trade war between the U.S. and China. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. His mission, he said, was to use dance to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.As a tall, gangly boy from the Bronx, he discovered in high school that he had a flair for dancing and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night. He eventually turned the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming, and he had a weekly variety TV program, The Arthur Murray Party. That way, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, he  once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM PROPOSED TARIFF HIKEBeijing\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.2. STOCK MARKET SWINGS HAVE BEEN DIZZYINGTraders pin part of the blame on Washington, but they also see this rise of volatility as a return to normalcy following an unusually calm 2017.3. BORDER SITUATION REACHES \'A POINT OF CRISIS\'Trump signs a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.4. WHAT POLICE ARE SAYING ABOUT YOUTUBE SHOOTERNasim Aghdam, who wounded three people at the company\'s headquarters south of San Francisco, was prolific at posting videos and authorities say she was angry about YouTube\'s policies.5. RUSSIA CALLS DIPLOMAT EXPULSIONS \'MOCKERY\' OF THE LAWForeign Minister Sergey Lavrov says the nerve agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal was "staged" to justify the expulsions from many countries "whose arms were twisted."6. WHERE EVANGELIZING CAN BE DEADLYMissionaries along the China-North Korean border are engaged in the dangerous work of spreading Christianity to the North, sometimes with fatal consequences, AP learns.7. WHAT IS DRIVING IMAMS AWAY IN YEMENA spate of deadly drive-by shootings targeting Muslim clerics sparks fear in Aden, prompting some imams to quit and abandon their mosques while others have reportedly fled the country.8. COMFORT ANIMALS IN COURT DO OPPOSITE FOR SOME DEFENDERS, JUDGESAs pets are increasingly used in courts to comfort and calm prosecution witnesses, some say they could bias juries.9. SURGEON GENERAL URGES AMERICANS TO CARRY OVERDOSE ANTIDOTEThe nation\'s chief doctor wants more Americans to start carrying the overdose antidote naloxone to help combat the nation\'s opioid crisis and save lives.10. MASTERS SET TO TEE OFFJordan Spieth and Rory McIlroy are among the favorites at Augusta National as golf\'s first major gets underway.
This September, The Learning Network will turn 20. And this Sunday, well be in print for the first time.As you may know, our site was created in 1998 after The Times did a survey of loyal readers and asked how they were first introduced to the paper. Two answers dominated: My parents read it came first, but my teacher gave it to me was a close second. That supplied us with our mission  to help people teach and learn with Times content  and has guided what we do ever since.Now The Times is publishing a new quarterly section, called Learning, that will take over for the long-running Education Life  and work from our site, by students and by teachers, will be featured in every issue.For this inaugural April 8 edition, you can find: Drawings of President Trump submitted by students to this years Editorial Cartoon Contest. Nothing Less Than Heroic, a found poem by Ryan Nguyen, winner of last years annual April contest, which celebrates National Poetry Month. (To submit to this years contest, visit this page.) Selected answers from our question, What Do You Wish More People Understood About What Its Like to Be a Student in 2018? Selected answers from our question, What Do You Wish More People Knew About What Its Like to Be a Teacher in 2018? The comic at the top of this post, which was created by David Finkle, a Florida teacher and cartoonist, who sent in another comic in response to our question, and from whom the Learning editors then commissioned this one.So please pick up a paper this Sunday and look for us on Page 15 of the new section. And stay tuned, because well be regularly reaching out to you for ideas, opinions, drawings, photos and more for future editions.
NEW DELHI  Indias defense minister is visiting Moscow this week to finalize the purchase of a Russian missile defense system, Indian officials say, in a weapons deal that would violate American sanctions against Russia.The potential $6 billion deal comes at a time when the Trump administration is both weighing more extensive sanctions against Russia and trying to forge a military alliance with India. Indian officials say the agreement could be finalized as soon as this week, with India purchasing five S-400 Triumf systems, an antiaircraft missile array that can also intercept missiles.If the purchase goes through, the Trump administration would have to choose between punishing India for violating the sanctions or granting an exemption to avoid souring the relationship.The United States has been trying to cultivate India as a strategic ally and a hedge against Chinese military expansion. Washington has typically dangled defense deals as a way to improve military ties with countries, and it has courted India aggressively. Lockheed Martin offered last summer to move the production of F-16 fighter jets from Texas to India if India agreed to buy the plane.In the past few years youve seen a massive transition where more equipment is being bought from the U.S. Thats because the U.S. wants a closer relationship with India, and defense deals are essentially diplomatic deals, said Shailesh Kumar, the Asia director of the Eurasia Group, a geopolitical risk consulting firm.My suspicion is that America will not deem the S-400 purchase as sanctions-worthy, Mr. Kumar said. Theres too much at stake for bilateral relations. If the U.S. goes for sanctions, it will undermine the good will the U.S. has been trying to build up with India over the last two decades.Washington is increasing pressure on Moscow over its meddling in American elections and over the poisoning of a Russian spy in Salisbury, England, last month. American officials told Reuters that additional sanctions on Russia could be announced this week, expanding on a previous round that passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress in August.We are engaging with a range of countries to avert future defense acquisitions, and the secretary of state will take appropriate action when and if we determine sanctionable activity has occurred, a spokeswoman from the State Department said in an emailed response to questions. The spokeswoman did not specify what action Washington would take if the deal went through.Indias purchase of the S-400 had been stalled over the past year by pricing concerns, and an official at the Ministry of Defense said Thursday that negotiations in Moscow were ongoing.The potential purchase of the Russian missile system, also referred to by NATO as the SA-21 Growler, demonstrates Indias continued reliance on Russian military hardware at a time when the United States is trying to increase its arms sales to the country.Washingtons military sales to India went from nearly zero a decade and a half ago to some $15 billion today. Over the past five years, the United States has edged up to become Indias second largest arms supplier, just behind Russia. Russia accounted for 62 percent of arms sales to India over the past five years, down from 79 percent from 2008 to 2012, according to the Stockholm International Peace Institute, which tracks military spending.American officials acknowledge that Indias large stock of Russian equipment is a fact of life. But the pending S-400 deal is alarming to the Americans because it is a relatively new and state-of-the-art weapons system, not just an agreement to service existing equipment.The Russians are angry at India for going to the Americans for a lot of equipment, because India was their backyard as far as military purchases went, said Rahul Bedi of Janes Information Group, which tracks defense sales and is based in London. The Indians are scrambling to curry favor again with Russians and the S-400s are a way to do it.India will be hosting a defense exhibition next week, inviting global weapons manufacturers to showcase their hardware. The United States and Russia are both sending official delegations.Indias pending deal is also another potential setback to the United States struggling Patriot missile defense system, produced by Raytheon. Turkey, despite being a NATO ally, signed an agreement to buy the Russian S-400 system in December, ignoring American concerns.American officials have also tried to sway India to purchase Patriot missile systems instead of the S-400. But the Patriot system has faced recent scrutiny after it failed to protect Saudi Arabias capital from missiles fired by Houthi militants in Yemen.India wasnt very impressed with the Patriot compared with the S-400, which wins hands-down in capability, in its availability, service availability. Its a more efficient system, said Mr. Bedi of Janes.But, he added, India requires so much, theres enough food on the table for everyone to eat and have a go at it.
April 20 has become known as a day to celebrate the pleasures of marijuana consumption with parties that traditionally begin at 4:20 p.m.But a study in JAMA Internal Medicine has found that the high spirits may have a price: a significant increase in fatal car wrecks after the 4/20 party ends.Researchers used 25 years of data on car crashes in the United States in which at least one person died. They compared the number of fatal accidents between 4:20 p.m. and midnight on April 20 each year with accidents during the same hours one week before and one week after that date.Before 4:20 p.m. there was no difference between the number of fatalities on April 20 and the number on the nearby dates. But from 4:20 p.m. to midnight, there was a 12 percent increased risk of a fatal car crash on April 20 compared with the control dates. The increased risk was particularly large in drivers 20 and younger.These crashes really dont have to happen, said the senior author, Dr. Donald A. Redelmeier, a professor of medicine at the University of Toronto. In the Netherlands, theyve had legalized marijuana for years, but they have many more interventions  speed cameras, radar, sobriety checkpoints. The roads in the Netherlands are now much safer than those in the U.S.
LONDON   The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):6:30 p.m.Britain\'s Information Commissioner says some 30 organizations  including Facebook  are being investigated to see how social media platforms were used in political campaigns.Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham\'s statement Thursday comes a day after Facebook announced that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought. In all, Facebook says as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed.Denham says her office is "conducting a broader investigation into how social media platforms were used in political campaigning." She says the investigation could result in enforcement action.She says "Facebook has been co-operating with us and, while I am pleased with the changes they are making, it is too early to say whether they are sufficient under the law."___9:30 p.m. (Sydney time)The European Union is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws when millions of people had their data accessed through a leak.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said on Thursday that the bloc\'s justice chief Vera Jourova would have "high-level contacts in the coming days" with Facebook officials and also reach out to data protection officials, including the British authority which is leading the European investigation.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed."You can be sure that we will continue to follow these investigations by the relevant authorities closely," Wigand said.___4:30 p.m. (Sydney time)Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country\'s privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, without their authorization.Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said Thursday that the Privacy Act requires all organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. Customers must also be adequately notified about the collection and handling of personal information.Each breach of the Privacy Act can involve a 420,000 Australian dollar fine ($323,000). The privacy commissioner can also seek a court injunction and require offenders to pledge, under threat of further court action, to prevent further breaches.
SAN FRANCISCO   As a stock rebound on Thursday put the S&P 500 on track for its strongest three-day performance since 2016, a look at the recent performance of most of the index's components paints a different picture, illustrating signs of weakness in Wall Street's health.Cooling fears that Trump is starting a trade war with China helped the S&P 500 rebound 0.8 percent on Thursday and 2.9 percent over the past three sessions. But the S&P 500's recent volatility has left the index trading down 7 percent from its record high on Jan 26, and most of its components have fallen even further from their own recent highs as investors worry about high valuations and likely interest rate hikes.Nearly 18 percent of S&P 500 components have fallen 20 percent or more from their own one-year highs, according to Thomson Reuters data, putting them in bear-market territory. Another 41 percent of S&P 500 stocks are down between 10 and 20 percent from their year highs, a range that investor consider correction territory.(GRAPHIC: S&P 500 Bears - https://reut.rs/2JnINfK)Within the Dow Jones Industrial Average, General Electric has slumped 56 percent from its year high in April 2017, while Walmart is down 20 percent from its year high in January. Another 12 of the Dow's 30 components  have declined between 10 and 20 percent from their year highs.(GRAPHIC: Dow Bears - https://reut.rs/2JnINwg)The two largest U.S. companies by stock market value weathered Wall Street's recent volatility better than most, helping limit the S&P 500's loss in 2018 to under 1 percent. Apple and Microsoft are down 2.6 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively since the end of February, better than the S&P 500's 6 percent loss in that time. The two technology behemoths are down about 5 percent each from their own previous record highs.Amazon.com has fallen 5 percent in the past month but remains up 24 percent year to date, as investors continue to bet the online retailer and cloud computing behemoth will expand further into food retail and other markets.(Reporting by Noel Randewich)
WASHINGTON   George Papadopoulos, taken by surprise by FBI agents at an airport last summer, now tweets smiling beach selfies with a hashtag for the Greek resort island of Mykonos.Rick Gates, for weeks on home confinement, gets rapid approval for a family vacation and shaves down his potential prison time.Michael Flynn, once targeted in a grand jury investigation, travels cross-country to campaign for a California congressional candidate and books a New York speaking event.It pays to cooperate with the government.That\'s true in any criminal investigation. It\'s especially notable in a case as high profile as special counsel Robert Mueller\'s Russia inquiry, where deals for cooperators have raised speculation about incriminating information they\'re providing.The perks of cooperation include freer travel, lenient punishment prospects and even public comments by defendants that might have been unthinkable months ago.Compare that with the experiences of Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman who has refused to cooperate and faces decades in prison. And it sends the message that others could receive favorable treatment if they agree to work with investigators."There\'s no question that it\'s in the government\'s interest to take what steps they can to show that cooperating is in the interest of the defendant," said Daniel Petalas, a former federal prosecutor. "A basic principle of plea bargaining is that you have to make it worth it to the defendant to admit liability in a criminal matter."The latest example came Tuesday when Dutch lawyer Alex van der Zwaan was sentenced to 30 days in prison for lying to the FBI. Though his deal didn\'t explicitly require cooperation, the charge he pleaded guilty to carries a maximum five-year sentence and it\'s almost certain that he risked a longer punishment if convicted at trial. U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson said some incarceration was necessary to deter others from lying to investigators.Defendants who admit guilt are stained with criminal convictions, may forfeit liberties including the right to vote and put their jobs and reputation at risk. And they can still wind up with tough sentences.Given that uncertainty and stress, it\'s common for prosecutors looking to induce cooperation to make concessions, such as dismissing charges or agreeing to recommend a lighter sentence, especially for someone they think can help them build a case against a higher-value target."There is a societal interest, frankly, in having people cooperate with prosecutors because often the government only can know what\'s happened based on documentary evidence and witnesses that it speaks with," said Sharon McCarthy, a former federal prosecutor in New York. "But insiders who can give insight into conversations and planning and things like that are crucial to being able to make cases."There\'s nothing new about cutting deals, including for violent mobsters, but the tactics have drawn renewed scrutiny especially in conservative legal circles.Former Manhattan federal prosecutor Andrew McCarthy wrote last month in the National Review that Mueller was shirking Justice Department protocols by offering Gates, Manafort\'s co-defendant and a onetime Trump campaign aide, a "penny-ante plea" instead of requiring him to plead to the most serious charges he faced.Gates was initially charged in October in a 12-count indictment and faced well over a decade in prison. He pleaded guilty in February to just two charges. Under sentencing guidelines, he now faces fewer than six years or less, depending on the extent of his cooperation.He spent weeks on home confinement as a potential flight risk, repeatedly requesting, and generally receiving, permission to attend children\'s sporting games and holiday events in the region.The home confinement condition was lifted in January. Days after his plea, he filed a motion with the government\'s blessing asking to be able to ditch his GPS monitoring, but the judge said she was not ready to grant the motion at that time. He did, however, receive approval for a family trip to Boston for spring break, though that plan was aborted after he said threatening comments were posted online.Papadopoulos\'s carefree tweets, including smiling snapshots of his wife on his lap and beside him at the beach, are a far cry from the frowning mug shot taken after his arrest at Dulles International Airport last summer.Accused of lying to the FBI and facing the possibility of a lengthy sentence, he pleaded guilty in a secret court hearing and agreed to cooperate. Since then, he\'s resurfaced with a Twitter profile of more than 7,400 followers.Mueller\'s team includes lawyers with deep experience in organized crime and financial fraud cases, which frequently require flipping witnesses and sometimes involve aggressive maneuvering.Andrew Weissmann, one of the Gates prosecutors, indicted the wife of Enron\'s chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow, in 2003. The move was interpreted by some as a way to encourage Fastow himself to plead guilty and cooperate, which he ultimately did by testifying against high-level colleagues.Still, prosecutors understand that juries may look askance at sweetheart plea deals, especially with those who\'ve been publicly demonized, and that defense lawyers may subject cooperators to bruising cross-examinations."Prosecutors are going to be cognizant that there are always going to be credibility issues with cooperators," said former prosecutor Peter Zeidenberg, "but these are very experienced prosecutors and they\'re making a decision that, on balance, they\'re getting something in return."______This story has been corrected to say that judge didn\'t lift GPS monitoring for Gates.
DAKAR, Senegal  A former Guantnamo Bay detainee resettled in Senegal, who said that he feared for his life if he was forcibly taken to his native Libya, has disappeared from his once-guarded apartment in Dakar that now appears abandoned.The Senegalese government had said the man, Awad Khalifa, was not being deported. But neighbors said Mr. Khalifa and another former detainee from Libya, Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby, were taken away on Tuesday afternoon. Hours earlier, they had told a New York Times reporter visiting the apartment that they had received handwritten notices that they would be sent to Libya.In Libya, I will have no life, and theres no security there, said Mr. Khalifa, adding that when he told friends he was being sent home, They told me Im going to my death.Mr. Ghereby, who said he had family in Libya and connections protecting him there, apparently consented to repatriation. He contacted the international human rights organization Reprieve on Thursday from an airport in Tunisia saying he was en route to Libya. No one had been in touch with him since, and neither the Senegalese nor the American government would disclose the whereabouts of either man.Both were sent to Senegal two years ago as the Obama administration reduced the Guantnamo detainee population in its unsuccessful drive to close the prison. They were among dozens of low-level prisoners from troubled countries like Libya, Somalia or Yemen who were resettled in more stable nations that offered to take them in as a humanitarian gesture or a diplomatic favor to the United States.The murky fate of the two detainees put a spotlight on the Trump administrations decision to shutter the State Departments Office of the Special Envoy for Guantnamo Closure, which monitored resettled detainees and handled diplomatic issues that arose as they embarked on life after detention, seeking to reduce the risk of recidivism.We understood that we had an obligation to follow up with the receiving government on the detainees, said Daniel Fried, a former ambassador who was the special envoy in the Obama administrations first term. It sounds great to abolish the office  we are not closing Gitmo, therefore we dont need a Gitmo closure office, ha-ha, look how clever we are  but what you in fact are doing is losing the ability to follow up on these people, which is essential to security.Several former officials who handled detainee policy said the United States government should have worked to prevent the movement of any former detainees to Libya because it is a chaotic country with a weak central government and active Islamist militias. International law also prevents forcibly sending people to a place where they have a credible fear of abuse.In a statement, the State Department said that it continues to appropriately address issues that were previously tasked to the Office of the Special Envoy for Guantnamo Closure. It also said that it had reiterated to the government of Senegal our expectation that it will uphold its international obligations to both men but referred The Times to the Senegalese government for details.Lee S. Wolosky, who was the special envoy at the end of the Obama administration and negotiated the 2016 deal to resettle the two men in Senegal, said on Thursday that he had been told by a Senegalese diplomatic official that Mr. Ghereby had left the country but that Mr. Khalifa was not being forcibly deported, though he had been relocated within Senegal.Still, Mr. Khalifas cellphone has been turned off since Tuesday, and his lawyer, Ramzi Kassem, a law professor at the City University of New York, said he was worried that the Senegalese government had taken his client into custody and may still intend to follow through on its threat to deport him.Sending Mr. Khalifa to Libya would not only break the promise of safe asylum that both the United States and Senegal made to my client when he was at Guantnamo, but it would also violate the Convention Against Torture, Mr. Kassem said. Both Senegal and the United States would be responsible for any harm that would come to my client in Libya.Mr. Khalifa and Mr. Ghereby were arrested in Pakistan months after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, and turned over to the American military, which took them to Guantnamo on suspicion of having terrorist ties.During the Obama administration, representatives of six American security agencies decided both men should be transferred to a more stable country where they could be monitored. Senegal, a peaceful West African democracy, offered to take them in, and both were resettled there in April 2016.Resettlement agreements typically included a promise by the receiving country not to let former detainees travel abroad for two years. Mr. Kassem said he and his client, called Omar Khalifa Mohammed Abu Bakr in Defense Department documents, understood that the resettlement offer was for permanent residency, although officials familiar with such agreements said they are ambiguous about longer-term prospects.Last week, the two former detainees received the notices, written in Arabic, that they would be deported to Libya, prompting Mr. Kassem to begin raising alarms.A phone call from Mr. Wolosky, who stepped down in January 2017, may have helped stop an attempt to deport Mr. Khalifa for now. Mr. Wolosky reached out to the diplomat last week after a Times reporter called him about the issue, and said his inquiry appeared to bring to the attention of high-level Senegalese officials that midlevel civil servants were trying to send both men to Libya. The Intercept also published an article on Saturday about Mr. Khalifas feared deportation.On Sunday, Omar Bald, an official with the Senegalese ministry of communications, said Mr. Khalifa was not going to be deported.Still, in the interview over orange juice on Tuesday morning at Mr. Khalifas apartment, both men said they had not been told the deportation was off. While Mr. Ghereby said his family ties would probably protect him from violent militias in Libya, Mr. Khalifa said he had no such connections and feared for his life. He also said he was engaged to a Senegalese woman.It was unclear why Senegalese officials wanted to deport the men, but both had many complaints about their life in Senegal. They had also repeatedly visited the United States Embassy to air grievances, including a desire for larger meals. Neither man had been issued identification papers, which they had been promised, they said, and would allow them greater flexibility for travel. Mr. Khalifas requests to the Senegalese authorities for glasses and a better-fitting prosthetic leg took months to be fulfilled, Mr. Kassem said. And Mr. Ghereby said that his wife and children from Libya had not been permitted to stay with him in Senegal.Mr. Wolosky said that officials in the Obama administration centralized the monitoring of former detainees in a high-level State Department office to prioritize problem-solving and reduce the risk that something would go wrong. By closing his former office and foisting that responsibility on to junior embassy officials around the world, the Trump administration is effectively washing the United States hands of the matter, he said.The office should have stayed open, Mr. Wolosky said. Any catastrophic failures that happen from this point forward are the sole responsibility of the Trump administration.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Gavin Newsom is the lieutenant governor, a former San Francisco mayor and a leading Democrat to replace Gov. Jerry Brown. California Today has been doing occasional question-and-answer sessions with candidates for office. Todays interview with Mr. Newsom, edited and condensed for clarity, was conducted for our article on the race.Q. Were there things Jerry Brown did you would continue?A. Oh, the one that gets me in trouble question. Browns perfect. (Laughs) Look  hes done an extraordinary job. Its important to remind folks where we were seven years ago: 12.4 percent unemployment, $27 billion budget deficit. Now we are having a raging debate about the size of the surplus. This state has turned a corner.Q. What has not gone right?A. Were not all rowing in the same direction. We are the richest and the poorest state. Eight million living below the poverty line, 40 percent of our kids at or near the poverty line. Inequality is the issue that is going to define a good part of my tenure. To say it happened on our watch is accurate.Q. Has the governor paid enough attention to homelessness?A. He has on the margins. But have we designed a framework to regionalize solutions and to have the state drive the effort? No. And I intend to do that. We have never had a governor particularly animated by homelessness.Q. Do you support the proposal by Senator Scott Wiener to override local zoning and permit construction of eight-story housing near transit lines?A. I told him point blank, I would not sign this bill, but I love what you are doing. How can I help? No sooner than did we have that conversation than hes already made substantive amendments, on rent control protection. He realizes one size does not fit all. The spirit of what he is doing is right.Q. I get the spirit. But what about the concept?A. Its a crisis. We cant live on intentions. At the end of the day, if you want to move the mouse, youve got to move the cheese. The middle class of the state is leaving in droves. This is a Code Red in California.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before, according to the police, she went to YouTube headquarters and shot three people before killing herself. (The New York Times) The move by the Trump White House to roll back air-emission standards isnt going over well with editorial boards. If Trumps E.P.A. wants a war over California fuel economy standards, war it is, The San Diego Union Tribune said. The Trump administration seems just as determined to drag America backward to more dependence on dirty fossil fuels, The Fresno Bee said. If youve got it, why not? Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the Saudi ruler, has rented out all 285 rooms in the Four Seasons Hotel for his visit to Los Angeles. (Hollywood Patch) A Republican candidate for governor, Travis Allen, has a proposal for dealing with Californias homeless crisis: Build state institutions and force homeless people to live there, if necessary. California citizens have a right to clean streets, to clean cities. (Sacramento Bee) The Motion Picture Association of America has a new chairman, who has a background in diplomacy and the Muppets. (The New York Times) The Bay Area is looking at a month of rain in two days. Looks like the rainy season isnt over yet. (The San Francisco Chronicle) A major coup for Apple as it seeks to catch up with its rivals on artificial intelligence: It snagged Googles chief of search and artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea. (The New York Times) San Franciscos latest subway project looks as if its coming to fruition. The final station for Munis Central Subway is rising to the street. Still, the all aboard moment wont happen until December 2019. (San Francisco Chronicle) The parents of two people killed by immigrants are pushing for a state initiative to nullify the sanctuary city laws passed by the state. You already have no right to be here, one of the parents said. (Sacramento Bee) Can President Trump station troops along Californias border with Mexico? Maybe not. (Los Angeles Times) Its getting awfully expensive to drive in San Diego. Gas prices rose to $4 a gallon the other day. (San Diego Union-Tribune). Oh, and the average rent in San Diego hit a new high last month. (San Diego Union-Tribune) Bonnie Reiss, a former state secretary of education and longtime confidante of Arnold Schwarzenegger, died this week at 62. Mr. Schwarzenegger wrote a tribute, calling her a true treasure to California. (Fox & Hounds)Frank Gehry, 89, the architect, and Wolfgang Puck, 68, the restaurateur, are Los Angeles institutions.The city brims with testimonials to both mens work. Mr. Pucks flagship restaurant, Spago, is in Beverly Hills. Mr. Gehry is involved in all kinds of projects, including a revitalization of the Los Angeles River and an expansion of the Colburn School near the Walt Disney Concert Hall, which he also designed.And now, they are teaming up on a project: A Gehry-designed restaurant by Mr. Puck on the beach in the Pacific Palisades.The project would replace Gladstones Restaurant, along Will Rogers State Beach. The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, which runs the concession, has agreed to negotiations with Mr. Puck and Mr. Gehry to rebuild it.The sketch above suggests what Mr. Gehry has in mind for the design. But what kind of food? (Please dont say farm to table.) We will work together to deliver approachable, high-quality cuisine in a distinct architectural setting, Mr. Puck said.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
A Trump administration proposal to steeply increase entrance fees to the most popular national parks landed with a thud when it was presented in November, and park officials say they are now reconsidering it.The proposal, which would apply during the peak visitor season to 17 parks including the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone and Yosemite, called for a $70 fee for noncommercial vehicles, up from $30. The fee for motorcycles would rise to $50 from $25, while pedestrians and cyclists would be charged $30, up from $15.Officials received more than 109,000 comments during a monthlong public comment period last year, with most commenters writing against the increase. Many said they would no longer be able to afford a trip, or would choose other options for vacations.If you enact this insane fee, I will no longer be able to afford to visit the national parks, one said. If that is your ultimate goal, well done.A National Park Service spokesman said this week the plan was still being reviewed and not yet finalized.Weve taken the publics suggestions seriously and have amended the plan to reflect those, the service said in a statement.No information was available about how the plan was amended. But some lawmakers hope a bipartisan bill introduced in March, led by Representative Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, could address funding shortfalls. It would use revenue from energy produced on federal lands to chip away at a backlog of maintenance projects, estimated to cost more than $11 billion, at national parks.Richard Dolesh, vice president for strategic initiatives at the National Recreation and Park Association, an advocacy group, said he was pleased that the administration appeared to be moving away from the initial proposal.He said his group was not opposed to a more moderate fee increase, but that higher fees alone would not address the maintenance backlog, which includes basic infrastructure needs like rebuilding roads and facility improvements.It really needs the attention of Congress, and it needs dedicated long-term funding to address it, he said.The proposal would cover national parks including Acadia, Arches, Bryce Canyon, Canyonlands, Denali, Glacier, Grand Canyon, Grand Teton, Joshua Tree, Mount Rainier, Rocky Mountain, Olympic, Sequoia and Kings Canyon, Shenandoah, Yellowstone, Yosemite and Zion.Advocates are concerned the $70 fee would make the parks inaccessible to lower-income families, which Mr. Dolesh said could have the long-term effect of the next generation never learning to love parks.A survey of 1,000 Americans by the Outdoors Alliance for Kids in December found that 64 percent said theyd be less likely to visit a park if the fees were increased, including 71 percent of parkgoers with an income under $30,000.Among public comments the National Park Service gathered, many said they would no longer be able to afford park visits, or expressed concern for those who wouldnt.Our parks are for ALL of the American people, not just those who are wealthy, one person wrote. This increase needs to be stopped. Give the parks the money they need out of the federal governments budget, not the pockets of the people.We do not want our parks to become only a destination for the wealthy and for foreign tourists  these parks are Americas heritage, and everyone deserves to see them, another wrote.Still, others were supportive of the fee increase, citing the need for improvements.Its too bad these necessary maintenance and upgrades must come at the expense of access by the less well-off, but such is todays political climate, one person wrote. Raise the fees.
WASHINGTON  The United States Surgeon General, Dr. Jerome M. Adams, issued a national advisory Thursday urging more Americans to keep on hand and learn how to use the drug naloxone, which can save the lives of people overdosing on opioids. Naloxone has already revived thousands of overdose victims as the opioid epidemic has intensified, but rescue workers have usually been the ones to administer it.It was the first advisory issued by a surgeon general since 2005, and it underscored the urgency of addressing an opioid epidemic that has killed more than 250,000 people over the past decade, including more than 42,000 people in 2016.Dr. Adams said making naloxone more available in communities across the country is critical to reducing overdose deaths among people prescribed high doses of opioids for pain, as well as those who abuse painkillers or illicit opioids like fentanyl and heroin.Each day we lose 115 Americans to an opioid overdose  thats one person every 12.5 minutes, Dr. Adams said in a statement. It is time to make sure more people have access to this lifesaving medication, because 77 percent of opioid overdose deaths occur outside of a medical setting and more than half occur at home.Naloxone can be administered through a nasal mist or an injection, suspending the effects of an overdose and resuscitating the victim. Many police officers and emergency medical technicians already carry the drug, and most states and many cities have issued standing orders allowing anyone to get naloxone at a pharmacy without a prescription. Most insurance plans cover it, and people can sometimes get it for free or low cost through public health programs or manufacturer discounts.Dr. Adams, who is scheduled to speak on Thursday at a conference in Atlanta, emphasized in the advisory that more opioid users, as well as their families and friends and anyone who regularly comes into contact with them, should carry naloxone.The last advisory from a surgeon general, in 2005, warned pregnant women against drinking any alcohol; a previous advisory in 1981 urged pregnant women to limit the amount of alcohol they drank.The biggest factor in the increase in overdoses has been synthetic fentanyl and related highly toxic substances. Drug deaths involving fentanyl more than doubled from 2015 to 2016, accompanied by an upturn in deaths involving cocaine and methamphetamines. Together they add up to an epidemic of drug overdoses that is killing people at a faster rate than the H.I.V. epidemic at its peak.Fentanyl is so powerful that emergency responders have often had to use multiple doses of naloxone to revive people who overdosed on it. Some critics have said it gives drug users a safety net, allowing them to overdose repeatedly with the assurance that they can be revived. But public health experts dismiss that notion as ridiculous, like saying seatbelts encourage riskier driving.The price of naloxone has risen sharply as it has become more in demand, and though individuals can often get it at little or no cost through insurance or public programs, many local police, fire and health departments are struggling with the growing cost, which takes ever-larger chunks of their budgets.Dr. Leana Wen, the health commissioner in Baltimore, said her city has to ration naloxone because it cant afford to keep a stockpile on hand. She called on the Trump administration to negotiate directly with the manufacturers of naloxone to make it available at a steeply discounted rate.Every week, we count the doses we have left and make hard decisions about who will receive the medication and who will have to go without, she said in a statement. The federal government needs to follow their policy guidance with specific actions to actually ensure access.She added, We should not be priced out of the ability to save lives.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The Islamic States paper trail, Beijings Bible ban and sexism at the sumo ring. Heres what you need to know: Five trips to Iraq. More than 15,000 documents. One collapsed caliphate.We published the results of a yearlong investigation, in which Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State that were abandoned by the militants.It shows that ISIS fighters, known for their brutality, were also effective administrators.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which followed our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covered the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here.The U.S. military, meanwhile, is spending about $1 million on makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners in Syria, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid._____ China is not afraid of a trade war. That was a senior Chinese finance official who also said that the new China would never succumb to external pressure.Some of that is believable: Beijing has a strong grip on banks, the news media and politics. It also seems willing to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the U.S. political system. (China also has some unconventional weapons to make life harder for American companies.)Even so, our veteran correspondent writes that in the cold-eyed calculus of economics, China is more vulnerable to a trade war than officials admit. Heres blow-by-blow account of what has transpired so far.And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers worry about the effect on U.S. agriculture._____ Beijings strong grip is also evident in the religious sphere.The government has banned online retailers from selling the Bible, a move in step with recent efforts to limit the influence of Christianity.The recent reorganization of Chinas governmental agencies put a hard-line faction in charge of the Communist Partys religious policy, and there are concerns that a broader crackdown may be looming._____ Its not quite twilight for fossil fuels.The world added more power from solar than any other energy source last year, and the price is dropping. But solar still accounts for a tiny fraction of total electricity  coal is still the king.The same country that leads the world in renewable-energy investment  in solar, wind, biomass and geothermal  also leads the coal consumption. Yes, China (by far)._____ Sumo wrestling, which does not allow women in the ring, is under scrutiny in Japan after a nurse doing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and others were shooed away from a mayor who collapsed while giving a speech.In a country that consistently ranks low among developed countries on gender equality in health, education, the economy and politics, the episode was seen as a metaphor for how Japan regards women  even if theyre trying to save a life. Plaintiffs in a lawsuit against Harvard are demanding that the university publicly release admissions data, saying that the records show a pattern of discrimination against Asian-Americans going back decades. Myanmar slammed Mark Zuckerberg. Civil society groups said the Facebook chief mischaracterized his companys effectiveness at quashing hate speech in the country. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. A judge has made the settlements public. Bumble and Tinder, two of the worlds most popular dating apps, are not compatible. U.S. stocks were up. The Shanghai stock exchange is closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before she went to YouTubes headquarters, shot three people and killed herself. [The New York Times] India is finalizing the $6 billion purchase of a Russian missile defense system, a deal that would force the Trump administration to choose between punishing India for violating U.S. sanctions on Russia  or granting an exemption to preserve their relationship. [The New York Times] A South Korean university is seeking to end a boycott by some of the worlds top artificial intelligence experts, insisting that its partnership with an arms company would stop short of making autonomous lethal weapons. [BBC] The Bollywood star Salman Khan was sentenced to five years in prison and fined for killing rare antelopes. Mr. Khans lawyers said they would appeal, extending a 20-year legal battle. [The New York Times] Vietnam sentenced Nguyen Van Dai, a human rights lawyer, to 15 years, along with five other activists who were given prison terms between seven and 12 years. [Reuters] Spain is aghast after footage of what appeared to be a public spat between Queen Sofa of Spain and her daughter-in-law, Queen Letizia, spread on social media. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: This weekend, plan to make a batch of one-pot meatballs and sauce. Can coffee  rev up your workout? Distracted by  Facebook Messenger, or just worried about its intrusions into your phone? Heres how to uninstall. The question at the Masters: Will Tiger Woods be the golf champion of old? We have live scores, updates and analysis. Inseparable is Yunte Huangs history of the original Siamese twins, from their childhood in Asia to their servitude in America to their eventual life of Southern comfort. (They fathered at least 21 children.) And  the pairing of astronomers algorithms for star-hunting with drones equipped with infrared cameras offers a new way to aid conservation and fight poaching.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Admiral Robert Peary, above, claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.Mr. Peary would go down in the history books as the first man to set foot at the North Pole.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it was his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Correction:  Thursdays briefing misstated Arthur Murrays birthday. It was April 4, 1895, not April 5._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
ALBANY  The announcement, in retrospect, was probably the easy part.On Wednesday afternoon in his Manhattan office, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo sat between two formerly sworn Democratic rivals  Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins and Senator Jeffrey D. Klein  and declared a truce in their seven-year civil war, one that has intensified since the election of President Trump.We cant take another two years like the past two years, said Mr. Cuomo, a second-term Democrat seeking re-election  and facing a challenge from the left. This is eroding the progressive soul of New York.Under the agreement, Ms. Stewart-Cousins will become leader of the reunified Senate Democrats, and Mr. Klein, formerly the leader of the renegade Independent Democratic Conference that had collaborated with the Republicans to rule the Senate, will be demoted to serving as her deputy.And while both leaders thanked the governor for brokering the peace  under which the I.D.C. had dissolved in the course of an afternoon, like a jellyfish on a hot beach  neither Ms. Stewart-Cousins nor Mr. Klein seemed particularly ecstatic as their new partnership debuted.Lets see how well we do, Ms. Stewart-Cousins said.Sometimes you have to take a step back before you can take two steps forward, said Mr. Klein.Indeed, despite the governors carefully staged kumbaya moment, there are many logistical, political and practical questions about what the future holds for the reunited Democrats and what changes might be afoot.The most immediate answer, of course, is not much: Despite the I.D.C.s eight senators joining with Ms. Stewart-Cousinss 21 members, the Democrats are still short of a majority in the 63-seat chamber, something that Republicans who control the chamber were quick to note, and mock, on Wednesday.Simple math tells you that 29 out of 63 is not a majority, said Senator Rich Funke, an upstate Republican, who also called Mr. Cuomos announcement worst deal to take place in New York City since the Yankees 10-year deal with A-Rod.The possible addition of two more Democrats through special elections on April 24 will still leave the party just shy of the magic 32 needed for a majority because of the continued defection of State Senator Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat who caucuses with the Republicans. On Wednesday, Mr. Felder, too, seemed to tamp down expectations, repeating that while he had no loyalty to any party, he seemed happy enough with the G.O.P. I think its fair to say that I would have to feel a compelling reason to leave, he said.Still, there are some indications that things will be different  particularly for members of Mr. Kleins now-defunct faction  when the Legislature returns to Albany on April 16. Thanks to their agreement with the G.O.P., members of the I.D.C. had enjoyed the perks of committee chairmanships, which come with the power to steer legislation and handsome bonuses (known as lulus in Albany parlance). Two members of Mr. Kleins conference had also been paid as vice-chairs of committees, a practice the state comptroller ruled improper in recent weeks.But those chairmanships are likely to be taken away by the Republican leader, State Senator John J. Flanagan of Long Island, who is said to have only heard about the pending reunification early Wednesday from Mr. Klein, his longtime political partner. The I.D.C. also had enjoyed other benefits, including larger staffs and offices; the status of those perks is still under discussion, according to Scott Reif, a spokesman for Mr. Flanagan.In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Klein himself seemed to confirm this, saying, Clearly, things are going to change.At the same time, the governors election-year embrace of Democratic unity does not seem to have quelled opposition to the I.D.C., which has worked with the Republicans for most of Mr. Cuomos time in office. On Thursday, at Foley Square in Manhattan, a succession of Democratic primary challengers to I.D.C. members blasted the deal as too little, too late, particularly because it came after the passage of the states $168 billion budget, during which time Mr. Klein  then regarded as one of four leaders in top-level negotiations  was still cooperating with Republicans.Were going to remember those who were in bed with the Republicans  the party of Trump, said Allan Roskoff, the president of the  Jim Owles Liberal Democratic Club, which advocates for gay, lesbian, transgender and bisexual rights.Others  including Mr. Cuomos Democratic challenger, the actress Cynthia Nixon  have also suggested that the timing of reconciliation was orchestrated to inoculate the governor and the I.D.C. from primary challenges, a theme picked up by Republicans as well. (One speaker at the Foley Square event called the I.D.C. deal the Democratic Primary Discouragement Act.)Lets be honest, said Mr. Reif. The only reason that any of this is happening now is because Andrew Cuomo is scared to death of Cynthia Nixon.Mr. Cuomo and his surrogates rejected this narrative, saying they had been working on a deal between Ms. Stewart-Cousins and Mr. Klein since last summer, and had fostered a tentative deal in November. It had nothing to do with it, the governor said on Wednesday, in response to a question about Ms. Nixon.The governor has also emphasized that the deal he announced is actually secondary to efforts in the fall to elect a wave of Democrats at every governmental level.How the Senate might operate on a daily basis is also an open question. Under rules adopted for this session, the I.D.C. is regarded as a separate conference in the chamber and part of a ruling coalition. Indeed, even if Mr. Felder were to side with Democrats, Republicans argue that rules might not allow a change in majority leadership, because rules cannot be changed without 38 votes, beyond even unified Democrats. Democrats disagree, but legal battles could follow.The uncertainty surrounding the Senate  and its now shifting loyalties  has also led to speculation that little, if anything, will get done between now and the end of the legislative session in June.On Thursday, no physical changes were visible in Albany; Mr. Kleins suite of offices, on the top floor of a legislative office building, were intact. Mr. Klein said he expected to conference with his fellow Democrats in the Senate when the Legislature returns to work. He said he would also dip into the I.D.C.s campaign funds  some $1.2 million as of January  to support Democrats, as well as fending off primary challenges to his fellow I.D.C. alumni.Mr. Klein said he remained proud of what the I.D.C. had accomplished  voting to pass things like paid family leave, a raise in the minimum wage and same-sex marriage  over its seven years of dissidence.I still believe, at the time, he said, it was a good thing.
Mick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has complained that the regulator engages in wasteful spending and needs to be slimmed down. To underscore the point, he submitted a quarterly budget request recently that was a nice round number: $0.That attitude, though, apparently didnt apply to two of his recent hires.Mr. Mulvaney appointed two senior staff members who are paid salaries of more than $230,000, amounts that are far above what they had been earning in their previous government jobs in Washington, according to agency documents obtained by The New York Times through a public records request.The consumer bureau, as well as fellow financial regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is allowed under federal law to pay employees significantly more than other government agencies can pay. The rationale is that the higher salaries are necessary to recruit skilled employees who otherwise might land jobs on Wall Street.As a result, the C.F.P.B. is stocked with employees who earn more than the average Washington bureaucrat. Of the agencys 1,600 employees, 219 make more than $200,000, according to the records reviewed by The Times.The Trump administration and Republican lawmakers have been trying to defang the agency, which they view as overly tough on the finance industry. One weapon they have tried to employ  so far, unsuccessfully  is to reduce the amount of money the agency can pay employees.But Mr. Mulvaney was willing to shell out top dollar for his highest-ranking appointees.When Mr. Mulvaney hired Kirsten Sutton in January to be the agencys chief of staff, he agreed to pay her $259,500 a year, according to the documents obtained by The Times. Her salary is the highest allowed under the consumer bureaus pay scale. (The hiring documents identify her as Kirsten Mork, but professionally, she uses the surname Sutton.)That salary represents a raise of more than 50 percent from what Ms. Sutton earned in her previous job working for one of the C.F.P.B.s fiercest critics, Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. Last year, as the committees staff director, she earned a salary of about $170,000, according to data from LegiStorm, which tracks congressional salaries.Ms. Sutton is making 22 percent more than her predecessor, Leandra English, who earned $212,324 as chief of staff, according to the office of Senator Ron Johnson. Mr. Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican, had requested Ms. Englishs pay records as part of an inquiry into the C.F.P.B.s hiring practices.Like Ms. Sutton, Brian Johnson, another new deputy, previously worked on the House Financial Services Committee. In his most recent job there, as policy director, he earned about $170,000 a year, according to LegiStorm.When he agreed to join the C.F.P.B. as a senior adviser, Mr. Johnson was sent a letter from a federal human resources employee. Welcome and congratulations, said the Dec. 1 letter, which set his starting salary at $220,000.Before Mr. Johnsons first paycheck even arrived, his salary already had been raised. In late December, Mr. Mulvaney signed paperwork that awarded Mr. Johnson a salary of $239,595. The document didnt say why Mr. Johnsons salary had gone up by $19,000, and a C.F.P.B. spokeswoman declined to comment on the increase.Of the 20 people at the bureau with the title of senior adviser, Mr. Johnson is the second-highest paid. (Another adviser, whose name wasnt disclosed in the public records reviewed by The Times, is paid $240,000.)Non-career staff are being paid on par with the career staff who directly report to them, Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer bureau, said in a written response to questions from The Times. Her statement blamed Richard Cordray, the agencys previous director, for setting the precedent of paying large salaries to senior leaders.Ms. Sutton and Mr. Johnson did not respond to requests for comment.Mr. Mulvaney himself is not collecting a salary at the bureau. He is on temporary loan from the Office of Management and Budget, where he is paid a base salary of $199,700, according to FedSmith, which tracks federal employee salaries. Federal rules generally prohibit employees from being paid by more than one agency even when they are juggling multiple jobs, as Mr. Mulvaney is.The consumer bureaus high salaries have long been a sore point for the agencys critics. Republican lawmakers have repeatedly introduced legislation  most recently in November  that would reduce salaries at the agency by shifting its workers to the governments standard pay scale. Under that scale, salaries generally max out at $164,200. Democrats have blocked each attempt.Ms. Howard, the agency spokeswoman, said that Mr. Mulvaney would be happy to work with Congress to change the bureaus pay practices.In the latest White House budget proposal that Mr. Mulvaneys office prepared, the Trump administration blasted the consumer bureau for its history of poor financial and personnel management decisions. It also asked Congress to curb the agencys authority and cap its 2019 budget.Meanwhile, Mr. Mulvaney is starving the bureau of cash. He requested $0 last quarter from the Federal Reserve, which funds the bureau, and instead drew on a $177 million reserve fund the agency had stockpiled.He has described some payroll cuts he would like to make.I found out yesterday that Im paying people  its amazing what you learn in these places  Im paying people at the C.F.P.B. to do economics research on climate change, Mr. Mulvaney said last month at a meeting of state attorneys general. Not sure how that happened, but were going to see if we cant figure out a way to change that.Mr. Mulvaney is scheduled to appear next week before two congressional committees, where Democrats are likely to grill him on his decision to end lawsuits against and investigations of some payday lenders. The agency has initiated no new enforcement actions since Mr. Mulvaney took over.This week, Mr. Mulvaney repeated his plea for Congress to hamstring the agency  which he called far too powerful, and with precious little oversight  by stripping away its funding and rule-making power.
 Good Thursday. Heres what were watching: Jamie Dimon chafes under liquidity rules. Mark Zuckerberg has disclosed more on how much Facebook user data may have been accessed. The White House is still talking tough on trade with China. Blackstones infrastructure fund isnt doing so well.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.On Wall Street, theres been a running parlor game about whether Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chases chief executive, would try to run for president in 2020. His annual letters, filled with commentary on U.S. policy, have only increased the chatter, and this years letter, released Thursday, is no different. It touches on everything from trade to immigration. While Mr. Dimon, who once called himself barely a Democrat, says he plans to stay at the bank for the next five years, the question among political prognosticators is whether Mr. Dimons policy views could ever find a home among voters in this politically polarized environment.Mr. Dimons sensible letter was seemingly supportive of some of President Trumps policies, while taking the opposing side on others. Mr. Dimon particularly applauded the corporate tax cut and deregulation efforts. On China trade, Mr. Dimon writes: It is not unreasonable for the United States to press ahead for more equivalency, and that one of the administrations best arguments is that negotiation alone has not worked. However, he said he would like to see more cooperation with U.S. allies on talks with China and added that the U.S. should revisit the Trans-Pacific Partnership.On immigration, he called for tougher border control, writing, American citizens have the right to complain that we have not successfully protected our borders since the last immigration reform in 1986. He also said, People immigrating to this country should be taught American history, our language and our principles. At the same time, he also advocated for a path to legal status and citizenship for Dreamers and improving merit-based immigration programs so that immigrants educated here can stay.Mr. Dimon made a point of saying that part of the problems facing the country is that too many people are talking past each other.When people argue as if there are binary solutions, the argument is almost always wrong, he wrote, advocating that people try to look at all sides of a situation. I tell my liberal friends to read columnists like Arthur Brooks and George Will. And I tell my conservative friends to read writers like Tom Friedman.If Mr. Dimon were to run, he would likely have to do so as an independent. It is hard to see how liberal Democrats would embrace much of his deregulatory positions. And yet many of his positions  and especially some of his social positions not enunciated in his letter  may not be far right enough to capture the interest of Republicans.Maybe the country needs someone in the middle, but history has not been kind to third-party candidates. Andrew Ross SorkinJamie Dimon, in his annual letter to JPMorgan Chases shareholders, had much to say about political issues like trade and immigration.But he also addressed a policy area much closer to home  bank regulation. Mr. Dimon often has expressed skepticism about aspects of the banking overhaul that took place in the wake of the financial crisis. But his remarks on regulation arguably carry more weight now. Congress is closer to modifying the post-crisis rules than at any point since Dodd-Frank was signed into law in 2010. An important regulatory requirement Mr. Dimon criticized, therefore, might become a focus for those wanting to roll back the rules.Mr. Dimon in this years letter zeroed in on regulations that require banks to have a certain amount of liquidity, the financial term for access to cash or low-risk assets that can be easily sold for cash.In 2008, some large financial firms were crippled when customers, depositors and creditors withdrew their money. The Federal Reserve and taxpayers had to step in to support the banks. To help prevent a repeat of this, post-crisis rules require that banks hold a certain amount of liquid assets to cover a theoretical level of outflows. Mr. Dimon is in favor of banks having more liquidity than before the crisis, but in the letter, released Thursday, he wrote:Notably, legislation currently in Congress would tweak liquidity rules. If it passes, bankers may press for more loosening. And, as they have before, bank lobbyists may deploy Mr. Dimons main argument here  that regulation can lead to less lending. But there are flaws in this line of attack, especially when it comes to liquidity rules.First, a bank that lacks liquidity is in no position to lend. When a banks creditors and customers fear it doesnt have enough cash in reserve, they will most likely withdraw their money. This not only deprives the bank of the money it needs to lend, it also sharply reduces its chance of survival. Or as Gregg Gelzinis of the left-leaning Center for American Progress puts it, You wont be able to take this action if you fail.Perhaps more importantly, Mr. Dimon leaves out some crucial context. Congress designed the whole post-crisis overhaul to ensure that banks have the funds on hand to lend during a downturn. Dodd-Franks architects saw that when banks stop lending, it makes a recession far worse. And that is one reason why banks now have much higher levels of capital. Regulators expect that they will use up some of that capital to keep lending through the economic tumult. This is why the Federal Reserve said after its last bank stress tests:Andrew Gray, a JPMorgan spokesman, followed up with more material on Mr. Dimons thinking on liquidity.He re-emphasized Mr. Dimons point about having to tie up funds that could be used to make loans. Mr. Gray noted that a bank facing outflows would be expected to keep refilling its pool of liquid assets to be in compliance with a liquidity regulation. This would leave fewer funds for lending and making markets, Mr. Gray asserted.He also addressed the argument that higher capital levels, not liquidity, will largely determine the extent to which banks will lend through a downturn. Mr. Gray asserted that liquidity rules play an important role in ensuring banks have the resources to participate in wider financial markets. Rules forcing the hoarding of liquidity may, thus, crimp that activity. Peter EavisMick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has complained that the regulator engages in wasteful spending. He even submitted a quarterly budget request recently of $0.That attitude apparently didnt apply to two of his recent hires.Mr. Mulvaney appointed two senior staff members who are paid salaries far above what they had been earning in their previous government jobs in Washington, according to agency documents obtained by The New York Times through a public records request. Kirsten Sutton was hired in January to be the agencys chief of staff. Mr. Mulvaney agreed to pay her $259,500 a year. Her salary is the highest allowed under the consumer bureaus pay scale and represents a raise of more than 50 percent working for one of the C.F.P.B.s fiercest critics, Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. It is also 22 percent more than her predecessor. Brian Johnson is another new deputy. In late December, Mr. Mulvaney signed paperwork that awarded Mr. Johnson a salary of $239,595. Mr. Johnson previously worked on the House Financial Services Committee. In his most recent job there, as policy director, he earned about $170,000 a year, according to LegiStorm. Of the 20 people at the bureau with the title of senior adviser, Mr. Johnson is the second-highest paid. (Another adviser, whose name wasnt disclosed in the public records reviewed by The Times, is paid $240,000.)ContextThe consumer bureau, as well as fellow financial regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is allowed under federal law to pay employees significantly more than other government agencies can pay. The rationale is that the higher salaries are necessary to recruit skilled employees who otherwise might land jobs on Wall Street.As a result, the C.F.P.B. is stocked with employees who earn more than the average Washington bureaucrat. Of the agencys 1,600 employees, 219 make more than $200,000, according to the records reviewed by The Times. Stacy CowleyBlackRock, the worlds largest money manager, plans to offer a series of new products allowing individuals and institutions to invest in market indexes without putting money into manufacturers and retailers of firearms.They include: a new exchange-traded fund that will track the performance of the MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index, composed of small stocks with favorable environmental, social and governance standards, while specifically excluding producers and large retailers of civilian firearms. a similar credit-focused ETF that eschews the debt of gunmakers and distributors. an option to take the guns out of institutional strategies tracking major market indexes, including the S&P 500, the Russell 2000 and three others.Critics cornerRob Cox of Breakigviews writes:What emerged from Facebook yesterday  in Mark Zuckerbergs conference call with reporters and in a company blog post  were revelations that users public data was more compromised than previously thought. Facebook said Cambridge Analytica harvested the data of 87 million users, not 50 million. A vulnerability in search and account recovery functions may have exposed most of Facebooks 2 billion users to unauthorized harvesting of their public profile information.Mr. Zuckerberg, ahead of his testimony to Congress, struck a conciliatory tone. But regulators in Australia, the U.S. and elsewhere are investigating whether the company broke privacy rules.Facebook also outlined steps to prevent misuse of its platform. Among the most significant: restriction of access to so-called A.P.I.s that let developers plug into its network. The Verges take: Effectively, Facebook has put a nail in the coffin of its app platform.The most immediate effect: Tinder users couldnt log in.A brighter note for Facebook: Its shares are up in premarket trading today, after Mr. Zuckerberg said that #DeleteFacebook didnt appear to be having much effect.The Facebook calendar April 9: Alerts should start popping up for users whose information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica. April 10: Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees. April 11: He will testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Elsewhere in tech and regulation: A closer look at Margrethe Vestager, the public face of Europes tech clampdown. And the privacy advocate Max Schrems says the fight over user data has just begun.President Trump and the White House insist that the U.S. isnt in a trade war with China. But it hasnt backed off from its tariff threats, and the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said the U.S. may feel a little bit of short-term pain.More from behind the scenes, by Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT:Calming the markets has mostly fallen to Larry Kudlow, the White Houses national economic adviser of less than a week.Peter Eaviss take: We can take lessons on the U.S.-China trade skirmish from Brexit. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to that seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system.And Greg Ip of the WSJ, who says China started the trade fight, had an informative tweetstorm about each sides vulnerabilities:But Neil Irwin of the Upshot warns that China has other ways of retaliating.The United States trade deficit rose 1.6 percent to $57.6 billion, its highest level since October 2008. The deficit has now risen for six straight months, the longest such streak since 2000.The merchandise-trade gap with China narrowed to $34.7 billion in February from $35.5 billion. The Trump administration wants to cut $100 billion, or about 25 percent, from the annual deficit with China, Bloomberg points out. During President Trumps first year in office, the United States trade deficit with China rose to $375.2 billion in 2017, a record high.Last May, Blackstone announced with great fanfare that it planned a $40 billion fund with Saudi Arabia to invest in U.S. infrastructure: up to $20 billion from the Saudis, who would match commitments by other outside partners. But as of now, Blackstone has secured just $575 million in such commitments  and missed two fund-raising deadlines.Whats happened, per Kate Kelly and Andrew: The Saudis wanted the fund overseen by an investment committee, with a seat for them. Blackstone refused. Many potential investors balked at committing money until an investment team was in place, a process that took some time.In other infrastructure news: D.J. Gribbin, the Trump administrations infrastructure point person, is leaving the White House, which looks to have delayed its investment plan until after the midterms. The E.P.A. chief Scott Pruitt, the subject of some unhappy rumblings from the White House, has begun a media pushback against claims about his spending. (Politico) George Nader, the U.A.E.-connected businessman cooperating with Robert Muellers investigation, has links to Russia, too. (NYT) President Trump plans to deploy National Guard troops to help guard the U.S.s southwestern border. Hed previously said it would be our military. (NYT) John Kasich is eating at diners in New Hampshire, for some reason. (NYT) Amalgamated Bank became the latest restrict gun sales by its business customers, following guidelines published by the Mike Bloomberg-backed Everytown for Gun Safety. (Amalgamated)More than 3,100 Googlers have signed a petition protesting the tech colossuss A.I. work with the Defense Department.More from Scott Shane and Dai Wakabayashi of the NYT:The company line: Were actively engaged across the company in a comprehensive discussion of this important topic.In other defense tech news: Oracles Safra Catz reportedly argued to Mr. Trump over dinner Tuesday night that the Pentagons process for choosing a cloud services contractor was tilted toward Amazon. (Oracle is also bidding.)The tech flyaround On balance, the U.S. Postal Service probably does pretty well out of Amazon. Its real problem, Barry Ritholtz argues, is Congress. Spotify shares ended down yesterday at $144.22, but still up on private stock trades earlier this year. One big winner was Sony, which sold 17.2 percent of its stake. Meet Fin7 (or Carbanak or Cobalt Spider), the criminal group suspected of many prominent data thefts. And a cyberattack on a natural gas pipeline servicer raised questions about the U.S.s energy system. Apple is reportedly working on touchless gestures and a curved screen for iPhones. (Bloomberg)The woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself had become angry with the companys policies. Police did not say which ones, but she had posted about YouTube pulling ads from videos that it said did not meet its standards.The woman, Nasim Najafi Aghdam, was a social media video star in Iran and had called YouTube a dictatorship because she was making less money from her posts.Also of note: The attack highlighted the tension between Silicon Valley giants love of big, open campuses and their security needs.As the two corporate siblings jostle over a potential union  Viacom has reportedly rejected CBS's offer and is preparing a counter bid  who would run the combined company remains a sticking point. Rich Greenfield of BTIG offered a contrarian case against it being Mr. Moonves of CBS, one of the best-regarded media executives around.The future of a combined Viacom and CBS is going to be driven by an increasing focus on international and scaling up, he wrote  an agenda better suited to Viacoms C.E.O., Bob Bakish. Investor withdrawals at Bill Ackmans Pershing Square Capital Management are huge. (WSJ) Starboard Value plans to continue pressing its proxy fight at Newell Brands. Carl Icahn, who has settled on that one, is off trying to replace the board at SandRidge Energy. The judge overseeing the Justice Departments lawsuit to block AT&Ts takeover of Time Warner asked about settling it through arbitration. (WSJ) Broadcom is officially a U.S. company now. It still cant go after Qualcomm. (Broadcom) Some big drug makers are regretting their deals of 2015 and 2016. (FT) J.M. Smucker will pay $1.9 billion for Ainsworth Pet Nutrition, which makes Rachael Rays dog food brand, and will consider selling its U.S. baking brands like Pillsbury. (Reuters) SS&C of the U.S. is reportedly trying to top Temenoss 1.4 billion bid for the British trading software maker Fidessa. (FT) Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan, in his firms latest annual letter, where he also talks taxes, deficits and public policy. Michael Doppelt has rejoined Irving Place Capital as the investment firms head of fund-raising and limited partner relations. (Reuters) Britains requirement that companies with at least 250 staff disclose measures of gender pay gaps is forcing a reckoning at many companies. (NYT) David Smith, chairman of Sinclair Broadcast Group, says the media is getting his company all wrong. (NYT) Settlement agreements between Bill OReilly and two of his accusers were made public for the first time, offering details about his tactics against sexual harassment allegations. (NYT) Nikes top human resources executive told employees the company had failed to gain traction in hiring and promoting women and minorities. (WSJ) Why bond kings love Southern California. (Bloomberg) A guide to the long war between Bumble and Tinder. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Following the paper trail of ISIS, railing against Emmanuel Macron and relaxing with monkeys. Heres the latest: The ISIS files.On five trips to battle-scarred Iraq, New York Times journalists scoured old Islamic State offices in 11 cities and towns, gathering thousands of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Following a paper trail that led through booby-trapped streets near the front lines of battle, they found suicide bomber forms, birth certificates, tax records, school books teaching English words like gun and martyr, and papers from the Ministry of War Spoils. (Heres a closer look at the documents.)The records reveal how the terrorist group combined brutality and paperwork to wield power over territory that at one point was the size of Britain, with a population estimated at 12 million people.Above, papers littered a room in the bombed-out remnants of the Directorate of Agriculture in Mosul, Iraq, last September._____ Nearly 10 months after the deadly fire in Grenfell Tower, above, in London, many of the survivors left homeless are still living in limbo.While local officials have spent about $280 million on new housing, almost 100 displaced families remain in hotels and other temporary accommodations.The delays are adding to public fury over the disaster, which killed at least 71 people, and traumatized residents have accused the authorities of ignoring their needs._____ Millions of frustrated travelers.A rail strike in France is testing the limits of public anger as union workers face off against President Emmanuel Macron and his efforts to overhaul Europes second-largest economy  starting with cuts to their cherished job benefits.But whether French commuters, including those above in Paris on Tuesday, blame the union or Mr. Macron is the big question._____ Last month, we visited a charity food bank in the German city of Essen that had decided to turn away migrants, a move that set off a national debate about refugees and poverty.But now, non-Germans will be welcome once again, after the pantry agreed to give priority to older people and families with young children, regardless of nationality._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad sectors of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced._____ Anger that YouTube was censoring her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, above, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ Japans famed snow monkeys have long been the picture of hot-springs bliss.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.)_____ On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a U.S. military program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes. Facebook said the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm connected  to President Trump and the Brexit campaign, far higher than previously cited estimates. (Heres how we covered the revelations that spurred an uproar on both sides of the Atlantic.) Name and shame: Britain is hoping to narrow the pay gap by forcing companies to publicly air salary discrepancies between men and women. The governments role model? Other Western countries, like Germany, Iceland and Australia. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to immediately bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home. [The New York Times] The Victoria and Albert Museum in London offered to return to Ethiopia treasures taken by British troops 150 years ago, but only as a loan. [The New York Times] In The Hague, a jihadist fighter from Mali was brought before the International Criminal Court to face charges of rape, torture and sexual slavery. [The New York Times] Austrias new right-wing government has proposed a ban on head scarves in schools for girls under 10 years old. [BBC] Skripal poisoning: Emboldened by a series of blunders by the British government, Russia will convene a special meeting of the U.N. Security Council in an attempt to undermine allegations that Moscow was behind the nerve agent attack against a former Russian spy. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. The British comedian and transgender activist Eddie Izzard has acted in Hollywood movies, run 43 marathons in 51 days (for charity) and campaigned against Brexit. Now for his next challenge: Hes joined the governing body of Britains Labour Party, just as its struggling to tackle an internal crisis over anti-Semitism. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. Scottish dinosaurs? Aye, say paleontologists who discovered dozens of giant-size footprints on the Isle of Skye. But dont get too excited; the prints were left about 170 million years ago.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party. Now, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
SYDNEY   Australia on Thursday said it had begun an investigation to decide whether social media giant Facebook Inc breached its privacy laws, after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorization.Personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said on Wednesday, exceeding a media estimate of more than 50 million.In a statement, Australia\'s privacy commissioner, Angelene Falk, said her office would "confer with regulatory authorities internationally", given the global nature of the matter.A Facebook spokeswoman in Australia said the company would be "fully responsive" to the investigation and had recently updated some privacy settings.Facebook\'s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, told reporters during a conference call that he accepted blame for the data leak.Zuckerberg is due to testify about the matter next week during two U.S. congressional hearings, and the data breach has drawn criticism from lawmakers and regulators around the world.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook\'s estimate of affected users.It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Australia\'s investigation follows comments by New Zealand\'s privacy commissioner last week that Facebook had broken laws in that country, a charge the company called disappointing.Australia\'s competition regulator is already investigating whether Facebook and Alphabet Inc\'s Google had disrupted the news media to the detriment of publishers and consumers.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry and Clarence Fernandez)
Since the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and the March for Our Lives, the emergence of Emma Gonzlez, a senior at the school, as a national face of gun control activism has drawn much attention for her role as a founder of #NeverAgain and for her views on social media strategy  and for her now famously shaven head.To many outside eyes, her hair (or lack of it) has become the symbol of her refusal to accept the status quo, her refusal to simply sit back and leave change to the establishment. So much so that The New Yorker recently published an article comparing her to Joan of Arc, as depicted in the 1928 film by Carl Theodor Dreyer: another young woman with a genius for inspiring leadership, a deeply felt belief system and brutally close-cropped hair.No matter that, as the essays author acknowledges, a few weeks before the shooting Ms. Gonzlez had declared, on her schools Instagram account, that I decided to cut my hair because it was a pain in the neck, if youll forgive the pun. It was really hot all the time; it was very cumbersome and very heavy, leading to a lot of headaches. It was expensive to keep it up, and as prom time came around, I figured it would be cheaper to not have to worry about doing my hair.Her original motivation has become shrouded in her advocacy, and in the eyes of the watching world, her head has taken on its own meaning, representative of our failure, of her renunciation. If, a few years ago, it seemed possible that with the advent of models like Ruth Bell and Kris Gottschalk, buzz cuts on women could be viewed as representations of quirky beauty and celebrated all over the East Village and beyond, the reaction to Ms. Gonzlezs hair has made it clear that we were deluded.I dont think you can ever just shrug it off as a matter of personal expression, said Erin K. Vearncombe, a lecturer at Princeton University who specializes in the cultural anthropology of dress. Hair is intrinsically linked to assumptions about gender and power relations. It has always been, from the myth of Medusa (whose hair was made of snakes, and whose glance could turn men to stone) through the travails of Hillary Clinton as first lady, when her many hairdos came to represent what her opponents saw as her slippery opportunism  and the new buzz cuts.Hair, in the eyes of the beholders  partly because it is so much in the eyes of the beholders  is, as it ever was, a political issue. It is, as the anthropologist Grant McCracken wrote in his book Big Hair, our court of deliberation, the place where we contemplate who and what we are. And while such contemplation ebbs and flows, it is, like everything else in this heightened political climate, once again central to the conversation. At least the visual one.Earlier this year, Rose McGowans shaven pate was displayed in high definition on the cover of Brave, her account in part of her experience with sexual harassment. Last month, Asia Kate Dillon and the shaved head returned to small screens (and promotional billboards) everywhere in Billions, and the first nonbinary gender character on American series television.Since the release of Black Panther in February, the bald heads of the Dora Milaje soldiers, led by Okoye (Danai Gurira), have become clarion calls of black female strength and beauty. And Adwoa Aboah, the Model of the Year at the British Fashion Awards in December, is known for not only her stubbled head but also her Gurls Talk platform and her advocacy on the part of young womens mental health.In all cases, it is almost impossible to separate the image from the activism.Especially because those images exist in stark contrast to those of certain other women in the public eye, in particular the women associated with the Trump family, including the first lady, Melania Trump, and the former communications director Hope Hicks, whose long, lush locks represent what Mr. McCracken call voluptuous hair  hair in the Rita Hayworth-Cindy Crawford mode. It could be a coincidence, though it is also notable that some of the things the women who have shaved their heads stand for represent a group of values and cultural beliefs that the administration does not share: gun control, L.G.B.T.Q. rights.Hair is not solely a female issue, of course; mens hair is also fraught (hello, Samson; hello, skinheads). Though as Dr. Vearncombe said, because we focus so much attention on the head, especially on the female head, and because this attention is gendered, and because, more than anything, this attention is visible, absent hair on a womans head can be read as disruptive to the politics of the male gaze. Looking at a womans face, at her hair, has conventionally been an exercise of desire, and of an assertion of male power. Disrupting this convention, disrupting this gaze, allows us to see a different set of possibilities for the female head. The shaved head speaks in a different way.And what is says is multitudes. It can sometimes speak of punishment: After World War II, women in France who were accused of being collaborators had their heads shaved in public; Natalie Portmans character in V for Vendetta had her head shaved during a torture scene. It can reflect discipline and toughness: See Demi Moore in G.I. Jane and Charlize Theron in Mad Max: Fury Road. It can represent instability: When Britney Spears had her breakdown in 2007, she shaved her head in an act that has practically become a synonym in the pop lexicon for unstable. And it can be a direct riposte to a certain set of social and cultural values and expectations.In an excerpt from her book published in i-D, Ms. McGowan wrote of shaving her head: I broke up with you. The collective you, the societal you. I broke up with the Hollywood ideal, the one that I had a part in playing. It was a way of rejecting, she wrote. The ideal version of a woman that is sold to you by every actress in every hair commercial telling you, this the secret to being beguiling, the secret to getting a man to want you.This is hair as seen through the Freudian lens, wherein the whole head becomes a stand-in for sexuality. Ms. McGowan later went on to say that her hair made her feel like a blowup sex doll. And yet, by rejecting it, by shaving it, she did not escape it (none of us do); she simply transformed its messaging.As Geraldine Biddle-Perry, an Associate Lecturer at Central Saint Martins and the co-editor of Hair: Styling, Culture and Fashion, wrote in an email exchange, For women who voluntarily cut/shave their hair, volition alters the symbolic grammar and so the act functions in terms of female agency and empowerment.Which in turn raises the question of whether we are in for more head shaving, and whether that may ultimately lead to a time when, Dr. Vearncombe said, we will not care about what a woman puts on or removes from her head.Its possible. Though given the history, gun control may have a better chance.

NEW YORK   Like a good thriller, you can\'t be sure where the stock market is headed these days until the very end.The market has become so volatile that big swings are happening not only day to day but hour to hour as investors react to a mix of hard news, fear and speculation.Take Wednesday, for example. What seemed like a terrible day for stocks ended up being quite a good one after the Dow Jones industrial average swung from a 500 point loss to a 230 point gain. The opposite has occurred in recent weeks, too, with early rallies turning into routs after stocks plunged in the last hour or so of trading.The turnaround from last year\'s procession of gradual, effortless gains has been dizzying. Traders pin much of the blame on Washington, D.C., where the Trump administration has stirred up worries about a possible trade war and the Federal Reserve has embarked on a course of interest rate increases. But they also see the rise in market volatility since February as the pendulum swinging back to normal, and perhaps overshooting it, following an unusually calm 2017."On those days where we saw the headlines of the Dow down 600 points, 700 points, 800 points, and the velocity of it where people hadn\'t finished processing the initial headline that we\'re already down 100 points, that felt a lot like the crisis days" of 2008 when the financial system seemed to be collapsing, said Justin Wiggs, senior equities trader at Stifel."But overall, there still hasn\'t been that sense of panic. Maybe that\'s because given the gains of the broader market, people are almost playing with house money," he said.There may not be panic, but there certainly has been a sense of whiplash.For all of last year, the S&P 500 had eight days where it finished with a gain or loss of 1 percent, a traditional marker for a "big" move in stocks. Already this year it\'s had 26. At that pace, the index would end the year with about 100 such days. Over the last 50 years, the index has typically had only half that number of days with big moves.The intraday trading movements have been even wilder. On Wednesday, the S&P 500 was down 1.6 percent minutes after trading started, as investors worried about tit-for-tat tariffs announced by the United States and China. But the index was break-even by midday and then ended with a 1.2 percent gain. Such daily swings from high to low have been commonplace since volatility returned to the market and wider than historic norms.Since early February, the S&P 500 has moved 1.7 percentage points from its low to its high on the typical day. That\'s more than triple last year\'s median of just 0.5 percentage points. Over the prior 30 years, the median has been 1 percentage point. That means half the days over that span had a swing of less than 1 percentage point, and half had a bigger move.The choppiness has been particularly acute in the last hours of trading when, according to an old market adage, the action is driven by the "smart money," such as big institutional investors. The early-morning hours, meanwhile, are supposedly dominated by mom-and-pop investors trading on their gut instincts and reactions to the news that occurred overnight.The worst half-hour of the trading day has been from 3 p.m. Eastern time to 3:30 p.m., when the market is approaching its 4 p.m. close. Since the stock market started its run of volatility on Feb. 2, the S&P 500 has lost an average of 0.15 percent during that half hour. That\'s twice as big as the next-largest drop, from 1 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.The quick moves can make things dicey for investors trying to time their trades. Anyone who sold an S&P 500 ETF Wednesday morning at the low point locked in a loss of 1.6 percent for the day, for example. But investors selling S&P 500 index mutual funds had to wait until after the day ended, because traditional mutual funds trade only once each day. They would have ended up with a gain for the day, even if they put in their sell order at the same time as the S&P 500 ETF investor.For now, investors seem to be stomaching the increased volatility just fine. At Brouwer & Janachowski, an advisory firm that manages $1.4 billion, CEO Stephen Janachowski said he has received surprisingly few calls from panicked clients since market volatility surged higher in February."People will take this in stride because they\'ve been making money for nine years," he said. For instance, a $10,000 investment in a S&P 500 index fund after the stock market bottomed in March 2009 has grown to more than $45,000."Everyone knows what goes on in Washington can flip-flop on a day-to-day basis. I think people have gotten used to the volatility more so than the market has."
In the cheerily sterile, fitfully funny comedy Blockers, parents conspire to save the virginity of their daughters, high school seniors planning a collective deflowering (not, it should be said, with one another). That is the movies big joke, and while it sounds positively antediluvian it also brings to mind news reports that the Trump administration plans to introduce abstinence-only education this summer. According to the website The Hill, the idea is to emphasize sexual delay, which sounds like the title of a song that Marvin Gaye never recorded. The world has a way of killing the mood, if you let it.Thinking too hard and long about a would-be laugh-in like Blockers isnt usually the best idea, of course. The point is to sit back and enjoy it, no matter how sporadic or familiar the jokes. Thats the case with the lighthearted, eager-to-please Blockers, which features an innocuously pleasant cast of middle-age professional goofballs and a rather less-funny collection of dewy young cuties. As expected, while the daughters and their dates frolic, the parents regress. They yell, fall, run in circles, and flap their hands and mouths. One also partakes in an inadvisable practice you can learn about by typing the words alcohol enema in your browser.The parents, Lisa, Mitchell and Hunter (Leslie Mann, John Cena and best in show, Ike Barinholtz), have done a bang-up job with their kids. Their three high school daughters, lifelong friends, are smart, social, happy, healthy and dull. Because theyre exceedingly, grindingly average, they hatch up a plan to have sex with three boys on prom night. And because the screenwriters Brian Kehoe and James Kehoe havent worked nearly as hard as they should have, Lisas daughter, Julie (Kathryn Newton), leaves her laptop vulnerable to parental prying. Enter Lisa, Mitchell and Hunter, who, after breaking the teenage emoji code in one of the movies cleverer bits, plot and deploy. High jinks and slapstick ensue.Making her feature directing debut, Kay Cannon (who wrote the Pitch Perfect comedies) handles all the nonsense in Blockers just fine, alternately corralling the performers and giving them room to cut very modestly loose. (The other daughters are played by Geraldine Viswanathan and Gideon Adlon, both charmers.) Ms. Cannon doesnt give the movie a discernible look beyond the strictly utilitarian, relying on the usual scene setting as well as lots and lots of shots of people talking and not moving nearly enough in the frame. The movie takes place in a Chicago that might as well be a studio lot, with generically attractive houses that look middle class only by Hollywood standards.Blockers is sloppy, sentimental and too good-natured to take serious issue with, which is generally true of the other comedies that Seth Rogens production company has had a hand in. It isnt as ridiculous as Sausage Party and lacks the dark, uneasy energy of the apocalyptic This Is the End, but its passably diverting. Like those movies, Blockers feels as if it was made by people who believe in kindness, friendship and smut thats one giggle away from an old Playboy joke page. It features a casually diverse cast and is openly, at times dutifully, feminist, with you-go-girl speeches that sound as if everyone involved had tried too hard to be decent. Funny and enlightened would have been better.The most notable thing about Blockers is how aggressively square it is, despite its wagging genitals and flashes of what, at this point in screen comedy, feels like pro forma raunchiness. Its predictable that no one comes across as remotely real, although Hunter, who carries the banner for bad parenting, at least suggests a person. But no one is weird, unsurprising, a little off, truly freaky. Ms. Manns hyperkinetic vibe and slightly bonkers smile are promising, but both are in service to a movie that insists on just nice n naughty. Thats too bad, because when Lisa and Julie sit in front of their TV  eating off matching trays with matching mad smiles  I flashed on Grey Gardens and sighed.
KUALA LUMPUR   China\'s move to impose tariffs on imported U.S. soybeans may boost palm oil\'s draw in the short term, traders and analysts say, as the spread between palm and soyoil is expected to widen as the latter becomes more costly in Beijing.Rising soyoil prices in China, which relies heavily on soybean imports, will make palm oil a cheaper, more attractive option."China\'s local soyoil price will go up. The spread will be favourable to palm," said a Kuala Lumpur based futures trader.Soybeans were among 106 U.S. products that China said on Wednesday it would hit with 25 percent tariffs, less than 11 hours after U.S. President Donald Trump\'s administration targeted 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products.Benchmark palm oil prices in Malaysia <1FCPOc3> slumped More than 2 percent at one stage following Beijing\'s announcement, tracking weaker U.S. soyoil prices. But palm oil ended firmer on Wednesday and stretched gains to a one-month high on Thursday. [POI/]China is the third-largest market for the tropical oil produced mainly in the Southeast Asian nations of Indonesia and Malaysia.The May soyoil contract on China\'s Dalian Commodity Exchange <DBYK8> rose as much as 1.3 percent on Wednesday before Chinese markets shut on Thursday for a public holiday.Its spread against benchmark palm oil futures <1FCPOc3> is currently at $278 per tonne, and at $254 versus refined, bleached and deodorized palm olein <POL-MYRBD-M1> prices.China, however, consumes more soyoil than palm oil, and imports more than 60 percent of soybeans traded worldwide to crush for meal to support its livestock industry. [SOY/CN]A potential disruption in China\'s soybean flows as it switches to South American supplies could help palm oil fill in any supply gap in soyoil, albeit briefly."The impact to palm is minimal because China needs soymeal, which is a primary soybean crushing product," said William Simadiputra, analyst at DBS Vickers Securities."Monthly palm imports will increase by 5 percent to close the gap, by conservative estimates. But I don\'t see a structural change in how China purchases palm oil moving forward."(Reporting by Emily Chow; Editing by Manolo Serapio Jr.)
PARIS   A major European carmaker could be brought "to its knees" by carbon dioxide emissions fines, allowing a Chinese buyer to step in with its own electric vehicle technology, Peugeot maker PSA Group\'s chief executive said.Carlos Tavares, who chairs European auto industry lobby group ACEA, said that policymakers had failed to anticipate this outcome of the European Union\'s 2020 CO2 goals."The impact is very obvious. It\'s going to create a Chinese Trojan Horse in Europe," Tavares told an industry event hosted by French car magazine Le Journal de l\'Auto late on Wednesday.His outspoken comments come against a backdrop of rising trade tensions between China and the United States and wider concerns about growing protectionism worldwide.They also underscore concerns about foreign influence over European manufacturers, jobs and technology, which have risen since China\'s Geely snapped up 10 percent of Germany\'s Daimler in February."If a European carmaker missed its (CO2) targets and was brought to its knees by fines, it could not be acquired by another big European carmaker purely because of antitrust rules," Tavares said, without naming any manufacturer.That would create the opportunity for a foreign investor to bring in the kind of technology "imposed by European authorities, which means electric vehicles," he said."And who\'s the leader in electrification? It\'s the Chinese," he added.Paris-based PSA, itself 12.2 percent-owned by China\'s Dongfeng Motor Corp., has accelerated new vehicle development at Opel and Vauxhall after uncovering what Tavares described as hidden CO2 emissions problems following the brands\' acquisition from General Motors last year.Thanks to the extra investment, the group maintains it is now on track to meet CO2 goals averaging 95 grammes per kilometer being phased in from 2020-2021, backed by hundreds of millions of euros in potential fines for non-compliance. The current EU-mandated average for new cars is 130 g/km.Tavares has called for the EU penalties to be suspended until governments roll out adequate electric-car charging networks, saying last month he planned to raise the proposal at a meeting of Brussels-based ACEA on March 7."ACEA has not approached the European Commission to reopen any discussion of the 2020 goals," a spokeswoman told Reuters.President Donald Trump\'s administration moved this week to weaken U.S. fuel-economy goals previously agreed for 2022-25 in response to calls for a revision by carmakers.PSA and other European carmakers are facing declining sales of fuel-efficient diesel models, making it harder to meet CO2 targets and avoid large fines.(Reporting by Laurence Frost; Editing by Alexander Smith)
NASHVILLE, Tenn.   A Tennessee teacher who set off a nationwide manhunt last year after he fled with a 15-year-old student broke down in court after pleading guilty to crossing state lines to have sex with a minor.Former forensics teacher Tad Cummins, 51, also pleaded guilty Thursday to obstruction of justice before U.S. District Judge Aleta Trauger in federal court in Nashville."I cannot be the man I need to be and not tell the truth," he said before losing his composure and starting to weep.Cummins faces a mandatory minimum of 10 years in prison for crossing state lines for sex with a minor. He also faces up to 20 years for obstruction of justice for destroying his and his former student\'s cellphone when he fled with her. He will be sentenced later this year.The victim was in court but did not speak afterward. A spokesman for U.S. Attorney Donald Cochran said prosecutors were relieved on her behalf."This decision today to plead guilty pleases us in the fact that at this point the victim will no longer have to face a lengthy trial and can go about her life," spokesman David Boling said afterward.A federal prosecutor told the court that Cummins engaged in sexual activity with the girl several times in a classroom closet at school and in a car. They first had intercourse after he took her out of state, according to authorities.Cummins was married at the time and is a father and grandfather. Since he was jailed, he has called his wife  who filed for divorce after he disappeared  to ask for forgiveness, Assistant U.S. Attorney Sara Beth Myers told the court.Cummins disappeared with the girl last March. They were found in April at a remote forest cabin near Cecilville, California, after a tip to police.Cummins had planned to take the girl to Mexico and took a kayak from San Diego on a test run, the prosecutor said. He switched license plates twice, disabled his vehicle\'s GPS system, used aliases, altered his appearance, paid in cash only and used back roads during his nearly six weeks on the run, according to court documents.Authorities credit the caretaker of the remote northern California property for helping police find the girl and arrest Cummins. The girl was found safe.Cummins taught at Culleoka Unit School in Culleoka, south of Nashville. He was fired a day after the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation issued an Amber Alert for the teen. The Tennessee Board of Education revoked Cummins\' teaching license in July.
WASHINGTON   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm\'s misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday.Zuckerberg will appear before a joint hearing of the U.S. Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees on April 10 and the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11, the panels said on Wednesday."This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online," the House panel\'s Republican chairman, Greg Walden, and top Democrat, Frank Pallone, said in a statement.Facebook has come under fire in recent weeks after it was disclosed that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump\'s presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of 50 million Facebook users.Facebook said in March it had suspended the accounts of Cambridge Analytica and its parent company and hired forensic auditors to probe whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data.The technology company also said at the time it would investigate all applications that had gotten access to large amounts of data before the firm changed its platform in 2014, would further restrict developers\' data access and roll out a tool to let users more easily revoke access by applications to their data.Zuckerberg said in March he would testify before Congress, but turned down an invitation by British lawmakers to explain to a parliamentary committee what had happened.The company has faced pressure to do more, both in terms of protecting user privacy and stopping "information warfare" on its platform.In February, 13 Russian nationals were indicted for using Facebook and other social media sites to interfere in the U.S. presidential election.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had removed hundreds of accounts and pages associated with the Russia-based Internet Research Agency that included fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.American spy agencies have warned that Russia would try to interfere in the 2018 congressional elections by using social media to spread propaganda.Shares in Facebook closed down 0.6 percent on Wednesday to $155.10. They have tumbled more than 16 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Peter Cooney)
FRANKFURT   German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to diversify production of their sports utility vehicles (SUVs) outside of the United States as a result of Washington\'s growing trade tensions with China.Beijing\'s proposed 25 percent tax on U.S. car factory exports will hit nearly 270,000 vehicles, with German carmakers accounting for $7 billion of the $11 billion total."This is a tax on Southern Germany, not the U.S.," analysts at Evercore ISI said on Thursday. "A 25 percent additional auto tariff would represent a $1.73 billion negative tariff impact directed at Southern Germany by China."BMW, the largest vehicle exporter from the United States in terms of value, has its largest factory in Spartanburg, North Carolina and faces a $965 million impact from tariffs, with Daimler exposed to a $765 million hit, Evercore ISI said.The company makes its X3, X4, X5, X6 and X7 sports utility vehicles in Spartanburg, and the trade dispute will only add pressure to move production of volume sellers like the X5 to markets outside the United States, a senior BMW source said.But any switch from one factory to another costs millions of euros, takes months to implement, and is taken with a long-term view, BMW board member Peter Schwarzenbauer said last month."We have to make decisions, like about factories in Spartanburg or factories in Mexico, which are based on a horizon of 20 to 30 years. If we were to change our strategy whenever a tweet comes out, we would get crazy," he told Reuters.HARMFUL FOR ALLAround 18 percent of all BMWs sold in the world\'s largest car market were exported from Spartanburg last year, a total of 100,203 cars and the carmaker warned that a further escalation of the trade row "would be harmful for all stakeholders".China has threatened to double tariffs to 50 percent on imported automobiles and other U.S.-made goods to retaliate against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s proposed tariffs on products including vehicles and automotive parts."The BMW Group stands for free trade worldwide: Our company has a global production network and a global sales market," it added in a statement late on Wednesday.BMW this year quietly stopped exporting the X3 from the United States to China amid escalating trade tensions, moving the production footprint of the X3 to a plant in Rosslyn, South Africa and another in Shenyang, China."Thirty-five percent of those (vehicles) exported to China were the BMW X3, which is no longer exported from Spartanburg to China," BMW said.The move to ramp up production capacity in China also stems from tightening requirements by Chinese regulators to increase sourcing of components from local suppliers.Daimler, parent company of Mercedes-Benz, declined to provide specific export figures from the United States to China and said: "We dont speculate about ongoing negotiations. We are of course monitoring the situation closely."Other companies that will be affected include Tesla, which ships an estimated 15,000 cars a year to China from its California plant and Ford.Decisions on whether and where to shift vehicle production could be complicated by moves to significantly revamp or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement that allows tariff-free shipments of vehicles to the United States from Mexico and Canada.BMW shares were trading up 0.55 percent at 87.9 euros at 1047 GMT, while Daimler stock was up 1.47 percent at 69.12 euros. Both lagged Germany\'s blue-chip DAX index, which was 1.9 percent higher.(Editing by Alexander Smith)
WASHINGTON  The United States military is spending about $1 million to help detain thousands of Islamic State fighters and their family members in makeshift camps run by Kurdish militias in northern Syria, pulling the Pentagon deeper into the war zone detention operations it has sought to avoid.The dilemma is unfolding even as President Trump has pledged to withdraw the 2,000 remaining United States troops in Syria, many of whom are vetting the most dangerous detainees, and suspend more than $200 million in State Department recovery funds for the country.Defense Department and Kurdish officials said several thousand detainees  including at least 400 fighters from more than three dozen countries and their families, as well as other Syrian militants  were being held in several camps. The American funding is paying to erect fencing, put bars on windows and otherwise secure schools and other buildings being used as temporary jails for fighters who were captured or surrendered after last years collapse of Raqqa, the Islamic States self-proclaimed capital.Military officials insist American personnel are not strengthening the buildings or guarding the detainees themselves, just paying for it.Critics fear the facilities could become breeding grounds for extremists and repeat a key security miscue of the Iraq war. But without the American assistance, the camps lack sufficient security to prevent jailbreaks of battle-hardened militants who could reinvigorate pockets of Islamic State fighters near Abu Kamal, a town in eastern Syria along the Iraqi border.Syrian Kurdish officials said the camps were straining their capacity to oversee the dangerous fighters and rapidly depleting their budgets to pay for operations at the half-dozen sites in and around Raqqa. One senior American official said as many as 50 to 60 fighters were detained in a single room.The process has been tedious, Kino Gabriel, a spokesman for the Kurdish-led militia known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, said by WhatsApp from Qamishli, Syria. The interrogation is taking time, and filtering the prisoners has not been an easy task. We need all kinds of support from the international coalition.American diplomats and Pentagon officials are frantically trying to persuade countries to repatriate their citizen fighters who have been detained, but so far have had few takers.It is critical that countries take their citizens back and prosecute them in a timely manner commensurate with their crimes, Nathan A. Sales, the State Departments counterterrorism coordinator, said in an email. We call on our partners to take responsibility for their citizens.The Islamic State has lost nearly all the territory it seized in Iraq and Syria in 2014. But American intelligence and military officials warn that the extremist group has pivoted to a deadly insurgency in areas it formerly controlled, and still holds sway with a potent appeal on social media for adherents from Europe to the Philippines to carry out attacks wherever they are.Two commandos  one American soldier, one British  were killed in a roadside bombing last week in Manbij, a contested city in northern Syria.Although ISIS has been decimated in Iraq and Syria, its ideology still resonates globally, David M. Cattler, the governments national intelligence manager for the Near East, said last month. ISIS is evolving and adjusting.Unlike suspected Islamic State militants seized in neighboring Iraq  mostly from the northern city of Mosul and surrounding areas  the detainees being held in the Kurdish region of Syria fall into a legal gray area and face an uncertain long-term fate.Kurdish authorities are parceling out justice in ad hoc courts, but the region is still part of Syria, and Kurdish control is not internationally recognized.In a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee last month, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, raised concerns about American culpability for the growing number of fighters in the custody of the Syrian Democratic Forces.Do you think we have a credible plan to detain these people? Mr. Graham asked Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the head of the militarys Central Command, which oversees operations in the Middle East.We actually do have a plan to detain them on the ground, General Votel said. He also noted the effort to repatriate the detainees.If they dont go back to their countries, do you think we have a plan  credible plan  to detain them inside of Syria long term? Mr. Graham asked.We are working on improving the capacity of the Syrian Democratic Forces to do that right now, General Votel said. He offered no details, but a senior American military official said the Pentagon planned to spend about $1 million on the improvements. The funding, however, may now be in doubt, given Mr. Trumps vow last week to withdraw troops and aid from Syria.Still, the Pentagon has openly acknowledged the security problem.These arent necessarily the best detention facilities, in the sense of they are being held in Syria, and not in the most secure area, Kathryn Wheelbarger, principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs, said in February. There were certain days where we are seeing 40 to 50 a day were being captured, so a capacity problem is very real.Teams of specialists from the International Committee of the Red Cross have visited the detention sites in Syria. A spokeswoman for the organization, Anna Nelson, declined to comment on the conditions in the camps, following organization policy.Kurdish officials have said that conditions in the camps meet international standards, especially for women and children, and that Kurdish authorities were sorting out combatants from local civilians who were pressed by the Islamic State into administrative or medical jobs, and could be safely released.United States Special Operations troops advising the Kurdish-led militia are cataloging fingerprints and other so-called biometrics of the more than 400 suspected foreign fighters in at least three camps near Raqqa. The American forces are also interrogating the detainees to learn more about foreign fighter networks and threats to their home countries.Theyre taking the time to go through the prisoners and know who they are, Mr. Cattler said during remarks at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Its critically important.Indeed, American officials were able to identify through biometric screening two British men infamous for their role in the Islamic States imprisonment, torture and killing of Western hostages.The men, Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, were part of a group of four Islamic State militants known as the Beatles because of their British accents. They were the last two members of the group to remain at large.American military officials and human rights advocates see parallels between the evolving detention situation in Syria and the Iraq war. Militants, including Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the current leader of the Islamic State, were held for years at Camp Bucca, a sprawling American detention center in southern Iraq where they became more radicalized.One of the main reasons to strengthen the makeshift camps in Syria is to prevent any jailbreaks, like one in February in which a handful of Islamic State fighters escaped, military officials said.A series of daring but little-noticed breakouts from Iraqi prisons several years ago freed hundreds of hardened militants who are now among the leaders and foot soldiers of the Islamic State and other radical Sunni groups operating in neighboring Syria and, increasingly, in Iraq itself.That group even had a name for its prison strategy, Operation Breaking the Walls, which unfolded during a 12-month campaign from July 2012 until a major break at Abu Ghraib, the main Iraqi prison, on the western outskirts of Baghdad, in July 2013.Eventually, some 40,000 fighters from more than 120 countries joined the battles in Syria and Iraq over the past four years, American and other Western officials said. While thousands died on the battlefield, officials said many thousands more probably slipped away to conflicts in Libya, Yemen or the Philippines, or went into hiding in countries like Turkey.About 295 Americans are believed to have traveled to aid extremists in Iraq or Syria, or tried to, United States officials said.
Our guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BALLET HISPNICO at the Joyce Theater (April 10-11, 7:30 p.m., through April 15). This season sees two premieres inspired by the writings of Federico Garca Lorca: Espritus Gemelos by Gustavo Ramrez Sansano and Waiting for Pepe by Carlos Pons Guerra. The program also features a reprise of Lnea Recta, Annabelle Lopez Ochoas 2016 exploration of flamenco. The works were created through the companys Instituto Coreogrfico, a lab for Latino choreographers that Ballet Hispnicos artistic director and chief executive officer, Eduardo Vilaro, began in 2010 as a way, in part, for dance makers to explore their heritage.212-242-0800, joyce.orgEIFMAN BALLET OF ST. PETERSBURG at the David H. Koch Theater (April 6, 6:30 p.m.; April 7, 2 and 7:30 p.m.; April 8, 2 p.m.). In honor of the 20th anniversary of his companys New York debut, Boris Eifman returns with his evening-length production of Anna Karenina. The choreographers take on the Tolstoy novel raises the tragic affair of Anna and Count Vronsky to melodramatic heights with his melding of ballet and contemporary dance. Accompanying the dancers will be the New York City Ballet Orchestra performing a mix of Tchaikovsky. Nikolay Alexeev conducts.212-496-0600, davidhkochtheater.comGATHERING PLACE: BLACK QUEER LAND(ING) at Gibney (April 10, 6-9 p.m.; April 12, 8 p.m., through April 28). In this new nearly three-week performance series, programmed by Mara Wethers, the focus is the intersections among blackness, queerness and indigeneity. The first weekend presents Mayfield Brookss three-part IWB: Dancing in the Hold. Part I, P(a)rLAY, is an invitation to black-identified artists to participate in an improvisational dance workshop and performance (April 10). Part II, Dancing in the Hold, features a production inspired by underwater finds, like a shipwreck (April 12 and 13). And Part III, Process(Ion), is a performance installation that includes a procession from the theater to the African Burial Ground in Lower Manhattan (April 14). The series continues later this month with performances by Jumatatu M. Poe and the I Moving Lab collective.646-837-6809, gibneydance.orgTOM GOLD DANCE at the Kaye Playhouse (April 10-11, 7:30 p.m.). Mr. Gold, a former soloist with New York City Ballet, celebrates the 10th anniversary of his company with the premiere of Rapid Oxidation, which is inspired by the notion of creativity and is based on characters from the Amazon series Mozart in the Jungle. Mr. Gold sets his work to selections by the percussionist and composer Donald Knaack, better known as the Junkman. The program also includes Charm and Shanti and dancers from New York City Ballet and American Ballet Theater  among them, Mary Elizabeth Sell, Sebastian Villarini-Velez and Stephanie Williams.212-772-4448, tomgolddance.org/kaye2018JONATHAN GONZLEZ at Danspace Project (April 12, 8 p.m., through April 14). A participating artist in Reggie Wilsons recent series, Dancing Platform, Praying Grounds: Blackness, Churches and Downtown Dance, Mr. Gonzlez extends his fascination with Danspace Projects home, St. Marks Church, in his new work, Zero. While his Dancing Platform piece, Eurythmics in the Southern Burn, explored race, religion, dance and the architecture and history of St Marks, Zero, the result of two years researching the subject of grief, imagines its cast  Rena Anakwe, Chazz Bruce, Jeremy Toussaint-Baptiste and Mr. Gonzlez  as church vandals. 866-811-4111, danspaceproject.orgMARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY at New York City Center (April 11, 7 p.m.; April 12-14, 8 p.m.). This season, the Graham troupe unveils a premiere by Lucinda Childs  Histoire is an expanded version of a duet she created for the group in 1999  and the company premiere of Lar Lubovitchs The Legend of Ten (2010), set to a Brahms quintet for piano and strings. Of course, there will be Graham classics, from Panorama (1935), performed by young dancers selected by audition, and Chronicle (1936), an antiwar masterpiece, to The Rite of Spring (1984) and Embattled Garden (1958).212-581-1212, nycitycenter.orgLAR LUBOVITCH: THE FIRST 50 YEARS at the 92nd Street Y (April 6, noon). This installment of the 92nd Street Y series Fridays at Noon focuses on Mr. Lubovitch, who celebrates his companys 50th anniversary this season: He first presented his company, which can be seen at the Joyce Theater later in the month, at the Y in 1968. In this program, Mr. Lubovitch presents Mens Stories, his 2000 exploration of masculinity set to an original sound score by Scott Marshall. He also participates in a discussion.212-415-5500, 92y.orgGESEL MASON PERFORMANCE PROJECTS at the Billie Holiday Theater (April 6-7, 7 p.m.). Ms. Mason has been performing solos by African-American choreographers for the past 15 years. In No Boundaries: Dancing the Visions of Contemporary Black Choreographers, she offers a final presentation. The project features nine solos and works by Donald McKayle, David Roussve, Bebe Miller, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar, Rennie Harris and Ms. Mason. The program, commissioned by 651 ARTS and RestorationART, also includes a recent piece by Kyle Abraham. After these performances, No Boundaries will be digitally archived, with interviews and dance shorts.651arts.orgINBAL OSHMAN DANCE GROUP at the Alexander Kasser Theater at Montclair State University (April 12, 7:30 p.m., through April 15). Peak Performances hosts the United States premiere of M Stabat Mater, a homage to motherhood by Ms. Oshman, an Israeli choreographer. Set to Pergolesis Stabat Mater (Ms. Oshman found inspiration in it when she was pregnant with her third child), M explores mothers through history, including the Virgin Mary, the Hindu goddess Kali and the four matriarchs of the Old Testament: Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel and Leah. The ensemble New York Baroque Incorporated provides the music.973-655-5112, peakperfs.orgMELINDA RING at the Chocolate Factory (April 6-7 and 10-14, 8 p.m.). A cloud can be a vaporous mass floating in the air or a sensation of worry, of tension. The choreographer Ms. Rings new cloud illustrates both as it wavers between contrasts, like delicacy and unruliness. The intimate setting is an imagined room where the performers swirl and shift like clouds or morph into people whose anger leads them to behave in unacceptable ways. For this piece, Talya Epstein, Maggie Jones and Rainey White developed material through blindfolded improvisations that considered the notion of clouds in both the natural world and human nature.212-352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org
Why was this Passover Seder different from all other Passover Seders? Well, for one, it took place on Monday night, the fourth night of the holiday and not one on which the traditional dinner is called for.But thats showbiz: Some of the 100 guests, and most of the evenings performers, were Broadway actors, composers, producers  and Mondays are when Broadway theaters are dark, meaning casts and crews are available for socializing.It took place in a large downtown apartment in a prewar building, decorated with billowing scarves, bright pillows and hanging palm branches to replicate a Bedouin tent. The usual holiday prayers and songs, which commemorate the biblical exodus of Jews from slavery, were replaced by a high-caliber revue of poetic and musical performances from stars of some of the biggest current Broadway shows, including Hamilton, Dear Evan Hansen and Frozen.The story of exodus that was told over the course of the night was not of Moses and the ancient Jews sojourn eastward across the Red Sea, but of a man named Mohammed Al Samawi, who escaped a near-certain death in his home country, Yemen, by traveling westward over the Red Sea on what happened to be the second night of Passover in 2015.Unleavened, as this night was billed, was organized by Adam Kantor, an actor appearing in The Bands Visit; Benj Pasek, the lyricist of La La Land, Dear Evan Hansen and The Greatest Showman; and four other friends, all of whom are interested in contemporizing Judaism and making it relevant in an increasingly secularized climate.The idea is to look at the Passover story about the passage from slavery to freedom and to contextualize it for 2018, Mr. Kantor said.The cost of the interior design, lighting and dinner was underwritten in part by Reboot, a cultural organization for young Jewish adults who work in creative professions that encourages its members to rethink and express religious identity.As guests (of many ethnicities and faiths) arrived, they found small round tables, like tree stumps in a pillow forest, on which small dishes of olives, horseradish and parsley were set by stacks of matzo. Around the periphery of the room, jazz singers, piano players and Broadway performers were stationed, ready. But for what?Im not sure what Im supposed to do here, said Katie Couric, when she walked into the room, red wine imported from the Galilee region of Israel in a plastic cup in her hand.Ronan Farrow, a reporter for The New Yorker, was equally perplexed. I feel like this is an Agatha Christie novel weve all walked into and someone is not going to be able to leave, he said.The guests settled onto their pillows, and Ccile McLorin Salvant, whose Dreams and Daggers won the 2018 Grammy for best vocal jazz album, soon brought chatter to a halt with her rendition of Go Down Moses, sung a cappella.Then Amichai Lau-Lavie, the founding rabbi of Lab/Shul, an experimental synagogue, welcomed everyone to the Jewish Passover Seder, which he called, the most complicated dinner party in history.This one may have been the best programmed. After settling in many months ago on Mr. Al Samawis story as the clothing line that would extend throughout the night, Mr. Kantor said before the Seder began, we have been talking about what we can drape from it.One performance was by Daniel J. Watts, an actor and writer who appeared on Broadway in Hamilton. He said he was asked by the organizers to create a piece about the concept of enemies. He wrote his poem, Inimicus, the morning of the Seder. When it was his turn, he stood with a microphone in his hand and spoke while turning himself slowly in full revolution. His audience was mesmerized.They were also captivated by Rachel Bay Jones, who won a 2017 Tony for her role as Heidi Hansen in Dear Evan Hansen and Caissie Levy, who plays Elsa in the new Broadway production of Frozen, singing Over the Rainbow in two parts, sandwiching a reading from NPRs Ari Shapiro about the songs history and context.Mr. Shapiro told the assembled that The Wizard of Oz came out just after Kristallnacht, the pogroms in Germany and Austria that were a precursor to the Holocaust, and that the movies best-known song was written by two Jewish immigrants to America. Hear the lyrics in their Jewish context and suddenly the words are no longer about wizards and Oz, he said, quoting Simcha Jacobovici, a filmmaker and journalist, but about Jewish survival.For the final performance, the singer and songwriter Shaina Taub sat at a piano and sang her forthcoming song Huddled Masses, which was inspired by a protest poster that quoted from Emma Lazaruss poem The New Colossus, which she noticed at Kennedy Airport after President Trump first proposed restrictions upon travelers from certain countries, including Yemen.That was very powerful, and very special, said Jeffrey Richards, a producer who has helped stage plays including the 2015 revival of Fiddler on the Roof, in which Mr. Kantor played the role of Motel the tailor.Each of the Seder performances connected to Mr. Al Samawis story, which was told by him and Daniel Pincus, 39, a Jewish businessman and philanthropist who helped him escape Yemen, and whose apartment was the setting for the dinner.Mr. Al Samawi was raised a Muslim, and taught to hate Jews, Christians and Americans. He eventually committed himself to multifaith advocacy and found himself in grave danger amid violence in Yemen brought on by Al Qaeda and other extremist groups. Three years ago, Mr. Al Samawi hid alone in a bathroom, posting about his plight on Facebook. Four virtual American strangers responded and spent the next two weeks trying to save a man they barely knew. Jews and Christians saved my life, he said.Mr. Al Samawi has written a memoir about the experience, The Fox Hunt, which will be published by William Morrow next week. The film rights have been optioned by Marc Platt, who produced La La Land, and Mr. Pasek will also be a producer. (Becky Sweren, Mr. Pincuss wife, is Mr. Al Samawis literary agent.)By 9:30, a kosher dinner of Persian jeweled rice and pomegranate and walnut stew was served, prepared by Behzad Jamshidi, a child of Iranian refugees. A microphone was passed around for impromptu interpretations of Moses Song, guests congratulated performers and snapped selfies, and Mr. Al Samawi tried to take it all in.I was hiding in a small bathroom waiting to be killed and now Im here, he said.
WASHINGTON   Visitors attending Supreme Court arguments surrender their electronics on entering the courtroom. So if something rings, chimes or buzzes, it\'s likely the device\'s owner is dressed in a black robe.Last year, a justice\'s cellphone went off. But last month, when four electronic pings sounded during an argument, the device was different. It belonged to Justice Sonia Sotomayor and was alerting the justice, who is diabetic, that her blood sugar was urgently low.The 63-year-old justice has had diabetes since childhood, but the sound was the first public notice that she was using a continuous glucose monitor.Sotomayor\'s use of the device doesn\'t indicate a change in her health, experts told The Associated Press, but it does show her embracing a technology that has become more popular with Type 1 diabetics.In 2013, when Sotomayor did an interview with the American Diabetes Association\'s "Diabetes Forecast," the magazine reported she was not using one. But in recent years the devices, which use sensors inserted under the skin, have become more accurate, said Cleveland Clinic endocrinologist Kevin Pantalone.Monitors give users continuous information about glucose levels, rather than the snapshot they get from testing their blood with a finger prick. Information from the sensor gets sent every few minutes to a device where a user can see it charted. Most devices sound alarms at low and high glucose levels. Some monitors work with an insulin pump, which continuously delivers insulin.It\'s not clear when Sotomayor began using the technology. She declined comment through a court spokeswoman. But the dinging during arguments on March 21 followed an incident in January where emergency medical personnel treated her at home for symptoms of low blood sugar.Aaron Kowalski, an expert in diabetes technologies, said an event like that can prompt a person to try a monitor, but even people using the devices can experience low blood sugar that might result in an emergency call. Kowalski, who leads the research and advocacy efforts of JDRF, the Type 1 diabetes research organization, said about 15 percent to 20 percent of Type 1 diabetics now use such a device.___Some Supreme Court math: It takes at least six of the nine justices for the court to consider a case.When financial conflicts or family relations require more than three justices to step aside, federal law leaves the remaining justices just one option: They affirm the lower court\'s decision, without setting a precedent on the issue at hand. That\'s also what happens when the court is evenly divided.But an unusual statement from two justices on Tuesday suggests the court is looking for an end run around the law in one case.Justices Anthony Kennedy and Clarence Thomas said the court would put off acting on a long-pending appeal resulting from the Tribune Co. bankruptcy and strongly hinted that lower federal courts in New York that previously ruled in the case should take new action."I\'ve never seen anything like it before," said Arthur Hellman, an ethics expert at the University of PittsburghAs many as seven of the nine justices might have a conflict in the case, according to Fix the Court, a group that advocates for greater transparency at the Supreme Court. Seven justices appear to hold investments in mutual funds that were on the winning side in the lower courts, it said.The explanation for the statement is that the high court recently ruled in a separate bankruptcy case that raised an issue that\'s also part of the Tribune case. The unanimous court, resolving a split between appeals courts, said in effect that the New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals got it wrong.If the justices were now to turn around and affirm the 2nd Circuit\'s ruling in the Tribune case, they would be blessing a decision they already had decided was incorrect.___One of the animals that appear in the architecture of the Supreme Court is the tortoise, symbolizing that the court moves slowly but surely. This year, the justices are moving a little more slowly than usual. They have released 18 opinions at a point in the year when the number is generally above 20.So far, two just decisions split the liberal and conservative justices 5-4, with Justice Anthony Kennedy breaking the tie. Conservatives won both times.In one case, the justices said that car dealerships\' service advisers are not eligible for overtime pay. They held in the other that prisoners who win civil rights lawsuits against their jailers will have to give more of their money to their lawyers.There will almost certainly be more 5-4 splits over the next three months before the court starts its summer break. It\'s not unusual for the first decisions to reflect consensus, if not unanimity. The easier it is to resolve a case, without the back and forth that dueling opinions can occasion, the faster the court can issue a decision.That likely won\'t be the case for disputes over election redistricting, religious objections to civil rights law, regulation of anti-abortion crisis pregnancy centers, sports betting, union fees and President Donald Trump\'s travel ban. Spirited dissents are to be expected in those cases, no matter who wins.The next chance for opinions will be the week of April 16, when the justices begin the last round of arguments until the fall.___
Here is the March edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.As we did last month, weve listed the entries about the activism that has emerged after the Feb. 14 attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla, as a category of their own.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________March for Our Lives, Gun Reform, School Safety and Activism at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High SchoolBeyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend ElectionsWith hundreds of March for Our Lives demonstrations planned, high school students say this is a moment of political awakening for their generation.We Are the Change: Teenagers From Chicagos South Side Stand With Parkland SurvivorsThis video features footage from the event.March for Our Lives Highlights: Students Protesting Guns Say Enough Is Enough\'Hundreds of thousands of protesters, outraged by a recent school shooting, took to the streets in Washington and around the world, calling for action against gun violence.March for Our Lives: Maps of the More Than 800 Protests Around the WorldJust over a month after the Parkland mass school shooting, organizers have planned hundreds of demonstrations calling for stricter gun laws.In Gun Control Marches, Students Led but Adults Provided Key ResourcesThe March for Our Lives demonstrations were triumphs of organic, youthful grass-roots energy, and of sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.Something About Parkland Has Been Different: Survivors From 20 Years of Mass Shootings SpeakWe spoke to survivors of mass shootings and others affected by them about the demonstrations planned for Saturday, March 24.20 Years After the Shooting on the PlaygroundThe writer of this Opinion essay, a survivor of the 1998 attack at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Ark., in which four students and a teacher were fatally shot, says, It was jarring to find a group of survivors  my former classmates  as divided as our country.Advertisers Drop Laura Ingraham After She Taunts Parkland Survivor David HoggMs. Ingraham had apologized for mocking Mr. Hogg over his college rejections. She only apologized after we went after her advertisers, he said. It kind of speaks for itself.Support for Gun Control Seems Strong. But It May Be Softer Than It LooksThe new activists are hoping the old patterns of weak support will change.What the Dreamers Can Teach the Parkland KidsFrom one activist to another: Trust your instincts, study your history and dont read the comments, says this Opinion essay writer.Thank a TeenagerThis Opinion writer states, At times yesterday, the protesting students seemed to be everywhere  on social media, on television, in communities. And they offered a needed jolt of inspiration in a dark political time.National School Walkout: Thousands Protest Against Gun Violence Across the U.S.In a coordinated action, students left their classrooms and sometimes marched in the streets a month after 17 people were killed in a Florida high school.We Stand With the StudentsThe nations adults must listen to the students walking out of their schools Wednesday to protest gun violence, states this editorial.Letting Teenagers LiveThis Opinion essay writer says, Motor vehicle crashes kill more young people than shootings, and the issue is less affected by politics.Mr. Trump, Heres a Teenage Hero; Its Your Turn!A 15-year-old stood up to the Parkland gunman, yet the president wont stand up to the N.R.A., states this Opinion essay.Parkland Students Find Themselves Targets of Lies and Personal AttacksDavid Hogg is not an actor. He was indeed at school that day. Emma Gonzlez did not tear up a copy of the Constitution.Why I Didnt Join My Schools WalkoutThe writer of this Opinion essay states, I am a high school junior, and I shoot guns and hunt. Many of the kids protesting guns right now dont seem to know that much about them.I Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My FriendsThe notion that the Parkland shootings wouldnt have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous, writes a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who as an eighth grader had been assigned to tutor Mr. Cruz through the schools peer counseling program.Brother of Nikolas Cruz Arrested on Trespassing Charge at Stoneman Douglas High SchoolSheriffs deputies stopped Zachary Cruz on Monday afternoon after he rode a skateboard onto the schools property, the authorities said. School officials had told him to stay away.After Parkland, Turning Trauma Into ChangeStudents who survived the attacks at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School discuss the psychological aftermath.7 Times in History When Students Turned to ActivismThe survivors of the Parkland, Fla., high school shooting have surprised many with their public activism. But they are hardly the first students to push the adult world for political change.Arming TeachersIn as many as a dozen states, schools have already taken advantage of laws that allow employees to carry guns. Ohio is one of them.Who Should Be Armed in Florida Schools? Not Teachers, Lawmakers Say. But Maybe Librarians.After a debate on the State Senate floor on Monday, Republican legislative leaders backed off on arming most teachers, but voted to allow others in schools to carry guns.Why We Should Lower the Voting Age to 16Young people ought to have a say in how school shootings are best prevented, states this Opinion essay writer.Power to the ParentsGive kids the franchise  but let their parents exercise it, says the writer of this Opinion essay.School Officer: A Job With Many Roles and One Big ResponsibilitySchool resource officers like the one under scrutiny following the Florida shooting are expected to act as counselors and instructors as well as the first line of defense.Dear National Rifle Association: We Wont Let You Win. From, Teenagers.Our parents did not succeed in ensuring our safety at school. So we must do it ourselves, write the New Jersey high school students who penned this Opinion essay.Art Show Inspired by Parkland Shooting Victims Is ExtendedI had a lot of feelings Ive never had before while painting, Manuel Oliver, the father of a slain student, said.How the Parkland Students Got So Good at Social MediaThe activist students of Stoneman Douglas, where 17 people were killed last month, are social media naturals. But its not entirely true that theyve been tweeting all their lives.How Young Is Too Young for Protest? A National Gun-Violence Walkout Tests SchoolsA coordinated protest on Wednesday at schools across the U.S. has administrators making special plans for students who may not be old enough to handle the subject.With Gun Control Nearing a Dead End, G.O.P. Turns to School SafetyThe House plans to vote on legislation to beef up security at the nations schools, but Democrats accused Republicans of diverting attention from guns.Maryland School Gunman Confronted by Officer Shot Himself, Authorities SayThe St. Marys County Sheriffs Office said Austin Wyatt Rollins fatally shot himself in the head at the same time an officer fired at him.Girl Shot at Maryland School Dies After Being Taken Off Life SupportJaelynn Willey, 16, was shot at Great Mills High School on Tuesday. She died, surrounded by her family._________EducationWhat College Students Really Think About Free SpeechA new study finds that the vast majority of students strongly support free speech but struggle to balance it with their desire for inclusivity.The Ivy League Students Least Likely to Get MarriedAt Princeton, and in the American higher education system as a whole, there remains a strong correlation between marriage and economic class.The Growing College Graduation GapAccording to this Opinion essay writer, More poor students are going to college than in the past. And yet the number who graduate is falling even further behind.Yale Rape Verdict Shows How Yes Means Yes Can Be Murkier in CourtThe acquittal in the case of Saifullah Khan showed how the consent standards that have been adopted at colleges may differ from those that prevail off campus.At Columbia, Revisiting the Revolutionary Students of 1968As the 50th anniversary of the 1968 student takeover approaches, the neglected story of African-American protesters is moving to the center of the story.Its Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakAccording to this Opinion essay as they admit more poor students, colleges need to do a better job of serving them.Stop Asking About My Kids College PlansHave you guys made your list yet? everyone asks. I hate this question. We arent going to college; my daughter is, states this Opinion essay writer.A Problem for High Schools: More Cars, and Nowhere to Park ThemIn wealthy Long Island communities, luxury cars have become a standard gift for teenagers. But most schools do not have the space to accommodate them.Understanding Student MobbistsYounger generations have a different understanding of whats wrong with society and how to fix it, states this Opinion essay writer.Black Kids Dont Want to Read About Harriet Tubman All the TimeThis Opinion essay writer says, They need to see themselves reflected in stories that celebrate everyday beauty.College Republicans Propose an Unusual Idea From the Right: A Carbon TaxGOP strategists said the budding movement reflected a broader shift on social issues that, if it spread, could split the party along generational lines._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessPatriotic Youth Army Takes Russian Kids Back to the FutureThe Youth Army, a recent Kremlin creation, is designed to imprint nationalist fervor, but critics doubt Russia needs a militaristic league for the young.Malala Yousafzai Returns to Pakistan for First Time Since AttackMs. Yousafzai, a Nobel laureate studying at Oxford, met with the prime minister and will visit a school she helped build near her native Swat Valley.Boko Haram Returns Dozens of Schoolgirls Kidnapped in NigeriaThe unexpected return of the girls may turn out to be a major propaganda coup for Boko Haram, although some girls are still missing, and the group warned the girls to never go back to school again.Boko Harams Seizure of 110 Girls Taunts Nigeria, and Its LeaderThe president has often declared the Islamist group defeated, so its latest mass abduction threatens to become a major issue in next years election.Trapped in Russian Mall Fire, Children Said Farewell by PhoneBlocked exits prevented people from escaping the blaze at a mall in Siberia, officials said. At least 64 people were killed, many of them children.Never Again: Fighting Hate in a Changing Germany With Tours of Nazi CampsFerdous is from Afghanistan, Florentina from Kosovo and Damian from Berlin. A German high school class visited Sachsenhausen, where 50,000 are believed to have died during World War II.The Toys They Carried: Syrian Children Under SiegeChildren in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta are finding ways to pass the time in cramped basement shelters. But they are not insulated from the war.The Orphans of Chinas Economic MiracleThis Opinion essay states, Millions of migrants have left their children behind in the villages  sometimes to live with family members, sometimes to fend for themselves.A Young Monk Finds Her CallingIn Japan, a girl turns to her Buddhist faith to help rebuild her village temple destroyed in the tsunami seven years ago.Income Mobility Charts for Girls, Asian-Americans and Other Groups. Or Make Your OwnWatch men and women of any race grow up in the United States.New York Forgets Its Juvenile LifersAccording to this Opinion essay, A new lawsuit challenges the parole boards routine denials, even to those who have served decades and pose little or no safety risk.Why Are Black Students Punished So Often? Minnesota Confronts a National QuandaryThe Trump administration is highlighting the struggles that Minneapolis and St. Paul face with disparities in school discipline, and putting a thumb on the scale.Americans Might No Longer Prefer Sons Over DaughtersNew evidence suggests a shift, possibly because of a subtle fear of boys and the trouble they might bring._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsKarlie Kloss Teaches Teenage Girls How to CodeWhen shes not jet-setting or hanging with Taylor Swift, the 25-year-old model runs a coding boot camp for young women.Are iPhones Bad for Kids?Two new books  Anya Kamenetzs The Art of Screen Time and Naomi Schaefer Rileys Be the Parent, Please  offer advice to anxious parents.Your Kids Phone Is Not Like a CigaretteThis Opinion writer states, We cant fight technology the way we fought Big Tobacco.Take Your Daughter to the Movies, Not to Weight WatchersYour 13-year-old does not need to count points is one point raised in this Opinion essay.Are Todays Teenagers Smarter and Better Than We Think?Childhood health experts have worried about kids raised on cellphones and social media. Student protests gave us a glimpse of the potential of Gen Z.In Swedens Preschools, Boys Learn to Dance and Girls Learn to YellThe state curriculum urges teachers to counteract traditional gender roles, and at one school, girls are encouraged to shout No! and boys run the play kitchen.Finding the Poetry in March MadnessThis Opinion essay writer says, At Loyola, our poetry workshop was energized by our teams win, not overshadowed by it.At 15, Juggling Freshman Year and an International Squash CareerMarina Stefanoni of Darien, Conn., was the youngest player ever to compete in the Tournament of Champions. Having conquered junior events, shes eyeing success in pro events while still in high school.Clarkson, a Tiny Hockey Hotbed, Aims for Two N.C.A.A. TitlesThe womens team won its second national championship in a row and third in five years. Now, the men take their turn.After Historic Victory, U.M.B.C. Students Look Forward to the Next  LabIt wasnt exactly mass hysteria Saturday on the campus that wins chess championships the way Duke collects basketball ones. The model U.N. team is tough, too.I Go to Duke. Do I Have to Care About Basketball?This Opinion essay writer, a senior at Duke University, describes what happened before a basketball game started: I am handed a tip sheet with instructions: Yell "Woo" every time you jump,\' and shout strategically mean things at the correct moments.When College Basketball Teams Invade New York, an Empty Gym Is Hard to FindThe 25 mens college basketball teams competing this week in the Big East and Atlantic Coast Conference tournaments all need places to practice.Suicides, Drug Addiction and High School FootballThe dire existence of young athletes in Madison, Ind.: You just cant believe this is all happening in one small community._________Arts, Media and CultureThe Prom-Like Intensity of High School FolklricoIn the Central Valley in California, students gathered for an event celebrating a storied dance tradition steeped in Mexican culture.On Netflix, a Growing Wave of Shows for and About TeenagersAlexa & Katie and On My Block join a roster that includes 13 Reasons Why, Stranger Things and Everything Sucks.With Rise, a Friday Night Lights for Theater KidsNBCs Rise, isnt Glee and it isnt Fame. The mantra is to always keep it as realistic and honest as possible, said its showrunner, Jason Katims.Does Gay Hollywood Have Room for Queer Kids?This Opinion essay writer states, The unspoken rule of gay cinema and television: Masculine leads only.Finding New Meaning in Mean GirlsThe movie is beloved. But it also pits girls against girls. How, then, do you make a stage musical that satisfies fans and meets our cultural moment?Opening Young Minds With the Arts When Schools Are ClosedHeres a roundup of activities, from Muppet movies to zombie tag, at New York museums during the public school spring break._________
GAZA   Israeli fire killed a Palestinian at the Gaza border on Thursday and another died of wounds suffered several days ago, health officials said, bringing to 19 the number of Palestinian dead from a week of frontier protests.The Israeli military said one of its aircraft targeted an armed militant near the security fence along the Gaza Strip.Tens of thousands of Palestinians are holding a six-week-long protest in tent encampments along the fenced border of the Israeli-blockaded Gaza Strip, an enclave of 2 million ruled by the Islamist Hamas group.The demonstrators are pressing for a right of return for refugees and their descendants to what is now Israel.The latest deaths are likely to add to international concerns over the violence, which human rights groups have said involved live fire against demonstrators posing no immediate threat to life.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called for an independent investigation into the deaths on the first day of the protest last Friday, and B\'Tselem, an Israeli rights group, urged Israeli soldiers to "refuse to open fire on unarmed demonstrators. Orders to do so were manifestly illegal, it said.The United States, however, directed its criticism at the protest leaders. "We condemn leaders and protestors who call for violence or who send protestors - including children - to the fence, knowing that they may be injured or killed," President Donald Trump\'s Middle East peace envoy, Jason Greenblatt, said in a statement on Thursday.Sixteen Palestinians died after being shot by Israeli troops on the first day of the demonstrations, Palestinian medical officials said, and another was killed on Tuesday.A 33-year-old man, hit by Israeli fire a few days ago near one of the tent cities, died on Thursday, the officials said.Israel says it is doing what is necessary to defend its border. The military said that its troops had used live fire only against people trying to sabotage the border fence or rolling burning tires and throwing rocks.On Thursday, Brigadier-General Ronen Manelis, Israel\'s chief military spokesman, cautioned that Israel might attack deeper inside Gaza if the demonstrations did not stop."We have information that tomorrow, under a smoke screen and civilian cover, Hamas intends to carry out terrorist attacks against our civilians and troops, and cross the fence," he said."We have no interest in harming women and children who are protesting. They are not our enemies. We have one intention, not to allow terrorist attacks against our civilians and troops on the other side of the fence."LETHAL FORCEMany of the demonstrators who turned out for the first wave of protests along the border returned to their homes and jobs over the week. But organizers expect large crowds again on Friday, the Muslim sabbath.Protesters on Thursday were bringing more tents and thousands of tires to burn, in what has become known as The Friday of Tyres." They say they intend to use mirrors and laser pointers to distract Israeli sharpshooters.Friday is going to be a special day, they will see that we are not afraid, said one Palestinian youth as he delivered tires to the area. But Ahmed Ali, a 55-year-old teacher, said that while he wanted his family to see the tent camp, he would not come back on Friday.I taught my children one day we will be returning to Jaffa, our home, but I cant allow them to throw stones because the Israelis wont hesitate to kill them, he said.Hamas said on Thursday it would pay $3,000 to the family of anyone killed in the protests, $500 for critical injuries and $200 for more minor injuries. Israeli leaders say that such payments serve to instigate violence.Visiting the frontier this week, Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman warned protesters that "every person who comes close to the fence is endangering their lives."The protest action is set to wind up on May 15, when Palestinians mark the "Naqba", or "Catastrophe", when hundreds of thousands fled or were driven out of their homes during violence that culminated in war in May 1948 between the newly created state of Israel and its Arab neighbors.Israel has long ruled out any right of return, fearing it would lose its Jewish majority.(Writing by Jeffrey Heller and Stephen Farrell; Editing by Richard Balmforth and Peter Cooney)
NEW YORK   Mick Mulvaney, President Donald Trump\'s appointee to oversee the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has given big pay raises to the deputies he has hired to help him run the bureau, according to salary records obtained by The Associated Press.Mulvaney has hired at least eight political appointees since he took over the bureau in late November. Four of them are making $259,500 a year and one is making $239,595. That is more than the salaries of members of Congress, cabinet secretaries, and nearly all federal judges apart from those who sit on the Supreme Court.The salary records came as part of a records request submitted by the AP earlier this year.While most of the federal government follows a universal pay scale, some government agencies and departments have gotten waivers to use their own separate pay scales. One of those agencies is the Federal Reserve, the nation\'s central bank. Since the CFPB is technically part of the Federal Reserve, its employees get paid at a higher scale than their general government counterparts.The top salary under the general federal government pay scale is $134,776, not including adjustments for the higher cost of living in areas like New York City or Washington, D.C., according to the Office of Personnel Management. The top pay bracket for a Federal Reserve employee is $250,000.Mulvaney, as Trump\'s budget director, has long railed against government spending. One of his first directives as acting CFPB director was to announce he needed zero dollars in funding to run the agency, pledging to spend down the bureau\'s surplus fund this quarter before requiring more money from the Fed  the CFPB is funded by the Fed and not through the traditional congressional budget process.In his Jan. 17 letter to the Fed, Mulvaney said he was asking for zero dollars because of the need to be "responsible stewards of taxpayer dollars." But that tight-fisted approach apparently was not used with his staff\'s salaries. Further, it appears that at least two people that Mulvaney hired for his office are for positions that did not exist under the previous administration, at an additional taxpayer cost of $259,500 per employee.Kirsten Mork, Mulvaney\'s chief of staff, got a significant bump in pay for going to work at the CFPB. She made $167,300 in her job working for Rep. Jeb Hensarling on the House Financial Services Committee, according to LegiStorm, a website that tracks congressional salary data. She now makes $259,500 as chief of staff of the CFPB, according to bureau records.Mork is making more than her predecessor, Leandra English, made while in that position under Obama administration CFPB Director Richard Cordray. English\'s starting salary in her role as chief of staff under Cordray was $212,324, according to the office of Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin. The New York Times obtained English\'s salary as chief of staff earlier Thursday.English is now deputy director of the bureau  on paper the second-most powerful job in the bureau, but she has largely been sidelined since Mulvaney took over. The bureau has declined to disclose English\'s current salary, requesting that it be asked for through the Freedom of Information Act.Another former congressional staffer, Brian Johnson, who also worked for the House Financial Services Committee, made $164,600 in his role there before going to the CFPB, according to LegiStorm. He now makes $239,595 as a "senior advisor" to Mulvaney, a position that did not exist under Cordray.Eric Blankenstein, who oversees supervision, enforcement and fair lending for the bureau, previously was a lawyer for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative making $153,730, according to federal salary data website FedSmith. He now makes $259,500, according to bureau records. Another Mulvaney appointee, Sheila Greenwood, who used to work in the Department of Housing and Urban Development making $179,700 a year, now makes $259,500.Anthony Welcher, who worked outside government before becoming a director of external affairs for the bureau, is also making $259,500 a year. His position also did not exist under the previous administration, according to bureau records.In a statement, a CFPB spokesperson blamed Cordray for the elevated salaries that Mulvaney\'s appointees are making, saying "non-career staff are being paid on par with the career staff who directly report to them." Mulvaney himself is not making a salary as acting director, and earns a salary as Trump\'s budget director.The spokesperson also said it is up to Congress to change the bureau\'s structure and compensation practices.____Ken Sweet covers banks, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other financial topics for The Associated Press. Follow him on Twitter at @kensweet.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.   President Donald Trump\'s promise to use the National Guard to secure the U.S.-Mexico border isn\'t a new concept and is something the U.S. has done in the past for varying reasons.Both Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the border when they were in the White House. And throughout the history of the borderlands, the military or armed militias have been dispatched there to keep black slaves from fleeing, remove Native Americans from ancestral lands and suppress Mexican-American revolts stemming from anger over white mob violence.Here\'s a look at how the U.S. has used the military and armed militias along the border:SLAVERY AND CHINESE EXCLUSIONAfter the U.S. seized Texas and American Southwest following the U.S-Mexico War, armed militias patrolled the border looking for runaway black slaves. The traditional Underground Railroad to the north was too far for slaves to travel so thousands attempted the journey south to freedom. Soon, a guerra sorda, or cold war, developed between the nations.According to historian James David Nichols, Texas slaveholders took matters into their own hands and sent armed militias to the border and into Mexico to search for runaway slaves. Often Mexico refused to turn over slaves and the conflict sometimes resulted in violent skirmishes.In the late 1800s and early 1900s, mounted watchmen who patrolled from El Paso, Texas, to California were dispatched largely to look out for Chinese immigrants trying to illegally enter the U.S.Kelly Lytle Hernandez, a University of California, Los Angeles history professor and author of "Migra!: A History of the U.S. Border Patrol," says initially there were no restrictions on Mexican immigration at the time because U.S. growers wanted a steady stream of agricultural workers.___REVOLUTION AND REVOLTTensions remained high between white settlers, Mexican-Americans and Native Americans in the newly acquired territory following the U.S-Mexico War.Miguel Levario, a Texas Tech history professor and author of "Militarizing the Border: When Mexicans Became the Enemy," said the U.S. government erected military bases such as Fort Bliss in El Paso, Texas, for the sole purpose of removing Native Americans from lands. "It had little to do with immigration," Levario said.As the Mexican Revolution began in Mexico around 1910, white settlers feared Mexican-Americans might take up arms on behalf of Mexican Revolutionary leader Pancho Villa.When Villa soldiers in northern Mexico killed 19 white engineers and staff from an American mining company, drunken U.S. soldiers sought revenge in El Paso and attacked Mexican-Americans in poor El Paso neighborhoods, sparking a riot in 1916. El Paso police also are believed to have sought revenge and set fire to Mexican inmates in the El Paso jail, killing 27, Levario said. The inmates were doused with coal oil and gasoline as a crude disinfectant, he said.What happened at the jail helped push Villa to raid the small town of Columbus, New Mexico. The violent raid angered whites and President Woodrow Wilson, who ordered Gen. John J. Pershing to invade Mexico to arrest Villa. The U.S. Army never caught him.National Guard units from around the country were called up and more than 100,000 troops were sent to the border.___IMMIGRATION AND DRUGSCongress created the U.S. Border Patrol in 1924 and the agency slowly grew in size as its mission changed. At first, the agents sought to keep out Asian immigrants and later worked to stall alcohol trafficking in the Prohibition era. Slowly, it evolved into stalling unwanted migration from Mexico.Occasionally, U.S. presidents have sent the military or the National Guard to the border region to help the Border Patrol stem a crisis amid controversy with border residents.In 1997, camouflage-clad U.S. Marines ordered to patrol the border for drugs in West Texas shot and killed 18-year-old Esequiel Hernandez Jr. while he was herding his family\'s goats near the tiny village of Redford, Texas, along the U.S.-Mexico border. Authorities say Hernandez had no connection to the drug trade and was an honor student.That shooting sparked anger along the border and ended the President Bill Clinton-era military presence along the border. After Sept. 11, President George W. Bush sent unarmed National Guard units to the border for support, Levario said.In 2010, President Barack Obama deployed National Guard troops to the border over fear of increasing drug-trafficking violence.Today, there are more than 20,000 Border Patrol agents along the U.S.-Mexico border, and a number of other federal agencies have a presence as well.___Associated Press writer Russell Contreras is a member of the AP\'s race and ethnicity team. Follow Contreras on Twitter at http://twitter.com/russcontreras .
H. Fred Walker stood before his Edinboro University community on a recent snowy day and issued a warning.We have been very insular in that we have not looked beyond the boundaries of Edinboro, the college president told a group of staff and students who had gathered at a meeting in this town tucked away in Northwestern Pennsylvania to hear the details of the colleges strategic plan. When were judged against our peers, its a punch in the eye for us.While it was difficult for many in the room to hear, it was a reality years in the making for Edinboro, a four-year public university with an enrollment of about 6,000 students that is part of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education. In the last decade, enrollment has plummeted, faculty salaries have caused expenses to skyrocket and completion rates have dissipated.No longer is the schools most promising pipeline the average teenager going to college for the first time, but more likely the adult who may need to go back for a second or third. After 160 years as an anchor of rural Pennsylvania, the university is becoming obsolete.Theres a reckoning that has to come, Mr. Walker said in an interview in early March.For Mr. Walker, the reckoning came just a few weeks later. He resigned on March 27 after he enraged faculty and students with comments he made about his reform tactics to the The Chronicle of Higher Education.It is one of the most striking, but not unusual, signs of tumult gripping higher education institutions across the nation as they look for ways to thrive in the next century. Edinboro is among many colleges and universities facing a gloomy picture  painted by polls, politics and population shifts  that are forcing an overhaul of campuses. Amid a growing disillusionment with higher education, thousands of institutions are seeking ways to adapt to a rapidly changing landscape that has been destabilized by skeptics, an impatient work force and a fierce conservative populace streak.For colleges, that means re-examining centuries worth of practice. At Edinboro, that means gone are the days of educating for educations sake.Edinboros provost, Michael J. Hannan, who started as an assistant professor at the university 30 years ago, will lead the school on an interim basis, and he has signaled that he plans to follow the course set by Mr. Walker. I have every confidence that we will address our present challenges, guided by our values and an unwavering commitment to our students, Mr. Hannan wrote in a statement to the school community following Mr. Walkers resignation.Mr. Hannan said the university had been ignoring signs for at least a decade when, even amid a demographic downturn, it was building new dormitories instead of bracing for the market changes. Unfortunately, in our case, there was no concerted, strategic effort and were trying to change that at this point, he said in an interview as provost. I dont know if we thought wed be the exception.In Washington, congressional Republicans have set their sights on the Higher Education Act  the law governing the nations roughly 4,000 colleges and universities  to dismantle what they see as bloated, liberal-leaning bureaucracies that have left 6 million unfilled jobs and over $1 trillion in student debt. Elite institutions like the Ivy Leagues have already experienced the effects of the backlash, after they were targeted with an endowment tax in a sweeping Republican tax bill passed by Congress in December. President Trump has even called for vocational schools to replace community colleges.The efforts are driven in part by a 20-point divide between Democrats and Republicans in their confidence in colleges, shown in the most recent Gallup Poll that assesses attitudes in the country toward higher education. The results are clear: no longer is a college degree the crucible it once was.Too many Americans, particularly working-class Americans, are not sure that the return on investment is as high as it could be anymore, said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of government and public affairs at the American Council on Education. And thats where we have to do a better job.[READ MORE: Middle-Class Families Increasingly Look to Community Colleges]Among both political parties, the chief reasons for losing faith in higher education are a cause for concern. Democrats cite colleges rising costs while Republicans, 58 percent of whom said that college has had a negative impact on society, think colleges are too ideological.The effect of this divide on views of higher education  a pivotal element of the American dream for so many  raises questions about the future of higher education in this country, a Gallup analysis said.That is particularly true for universities like Edinboro, which have thrived on their ability to convince white, working-class families that their limited resources were well spent sending their teenagers to be shaped into the next generation of great thinkers. Now, with shifting demands, Edinboro and other universities are looking at eliminating several programs that have traditionally carried that goal, a move that some call the next war on the liberal arts.This shows the self-referential style of higher education driven by faculty with Ph.D.s is waning, said Mark Schneider, a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute who wrote the study Saving the Liberal Arts with Matthew Sigelman, chief executive of Burning Glass Technologies.All of a sudden, you woke up one day and students were dropping English majors because they want jobs, Mr. Schneider said.Among the programs being cut at Edinboro are degrees in music, geography and a masters in social science. The university will add programs like a master of business administration and a bachelors of science degree in health sciences.Mr. Hannan said the school was sensitive to preserving liberal arts majors  like political science and history  in its review, though some specialties would be discontinued. Without some of those programs, you have to question whether or not you are a university, Mr. Hannan said. But for better or worse, many students are career-minded, and we have to respond to that.The university plans to emphasize co-curricular activities, leadership and life skills, and experiential learning opportunities in its new plan. It will also double the size and budget of its career center.Nationally, Gallup polling shows that colleges have been particularly slow to recognize the demand for work force preparation said Mr. Schneider, pointing to the 16 percent of students who reported using career centers on college campuses, and found them useful.While the evidence of the benefits of higher education has never been more pronounced, the prevalence of stories about the lack of jobs and high student loan debt have put colleges on notice.But it wouldnt be the first time. The demise of colleges and universities has been forecast time and again, Mr. Hartle said. And higher education is often targeted as a culprit of societal misgivings, usually during the most politically divisive eras  they emerged in narratives during the Communist hearings and Vietnam protests.Anything thats been around in the same place, doing the same function for 150 years has shown it can change, Mr. Hartle said. But nobody can be comfortable, and any institution that assumes that past success guarantees the future is being foolish.Besides, higher education is facing a new threat in the business of creating and transmitting information.That keeps Joseph E. Aoun, president of Northeastern University in Boston, up at night. While other presidents in local college towns worry about competing for endowments and enrollment, Mr. Aoun sees another threat: robots.More than the latest polls, he is driven by a 2013 Oxford University Study that predicted that nearly half of the jobs in the United States are at risk of being taken over by computers within the next two decades. We said if robots are going to replace human beings we need to help students to be robot-proof, and we built a strategic plan around that, Mr. Aoun said.That thinking positioned Mr. Aoun on the fringe of higher education strategizing just a few years ago, but he is now called on weekly to advise other institutions on how to help their students outsmart the workers of the future.He calls this strategy humanics  a staple of Northeasterns program that requires computer science majors to take theater classes. The idea is to give students the ability to solve the worlds most pressing problems in a way that robots cannot  with empathy. Or as he puts it: I havent seen a computer that weeps.During his 12-year tenure, Mr. Aoun has essentially turned over the reins of the institution to students and employers. The schools acclaimed cooperative education and career development program, called Co-op, sends more than 90 percent of its students into paying jobs around the world. Students complete two Co-ops, sometimes three, over the course of their college careers, for six months at a time.While other colleges are trying to get their students to use the career center, Northeastern has students in companies in 136 countries and on every continent, including Antarctica. The students are the ones who are in tune with the world, Mr. Aoun said. Theyre bringing the experience to us, and getting us out of our comfort zone.The urban campus is described as having a workaholic vibe, and a running joke is that nobody looks twice at a student walking around campus in a suit. Chaitri Gulati, a third-year student at Northeastern, was drawn to the school because of the Co-op program, and because sitting in class would not just be for the sake of taking examinations and intellectual enrichment.Ms. Gulati, who is studying economics and political science, is at Wellington Managements London office, where she is working with an investment team, and more important, applying theoretical concepts learned in her classes to understanding the investment process. The more such experiences I have, the more I learn what role I wish to play now but also later in life, Ms. Gulati said.Northeastern is not hurting for students: it has posted record application numbers for the past nine years and last fall got 62,000 applications for 2,800 freshman seats. But Mr. Aoun is hoping to meet another demand  what Northeastern calls the lifetime learner. For too long, Mr. Aoun said, lifelong learning had been deemed a second-class operation.A recent poll conducted by Northeastern and Gallup found that only 37 percent of workers said that if they lost their job to a machine they would turn to a college or university for retraining. Mr. Aoun hopes to lure more of those potential students.Where others see a challenge, Mr. Aoun sees an opportunity. Theres a lot of anxiety right now, he said. But I believe were in the golden age of higher education.Edinboro University, on the other hand, is trying to climb out of the Dark Ages. The overhaul will touch virtually every corner of the college, starting with who walks through the door.The school toughened admissions requirements to weed out local students who have traditionally turned to Edinboro as their only education option. It is a painful reality, but so are their outcomes. Though the college has accepted nearly everyone who applied, its enrollment has plummeted nearly 30 percent in the last five years. It has a 38 percent attrition rate, and poor four-year and six-year graduation rates, at 27 percent and 49 percent.The admissions move seems counterproductive, given that it is sure to result in fewer students. Already, Edinboro stands to be among the hardest hit in its region by demographic shifts that will see declining high school graduates and fewer births. But the school has set its sights on a new group of students  specifically, the 100,000 adults who have been identified by a state analysis who are living in the region who have completed some college but not obtained a degree.Marc Sylvester, president of Edinboros faculty union, said the faculty supported key elements of Edinboros plan forward, including raising admission standards and overhauling program offerings.But, Mr. Sylvester said, more important than a plan was for the campus to have faith in the leader implementing it. There are changes that need to be made, he said. And we also need to respect our traditions. Otherwise, were losing our identity. 
