Jennifer Clement’s “Gun Love” is the author’s second novel examining Americans’ fascination with firearms.
A South Carolina congressman pulled out his own loaded handgun during a meeting with constituents Friday to make a point that guns are dangerous only in the hands of criminals.
The Latest on the fatal New York City police shooting of a man who was brandishing the head of a welding torch (all times local):
Authorities in Miami say they arrested a man who put a gun in his 8-year-old son's backpack, forgot about it and went to the school to get it.
An employee at a San Diego gun store where a woman bought the pistol used to shoot three people at YouTube headquarters said there was nothing remarkable about the transaction, a newspaper reports.
Quotation of the Day for Friday, April 6, 2018.
A shooting in Brooklyn laid bare a shortcoming of neighborhood policing: Officers who know residents are not always the ones responding in fraught situations.
Saheed Vassell was fatally shot by the police in Crown Heights on Wednesday. He was holding a metal pipe that passers-by and officers thought was a gun.
Witnesses who called New York City police to report that a man was menacing people with a gun before police killed him were terrified but also uncertain whether the object the man had really was a gun, 911 transcripts released Friday show.
A federal judge on Friday upheld a Massachusetts law banning assault weapons including the AR-15, saying the U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment guarantee of Americans' right to bear firearms does not cover them.
Companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s trade policies. With first-quarter earnings imminent, will that now change?
Assault weapons and large-capacity magazines are not protected by the Second Amendment, a federal judge said in a ruling Friday upholding Massachusetts' ban on the weapons.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
London police called an emergency meeting of community leaders on Friday after six stabbings in a matter of hours, as they tried to stem a wave of knife crime that threatens to dominate the city's politics ahead of local elections in May.
South Carolina debated seceding from the Union more than 150 years ago ahead of the Civil War. Now, the topic has come up again, amid a national debate over firearms and gun rights.
New Rochelle High had three incidents, including a fatal stabbing, in just nine days, leaving the unusually diverse school to figure out the best way to respond.
Relatives of a Georgia man fatally shot by police in January have called for police to release body camera video of the shooting, saying they're confident the footage shows he was unarmed.
Mexican marines accepted responsibility Friday for the deaths of three civilians killed when they drove through a running gun battle between marines and cartel gunmen in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo in late March.
The conviction of a man arrested by corrupt officers in the Baltimore Police Gun Trace Task Force has been cleared posthumously.
The Kansas Supreme Court on Friday overturned a former Topeka woman's convictions for killing her ex-husband and his fiancee in 2002, finding that prosecutors falsely claimed at trial that her former spouse had taken out a protection from abuse or...
The Latest on an explosion inside a Sam's Club store in Southern California (all times local):
The U.S. military said on Friday it had killed three militants after launching an air strike in Somalia against al Shabaab, a militant Islamist group allied with al Qaeda.
California's first black U.S. senator said Thursday that better training is needed to help police officers recognize biases in response to last month's shooting of Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old unarmed black man shot by Sacramento police.
A former New Jersey music major, she hunted, camped and shared her adventures and advice as an author and a columnist for Women & Guns magazine.
Vietnam arrested a former senior police official on Friday on suspicion of involvement in an illegal online gambling ring, the Ministry of Public Security said.
The horror franchise’s newest installment is an origin tale featuring Marisa Tomei, Y’lan Noel and Lex Scott Davis.
Kosovo authorities said on Friday they had indicted 11 people, including a minister and lawmaker from the ruling party, for allegedly handing out state jobs to people based on their political affiliation.
A California man convicted of sexually assaulting a 3-year-old girl got a new sentence Friday of 25 years to life in prison after an appeals court found the trial judge handed down a 10-year sentence that was too lenient.
A woman who says she was raped by a U.S. sailor in Japan is demanding Tokyo do more to protect crime victims of U.S. military personnel stationed here.
JP Morgan Chase has acknowledged it knew a former Nigerian oil minister convicted of money laundering would benefit when it transferred over $800 million of government funds to a company he controlled, according to a court document seen by Reuters...
Spanish and Portuguese authorities announced Friday that they have taken down a criminal network that has been making large profits by smuggling glass eels to Asia.
New York City has pledged to listen to suggestions by Muslim groups when it drafts new policies for investigating political activity, part of a settlement over police surveillance conducted after the 2001 World Trade Center attack.
An Arizona transient with a history of mental illness was sentenced on Friday to 29 years in prison for a murderous rage in which he decapitated his wife and their two puppies, then maimed himself, a court official said. 
A woman used a "large-bladed kitchen knife" to sever the head of her 7-year-old son 10 days after she was released from a hospital mental health unit, authorities said Friday.
A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue headlines of the week. None of these stories is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out; here are the real facts:
Authorities have partially solved the mysterious disappearance of a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention employee with the discovery of his body. But they may never know how he drowned in a river not far from his home.
Three children missing for more than a week were likely inside the vehicle their mother drove off a California cliff and their bodies probably washed into the Pacific Ocean, police said on Thursday.
Six new paperbacks to check out this week.
Sacramento has agreed to reform its policing practices and pay a black man $550,000 after an officer threw him to the ground over a jaywalking allegation last year and repeatedly punched him in the face, his lawyers said Friday.
Six human rights activists were sentenced to harsh prison terms in Vietnam after being convicted of attempting to overthrow the government by advocating a multiparty democracy.
A student gravely wounded while saving his classmates' lives by blocking a door during the Florida school massacre said Friday that the county sheriff and school superintendent failed the victims by not arresting the shooter before the attack and ...
Facebook Inc backed for the first time on Friday proposed legislation requiring social media sites to disclose the identities of buyers of online political campaign ads and introduced a new verification process for people buying "issue" ads, which...
A federal judge ordered the arrest of former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, giving him until Friday afternoon to turn himself into authorities. Being forced to begin serving a corruption conviction while he appeals it increases the chances t...
This week, Darius embarks on a typically impulsive jaunt that unexpectedly turns into a Southern gothic nightmare.
Instead of building a house or skyscraper, Forensic Architecture builds cases against human rights violators, scouring for evidence through social media.
Former South African president Jacob Zuma sat in the dock of a packed courtroom on Friday to face corruption charges and emerged defiant, telling supporters that the case against him was politically motivated.
Former South African president Jacob Zuma appeared in court on Friday to face corruption charges relating to a $2.5 billion arms deal, later telling a crowd he would be proven innocent in the long-running case that resurfaced after his fall from p...
They were teenagers in love, bonding after overcoming personal struggles and dreaming of a family and future together. When they vanished days after Christmas, friends and family combed Utah's west desert for months in search of answers.
It’s a perk of being the Worst Member of the Trump Administration.
Even Pulitzer Prize-winners watch television. A recent standout for Ms. Nottage has been “The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story.”
The six-month closure of the Philippine tourism island of Boracay for a revamp after the country's president branded it a "cesspool" reflects the growing pressures on beach resorts across Southeast Asia as visitor numbers surge.
Brazil's former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva defied a judge's order to turn himself in to police on Friday and start serving a 12-year prison sentence for bribery that would likely end his hopes of regaining the presidency.
A U.S. Air Force officer who served on the presidential security detail faces a possible court-martial in Texas for encouraging service members to send him photos of their genitals from locations around the world and rewarding contributions with c...
Following are five big themes likely to dominate the thinking of investors and traders in the coming week, and the Reuters stories related to them.
The trial in Dublin that convicted Myles Joyce, who spoke only Irish, was conducted in English. He protested his innocence until the moment he was executed.
Rakesh Kumar has a post-graduate degree but works as a house painter in the small town of Kasba Bonli in northwestern India.
Rakesh Kumar has a post-graduate degree but works as a house painter in the small town of Kasba Bonli in northwestern India.
The list includes some of the world’s richest people, from multiple industries, with fortunes that are closely tied to their relations with the Kremlin.
The governor has been touting his feminist credentials on social media, while simultaneously battering Bill de Blasio on the decay of the city’s public housing.
In Hungary and Poland, the liberal West used to be the promised land. Not anymore.
The Bengsons are a folk-rock duo adapting their personal stories for the stage. But their new show, “The Lucky Ones,” posed a painful challenge: “Is it possible to tell the truth kindly?”
Friday: How the city measures snow, weekend events, and National Tartan Day.
