This is no way to run a country, unless your intention is to run it into the ground.
American farmers worry that the president’s plans to penalize Chinese trade practices will result in retaliation against U.S. agriculture. Beijing has proposed just that.
In West Virginia, President Trump continued his tirade against the United States’ immigration laws and accused Democrats of embracing dangerous policies to win votes.
President Trump said he would consider tariffs on $100 billion more in Chinese goods in retaliation for Beijing’s plan to set levies on American products.
President Trump delivered a lengthy criticism of current immigration policy, accused Democrats of using “chain migration” to get votes and repeated unfounded claims of election fraud.
The caravan, largely consisting of desperate Central Americans, is dispersing but plans to regroup elsewhere.
If the tariffs stand, along with China’s retaliatory moves, they could damage industries that have relied on a global supply chain for their recovery.
Beijing has a strong grip on banks, the news media and politics, and it seems willing to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system.
Juli Briskman said that Akima L.L.C., a government contractor, dismissed her because it feared her gesture would hurt its business. “Criticism of our leaders should be encouraged,” she said.
With 29 suits filed, the federal government and California are engaged in “bloody combat” over issues like immigration, the environment and the census.
One small government office has become the flash point in the debate over the administration’s embrace of socially conservative policy.
Ms. Yates, the acting attorney general fired by President Trump for refusing to defend his travel ban, said at a New York Times event that he is breaking democratic norms.
On trade, Trump doesn’t know what he wants, except what he can’t get.
In his first public remarks on the matter, President Trump told reporters that he knew nothing about the $130,000 paid to Stormy Daniels, remarks that could complicate his legal battle against her.
The political divide in the United States now separates people by how open or closed their minds are.
A reader cites Trump’s admiration for autocrats who act like “selfish children,” and another describes rule by temper tantrum.
American companies want a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. China wants to build its industries into sophisticated global competitors. This week, both countries demonstrated a willingness to escalate trade tensions to defend the...
After months of stalemate, American negotiators are eager for quick progress on the North American trade deal.
The president’s decision to send National Guard troops to the nation’s southern border is rooted more in xenophobia than in facts.
While Washington figures out its stance on Syria, American forces on the ground are building up their front-line positions.
The Senate rule hasn’t stopped the G.O.P. from legislating — party divisions have.
President Trump denied knowledge of a $130,000 payment to Stephanie Clifford, a pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels. It was the first time he commented publicly on the scandal.
The special counsel is emphasizing his lack of independence to defend the indictment of Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman.
“Both of them are instinctively more concerned about the American economy and things at home,” said Robert S. Ford, the last American ambassador to Syria.
The Alaska senator is one of the few Republicans who has gone toe-to-toe with the president — and thrived.
A star in President Trump's campaign to roll back regulations, he now faces a swirl of ethics questions and may be losing the confidence of the White House.
The Hungarian prime minister is a leader of an international reactionary movement that counts Turkey’s Erdogan, Poland’s Kaczynski and Russia’s Putin among its proud members.
The House Committee on Natural Resources is intent on erasing essential protections for the nation’s natural resources.
The world added more solar power than any other energy source in 2017. But it's still a tiny fraction of total electricity.
It’s time America’s leaders got serious about voting security.
At least five agency officials were reassigned or demoted, or requested new jobs after raising concerns about the administrator’s security demands and spending.
It’s time America’s leaders got serious about voting security.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel will be visiting President Donald Trump in Washington in the coming weeks.
The Latest on President Donald Trump (all times local):
President Donald Trump told reporters on Thursday he was looking into allegations about Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, who is under fire for renting a condo at below-market rates from a lobbyist's wife, but added that ...
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday delivered a sharp rebuke to Donald Trump over the U.S. leader's plan to send National Guard troops to the border, urging him not to thrust Mexico into U.S. domestic politics.
U.S. President Donald Trump continued his attacks on Amazon.com on Thursday, targeting the newspaper, owned privately by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, as the company's "chief lobbyist" in a Twitter post.
President Donald Trump on Thursday indicated he continued to back Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, who is under fire for paying low rent on a condo owned by a lobbyist.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt (all times local):
Special counsel Robert Mueller's team currently considers President Donald Trump to be a subject &#8212; not a criminal target&#8212; in the wide-ranging investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with Trump associa...
The Latest on President Donald Trump and his ongoing criticism of Amazon (all times local):
President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don't call it a "timeline."
The Trump administration is preparing to impose new sanctions on powerful Russian business and political figures under a law passed last year in response to alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.
Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.
President Donald Trump said Thursday he didn't know about the $130,000 payment his personal attorney made to Stormy Daniels, issuing a firm denial in his first public comments about the adult-film actress who alleges she had an affair with him.
U.S. President Donald Trump said in a statement on Thursday that he has instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China "in light of China's unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. tariff actions.
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he would take a very serious look at policies that might affect online retailer Amazon.com Inc.
President Donald Trump is hoping to counter Chinese efforts to bolster its economic influence in the Americas during his inaugural trip to Latin America next week amid an escalating trade fight and his harsh rhetoric on immigration.
U.S. President Donald Trump, in his first public remarks about an intimate relationship he has been accused of having with an adult film star, said on Thursday he did not know about a $130,000 payment made by his lawyer to actress Stormy Daniels t...
German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit U.S. President Donald Trump on April 27, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday, as differences over a nuclear deal with Iran and trade cast a shadow over the transatlantic relationship.
President Donald Trump, engaged in an escalating confrontation with Beijing over trade, will urge Latin American leaders next week to work with the United States - not China - on trade, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday.
Tossing his "boring" prepared remarks into the air, President Donald Trump on Thursday unleashed a fierce denunciation of the nation's immigration policies, calling for tougher border security while repeating his unsubstantiated claim that "millio...
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday sharply rebuked Donald Trump over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, joining with opponents to tell the U.S. leader not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico.
President Donald Trump said on Thursday he would take a look into ethics allegations against Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt over his condo lease and other issues, but added the official was doing a "fantastic job."
Mexico's Senate issued a stern rebuke to U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday, urging its government to end cooperation with the United States on migration and security over Trump's plans to deploy the National Guard along their shared border.
President Donald Trump is off, way off, on the U.S. trade deficit with China. He repeatedly uses an inflated number for the trade gap as the world's two largest economies escalate their dispute over imports and exports.
The activist, comedian and author spoke about women, power and privilege in an interview with Megan Twohey of The New York Times.
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday he would probably station a few thousand National Guard troops at the 2,000-mile-long (3,200-km) Mexican border until the wall he wants to build there to keep out illegal immigrants is done.
President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods on Thursday in a dramatic escalation of the trade dispute between the two countries.
Most Asian stock markets turned higher Friday as investors brushed off initial worries about the Trump administration's latest threats of yet more tariffs on Chinese imports, indicating concerns were easing about a brewing trade battle between the...
Even as President Donald Trump mulls a U.S. pullout from Syria, insisting that the Islamic State group is "almost completely defeated," the extremist group is showing signs of a revival.
Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year i...
U.S. stock futures slid and the yen rose against the dollar on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump proposed additional tariffs on China, aggravating trade tensions and smothering a revival in broader investor risk appetite.
For more than a year, Wall Street has largely ignored the unpredictability and chaos that has plagued Donald Trump's administration, confident that the businessman-turned-president's policies would juice the economy and that a team of mainstream a...
President Donald Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on $100 billion (&#163;71.3 billion) more Chinese imports, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world's two largest economies...
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump's broadsides haven't come close to hitting.
President Donald Trump said Thursday that he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking, but it wasn't clear who would be called u...
U.S. stock futures fell more than 1 percent late on Thursday after U.S. President Donald Trump said he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China. 
The Trump administration's recent trade actions toward China were not intended to punish any industries or the markets, but Beijing should shoulder the blame for any hit to the U.S. economy, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Thursd...
White House trade adviser Peter Navarro on Thursday defended U.S. trade action toward China, saying it ultimately would lead to free trade after imbalances are corrected and that the Trump administration would help American farmers who could take ...
Oil prices fell on Friday along with equities as U.S. President Trump's threat of new tariffs on China reignited fears of a trade war between the world's two biggest economies.
A U.S. District Court judge in California refused to issue an order blocking Qatar and one of its lobbyists from disseminating emails and other documents that top Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy has alleged in a lawsuit were stolen in a hack ...
Democrats, buoyed by victories in Republican districts, take aim at suburban New Jersey as they try to wrest control of the House from the G.O.P.
Behind-the-scenes talks could preserve some rules targeted by the Environmental Protection Agency for elimination.
The emir of Qatar (KUH'-tur) will be meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House next week.
Turkish Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci has sent a letter to U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross seeking an exemption from new U.S. import tariffs on steel and aluminium, a Turkish official said.
When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn't on the line.
Germany's foreign minister says his government will exert "considerable efforts" to protect the Iran nuclear deal despite Berlin's misgivings about Iran's ballistic missiles program and its involvement in the Syria conflict.
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Thursday said he expects the United States and China to work out their trade differences over time and that trade barriers likely "will come down on both sides."    
The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the effects of recent tariff increases on April 12, its chairman said on Thursday.
While people who voted for President Donald Trump are still largely supportive of his immigration policies, their approval has eroded somewhat since he took office, according to Reuters/Ipsos polling. 
The United States is willing to negotiate with China on trade, but only if talks are serious, as previous attempts produced little progress, a senior U.S. official told Reuters late on Thursday as trade tensions between the two nations escalated.
U.S. military policy toward fighting Islamic State militants in Syria remains the same following discussions with President Donald Trump this week, and the military has not been given a timeline for withdrawing troops, the Pentagon said on Thursda...
Migrants in a caravan that drew criticism from U.S. President Donald Trump began packing up their meager possessions and boarding buses to Mexico City and the nearby city of Puebla on Thursday.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's order for the National Guard to deploy to the U.S.-Mexico border (all times local):
The Trump administration signed off Thursday on selling more than $1.3 billion in artillery to Saudi Arabia, giving a vote of confidence to the Saudi military as young Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman concludes a marathon tour of the United States...
JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon complimented the administration of President Donald Trump in an annual letter to shareholders on Thursday, saying tax cuts and deregulatory efforts were helping his bank make more money.
The foreign ministers of Russia and China jointly denounced what they described Thursday as the unilateralism of the United States, criticism that underlined their growing rapport on global issues.
Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump's campaign played any role in providing it...
Impoverished Central American migrants travelling in a "caravan" through Mexico that angered U.S. President Donald Trump said they would stick together for safety even though the group will end its journey in Mexico City rather than at the U.S. bo...
Texas Republican congressman Pete Sessions quietly visited Venezuela this week and met with President Nicolas Maduro at the invitation of the socialist government in a peacebuilding mission that has raised some eyebrows in Washington.
The U.S. trade deficit rose for the sixth straight month in February, reaching the highest level since October 2008 and defying President Donald Trump's efforts to rebalance America's lopsided trade with the rest of the world.
The rival Koreas held preparatory talks Thursday for a summit later this month between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in amid a global diplomatic push to resolve tensions over the North's nuclear program.
Turkey, Iran and Russia pledged on Wednesday to accelerate efforts to bring stability to Syria, underlining their joint commitment to the country a day after President Donald Trump raised the prospect of withdrawing U.S. troops.
Democrats and Republicans each want to wield the stalemate between President Donald Trump and Congress over immigration as a weapon in November's congressional elections.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un told Chinese President Xi Jinping during talks in Beijing last week that he agreed to return to six-party talks on his nation's nuclear program and missile tests, the Nikkei newspaper said on Thursday.
The Latest on former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty's announcement that he's running for his old job again (all times local):
Ellen Stofan will become the first woman to head the National Air and Space Museum.
Mike Myers brought back his Dr. Evil character from “Austin Powers.” He said that he was going to be the “secretary of evil,” but Steve Bannon took the job.
The Latest on the escalating trade dispute between China and the United States (all times local):
Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty announced Thursday he will run for his old job, ending months of speculation about a return to politics following his short-lived 2012 presidential campaign.
China's threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.
The blowout win by Rebecca Dallet makes Wisconsin's Supreme Court the nation's highest in percentage of women justices, the latest example of the strength of the liberal, female candidates in the year of the #MeToo movement.
The United States and China, the world's two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other's goods.
A judge ruled Thursday that a Frenchman will not be tried for killing two British backpackers in an Australian hostel in 2016 because of mental illness.
Preparing to head to Kabul, Pakistan's prime minister on Thursday reiterated his country's full support for Afghanistan's efforts to revive the long-stalled peace process with the Taliban.
The United States, Mexico and Canada are "moving forward in a significant way" at talks to modernize the NAFTA trade pact, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday.
The U.S. military has canceled a training exercise off the coast of Djibouti and paused air operations from the country after two air mishaps this week raised questions about the state of military readiness, U.S. officials said on Thursday.
Janet Yellen cashed in with her first paid visit to Wall Street since stepping down as Federal Reserve chair, discussing rate hikes and U.S. President Donald Trump at events on Monday that included a dinner for 40 at a CEO's Manhattan penthouse. 
Janet Yellen cashed in with her first paid visit to Wall Street since stepping down as Federal Reserve chair, discussing rate hikes and U.S. President Donald Trump at events on Monday that included a dinner for 40 at a CEO's Manhattan penthouse. 
New organizations are forming and succeeding in an age of distrust.
The U.S. trade deficit increased to a near 9-1/2-year high in February, with both imports and exports rising to record highs in a sign of strong domestic and global demand.
Fourteen states filed suit on Thursday accusing the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of failing to issue regulations for curbing emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse pollutant, from existing oil and gas operations as required under the Cl...
Mexican politicians put aside differences Thursday to condemn U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to deploy National Guard troops to the border.
Facebook isn't just a company. It's a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.

Today in History
The number of women running for the U.S. House of Representatives set a record Thursday, most of them Democrats motivated by angst over President Donald Trump and policies of the Republican-controlled Congress.
The director of The New York Times Gender Initiative shares her impressions and questions after a busy visit to Sydney and Melbourne.
An on-again, off-again effort to restrict harmful methane emissions on federal lands is off &#8212; again.
Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country's privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, wi...
There are ways to make life harder for American companies in China that need not be formal, or widely publicized.
The woman who lost her job after displaying her middle finger to President Donald Trump's motorcade is suing her employer.
The city of San Francisco filed a lawsuit against U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday, asking a federal court to overturn his December decision to revoke legal guidance designed to protect minorities, the indigent and disabled.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
For the first time in our nearly 20-year history, The Learning Network will be in print. Pick up a copy on April 8.
The potential $6 billion purchase of Russia’s S-400 missile defense system comes as the United States is trying to cultivate military ties with India.
An analysis of the popular 4/20 weed celebration found an increase in auto accidents after 4:20 p.m.
The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):
As a stock rebound on Thursday put the S&amp;P 500 on track for its strongest three-day performance since 2016, a look at the recent performance of most of the index's components paints a different picture, illustrating signs of weakness in Wall S...
George Papadopoulos, taken by surprise by FBI agents at an airport last summer, now tweets smiling beach selfies with a hashtag for the Greek resort island of Mykonos.
A move by Senegal to deport former Guantánamo detainees spotlights the Trump administration’s closing of a State Department office that monitored resettlements.
Thursday: A backlash against Trump emission rules, institutionalizing the homeless, more rain, and a Frank Gehry-Wolfgang Puck collaboration.
Trump administration officials proposed raising the car entrance fee for its most popular national parks to $70. They received 109,000 comments, many critical.
The drug, naloxone, has been used to revive thousands of people, and Dr. Jerome M. Adams says family and friends of opioid users should learn how to use it.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The peace agreement, which brought the breakaway I.D.C. back to the mainstream fold, was just the first step in a plan to take back control of Albany.
Mick Mulvaney, who is trying to rein in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, awarded large pay increases to two recent recruits.
Mr. Dimon’s annual letters have fed the chatter that he would run for president, but could his views ever find a home in this politically polarized environment?
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Australia on Thursday said it had begun an investigation to decide whether social media giant Facebook Inc breached its privacy laws, after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorization.
Emma González and Rose McGowan, ‘Black Panther’ and ‘Billions’ — shaved heads make a statement, intentional or not.
Sally Q. Yates, the former acting attorney general, and the New York Times reporter Matt Apuzzo had a wide-ranging conversation at a TimesEvent.
Like a good thriller, you can't be sure where the stock market is headed these days until the very end.
The laughs run hot and (mostly) cold in this comedy about three daughters who set out to lose their virginity and whose parents try to stop them.
China's move to impose tariffs on imported U.S. soybeans may boost palm oil's draw in the short term, traders and analysts say, as the spread between palm and soyoil is expected to widen as the latter becomes more costly in Beijing. 
A major European carmaker could be brought "to its knees" by carbon dioxide emissions fines, allowing a Chinese buyer to step in with its own electric vehicle technology, Peugeot maker PSA Group's chief executive said.
A Tennessee teacher who set off a nationwide manhunt last year after he fled with a 15-year-old student broke down in court after pleading guilty to crossing state lines to have sex with a minor.
Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm's misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday...
German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to diversify production of their sports utility vehicles (SUVs) outside of the United States as a result of Washington's growing trade tensions with China.
The United States military is spending about $1 million to secure several makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid.
Our guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.
On the fourth night of Passover, Tony winners and their friends gathered for an a cappella version of “Go Down Moses” and many other surprises.
Visitors attending Supreme Court arguments surrender their electronics on entering the courtroom. So if something rings, chimes or buzzes, it's likely the device's owner is dressed in a black robe.
Our roundup of the news stories and features about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com.
Israeli fire killed a Palestinian at the Gaza border on Thursday and another died of wounds suffered several days ago, health officials said, bringing to 19 the number of Palestinian dead from a week of frontier protests.
Mick Mulvaney, President Donald Trump's appointee to oversee the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has given big pay raises to the deputies he has hired to help him run the bureau, according to salary records obtained by The Associated Press.
President Donald Trump's promise to use the National Guard to secure the U.S.-Mexico border isn't a new concept and is something the U.S. has done in the past for varying reasons.
Many colleges and universities are facing a gloomy picture, painted by polls, politics and population shifts that are forcing an overhaul of campuses across the country.
