
WASHINGTON  The White House said Tuesday night that President Trump planned to deploy the National Guard to the southern border to confront what it called a growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America after the president for the third consecutive day warned about the looming dangers of unchecked immigration.Mr. Trumps advisers said Monday that he was readying new legislation to block migrants and asylum seekers, including young unaccompanied children, from entering the United States, opening a new front in the immigration crackdown that he has pressed since taking office. But in remarks on Tuesday that caught some of his top advisers by surprise, he suggested the more drastic approach of sending in the military to do what immigration authorities could not.Speaking to reporters during a news conference with the presidents of three Baltic nations, Mr. Trump described existing immigration laws as lax and ineffective, and called for militarizing the border with Mexico to prevent an influx of Central American migrants he said were ready to stream across it.We have horrible, horrible and very unsafe laws in the United States, Mr. Trump said. We are preparing for the military to secure our border between Mexico and the United States.While the president couched his idea as an urgent response to an onslaught at the nations southern border, the numbers do not point to a crisis. Last year, the number of illegal immigrants caught at the border was the lowest since 1971, said the United States Border Patrol. Still, Mr. Trump seized on what has become an annual seasonal uptick in Central American migrants making their way north to make his case.After the presidents remarks, White House aides struggled for hours to decipher his intentions.Late in the day, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Trump had met with Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense, and members of the national security team to discuss his administrations strategy for dealing with the growing influx of illegal immigration, drugs and violent gang members from Central America, a problem on which she said the president had initially been briefed last week.That strategy, she said, included mobilizing the National Guard  though Ms. Sanders did not say how many troops would be sent or when  and pressing Congress to close what she called loopholes in immigration laws. Also present at the meeting were Jeff Sessions, the attorney general; Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security; Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff.Mr. Trump first began raising new dangers posed by immigration in a series of confusing tweets and public statements that started Sunday and continued on Monday. That prompted White House officials to organize a conference call on Monday afternoon to outline a detailed legislative push they said the president was starting for the new immigration restrictions. Deploying the National Guard was not mentioned during the call.The announcements on Monday and Tuesday appeared to be more about political messaging than practical action. Stung by a backlash from his conservative supporters over his embrace of a trillion-dollar-plus spending measure that did not fund his promised border wall, and lacking a legislative initiative to champion with the approach of midterm congressional elections this fall, Mr. Trump has reverted to the aggressive anti-immigration messaging that powered his presidential campaign and has defined his first year in office.Immigration advocates denounced Mr. Trumps announcement as a political ploy.He cannot get funding for his wall, so instead he irresponsibly misuses our military to save face, Kevin Appleby, the senior director of international migration policy at the Center for Migration Studies of New York.Others said Mr. Trumps sudden declaration was merely an instance of a now-familiar pattern wherein the president reacts angrily to something he sees in the news  in this case, reports of a large group of migrants from Honduras traveling through Mexico with hopes of reaching the United States  and seeks to use it as a cudgel against his political opponents.Some of it is just the guy at the end of the bar yelling his opinions  his gut reaction is to say weve got to send the military, said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates slashing immigration levels. But there may also be an element here of political messaging  and a desire to create problems in November for Democratic candidates who have refused to embrace his policies.Whatever Mr. Trumps motivation, the president floated the idea after days of public stewing about the potential for the group of Honduran migrants to pour into the United States.We have very bad laws for our border, and we are going to be doing some things  Ive been speaking with General Mattis  were going to be doing things militarily, Mr. Trump said Tuesday morning, seated beside the defense secretary at the meeting with Baltic presidents. Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military. Thats a big step. We really havent done that before, or certainly not very much before.The caravan has been a popular topic on Fox News  the presidents favorite news network  and Mr. Trumps aides have argued that weak immigration policies were luring the migrants to the United States from Central America.The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our Weak Laws Border, had better be stopped before it gets there, he posted Tuesday on Twitter. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!Later, Mr. Trump claimed credit for having pressured Mexican officials during a conversation on Monday to block the group from approaching the United States, in part by threatening to rip up the North American Free Trade Agreement if they refused.Ive just heard that the caravan coming up from Honduras is broken up, and Mexico did that, he said during his meeting with the Baltic leaders. And they did it because, frankly, I said, You really have to do it.A White House official said later that Mr. Trump had not, in fact, spoken with President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico on Monday.While the active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border, previous presidents have deployed National Guard troops to act in support roles on the border with Mexico. President Barack Obama sent 1,200 in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006, while governors of border states have done the same when faced with large inflows from the south.Mr. Trump has spoken before about launching a military operation to police the border, only to have his aides walk back the remarks amid a backlash from members of his administration and officials in Mexico.Last February, he called his immigration crackdown a military operation, prompting Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state, and Mr. Kelly, then the homeland security secretary, who were visiting Mexico at the time, to push back vigorously. They told their Mexican counterparts and reporters that the American president did not, in fact, plan to use the military to hunt down and deport unauthorized immigrants. The White House later insisted that Mr. Trump had meant the word military only as an adjective.On Tuesday, though, the president appeared convinced that American troops were needed.I think its something we have to do, he said.



Amazon does not own The Washington Post. President Trump, however  impervious to certain facts and armed with a Twitter account  has tried hard to convince the public otherwise.On more than one occasion, the president has called the newspaper the Amazon Washington Post. He has also accused it of being used as a scam to keep Amazons taxes low. And on Twitter over the weekend, he escalated his attack, declaring the Fake Washington Post a lobbyist for Amazon and demanding that it REGISTER.Jeff Bezos, the founder and chief executive of Amazon, bought The Post for $250 million in 2013. Under his ownership, the paper has flourished. Buoyed by new resources, it has added more than 200 newsroom employees and recently surpassed one million digital subscribers.While Mr. Bezos has reinvigorated The Post, he has found himself vulnerable to the presidents attacks. Since 2015, Mr. Trump has linked The Post and Amazon on Twitter a dozen times.If @amazon ever had to pay fair taxes, its stock would crash and it would crumble like a paper bag. The @washingtonpost scam is saving it! Mr. Trump tweeted in December 2015.The #AmazonWashingtonPost, sometimes referred to as the guardian of Amazon not paying internet taxes (which they should) is FAKE NEWS! he wrote in June last year.Is Fake News Washington Post being used as a lobbyist weapon against Congress to keep Politicians from looking into Amazon no-tax monopoly? he tweeted the next month.How do the presidents broadsides play inside The Posts newsroom?I dont even know how to describe what goes through my mind, Martin Baron, the papers executive editor, said in a telephone interview on Monday. Its completely made up.People close to the president have said critical articles in The Post often trigger his public musings about Amazon. Last week, after The Post followed up on a story broken by The New York Times that Mr. Trumps lawyer had raised the prospect of offering pardons to two of Mr. Trumps former top advisers, Michael Flynn and Paul J. Manafort, Mr. Trump fired off a tweet saying that Amazon did not pay enough taxes and was putting many thousands of retailers out of business.It is not clear which article, if any, set off Mr. Trumps Saturday morning barrage against Amazon and The Post. The paper had published an article on Friday about the Trump Organizations finances, which it described as being under unprecedented assault a year into his presidency because of legal reviews.Mr. Trumps tweeted criticisms of Mr. Bezos, Amazon and The Post may not have much bite. Lindsay Walters, a White House spokeswoman, told reporters last week that the president has expressed his concerns with Amazon, adding, We have no actions at this time.The presidents tweet storm may have had one real-world effect, however: Amazons stock fell 5.2 percent on Monday, a day when the Standard & Poors 500-stock index dropped 2.2 percent.As the group of wealthy business leaders who own newspapers grows  Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire medical entrepreneur, agreed in February to buy The Los Angeles Times  Mr. Trumps blasts at Mr. Bezos and Amazon could provide a template for future lines of attack against individuals and companies with ties to news organizations whose coverage he does not like.Do I think its a bad thing that the president is attacking a news outlet, period? Yes, said Indira Lakshmanan, who holds the Newmark chair in journalism ethics at the Poynter Institute, a center for media studies. And that hes attacking a business owned by an owner of a media company? Yes, if there are no grounds for it.On Monday, Mr. Baron said The Post was not cowed by Mr. Trumps invectives. We cover him the way that we feel any president should be covered, he said. After Mr. Trumps tweets on Saturday, the paper published an article under the headline Trump accuses Amazon of Post Office scam, falsely says The Post is companys lobbyist.Mr. Baron also rebuffed any suggestion that The Post was a lobbyist for Amazon, as Mr. Trump has proclaimed at times.There isnt anybody here who is paid by Amazon, he said. Not one penny.(Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment or to provide an interview with Mr. Bezos.)Mr. Bezos holds conference calls with The Posts leadership every other week to discuss the papers business strategy but has no involvement in its news coverage, Mr. Baron said. During his occasional appearances at The Posts building, Mr. Bezos sometimes stops by a news meeting just to thank everybody, Mr. Baron said.I cant say more emphatically hes never suggested a story to anybody here, hes never critiqued a story, hes never suppressed a story, the editor said.Frankly, in a newsroom of 800 journalists, if that had occurred, I guarantee you, you would have heard about it, he added. Newsrooms tend not to like those kinds of interventions, particularly a newsroom thats as proud as The Washington Post.If he had been involved in our news coverage, you can be sure that you would have heard about it by now, Mr. Baron added. It hasnt happened. Period.Mr. Bezos hands-off approach extends to The Posts coverage of Amazon. During a town hall-style meeting held before his deal for The Post was completed, he told the papers employees that they should cover him as they would any other business executive and treat Amazon no differently from any other company, Mr. Baron said.Hes reiterated that to me any number of times, he said. He doesnt get involved. Ive never heard from him on any story that weve written about Amazon, and weve had any number of them that are critical.By Monday morning, it seemed that Mr. Trump had found a new target.So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased, the president tweeted, responding to negative reports over the weekend about the Sinclair Broadcast Group. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke.

SAN DIEGO  At a moment of extraordinary tension between California and President Trump, this state is moving to elect a governor in a changing of the guard that will test its outsize power as a national leader for Democrats in its fight against the White House.Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat retiring after nearly half a century in public life, has been at the forefront of the fight, particularly on climate change. No one in the crowded field of candidates seeking to replace him enjoys Mr. Browns level of national prominence; it remains to be seen if any has the political skills Mr. Brown has honed over his long career to take on this kind of complicated battle.The contest is taking place against a backdrop of escalating hostilities, signaling what will most likely be years of legal and political fights between the Trump White House and California. On Monday alone, the administration moved to roll back Californias landmark auto emissions reduction program and challenged a state law intended to curb the sale of federal lands.As has become increasingly clear in recent days, Mr. Browns successor will face a thicket of high-stakes challenges. The federal government is suing to overturn so-called sanctuary laws in California intended to hamper federal immigration officials. It has moved to permit offshore drilling in states including California.The tax overhaul law passed by Congress at Mr. Trumps urging is viewed here as a major assault on middle-class homeowners, because of its steep limits on the deductibility of mortgage payments and state and local taxes. Mr. Trump made his first trip as president to California last month to visit prototypes of a wall being built on the border with Mexico  and used the visit to attack the state as out of control. Over the weekend, he assailed Mr. Brown on Twitter for pardoning five immigrants who would otherwise have faced deportation.For his part, Mr. Brown said Washington was basically going to war against the state of California.Polls suggest that the two leading contenders to succeed Mr. Brown are Gavin Newsom, the lieutenant governor and a former mayor of San Francisco, and Antonio R. Villaraigosa, the former two-term mayor of Los Angeles and Assembly speaker, both Democrats. The two are known as effective public speakers with extensive political experience that could prove important in navigating the fight against Washington.Of the two, Mr. Newsom has assumed the more aggressive stance in taking on the Trump administration, drawing strong support from liberal Democrats in the process. He has also called for the impeachment of Mr. Trump. A centerpiece of his campaign is a pledge to adopt a government-run, single-payer health care system, a direct challenge to the free-market vision embraced by Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans.This is more than a political campaign, Mr. Newsom told cheering delegates at the state Democratic convention here this year. Its about Democrats acting like Democrats in a battle for Americas soul against a president without one.Some of the defeatist Democrats are saying we just want to defend against the status quo, he told another audience that day. How can you just defend against the status quo? We need to do more than just push back against their agenda to wreak more havoc.Mr. Villaraigosa has struck a more restrained note, saying it was too early to talk about impeachment and dismissing Mr. Newsoms promise to have California go it alone with its own health care system as a pie in the sky promise he was making to ride anti-Trump sentiment. In tone, Mr. Villaraigosa is closer to Mr. Brown in positioning himself against the president.Gavin likes to talk about the resistance  I dont use that word, Mr. Villaraigosa said over green tea during a break from campaigning in downtown Los Angeles. I tell people the best way to resist is not to text and tweet, scream and yell at Donald Trump. The best way to resist is for us to chart a different path here in this state.We are going to push back, he said. But most of our attention, most of our efforts need to be focused on improving the human condition here.Robert Shrum, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California, said the divisions on health care and impeachment reflected discussions Democrats were having nationally as they debated the best way to defeat Mr. Trump. Mr. Villaraigosas stance reflects the calculation that while California is overwhelmingly Democratic in its voting habits, many voters are independent by registration, and thus might be less receptive to an overly confrontational position against Mr. Trump.Newsom is endorsing all of those things on the Democratic wish list, Mr. Shrum said. Villaraigosa is saying, I like those things, but we actually cant do them.One position speaks to the anger in the base, he said. The other speaks to what I think Democratic leadership in Congress prefers.Under Californias election system, 27 candidates will appear on a primary ballot on June 5, regardless of party. A runoff in November will be held between the top two finishers.While polls suggest the November contest will be between Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Newsom, the dynamics of a multicandidate field can make it difficult to predict who might finish in the top. John Chiang, a Democrat and the state treasurer, and John H. Cox, a Republican businessman, also appear to be in position to capture a spot on the November ballot, according to some polls.And Delaine Eastin, a Democrat and the former state superintendent of public education, has drawn vocal support from the left with her own call for single-payer health care and the impeachment of Mr. Trump.If the November election ends up being between Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Newsom, it will be a classic north-versus-south contest. Candidates from Northern California tend to win those, because of heavier turnout in the Bay Area; Mr. Newsom enjoys a big advantage in fund-raising and leads in most statewide polls.But Mr. Villaraigosa would be the first Latino governor elected in modern times. He is running when the ever-growing Latino community accounts for nearly 40 percent of the population and when California is battling with the administration over restrictive immigration policies.Mr. Newsom, 50, has made a single-payer government-run health care system for California a central plank of his campaign as he has sought to ride the anti-Trump sentiment that is surging in Democratic circles here, including within the powerful nurses union. It is a litmus test for our endorsement, said Bonnie Castillo, the executive director of the California Nurses Association. Gavin passes it with flying colors.Mr. Trumps efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act, and his pledge to continue doing so, mean that health care will most likely be another challenge for the next governor, whether or not California carries out single-payer.If our health care system is thrown into absolute chaos because of what happens in Washington, the voters in California are going to expect the Democrats who control California to deal with it, said Garry South, a longtime Democratic consultant who advises the nurses union.If Mr. Newsom won and made good on that campaign promise, he would open a up a whole new area of contention with Mr. Trump. Single-payer health care is likely to require waivers from the Trump administration in order to apply Medicare payments to financing a potentially $400 billion program, along with substantial tax increases.Mr. Villaraigosa, 65, said he supported the concept of single-payer health care, but dismissed Mr. Newsoms promise as unrealistic.Hes arguing with bold leadership were going to do it  even though he knows you need Trumps waivers to do it, Mr. Villaraigosa said. They are not going to give us the waivers for that. Think about this: You ready to double your taxes? Nobody is going to do that. Everyone is for it until they realize  whoa. The cost. Mr. Chiang said he, too, supported a state health care system. I just think Gavin Newsom should be forthcoming on how they are going to pay for it, he said.Mr. Newsom dismissed his critics as defeatist Democrats.Its a jaw-dropping thing: to say you support something but it cant be done, Mr. Newsom said in an interview a few blocks from his office in Sacramento. Who the hell is interested in it cant be done? We wouldnt have marriage equality if I had listened to it cant be done.Asked what his plan was to pay for it, Mr. Newsom responded: The one that works is the one I support. Im not an ideologue.Still, the biggest question may well be whether anyone will be able to replace Mr. Brown as Californias counterpoint to Mr. Trump  and whether the states stature as a national leader in this fight will diminish when Mr. Brown retires to his ranch next January.California is usually the leading edge, said Ms. Eastin, one of the Democrats seeking to replace him. Its the sixth-largest economy in the world. I think California will get attention.
WASHINGTON  A former lawyer for a powerful international corporate law firm was sentenced on Tuesday to 30 days in prison for lying to investigators in the special counsel inquiry about his communications with a Trump campaign aide and a Ukrainian businessman believed to be a Russian intelligence operative.The former lawyer, Alex van der Zwaan, who is also the son-in-law of a Russian billionaire, was the first person to be sentenced in the investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 presidential election. He was also fined $20,000.Mr. van der Zwaan admitted that he deceived investigators who interviewed him in November as part of their examination of contacts between the Ukrainian and two former high-ranking Trump campaign officials: Paul Manafort, once Mr. Trumps campaign chairman, and Rick Gates, Mr. Trumps deputy campaign manager. People familiar with the matter identified the Ukrainian as Konstantin V. Kilimnik, long Mr. Manaforts right-hand man in Kiev, where he worked for years before joining the Trump campaign.In an hourlong hearing, Mr. van der Zwaans defense lawyer argued that a fine was sufficient punishment because his client revealed what he knew in a subsequent interview.But Judge Amy Berman Jackson of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia said that given Mr. van der Zwaans access to his familys wealth, a fine alone might not send a strong enough message of deterrence to others who might lie to the authorities. While Mr. van der Zwaan might feel his life has been shattered, she said, this glass was dropped on a very thick carpet and it has in effect softened the blow.She also noted that the prosecutors who interviewed Mr. van der Zwaan were in the midst of an investigation of great national and international interest involving possible foreign interference in our countrys democratic process.You knew better, she told Mr. van der Zwaan, a 33-year-old Dutch citizen who lives in London. I cant just say, Pay a fine and go.Mr. van der Zwaans relationship with the other men dates to at least 2012. His law firm, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, assigned him to work with Mr. Gates and Mr. Manafort on a report used to defend their client Viktor F. Yanukovych, the pro-Russia former president of Ukraine, from international criticism over the prosecution and imprisonment of a political rival.Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates have been charged with money laundering and other financial crimes related to their work as consultants in Ukraine. Some of the accusations stem from more than $5 million in payments from the Ukrainian government for the law firms report, which were funneled through a bank account in Cyprus controlled by Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates, court records show.Mr. Gates has pleaded guilty to financial fraud and lying to federal investigators and is cooperating with Mr. Muellers inquiry. Mr. Manafort, who has pleaded not guilty, is arguing that the special counsel overstepped his authority by delving into his payments from Ukraine.But a newly released memo written by Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein last summer shows that he specifically authorized the special counsel to investigate any crimes related to payments to Mr. Manafort from the Ukrainian government as well as allegations that he conspired with the Russian government to interfere in the election. A heavily redacted version of the Aug. 2 memo was released Monday night as part of a court filing in Mr. Manaforts case.Just days after Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates were first indicted, federal prosecutors questioned Mr. van der Zwaan about his contacts with Mr. Gates and Mr. Kilimnik. Mr. van der Zwaan acknowledged that Mr. Gates had told him that Mr. Kilimnik was a former Russian intelligence officer. But he claimed that he had had no substantive conversations with either man in 2016.In fact, he has now admitted, he had had a series of phone calls with both men about potential criminal charges related to payments from the Ukrainian government.That information indicated that Mr. Gates and Mr. Kilimnik were in direct touch with each other as the presidential campaign drew to a close in September and October of 2016, a fact Mr. Weissman argued in court papers was pertinent to the investigation.Prosecutors said Mr. van der Zwaan not only deceived federal agents, but also concealed information from his own law firm, which has since fired him.While the lead prosecutor on the case, Andrew Weissmann, did not explicitly ask for a prison sentence, he insisted that Mr. van der Zwaan told the truth only after he was caught red-handed in various falsehoods and had been handed a grand jury subpoena.During his second meeting with Mr. Muellers team, Mr. van der Zwaan voluntarily turned over the very evidence that resulted in his felony charge, including notes, recordings, laptops and cellphones, his defense lawyer, William J. Schwartz, argued. But Mr. Weissman denied that any of that was crucial, telling the judge that the case was already made.Judge Jackson said Mr. van der Zwaan was guilty of not simply a single lapse in judgment, but a broader pattern of concealment because of a mix of motives that she did not clearly understand.She was unmoved, she said, by his argument that he had been stranded alone in a hotel in the United States since December. She dismissed his brief statement of contrition as lip service. While others had written letters to her asking her to be merciful to Mr. van der Zwaan, she said, the accomplished lawyer did not write one himself.The crime of false statements to federal authorities carries up to a five-year prison term. But sentencing guidelines suggested that Mr. van der Zwaan, who has no prior criminal record, receive at most six months.He agreed to turn himself in voluntarily. It is unclear where he will serve his 30-day term; the judge said he might wind up in the District of Columbia jail. Although she imposed a short probation term, she said that once he is released, Mr. van der Zwaan can collect his passport and return home to London to his wife, who is pregnant.


WASHINGTON  The Trump administration said Tuesday that it will place a 25 percent tariff on Chinese products like flat-screen televisions, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries, outlining more than 1,300 imported goods that will soon face levies as part of a sweeping trade measure aimed at penalizing China for its trade practices.The move, which stems from a White House investigation into Chinas use of pressure, intimidation and theft to obtain American technologies, is likely to inflame an already-simmering trade war between the countries. On Monday, China said it would slap tariffs on 128 American products in response to a separate White House plan to tax steel and aluminum from China and other countries.The products targeted by the White House are part of its plan to go after Chinas dominance in cutting-edge technologies like semiconductors, electric vehicles and advanced medical products  industries that China is pursuing dominance in as part of an industrial plan known as Made in China 2025.The Trump administration said that its analysts had identified products that benefit from these policies but refined the list to remove goods that were likely to cause disruptions to the United States economy or consumers.The list of goods excludes many Chinese-made consumer products available for sale at Target or Walmart, including clothing, shoes and toys. But it will most likely increase costs for American manufacturers that depend on imported parts because it concentrates heavily on machinery and high-tech components. The tariffs will be imposed on a total of $50 billion worth of Chinese products each year.The designation of targeted products will be followed by a comment period in which American companies can provide feedback to the Trump administration on the product choices. The administration will hold a public hearing on the submissions on May 15 in Washington, and companies will have until May 22 to file final objections.Business groups, concerned about the effect on companies and workers, swiftly criticized the move.Unilaterally imposing $50 billion of new tariffs without a long-term strategy that leads to economic reforms in China will only hurt Americas businesses, workers, and families, the Business Roundtable, a corporate trade group, said in a statement. Instead, the administration should work with U.S. allies on an approach that advances meaningful reform in China without imposing significant harm on Americas economy.Jay Timmons, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said that American manufacturers were concerned about the trade relationship with China, including intellectual property theft, counterfeit goods and unfair subsidies, but also that tariffs were not the best response.In a strongly worded statement on Tuesday, the Chinese Embassy in the United States condemned the tariffs. Such unilateralistic and protectionist action has gravely violated fundamental principles and values of the W.T.O., the statement said. It serves neither Chinas interest, nor U.S. interest, even less the interest of the global economy.The Chinese would resort to measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products in accordance with Chinese law, the statement said.While many American companies say they are unfairly treated in China, they have rued the possibility of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies, and the economic harm it could cause, and have begun pushing back against the White Houses plans. China remains a crucial and growing market for companies like John Deere and Apple, as well as for soybean farmers and growers of other agricultural products.Financial markets fell sharply on Monday as China imposed its own retaliatory tariffs on American products but regained most of their lost territory on Tuesday.President Trump, who has repeatedly promised tough action on Chinas trade practices, said Tuesday that he intended to get along with China but that its unfair trade behavior had gone on too long. Its not something we can live with, Mr. Trump said at the White House, adding, I campaigned on that.Trump advisers have criticized past administrations for allowing China to receive the benefits of global trade while continuing to break the international trade rules imposed by organizations like the World Trade Organization  a charge China denies.But the administration has struggled to persuade its critics that the kind of tough trade measures Mr. Trump favors can alter Chinas behavior without tipping the world into a trade war and ultimately harming American workers and consumers. In addition to the tariffs, the White House is preparing to restrict Chinese investment in American technology and innovation, and to start a case against China at the World Trade Organization.The administration is rightly focused on restoring equity and fairness in our trade relationship with China, said Myron Brilliant, an executive vice president and the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. However, imposing taxes on products used daily by American consumers and job creators is not the way to achieve those ends.The Coalition for a Prosperous America, an organization that has supported the presidents trade agenda, called the China action a shift from nave to strategic trade. The age of appeasement must end, said Paola Masman, the groups media director.But the administrations trade measures are prompting concern among many American companies, who are wary of Beijings response.The United States largest exports to China last year were aircraft and aircraft parts, which totaled more than $16 billion, according to IHS Markit. These products featured heavily on Tuesdays list, setting off fears that China could retaliate with similar penalties against American plane maker Boeing.Dan Stohr, a spokesman for the Aerospace Industries Association, said the group was still reviewing the tariff list but would almost certainly file comments with the administration.Farming communities, one of the countrys largest exporters and a solid base for Mr. Trump, are among the most vulnerable. Chinese tariffs of 25 percent will particularly hurt American pork farmers, who sent more than $1 billion worth of products to China last year.Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, said American farmers were already struggling to make ends meet. Increasing tariffs on exports will harm Iowa producers and undermine the rural economy, Ms. Ernst said. Its my hope that we can pursue policies that enhance our competitiveness, rather than reduce our access to foreign markets.
WASHINGTON  President Trumps promise to take tough action against Chinas unfair economic practices was one of his most popular campaign ideas. But as the United States prepares stiff trade measures and China retaliates, stock markets have plummeted and some of Americas biggest companies are pushing back.Industry giants like General Electric and Goldman Sachs, as well as agricultural companies, have lodged objections with the White House, saying that tariffs on both sides of the Pacific and limitations on investments will cut off American companies from the worlds most lucrative and rapidly growing market.China imposed tariffs on Monday on more than 100 American products, including pork, fruit, recycled aluminum and steel pipes. Fears of an incipient trade war between the worlds two largest economies sent the Standard & Poors 500-stock index tumbling 2.23 percent and pushed markets into correction territory. Technology stocks bore the brunt of the slump, as a recent spate of bad news about tech companies like Facebook, Tesla and Amazon spooked investors. Asian and European markets fell more modestly in early Tuesday trading.Chinas action could be an escalation in a much broader trade dispute. The announcement was a direct response to the Trump administrations tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, which were directed at a range of countries, including China.Since then, the White House has announced another trade measure targeted at China that would place tariffs on at least $50 billion worth of products imported to the United States and would restrict investment flows between the two economic giants. This week, the Trump administration is expected to announce a list of Chinese imports subject to tariffs, which could include high-tech products like semiconductors as well as cheap electronics and other goods that many Americans buy.Josh Kallmer, the senior vice president for global policy at the Information Technology Industry Council, an advocate for companies like Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft and IBM, said his group had been largely supportive of the administrations targeting of Chinas unfair trade practices. But the group had made it clear to the White House that it would not be pleased with any measure that had tariffs as the primary or even a significant remedy.The reason is that it would be a tax on consumers, Mr. Kallmer said, precisely the people we are trying to support.Many of the trade measures that Mr. Trump has proposed, including the steel and aluminum tariffs, have divided his advisers, the business community and the Republican Party. But the White House has boasted that its targeting of Chinas trade practices has broad support from industries on the losing end of the Chinese approach.That theory could make it more difficult for American companies to operate in a country that already puts up steep barriers.American companies and business groups have frequently complained that China blocks off valuable markets from American competition, including technology, media and finance, and that it does so in violation of commitments it made when it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. China has imposed regulations that require American companies to share their technology with Chinese partners, for example, mandating that foreign companies operate through joint ventures if they want access to Chinese consumers. At times, the Chinese have resorted to stealing vital technologies through cyberwarfare, according to United States authorities.Late last month, the White House said it would crack down on that behavior, outlining a series of actions aimed at punishing China for its trade barriers.As Mr. Trump advances a series of tough trade measures to confront these behaviors, however, cracks have appeared in American industrys seemingly united front.Companies in technology, investment and other industries now say that the measures the administration is taking to help them may actually end up doing irreparable harm to supply chains they have built up over decades. Any American company that wants to be a global player cannot afford to lose access to Chinas growing market, executives say.Technology companies argue that the restrictive measures the administration is taking to help protect them could end up penalizing American manufacturing, raising costs and making their companies less competitive globally. And industries most vulnerable to retaliation, like agriculture, are protesting about losing valuable export opportunities. While the Chinese did not target soybeans in their initial tariffs list, many in the soybean industry worry they will be penalized in a trade dispute given Chinas importance as a market for exports.The 25 percent tariff on pork that China imposed on Monday is expected to be particularly harmful, including in regions that supported the president, like Iowa, North Carolina and Indiana. Last year, American farmers sent more than a billion dollars worth of pork to China, their largest export market by value after Japan and Mexico.Because were so blessed to have America feed the world, were also the first industry to get slammed whenever there are trade difficulties between the U.S. and other countries, Denise Bode, the coordinator for the American Fruit and Vegetable Processors and Growers Coalition.American farmers appear to be the first casualties of an escalating trade war, said Max Baucus, a former Democratic senator from Montana and a chairman of a group called Farmers for Free Trade. With farm incomes already declining, farmers rely on export markets to stay above water. These new tariffs are a drag on their ability to make ends meet.Since Mr. Trump announced the China measures on March 22, American officials, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and the United States trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, have been in talks with the Chinese about ways to resolve their differences. The sides have discussed concessions like reducing Chinas tariffs on American cars, opening up its market for financial services and purchasing more semiconductors or natural gas, people familiar with the talks said.However, analysts and companies involved in China said that these measures appeared unlikely to adequately resolve American concerns about Chinas longstanding encroachment on American intellectual property.Companies are waiting anxiously for the administration to release a list of Chinese products this week that will be subject to tariffs  most likely the kind of high-tech products that the administration has accused China of targeting. The retail industry, which lobbied the administration and Congress against an early plan to impose tariffs on Chinese-made apparel and footwear, is now cautiously optimistic that its products will be exempt.Restrictions on Chinese investment are expected to follow in the coming weeks. Administration officials have said those rules will aim to restore reciprocity with the Chinese, though it is not clear if the United States will go so far as to bar Chinese companies from investing in the same industries that China restricts. The White House is also considering the use of an emergency economy powers act that could allow it to restrict Chinese investments.The measures come on top of proposed legislation in Congress to expand the authority of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews foreign deals for national security concerns. Last month, the committee stalled a hostile takeover of Qualcomm, a California-based chip maker, by a Singapore company, largely over concerns about ceding semiconductor prowess to China.G.E. and IBM, which operate through joint ventures and other partnerships in China and around the world, have both lobbied against the expansion of Cfius over concerns that restrictions on joint ventures with foreign companies that include the transfer of valuable skills or technology could weaken the position of American companies abroad.Financial firms, including Goldman Sachs and the Carlyle Group, have also expressed concern about investment restrictions, saying they could provide a drag on the United States economy.White House advisers, in turn, have complained that previous approaches to dealing with China have not worked, and that companies are overreacting to legitimate trade measures.Speaking Monday on CNBC, the White House trade adviser, Peter Navarro, defended the administrations tough actions on China and said investors should not fear a trade war.Everybody needs to relax, Mr. Navarro said. The economy is as strong as an ox.
In 1990, a lawyer named Mike Godwin made what would become a famous observation: As an online discussion grows longer, the probability that someone will draw a comparison involving Hitler or the Nazis approaches 100 percent. The internet has changed pretty significantly since then; its fascists, for instance, are a lot less hypothetical. But a more important development might be that the whole concept of online discussion has been radically reshaped by the technologies that drive it.If youd arrived on the internet in the 90s, youd have found many of its conversations playing out in places like Usenet groups, mailing lists and message boards  dork-friendly forums where debates had a habit of continuing, at tedious length, until theyd exhausted every possible rhetorical approach to the subject at hand, like a never-ending, dysfunctional undergraduate seminar with no professor and no purpose beyond, literally, the sake of argument. Many of them fostered a debate-club vibe, full of lawyerly hypotheticals and thought experiments, spitballing and modest proposals  and of course, so-called devils advocates, who engaged in the time-honored process of arguing one side of a proposition in order to test the others flaws.That name dates back to the 17th century, when the Roman Catholic Church created an office popularly known as the advocatus diaboli  a person tasked with making the case against the canonization of new saints, scrutinizing every report of their miracles and virtue. How could a claim be trusted, the thinking went, if it hadnt been rigorously tested? Plenty of educators will still tell you that devils advocacy isnt just useful as a practical matter but also as an intellectual exercise: Imagining other perspectives and plumbing their workings is essential to critical thinking.But on todays internet, the devils advocate is less admired than ever, and its often the advocates own fault. The problem isnt just debate-club tedium. Last year, on Slate, the writer Maya Rupert neatly outlined just how toxic devils advocates could be on a topic like race. She noted that they often seemed to be adopting the stance of a disinterested logician in order to air beliefs they knew were socially unacceptable to hold in earnest; the phrase just to play devils advocate, she wrote, had come to occupy the same role in her life as not to sound racist, but. ...  A black person continually asked to consider  just hypothetically, just for a moment  whether she was possibly inferior to other humans would have to be masochistically broad-minded to entertain this challenge more than a few times before dismissing it, and the sort of people who presented it, forever.And one more difference between the Godwins-law internet and todays is that there is now a much greater supply of that sort of person  all sorts of persons  sharing the same enormous communications platforms. Everything is both more crowded and more interconnected. Toss a thought into the digital ether, and strangers can drive by from any direction, doling out hypothetical challenges, probing your convictions at their leisure, demanding you justify yourself. And sometimes this is less like an undergraduate seminar and more like a man in a bus-station crowd grabbing you by the collar and slurring, Just for the sake of argument. ... A little more than a decade ago, around the same time online sentiment began to turn against the devils advocate, it also seized on a close cousin: the concern troll. If the devils advocate playacts disagreement with you for the sake of strengthening your argument, the concern troll is his mirror image, a person who pretends to agree with you in order to undermine you. The concern troll airs disingenuous worries, sows doubt, saps energy, has reservations, worries that things are going too far. At first, the term described purposeful double agents  people like the congressional staffer suspected, back in 2006, of posing as a Democrat to leave comments on liberal blogs suggesting everyone abandon the candidate vying for a Republican incumbents seat. But the term has evolved in such a way that, at this point, a person can very easily qualify as a concern troll without even knowing it.A tidy summary on the Geek Feminism Wiki site explains why this is the case: Even earnest concern-airing can be pernicious, turning every discussion into a battle over basic premises. An activist group trying to combat climate change, for instance, cannot afford to let every conversation devolve into a debate about whether climate change exists. Other concern trolls may insist that they agree with a group in theory despite consistently opposing it in practice. (According to that Wiki, they might view themselves as potential allies who have just, oddly, never met a feminist opinion they liked.) But as the definition has expanded, even honest critics  people who earnestly disagree with their peers, even by a very little bit  can find themselves accused of discursive sabotage.This confusion is not limited to liberal in-groups. A 2009 article in the conservative American Thinker suggested the following statement was a good example of diversionary trolling: The court has ruled that Obama is a U.S. citizen. I think its time for us to move on to more substantive issues. Before the 2016 election, the pro-Trump Reddit forum the_donald banned what it considered concern trolling, giving moderators license to boot any Trump supporter who might have pointed out, say, that the subreddit had become an alarming pit of hate speech. There is almost no variety of self-selecting online community where this dynamic doesnt hold at least some sway  a guardedness, whether overt or subtle, against taking time to entertain challenges or skepticism toward group dogma.Theres one very simple trend that might explain this, and a lot besides. As more people began to spend more of each day arguing about serious issues with strangers online, it became necessary to sort out which opinions could be summarily dismissed. So the devils advocate is pictured as a highhanded nerd popping up to play logic games in the face of pressing issues. Concern trolls are disingenuous drags on the conversation. Theres hand-wringing, derailing, distraction, tone policing, silencing, gaslighting, sea lioning  a label for every depressing rhetorical habit that could possibly present itself, each term a tool for narrowing down the number of ideas waiting in line for your consideration. Taken as a whole, this taxonomy feels both totally rational and slightly desperate  a way of insisting, against abundant evidence to the contrary, that a productive conversation remains possible.This is not a result of some sea change in human psychology. Its an issue of infrastructure. The types of arguments we once venerated  the kinds of critical-thinking dialectics that educators tell us hone the brains of students  make sense in orderly, deliberative settings, places like classrooms and courtrooms and Platonic dialogues. But that is not where online speech takes place anymore. Social-media platforms knocked out the walls of an infinite series of salons, turning them into one gigantic city square teeming with protests and counterprotests, each faction equipped with slogans and banners, each trying to command space and crowd out the opposition. They turned all speech into public pronouncements, and thus all conversation into a strange form of activism, part of a zero-sum battle over which ideas will find a foothold in our collective attention. In the midst of an information war, to express any opinion, sincerely or not, is seen as giving it space and therefore material support. Nobody stands in the middle of a march holding a sign that says, What if One of Our Demands Is Unwise?Its often argued that this makes our conversations increasingly polarized, dogmatic, intolerant of complexity and logically sloppy. Its less often pointed out that this might be because they arent really conversations in the first place.If theres any historical development over the past few years that has reinforced the new allergy to devils advocacy, its the ascent of actual fascists  people who exploit liberal norms in the interest of one day ending them. The A.C.L.U., once admired for its principled defense of even neo-Nazis speech rights, now meets with fierce criticism and internal dissent over it. This attitude feels like part of a culturewide push toward a kind of wartime moral clarity and passion  a desire to cut through all the airy deliberation and sophistry and for arguments sake considerations of a seminar conversation. It urges us to treat beliefs and opinions not as hypothetical comments on the world but as pieces of the world itself, and thus always in need of corrective action.There are clearly a great many people who welcome and embrace these developments. Then again, if any of them were, say, concerned about some of the side effects  or inclined to ask, just for the sake of argument, whether we might be pointing ourselves toward an atmosphere of unsubtle and unprincipled group sophistry  well, its unclear how much anyone would entertain that worry anyway.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump on Friday issued a statement reaffirming Aprils status as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. (The tradition of putting out such a proclamation began under President Barack Obama.)Critics have called the gesture hypocritical, given that Trump stands accused of sexual harassment and assault by dozens of women. On Monday, Jimmy Kimmel and Jimmy Fallon joined those skeptics.Seth Meyers pointed out that as head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt has racked up a costly airfare bill, partly because he insists on flying first-class. Pruitts staff has said that he often gets an earful from dissatisfied citizens when he finds himself face-to-face with them, and therefore must take steps to travel in isolation. Meyers said he thinks the controversial government official should have thicker skin.Tracy Morgan is a virtuoso heckler (and, according to this video, a creator of this utterly bizarre website).Kimmel hosted a spelling bee in which elementary school students were asked to spell words just like the president does.Dwayne Johnson, who recently opened up about his battle with depression in an interview with Express, sits down with Fallon on Tuesday night.Our critic writes that NBCs live telecast of Jesus Christ Superstar, starring John Legend, was a startling success, adding that it may have finally justified the recent live musical fad on network TV.
Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince has said that Israelis have the right to have their own land and that formal relations between Israel and the kingdom could be mutually beneficial.The comments by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in an interview published on Monday reflected the distinctly warmer tone toward Israel adopted recently by the de facto ruler of a powerful Arab country that once opposed Israels right to exist.Saudi Arabia and Israel still have no formal relations, and Saudi leaders have historically criticized the Jewish state for its treatment of the Palestinians and for limiting access to Muslim holy sites in Jerusalem.But the kingdoms stance toward Israel has changed with the rise of Prince Mohammed, who is 32 and is seeking to overhaul Saudi Arabias economy and its place in the world. His words on Monday were actually less harsh toward the Palestinians than reports of his previous statements.Instead of seeing Israel as an enemy, Prince Mohammed has come to view the Jewish state as an attractive regional economic and technological hub as well as a potential partner in the kingdoms cold war with Iran. And part of that is recognizing Israels right to exist, preferably in the context of a peace deal with the Palestinians.I believe that each people, anywhere, has a right to live in their peaceful nation, Prince Mohammed told Jeffrey Goldberg of The Atlantic. I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations.The establishment of formal relations, he said, would benefit both nations, and their neighbors.Israel is a big economy compared to their size and its a growing economy, and of course there are a lot of interests we share with Israel  and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries and countries like Egypt and Jordan, he said.Prince Mohammed has a close relationship with the Trump administration, and especially with the presidents son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, whom the president has deputized to try to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.The details of Mr. Kushners peace plan have yet to be released, but it is widely believed that they are being coordinated with Prince Mohammed to try to get buy-in from the wider Arab world.Small signs of a thaw between Israel and the kingdom have emerged recently. Saudi Arabia allowed a commercial airline flight to Israel to pass through its airspace last month, and many in the region suspect that covert contacts between the two countries have grown, although the kingdom denies this.Reflecting a divide in the Saudi leadership over how to approach Israel, Prince Mohammeds father, King Salman, emphasized Palestinian rights in a phone call with Mr. Trump, the Saudi state news service said on Tuesday.The king restated the kingdoms steadfast position towards the Palestinian issue and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people to an independent state with Jerusalem as its capital, the king said. He made no mention of Israel.In the interview, Prince Mohammed also played down the extent of anti-Semitism in Saudi society, which has historically been reinforced by government clerics and textbooks.Our country doesnt have a problem with Jews, Prince Mohammed said, adding that the Prophet Muhammad married a Jewish woman and that many Jews work in the kingdom.But like Christians and followers of other non-Islamic faiths, they have not been allowed to build houses of worship or to practice their religion openly.
WASHINGTON  A power struggle between two of President Trumps top cabinet members threatens to delay implementation of the new tax law and could give lobbyists and political hands in the White House greater ability to shape critical decisions about which types of businesses benefit from the law.The White Houses Office of Management and Budget, headed by Mick Mulvaney, and the Treasury Department, run by Steven Mnuchin, are at odds over whether to end Treasurys traditional independence in writing tax regulations and to give the budget office more oversight of those rules. If an agreement is not reached soon, the president may have to weigh in and make the decision himself.The debate is more than just a West Wing turf war. How it plays out could affect several big decisions that will define the breadth and scope of the new tax law, including whether small businesses like veterinary clinics and dentists may claim a new 20 percent tax deduction, and to what degree multinational corporations such as Microsoft and Eli Lilly will be hit with a new minimum tax on the profits they earn overseas.Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Mulvaney, who are among Mr. Trumps top economic lieutenants, have largely been in sync on the shape and direction of the tax law. Both supported lowering corporate taxes and using the tax code to discourage companies from shifting operations overseas.Where they differ, however, is over who has the ultimate authority to interpret the many lingering questions that will need to be answered in the coming months and years, including which types of companies qualify as pass-through businesses eligible for the 20 percent deduction and how broadly the international tax provisions aimed at preventing profit shifting should apply.The Treasury Department, which issues tax regulations through the Internal Revenue Service and offers guidance that dictates how the tax code is applied, will have broad discretion in determining the effects of the law. It has long been exempt from the type of cost-benefit analysis that the Office of Management and Budget performs on most rules that government agencies issue.With a host of unintended or unclear provisions stemming from the rapid passage of the law, the Treasury will need to decide how the legislation is implemented. It has already begun issuing guidance to clarify the laws intent and in March moved to block hedge funds and private equity firms from trying to circumvent a new rule aimed at limiting the use of the so-called carried interest tax break.Some congressional Republicans are rooting for Mr. Mulvaneys office to wield greater oversight of the tax law, in the hopes that it would push for the most lenient interpretations of regulations that enable the largest number of businesses to pay lower rates under the law. Other lawmakers and business groups are pulling for Mr. Mnuchin, believing that adding review by the Office of Management and Budget could slow down the creation of regulations that businesses say they need to make investment and tax planning decisions this year.Mr. Mulvaney has taken the view that tax regulations issued by the Treasury are of significant economic importance and that decisions that determine the fate of hundreds of millions of dollars are being made without sufficient scrutiny by his office. The budget office analyzes regulations issued by agencies across the federal government, with its Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs determining whether agencies have sufficiently addressed problems during rule-making and either accepting regulations or sending them back to be reworked.The Treasury Department does consult the budget office on some of its rule-making, but since a 1983 memorandum of understanding, the office has not had the authority to review the Treasurys tax guidance, on the theory that it is not economically significant enough to warrant it.An executive order from Mr. Trump last year called for that arrangement to be re-examined. With the Treasury Department now playing a greater role in policymaking  for instance, overseeing enforcement of parts of the Affordable Care Act and trying to limit corporations from engaging in mergers to avoid taxes  Mr. Mulvaney and other White House officials think that the I.R.S. should be subject to greater accountability when making decisions that often go beyond technical clarifications.Greater accountability, however, could come with costs.If Mr. Mulvaney wins the argument, it will slow the process down, said John A. Koskinen, a former I.R.S. commissioner whose term ended last year. If you had all the regulations coming out of Treasury and I.R.S. subject to more review and delays, it would not be making taxpayers, accountants and lawyers happy. They are pushing to get that information as quickly as they can.Since the passage of the tax bill late last year, negotiations between Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Mulvaney have grown increasingly vigorous, with both sides laying claim to being the laws final arbiter.A change would be seen as a win for Mr. Mulvaney, who has made deregulation a priority in the White House. It would also be a blow to Mr. Mnuchin, who has been the tax bills most public defender on behalf of Mr. Trump, diminishing his departments authority under his watch.The potential change in regulatory oversight could have major implications, both logistical and political.Adding a cost-benefit analysis by the budget office into the process would potentially add another layer of red tape  which Mr. Trump famously hates in other areas of regulation  to a process that is already proceeding too slowly for many business groups liking. Treasury officials are concerned that the budget office lacks the resources and tax expertise to properly assess tax guidance and that the process will get bogged down, potentially delaying rules to clarify the law for months. One early hurdle would be hiring; the budget office does not currently employ its own team of tax lawyers.Theres a moderate level of concern that it could potentially slow down the guidance process, said Ken Spain, a partner at CGCN Group, a lobbying firm with a number of tax-related clients. Any time you blur the lines on what is already a tricky process to navigate, its going to give the business community some degree of heartburn.Officials from previous administrations also say that opening the tax regulation effort beyond Treasury would invite not just comments from the budget office, but from the White House political team and other advisory groups in the government.Midlevel political appointees get their fingers in there, find out when the meetings are and have their opinions, said Adam Looney, a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution who served in President Barack Obamas Treasury Department.Such an expansion, Mr. Looney said, also offers more avenues for lobbyists to press their case for why their clients should receive more preferable tax treatment. The swamp is going to be enriched by this one, he said.Budget office officials say the desire for final oversight over the tax bill is in line with the administrations deregulatory push and that a more uniform approach to rule-making would benefit the federal government. They point to a 2016 Government Accountability Office report concluding that the agreement that has made Treasury an exception is outdated and that the department has been inconsistent in documenting its guidance process.Republican leaders in Congress have walked a delicate line as the dispute plays out. Julia Slingsby, a spokeswoman for Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said last week that Mr. Brady appreciates the different, complementary roles that O.M.B. and Treasury play with respect to tax code regulations.The Ways and Means Committee has partnered with Treasury on developing the pro-growth tax reform legislation and we look forward to it continuing the partnership as Treasury and O.M.B. do their work on the regulations, she said.Administration officials have suggested that a compromise could be reached within weeks.We have been working productively with O.M.B. and are very pleased with the process, said Tony Sayegh, assistant secretary for public affairs at the Treasury. We look forward to a resolution in the near future.Meghan Burris, a budget office spokeswoman said, We do not discuss ongoing, pre-decisional processes and negotiations.
President Trump and a company affiliated with him filed court papers on Monday seeking to force the pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford to raise her disputes through private arbitration, not lawsuits.Ms. Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels, was paid $130,000 to keep quiet about her claims of an affair with Mr. Trump. She sued last month to get out of the nondisclosure agreement she signed in October 2016, alleging that it was void because Mr. Trump had never signed it. That raised the prospect of further embarrassing revelations for a president who has already been rocked by Ms. Cliffords public statements.In a motion filed on Monday, Essential Consultants  a shell company established by Mr. Trumps lawyer Michael D. Cohen to pay Ms. Clifford  asked the United States District Court for the Central District of California to compel Ms. Clifford to arbitrate any and all disputes arising from the confidentiality agreement she signed. In a separate document filed on the same day, Mr. Trump formally joined the motion.Arbitration would be beneficial to Mr. Trump because it is a private process in which a third party resolves a legal dispute after all parties agree to be bound by the decision. A lawsuit, by contrast, could create a public spectacle, bringing embarrassing information to light through the discovery process and trial.Michael J. Avenatti, a lawyer for Ms. Clifford, said on Monday that they would vigorously oppose the motion by Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen to have this case decided in a secret arbitration, in a private conference room, purposely hidden from the American public.This is a democracy, and this matter should be decided in an open court of law owned by the people, Mr. Avenatti said.Mr. Trump and his lawyers have been trying vigorously to avoid further public statements by Ms. Clifford, particularly since she said in February that she believed that Mr. Cohen had violated the agreement and that she, as a result, was no longer bound by it. Mr. Cohen secretly obtained a restraining order late that month to prevent her from speaking.And last month, Mr. Trumps legal team filed a motion asking to move the case from state court to federal court, which may have been motivated by a desire to keep the case in arbitration: The Federal Arbitration Act favors arbitration in certain types of disputes, and federal courts have generally applied that law more strictly than state courts.Also on Monday, America Media Inc. answered a lawsuit from the former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who also claims to have had an affair with Mr. Trump. Ms. McDougal alleged in her lawsuit that the company, which publishes The National Enquirer, misled her when it made a $150,000 deal to squelch her story, buying the exclusive rights to it during the campaign but never publishing anything.American Media asked the Los Angeles Superior Court to throw Ms. McDougals lawsuit out based on an anti-SLAPP statute, which many states have enacted to halt frivolous lawsuits devised to chill the valid exercise of the constitutional right of free speech and petition. In effect, the companys lawyers are arguing that Ms. McDougal is challenging its constitutional and contractual right to exercise its editorial discretion not to publish.The company said in a statement on Monday that it hoped Ms. McDougal would stay on as a valued contributor and that it still sought an amicable resolution with her.A lawyer for Ms. McDougal, Peter K. Stris, wrote on Twitter, The tabloid went to great lengths to silence her and others, and they are now attempting to silence her again with the absurd claim that their own free speech was violated.Ms. McDougals lawsuit alleges that American Media engaged her in the agreement in order to influence the 2016 election. The watchdog group Common Cause has filed complaints with the Justice Department and the Federal Election Commission charging that the $150,000 payment  which also bought the rights to columns, blog posts and cover shoots with Ms. McDougal  was an illegal, in-kind contribution to Mr. Trumps campaign.
McLEAN, Va.  The campaign manager spoke about her candidates race with a veterans prepossessing self-assurance. Emma Brown is hiring staff, managing a budget, building out a schedule and studying voter data, block by block, in a Northern Virginia congressional district that will be one of the countrys hardest-contested in November.Her caffeine-fueled days are long  16 hours is the norm  and so are the odds for her candidate, Lindsey Davis Stover, running in her first race.But Ms. Brown is undeterred. She has a strategy for her candidate to prevail in a deeply tactical primary through hypercoordination among events, digital strategy, mail, television and radio.Ms. Brown is only 24.Hillary Clintons stunning loss in the 2016 presidential election prompted a surge of Democratic women running for office this year, and right behind them, a new legion of young women like Ms. Brown managing campaigns. With a seat at the head of the table, they will be responsible for strategy, message, staff and creating networks for future campaigns.They will have the potential to reshape a profession long dominated by men.This year, 40 percent of the campaign managers for Democratic congressional candidates are women, according to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. In contrast, Kelly Dittmar, a political scientist at Rutgers Universitys Center for American Women and Politics, recalled excising data on female campaign consultants from a book she wrote in 2010 because the numbers were too small to be statistically reliable.For years, women were the fund-raisers and the communications people, said Anita Dunn, a Democratic consultant and former communications director for President Barack Obama. But when it was the big-boy decisions, there werent women in the room.That is changing. Ms. Brown alone is in regular contact with a half-dozen other young women managing congressional campaigns.Republicans have their analogues to Ms. Brown, though in smaller numbers.Becky Alery, 31, is managing her first campaign, for Representative Jason Lewis of Minnesota. She said she was drawn to the candidate in part because of the strong women in his life and the many who serve in top staff roles on Capitol Hill.I worked my butt off to get here. And I have had good support along the way, she said, including from several men she said were mentors. I really do think it is going to take women standing up for themselves and men supporting them.While many 24-year-olds are finding their way in an entry-level job, Ms. Brown is managing a campaign staff, volunteers and a candidate who is 15 years her senior. She rarely sees her friends or family, she said.They think I am insane, Ms. Brown said. I am doing something very different than most of them.After Ms. Brown graduated in spring 2016 from Colby College in Maine, she packed her things and drove to Cleveland to volunteer for the Clinton campaign. She was quickly hired as a field organizer and walked precincts, talked to voters and worked on turnout. After the campaign, she assumed she would get a job in strategic communications or maybe journalism, but Mrs. Clintons loss made her believe she had to stay in politics and work to elect women.I really revisited my values and thought to myself, I could move to a firm or go in another direction, Ms. Brown said. But if this is about to be as bad as we think it is going to be, I want to be able to look back and say I did everything I could when our country was threatened.She connected with the Virginia chapter of Emerge America, a group that trains Democratic women to run for office. That led her to Wendy Gooditis, then a candidate for the Virginia House of Delegates who had $700 in campaign money and very little chance to win. Ms. Brown helped her create a compelling message, then relentlessly worked on raising money and contacting voters. Within six months, the campaign had raised $500,000, and Ms. Gooditis won her race in November.Ms. Browns success made an impression on Ms. Davis Stover, a former chief of staff to a Democratic congressman, who is running against Representative Barbara Comstock, one of the most vulnerable House Republicans.I wanted a woman to run our race, Ms. Davis Stover said. I wanted Emma because shes intelligent, shes compassionate, shes driven. I wanted someone with grit to walk through the fire.Ms. Brown said young female campaign managers like her can hold that space for other women.We talk a lot about how male managers come in, and theres this respect, she said. Women managers come in, and they have to earn it.Ms. Brown said she has felt the sting of sexism: Men have questioned whether she was really a campaign manager. She has been told she would have to wait her turn. And there has been the not-so-subtle when did you graduate from college question to discern her age.She uses that as motivation. I feel very compelled to the front lines of electoral politics and electing women, in particular, in the Trump era, Ms. Brown said.Ms. Dittmar, of Rutgers, said women who run campaigns are critical as the key players in drafting a plan, drafting a message and a platform.The people you have at that table when making those decisions should be as diverse as the constituency that you are trying to persuade, she said.For now, Ms. Brown is making those decisions in a makeshift campaign office in Ms. Davis Stovers McLean, Va., home. A whiteboard in the dining room outlines the critical tasks. Volunteers and staff members work in the kitchen near the coffee maker. One recent night, Ms. Brown led a discussion of the five theories of power: legitimate, coercive, expert, reward and reverent.It was a wise beyond her years demeanor that Amy Walter, the national editor of The Cook Political Report, said she saw in Ms. Brown when she worked as an intern for her one summer.She is not afraid to challenge people who have been in the business a long time, Ms. Walter said. You think a 23- or 24-year-old woman might feel pretty intimidated. And she just doesnt back down.Women have played prominent roles on campaigns for decades, including several on the presidential level, but managing a race was still more the exception than the rule.Ms. Brown said she and the other women running campaigns know that their opportunity was borne of Mrs. Clintons loss.Hillary opened up this space for women, Ms. Brown said. If she had won, I dont know if any of this would be happening. I dont know if #MeToo would have happened. I would give my right arm to have won in 2016, but I am really grateful for everything thats come out of it.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump\'s meetings with the leaders of Baltic states (all times local):2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump says the U.S. remains a steadfast ally to the three Baltic nations and is pointing to his push for NATO members to increase their defense spending.Trump is joining the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania at the White House for a joint news conference. He says the Baltics "can trust the United States will remain a strong, proud and loyal friend and ally."Trump is praising the three NATO members for boosting their defense spending and says their "commitment to burden sharing" is an example for other nations to follow.The Baltic leaders are pointing to their security commitments. Lithuania\'s Dalia Grybauskaite says the Article 5 collective defense under NATO is "iron-clad for all of us."Estonia\'s Kersti Kaljulaid says the countries are "an axis of good."___12:35 p.m.President Donald Trump is telling the leaders of the three Baltic countries that no one has been tougher on Russia and says he\'s been pressing NATO members to increase their defense spending.Trump is telling the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania that "getting along with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing." Asked by a reporter if Vladimir Putin is a friend or a foe, Trump says, "We\'ll find out. I\'ll let you know."The president is pointing to his push for NATO members to boost their defense spending.The meeting comes as the White House has raised the possibility of Trump welcoming Putin to the White House. The Baltic states are seen as a bulwark against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe.___12 p.m.The leaders of the Baltic countries have arrived at the White House for talks with President Donald Trump.Trump\'s meeting Tuesday with the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania comes a day after the White House dangled the prospect of extending a similar welcome to Russia\'s Vladimir Putin. The Baltic states are seen as a bulwark against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe.Britain recently blamed Russia for the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian spy on British soil. Trump joined Britain in expelling scores of Russian diplomats in response.The leaders are expected to discuss security, business, trade and energy issues during a visit that also highlights 100 years of Baltic independence.Trump and the three presidents are scheduled to answer journalists\' questions at a news conference after the talks.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump and leader Raul Castro will attend the Summit of the Americas next week in Peru.Peruvian ambassador to the U.S. Carlos Pareja says Trump and Castro are among the 14 leaders from the hemisphere that will be in the April 13-14 meeting, which will focus on democratic governance and corruption.Pareja also expects that Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to attend a related meeting of hundreds of CEOs from the region.Trump has partially rolled back former President Barack Obama's diplomatic opening with the communist island.Cuban vice president Miguel Diaz-Canel is expected to assume Raul Castro's seat as president on April 19, but little immediate or dramatic reform is expected.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump on Tuesday said the United States is subsidizing Amazon.com Inc and that the online retailer must pay more to ship its products through the nation\'s postal agency.Trump, citing an unnamed report, told reporters at the White House that the U.S. Postal Service "delivers packages for Amazon at a very low rate," adding: "If you look at the cost that we\'re subsidizing, we\'re giving a subsidy to Amazon."(Reporting by Steve Holland and Lisa Lambert; Writing by Susan Heavey; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he planned to use U.S. military forces to protect the nation\'s southern border with Mexico until there is a border wall and "proper security.""We are going to be doing things militarily," Trump told reporters at the White House, adding that he had discussed the idea with U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis.(Reporting by Steve Holland and Lisa Lambert; Writing by Susan Heavey; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump discussed the threat posed by Iran with the emir of Qatar on Tuesday and also stressed the importance of resolving the rift among Gulf nations, the White House said."The leaders discussed Irans increasingly reckless behavior in the region and the threat it poses to regional stability," the White House said in a statement. Trump emphasized to the emir "that it is critical to end the Gulf dispute," it said.The White House said Trump spoke on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia about the split in the Gulf Cooperation Council, as well as other regional issues, including Syria and Yemen.(Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by David Alexander)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that he is meeting with Defence Secretary James Mattis to discuss a proposal for the military to secure the country\'s border with Mexico."We are preparing for the military to secure our border between Mexico and the United States. We have a meeting on it in a little while with General Mattis and everybody, and I think that it\'s something we have to do," Trump told reporters at a joint news conference with leaders of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.Trump told reporters at the White House earlier on Tuesday that he had already discussed the idea with Mattis.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by Makini Brice; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):2:30 p.m.President Donald Trump says the U.S. has "horrible" and "very unsafe" immigration laws, and he is calling on Congress to "get their act together" to change them.Trump says during a joint press conference with the leaders of the Baltic nations that, "we don\'t have laws. We have catch and release."Trump also says he spoke with Mexico and warned them to halt a caravan of mostly Honduran migrants traveling through the country. Trump has threatened to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement if Mexico doesn\'t comply.Trump announced earlier Tuesday that he\'s preparing to use the military to secure the country\'s southern border until the wall he wants built is constructed.The White House later said Trump wants to mobilize the National Guard.___12:20 p.m.President Donald Trump says he wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised wall is built.Trump says during a lunch with Baltic leaders that he\'s spoken with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis about the idea.He says, "We\'re going to be doing things militarily until we can have a wall and proper security."He\'s calling it a "big step."Trump begrudgingly signed a spending bill last month that provided far less money for the wall than he wanted.He\'s been complaining that U.S. borders are too porous and its immigration laws are too weak.___12:20 a.m.Trump administration officials say they\'re crafting a new legislative package aimed at closing immigration "loopholes" following the president\'s calls for Republican lawmakers to immediately pass a border bill.In one of his many tweets Monday, Trump wrote, "Honduras, Mexico and many other countries that the U.S. is very generous to, sends many of their people to our country through our WEAK IMMIGRATION POLICIES." In another, he wrote in all caps, "ACT CONGRESS!"Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters.Among the measures the administration is pursuing is ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children arrested at the border and traveling alone.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump had separate phone conversations with two leaders of nations in the Persian Gulf region, discussing the ongoing disputes between Qatar and some of its Arab neighbors.Trump spoke Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia and with Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, the emir of Qatar. The White House says Trump stressed the importance of resolving the Persian Gulf dispute in both calls.The United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia have blockaded Qatar since June, accusing it of supporting terrorism.With Saudi Arabia, Trump also stressed the importance of achieving peace between Israel and the Palestinians and discussed efforts to defeat the Islamic State group. With Qatar, he discussed Iran's actions in the region.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt (all times local):1:20 p.m.President Donald Trump is offering support for Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, but declining to publicly reiterate his private praise for the embattled Cabinet member.Pruitt is at the center of swirling ethics questions over his travel spending and ties to Washington lobbyists.Two administration officials say that in a Monday phone call, Trump told Pruitt that "we\'ve got your back" and urged him to "keep his head up" and "keep fighting." The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations.Asked about Pruitt Tuesday, Trump told reporters: "I hope he\'s going to be great."__10:09 a.m.President Donald Trump is offering his support to the head of the Environmental Protection Agency who is at the center of swirling ethics questions.Two administration officials confirmed that the president called Scott Pruitt on Monday and told him that "we\'ve got your back."Trump urged Pruitt to "keep his head up" and said the White House supported him. The officials said White House chief of staff John Kelly reiterated those sentiments in a call to Pruitt Tuesday morning.The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations.Pruitt has come under intense scrutiny for his use of a Capitol Hill condominium linked to a prominent Washington lobbyist whose firm represents fossil fuel companies.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump will promote recent tax cuts during a round-table discussion in West Virginia this week.The White House says Trump is hosting Thursday's discussion at the Sulphur Springs Civic Center in White Sulphur Springs.Trump signed legislation late last year that cut taxes significantly for corporations and the wealthy and provided more modest tax breaks for middle-income earners.A March survey by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that an improving economy and the tax cuts passed by Republicans appear to have helped lift Trump's approval ratings to 42 percent  up seven points from February. No Democrats voted to cut taxes.Trump tells audiences that Democrats will raise their taxes if Republicans lose control of both houses of Congress in the November elections.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump criticized the major television networks on Tuesday as "fakers."Trump tweeted that the "\'Fakers\' at CNN, NBC, ABC & CBS have done so much dishonest reporting that they should only be allowed to get awards for fiction!"The president is also defending the Sinclair Broadcast Group following news reports about a video of dozens of Sinclair news anchors reading a script expressing concern about "fake stories." Sinclair owns nearly 200 local TV stations and has ordered its anchors to read a statement expressing concern about "one-sided news stories plaguing the country."Trump tweeted that "The Fake News Networks, those that knowingly have a sick and biased AGENDA, are worried about the competition and quality of Sinclair Broadcast."Sinclair, a conservative-leaning company and one of the country\'s largest owners of TV stations, has previously come under fire from federal regulators for failing to disclose paid programming. Last year, the Federal Communications Committee slapped Sinclair with a $13.4 million fine for not properly identifying some content as ads, including news stories on a cancer foundation that were paid for by the foundation.Sinclair also has pushed to ease regulation of the broadcast industry and approve its plan to buy Tribune Media, a move that would dramatically increase the company\'s reach.
(Reuters) - President Donald Trump\'s personal lawyer asked a federal judge on Monday to force adult film star Stormy Daniels to use arbitration to settle a dispute over an agreement to keep quiet about a sexual encounter she says she had with Trump.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, last month sued Michael Cohen, Trump\'s personal attorney, to be released from the non-disclosure agreement she signed in October 2016 in exchange for $130,000.The White House has denied that Trump had sex with Daniels. Cohen has said he paid Daniels out of his own pocket.In Monday\'s court filing in Los Angeles, Brent Blakely, Cohen\'s attorney, argued the agreement included a provision that any disputes over it be settled through arbitration, as opposed to open court.Federal law "dictates that this motion be granted, and that Clifford be compelled to arbitration, as she knowingly and voluntarily agreed to do," Blakely wrote.Daniels\' attorney, Michael Avenatti, said the matter should be settled in open court."We will vigorously oppose the just-filed motion by Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen to have this case decided in a secret arbitration, in a private conference room, purposely hidden from the American public," Avenatti said in a statement.Last week, U.S. District Judge S. James Otero ruled that a request by Daniels to depose Trump and Cohen was premature because they had yet to formally request that she arbitrate her claims.Avenatti has argued that the non-disclosure agreement is invalid because Trump never signed it. But in Monday\'s filing Blakely responded that the language of the agreement did not specify that Trump, using the pseudonym David Dennison, needed to sign it for the agreement to be binding.Blakely also argued that Daniels accepted the $130,000 and did not dispute the agreement for 16 months even though Trump had not signed it.Daniels has said she and Trump had sex once in 2006 but that they kept in touch for a period of time.A former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, has described having a 10-month affair with Trump starting the same year, which the White House has said Trump denies. Trump was married to his wife Melania at the time.(Reporting by Eric Beech in Washington; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
WASHINGTON   In a story April 3 about President Donald Trump announcing that he wants to use the military to secure the border, The Associated Press reported erroneously the length of the U.S.-Mexico border in Texas. It is roughly 1,250 miles (2,000 kilometers) long, not 800 miles (1,290 kilometers) long.A corrected version of the story is below:Impatient for wall, Trump wants US military to secure borderPresident Donald Trump says he wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is built.By JILL COLVIN and LOLITA C. BALDORAssociated PressWASHINGTON (AP)  Frustrated by slow action on a major campaign promise, President Donald Trump said Tuesday he wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is built.Trump told reporters he\'s been discussing the idea with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis."We\'re going to be doing things militarily. Until we can have a wall and proper security, we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump said, calling the move a "big step."It wasn\'t immediately clear exactly how the proposal would work or what kind of troops Trump wanted to deploy. But the White House later said Trump wanted to mobilize the National Guard.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support. The White House counsel\'s office has been working on the idea for several weeks, according to a senior official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal plans.Trump has been annoyed by the lack of progress on building what was the signature promise of his campaign: a "big, beautiful wall" along the Mexican border. He\'s previously suggested using the Pentagon\'s budget to pay for building the wall, arguing it is a national security priority, despite strict rules that prohibit spending that\'s not authorized by Congress.At the Pentagon, officials struggled throughout the day to answer questions about the plan, including rudimentary details on whether it would involve National Guard members.But the administration appeared to be considering a model similar to a 2006 operation in which President George W. Bush deployed National Guard troops to the southern border.Under Operation Jump Start, 6,000 National Guard troops were sent to assist the border patrol with non-law enforcement duties while additional border agents were hired and trained. Over two years, about 29,000 National Guard forces participated, as forces rotated in and out. The Guard members were used for surveillance, communications, administrative support, intelligence, analysis and the installation of border security infrastructure.In addition, President Barack Obama sent about 1,200 National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border in 2010 to beef up efforts to battle drug smuggling and illegal immigration.Texas has also deployed military forces to its 1,250-mile (2,000-kilometer) border with Mexico. Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, now serving as Trump\'s energy secretary, sent 1,000 Texas National Guardsmen to the Rio Grande Valley in 2014 in response to a sharp increase in Central American children crossing the border alone.Trump met Tuesday with top administration officials, including Mattis, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, to discuss the administration\'s strategy to address what White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders described as "the growing influx of illegal immigration, drugs and violent gang members from Central America."In addition to mobilizing the National Guard, Trump and senior officials "agreed on the need to pressure Congress to urgently pass legislation to close legal loopholes exploited by criminal trafficking, narco-terrorist and smuggling organizations," Sanders said.The meeting and comments came amid a flurry of tweets by the president on the subject over the last several days.Trump has been fixated on the issue since he grudgingly signed a spending bill last month that includes far less money for the wall than he\'d hoped for.The $1.3 trillion package included $1.6 billion for border wall spending  a fraction of the $25 billion Trump made a last-minute push to secure. And much of that money can be used only to repair existing segments, not to build new sections.Also setting Trump off: A briefing from senior administration officials last week that included an update on an uptick in illegal border crossings, and images played on his favorite network, Fox News, of a "caravan" of migrants making their way through Mexico.Trump spent the first months of his presidency bragging about a dramatic drop in illegal border crossings. Indeed, the 2017 fiscal year marked a 45-year low for Border Patrol arrests. But the numbers have been slowly ticking up since last April and are now on par with many months of the Obama administration. Statistics show 36,695 arrests of people trying to cross the southwest border in February 2018, up from 23,555 in the same month of the previous year.At last week\'s meeting, Trump "directed a vigorous administrative strategy to confront this threat and protect America\'s national security," said Sanders. Tuesday\'s briefing was a follow-up to discuss the plans.Trump has also been under pressure from conservative backers, including commentator Ann Coulter, who has accused Trump of betraying his base for not delivering on the wall.Trump appeared to take credit Tuesday for halting a caravan of about 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, who had been marching along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca."I said (to Mexican officials), \'I hope you\'re going to tell that caravan not to get up to the border.\' And I think they\'re doing that because, as of 12 minutes ago, it was all being broken up," he said.But the caravan of largely Central American migrants had never intended to reach the U.S. border, according to organizer Irineo Mujica. It was meant to end at a migrants\' rights symposium in central Mexico later this week.The caravan stopped to camp at a sports field in Oaxaca over the weekend. Mexican immigration officers have been signing them up for temporary transit visas, which would allow them to travel to the U.S. border, possibly to seek asylum, or to seek asylum status in Mexico.___Associated Press writers Elliot Spagat in San Diego; Mark Sherman, Catherine Lucey, Darlene Superville and Kevin Freking in Washington; Nomaan Merchant in Houston; and Mark Stevenson in Mexico City contributed to this report.
(Reuters) - President Donald Trump\'s personal lawyer asked a federal judge on Monday to force adult film star Stormy Daniels to use arbitration to settle a dispute over an agreement to keep quiet about a sexual encounter she says she had with Trump.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, last month sued Michael Cohen, Trump\'s personal attorney, to be released from the non-disclosure agreement she signed in October 2016 in exchange for $130,000.The White House has denied that Trump had sex with Daniels. Cohen has said he paid Daniels out of his own pocket.In Monday\'s court filing in Los Angeles, Brent Blakely, Cohen\'s attorney, argued the agreement included a provision that any disputes over it be settled through arbitration, as opposed to open court.Federal law "dictates that this motion be granted, and that Clifford be compelled to arbitration, as she knowingly and voluntarily agreed to do," Blakely wrote.Daniels\' attorney, Michael Avenatti, said the matter should be settled in open court."We will vigorously oppose the just-filed motion by Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen to have this case decided in a secret arbitration, in a private conference room, purposely hidden from the American public," Avenatti said in a statement.Last week, U.S. District Judge S. James Otero ruled that a request by Daniels to depose Trump and Cohen was premature because they had yet to formally request that she arbitrate her claims.Avenatti has argued that the non-disclosure agreement is invalid because Trump never signed it. But in Monday\'s filing Blakely responded that the language of the agreement did not specify that Trump, using the pseudonym David Dennison, needed to sign it for the agreement to be binding.Blakely also argued that Daniels accepted the $130,000 and did not dispute the agreement for 16 months even though Trump had not signed it.Daniels has said she and Trump had sex once in 2006 but that they kept in touch for a period of time.A former Playboy model, Karen McDougal, has described having a 10-month affair with Trump starting the same year, which the White House has said Trump denies. Trump was married to his wife Melania at the time.(Reporting by Eric Beech in Washington; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- The Fake News Networks, those that knowingly have a sick and biased AGENDA, are worried about the competition and quality of Sinclair Broadcast. The "Fakers" at CNN, NBC, ABC & CBS have done so much dishonest reporting that they should only be allowed to get awards for fiction! [0634 EDT]- The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our "Weak Laws" Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW! [0649 EDT]- Check out the fact that you can\'t get a job at ratings challenged @CNN unless you state that you are totally anti-Trump? Little Jeff Zuker, whose job is in jeopardy, is not having much fun lately. They should clean up and strengthen CNN and get back to honest reporting! [0658 EDT]- Thank you to Rasmussen for the honest polling. Just hit 50%, which is higher than Cheatin\' Obama at the same time in his Administration. [0708 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration says it is amenable to a White House meeting between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, raising the prospect of the Russian president\'s first Washington visit in more than a decade even as relations between the two powers have eroded.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the White House was among "a number of potential venues" discussed in Trump\'s telephone call last month with Putin. The Kremlin said earlier Monday that Trump invited Putin during the call.Both sides said they hadn\'t started preparations for such a visit.If it happens, Putin would be getting the honor of an Oval Office tete-a-tete for the first time since he met President George W. Bush at the White House in 2005. Alarms rang in diplomatic and foreign policy circles over the prospect that Trump might offer Putin that venue without confronting him about Russia\'s interference in the 2016 presidential election or allegations that Russia masterminded the March 4 nerve agent attack on a former Russian double agent."It would confer a certain normalization of relations and we\'re certainly not in a normal space," said Alina Polyakova, a foreign policy fellow at the Brookings Institution. "Nothing about this is normal."Much has happened since Trump and Putin spoke in the March 20 phone call. Trump said afterward he hoped to meet with Putin "in the not too distant future" to discuss the nuclear arms race and other matters. But their call was followed by reports that Trump had been warned in briefing materials not to congratulate the Russian president on his re-election but did so anyway.Since the call, two dozen countries, including the U.S. and many European Union nations, and NATO expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain over the poisoning of Sergei Skripal, the former spy, and his daughter Yulia. Moscow has denied any involvement in the nerve attack and retaliated by expelling the same number of diplomats from each nation.Putin\'s foreign affairs adviser, Yuri Ushakov, told reporters Monday that when the two leaders spoke by phone, "Trump suggested to have the first meeting in Washington, in the White House," calling it a "quite interesting and positive idea."Ushakov voiced hope that tensions resulting from the diplomatic expulsions wouldn\'t derail discussions about a summit.Trump has said maintaining a strong personal relationship with Putin is in the U.S. interest and has signaled to allies that he trusts his own instincts in dealing with the Russian president.A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity to describe private discussions, said Trump raised the possibility of a White House meeting in a "casual, open-ended" fashion during the call. The official reiterated that no extensive preparations had taken place.Talk of a White House summit comes as Trump is preparing to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at an undetermined location. White House welcomes are typically reserved for friends and allies.Trump has avoided criticizing Putin personally even as his administration has crossed Moscow by providing Ukraine with lethal weapons and upholding Obama-era sanctions against Russia and its shuttering of diplomatic outposts.Michael McFaul, who served as the U.S. ambassador to Russia under President Barack Obama, said the "symbolism of Putin standing in the East Room with the president at a news conference" would be a major goal for the Russian leader. "The only reason you should do it is if you\'re going to obtain a concrete objective that serves America\'s national security interest before the meeting," he said.McFaul said he feared that Trump "thinks that a good meeting with Putin is the objective of his foreign policy with Russia. That should never be the objective. That should be the means to achieve things that are actually of importance to the United States."Trump had already fallen under sharp criticism from some Republican lawmakers for congratulating Putin on his re-election during the call and for not raising the ex-spy\'s poisoning. The fact that Trump also extended a White House invitation during that call was likely to increase concerns that Trump, when in direct contact with Putin, is inclined to offer olive branches and reluctant to raise difficult issues."I worry that Trump wittingly or unwittingly may be sending a more positive signal to Putin than he deserves," said Nicholas Burns, a top State Department official during the Bush administration who also served as U.S. ambassador to NATO.Russia\'s disclosure of the invitation came the day before the leaders of three Baltic countries  Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia  were to visit the White House. The three NATO nations are seen as a bulwark against Russia\'s aspirations of extended influence west of its border.Trump has met Putin twice as president, at the Group of 20 summit in Germany last summer and briefly at the Asia-Pacific economic summit in Vietnam in November.Putin, who was president of Russia once before, visited the White House in 2005, when Bush welcomed him in the East Room as "my friend."Putin has been to other parts of the U.S. frequently in recent years, including a visit to the Bush family compound in Maine. Putin\'s meetings with Obama occurred at international summits and along the sidelines of the United Nations gathering in New York.Obama met Russian President Dmitry Medvedev at the White House in 2010, when the pair also chowed down on burgers at a popular hamburger joint outside the capital.__Associated Press writers Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow and Josh Lederman in Washington contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump expressed support on Tuesday for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, as U.S. lawmakers including two fellow Republicans called for Pruitt\'s resignation after reports he paid far below market rates to live in a condo owned by a lobbyist.Trump, in an appearance with Baltic leaders at the White House, answered a question about whether he still supported Pruitt by saying: "I hope hes going to be great."The White House is reviewing the Environmental Protection Agency chief\'s activities after reports about his link to the lobbyist, who deals with issues overseen by the agency, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.Pruitt defended his actions in an interview on Tuesday with the Washington Examiner, denying the owner had any clients with business before the EPA and insisting the EPA general counsel believed that $50 a day, or about $1,500 per month, for a room was reasonable. Apartments in the neighborhood generally cost more.Pruitt said those critical of his housing and air travel costs were really out to stop the administration\'s efforts to cut regulations, which he said had saved billions, including $1 billion in reduced EPA regulations, the Examiner reported."Do I think that\'s something that folks don\'t like? Absolutely. And do I think they\'ll use any means to (stop) it? Absolutely. And it\'s frustrating," Pruitt was quoted as saying.Several lawmakers called for Pruitt\'s resignation on Tuesday, including Republican Representatives Carlos Curbelo and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. The EPA inspector general was already investigating Pruitt\'s frequent use of first-class flights and installation of a $43,000 secure phone booth to conduct confidential calls.Pruitt\'s "corruption scandals are an embarrassment to the Administration, and his conduct is grossly disrespectful to American taxpayers. It\'s time for him to resign or for @POTUS to dismiss him," Curbelo, a moderate Republican, said on Twitter.Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, who opposes slashing environmental regulations, asked the EPA\'s inspector general to investigate the condo issue.EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox defended Pruitt\'s record, from pushing to leave the Paris climate pact to working to repeal the Clean Power Plan, an Obama-era program to cut greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-burning electricity plants.Trump called Pruitt on Monday night with a reassuring message, an administration official said on Tuesday. "Scott, keep your head up. Keep fighting. We\'ve got your back," Trump told Pruitt, the official told Reuters.White House Chief of Staff John Kelly phoned Pruitt on Tuesday morning to reinforce the message, the official said.A White House official, asked for comment, said only that the two calls had taken place and would not elaborate.Trump has been retooling his Cabinet, ousting both David Shulkin as secretary of the Veterans Administration and Rex Tillerson as secretary of state last month.(Reporting by Steve Holland, Timothy Gardner, Doina Chiacu and David Alexander; Editing by David Gregorio and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump made the case to the leaders of the Baltic nations Tuesday that the U.S. was "very tough on Russia," pointing to U.S. support for increased defense spending by NATO countries as a check on Moscow\'s aggression.Trump, joined by the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, spoke a day after the White House dangled the prospect of extending a White House welcome to Russian President Vladimir Putin. The three former Soviet states border Russia and are viewed as a bulwark against Russian incursions in Eastern Europe."Nobody has been tougher on Russia, but getting along with Russia would be a good thing, not a bad thing. And just about everybody agrees to that except very stupid people," Trump said in a Cabinet Room meeting with the leaders. "We\'ve been very tough on Russia, frankly."Trump was asked by a reporter if he considered Putin to be a friend or foe. He replied, "We\'ll find out. I\'ll let you know."Later, during a joint news conference with the leaders, Trump said he was hopeful he could have "great dialogue" with Putin but cast the ties between the U.S. and Russia as an open question."I think I could have a very good relationship with Russia and with President Putin and if I did, that would be a great thing and there is also a great possibility that that won\'t happen," Trump said at the news conference. "Who knows?"Britain recently blamed Russia for the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian spy on British soil. Trump joined Britain in expelling scores of Russian diplomats in response.Trump has pressured NATO members to boost their military budgets to meet a benchmark of 2 percent of their GDP on defense annually. He cited that as a benefit to the three Baltic nations, which are NATO members and remain anxious over Russia\'s increasing military maneuvers in the Baltic Sea region.In its latest effort, Russia planned to hold naval exercises on the Baltic Sea this week complete with missile tests, closing portions of the sea from civilian traffic, a concern to the Baltic nations and the Nordics.Lithuania\'s Dalia Grybauskaite told Trump that the U.S. role in NATO is essential, calling the nation a "vital voice" in the military alliance."We expect, together with the United States, to go ahead with deep reforms of NATO, especially on decision-making, on decisiveness, on the denial which we expect to see from Russia in case of aggression," Grybauskaite said. "Without the United States, this is not possible."The Baltic leaders noted their security commitments under NATO. Grybauskaite said the Article 5 collective defense under NATO was "iron-clad for all of us" while Estonia\'s Kersti Kaljulaid said the countries are "an axis of good."Trump said NATO "has taken many billions of dollars more than they would have had if you had crooked Hillary Clinton as president." The 2 percent benchmark concerns how much each country spends on its own defense, not what it pays into NATO.He also cited the expansion of imports of liquefied natural gas from the U.S. to reduce reliance on Russian gas, again pointing to his vanquished 2016 presidential rival. "My opponent was into other forms of energy, like windmills," Trump said.The U.S. summit marked the three Baltic nations\' 100 years of independence. The countries declared their independence from Russia in 1918 but were incorporated into the Soviet Union in 1940 and remained part of it until 1991.The press conference included a brief Trump commentary on the U.S. news media. At one point, he gestured to Latvian President Raimonds Vejonis to call upon a reporter for a question, "a Baltic reporter, ideally," Trump said, as American journalists enthusiastically raised their hands and called his name. Trump added: "Real news, not fake news."Eventually, Trump bypassed the American reporters and the Latvian leader and called on a Baltic reporter himself.__Associated Press writers Catherine Lucey in Washington and Jari Tanner in Helsinki contributed to this report.__
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump, standing alongside the leaders of three Baltic countries most concerned about the potential for aggression from Moscow, on Tuesday said he thought he could have a good relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin.Trump, at a news conference after meeting the presidents of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, told reporters "it\'s a real possibility that I could have a good relationship" with Putin, but acknowledged it was not a certainty."Getting along with Russia is a good thing," Trump said. "I think I could have a very good relationship with Russia and with President Putin, and if I did, that would be a great thing. And there\'s also a great possibility that that won\'t happen. Who knows?"Trump reiterated his belief that "nobody has been tougher on Russia than I have," noting he has pushed for increased defense spending to bolster the U.S. military and has aggressively pushed energy production, enabling the United States to become an exporter in competition with Russia."We\'re essentially now energy-independent. We\'re an exporter of energy. That is not a positive for Russia," Trump told reporters."We are going to have a military stronger than we\'ve ever had before by far," he added. "That\'s not exactly a great thing for Russia."Trump also said he had prodded NATO members to meet their defense spending commitments, generating "many billions of dollars" in additional military spending by NATO allies.He praised the three Baltic presidents for their countries\' commitment to meeting the NATO goal of spending 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense this year. Estonia reached that goal in 2017, but Latvia and Lithuania were just shy of the mark at 1.75 percent and 1.73 percent, respectively, according to NATO figures issued last month.The Baltics leaders expressed confidence in Trump\'s security commitments.The United States plans to provide $100 million for large-caliber ammunition for the Baltics and $70 million for training and equipment, the White House said. It also is working to build the region\'s defense and energy infrastructure.Estonian President Kersti Kaljulaid said the presidents had discussed the region\'s security needs and what was required "to make sure that our deterrence is believable to everybody who might want to question it.""We are an ally situation together. And we find the solutions together, which will work for us all together, because we are in it all together," Kaljulaid added.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by David Alexander; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he will make a decision about pulling troops out of war-battered Syria very soon, expressing remorse about the U.S. role in violent conflicts going back to the country\'s invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq nearly two decades ago."Our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS. We\'ve almost completed that task and we\'ll be making a decision very quickly, in coordination with others, as to what we\'ll do," Trump said during a press conference alongside the heads of three Baltic states, using a common acronym for the extremist Islamic State group. "I want to get out. I want to bring our troops home."The special U.S. envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, Brett McGurk, offered a slightly different assessment at Washington forum earlier on Tuesday, saying : "We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn\'t over and we are going to complete that mission."As of three months ago, the United States had spent $7 trillion on the Middle East over the past 17 years, Trump told the press conference. The Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon spurred the country to try to defeat violent and threatening groups in the Middle East and Asia."We get nothing, nothing out of it," Trump said. "Think of it - $7 trillion over a 17-year period. We have nothing - nothing except death and destruction. It\'s a horrible thing. So it\'s time."(Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we\'ve almost completed that task."A decision by Trump to withdraw from Syria would conflict with the views of his top advisers.In fact, as Trump addressed reporters at the White House, high-ranking U.S. officials spoke elsewhere in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries, and keep it from rising up again.At a news conference with the presidents of the Baltic nations, Trump was asked whether he still favored pulling U.S. troops out of Syria."As far as Syria is concerned, our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS," Trump answered, using an acronym for the Islamic State group. "We\'ve completed that task and we\'ll be making a decision very quickly, in coordination with others in the area, as to what we will do."The mission is "very costly for our country and it helps other countries a helluva lot more than it helps us," Trump said."I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back home. I want to start rebuilding our nation," he said during the appearance with his counterparts from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Trump also noted that the Baltic states are partners with the U.S. in the anti-IS coalition and "we will not rest until ISIS is gone."Later Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump\'s entire national security team, including CIA chief Mike Pompeo, who has been nominated to be the next secretary of state, strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.Also on the meeting agenda was the fate of some $200 million in U.S. stabilization assistance for Syria that the White House put on hold after Trump said during a speech in Ohio last week that he wanted to leave Syria "very soon." The State Department was to have spent the money on building up the country\'s infrastructure, including power, water and roads.Trump in recent weeks has asked Saudi Arabia to contribute $4 billion for reconstruction in Syria, according to a U.S. official, as part of the president\'s effort to get other countries to pay for stabilizing the country so the U.S. isn\'t on the hook. The United States is awaiting a response from the Saudis, said the official, who wasn\'t authorized to discuss the conversations publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.A senior Syrian Kurdish official said Trump\'s comments on wanting to withdraw from Syria came at an "inappropriate time" as Islamic State militants re-emerge in eastern Syria and amid threats from Turkey.Ilham Ahmed, a senior Kurdish official in Syria\'s Raqqa province, said such a decision would clear the way for "total chaos in Syria," endangering areas newly liberated from the IS group and empowering Turkey to move in on towns controlled by the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, backed by the U.S.-led coalition.The main IS holdout in Syria is in the eastern province of Deir el-Zour, where momentum by the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces has stalled in recent weeks as many Kurdish members of the group have shifted west to the Afrin area to fight Turkish forces. Pentagon officials have publicly raised the prospect of this giving the IS group the breathing room it needs to regroup.Many have warned that a premature U.S. withdrawal from Syria would cede the country to Iran and Russia, which have supported Syrian President Bashar Assad. Iran\'s continued presence in Syria is especially troubling to neighboring Israel, a U.S. ally that regards Iran as an existential threat.Some high-ranking Trump administration officials urged caution.Gen. Joseph Votel told a conference at the United States Institute of Peace that the United States would have to continue its work against remnants of the Islamic State group in eastern Syria. Votel is commander of U.S. Central Command, which oversees U.S. military operations across the Middle East, including Syria.Votel said the military campaign has been largely successful but is not over."The hard part, I think, is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes, addressing the long-term issues" like reconstruction of towns and cities badly damaged by the fighting and by the Islamic State group\'s scorched-earth tactics. "There is a military role in this, certainly in the stabilization phase."At the same Institute of Peace event, State Department envoy Brett McGurk said, "We want to keep eyes on the prize, on ISIS, because ISIS is not finished."A third U.S. official, Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, also argued at the conference that U.S. stabilization efforts in Syria are critical to a lasting defeat of the Islamic State group.___Associated Press writers Matthew Lee, Josh Lederman and Robert Burns in Washington and Sarah El Deeb in Qamishli, Syria, contributed to this report.______This story has been corrected to show the name of the Syrian town is Deir el-Zour, not Der el-Zour.
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is postponing until September a summit with Gulf Arab leaders that had been planned for this spring amid an ongoing dispute between Qatar and other U.S. allies in the region, according to five U.S. officials.The decision to delay the May summit with the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council reflects a crowded diplomatic calendar, and the fact that President Donald Trump is without a secretary of state until the Senate confirms current CIA Director Mike Pompeo, two of the officials said.Other sources, however, told Reuters the delay is also a nod to the fact that Washington has made little progress so far in ending the bitter standoff between Qatar and other Gulf nations, particularly Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.The dispute pits key U.S. allies against each other, and has complicated efforts to maintain a united front against Iran. So far, though, it has not affected the U.S. air base in Qatar that supports attacks on Islamic extremists and surveillance of Iran -- both of which the Saudis and Emiratis support."This was entirely our decision," one U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said of the delay."We have too many irons in the fire in May," the official added, noting that Trump may be meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un next month, and that Pompeo has yet to be confirmed to replace Rex Tillerson.A spokeswoman for the White House National Security Council said the delay was not tied to the tensions over Qatar, adding that, "President Trump is committed to resolving the Gulf dispute this month."Trump met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House on March 21. He is due to meet with Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani next week, followed by a meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed.Trump spoke by phone with al Thani on Tuesday and with Saudi King Salman on Monday, emphasizing to each the importance of resolving the Gulf dispute, the White House said.Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut off travel and trade ties with Qatar last June, accusing it of backing their archrival, Iran, and supporting terrorism. Qatar denies the charges and says the boycott is an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty and rein in its support for reform.A senior U.S. official said the summit was discussed during Salman\'s Washington visit, and there was agreement that it would be better to delay the meeting until after the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which ends in mid-June."We\'ll see what transpires between now and then, but based on the discussions to date, it is hard to be optimistic about a rapprochement" between Qatar and its neighbours, he said.However, two officials involved in the discussions said there recently have been signs of flexibility, including from Saudi Arabia."I think it makes sense (to delay the summit) as there seems to be movement on the beginning of a dialogue and more time to let it develop would be helpful," one said.(Additional reporting by John Walcott and Lesley Wroughton; editing by John Walcott and Jonathan Oatis)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable, as his advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilise areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.Trump told a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent.The Pentagon and State Department have held that a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State\'s defeat is a lasting one."It\'s time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw U.S. forces."We were very successful against (Islamic State). We\'ll be successful against anybody militarily. But sometimes it\'s time to come back home, and we\'re thinking about that very seriously."The United States is waging near-daily air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including U.S. special operations forces whose advising has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State.U.S. Army General Joseph Votel, who oversees U.S. troops in the Middle East as the head of Central Command, estimated on Tuesday that more than 90 percent of the group\'s territory in Syria had been taken back from the militants since 2014.Trump estimated the percentage of territory recaptured in Iraq and Syria at "almost 100 percent," a figure that U.S. officials say is correct - it is about 98 percent - but does not highlight the work left in Syria.The big hurdle, in the U.S. military\'s view, is seizing Islamic State-held territory around the Syrian town of Abu Kamal.That effort that has been slowed as U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters shift their focus away from Islamic State toward a Turkish offensive against Kurdish allies elsewhere in Syria\'s complex, multi-pronged civil war, now in its eighth year.Brett McGurk, the special U.S. envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, speaking alongside Votel at an event in Washington on Tuesday, said the U.S. fight against Islamic State was not over."We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn\'t over and we are going to complete that mission,"  McGurk said.OBAMA DO-OVERExperts were divided about the significance of Trump\'s simultaneous musings about withdrawal and his assurance that the United States will not depart until Islamic State is defeated.The militant group is widely expected to revert to guerrilla tactics once the last remnants of its once self-styled "caliphate" are captured by U.S.-backed forces.Jon Alterman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think-tank, said a precipitous U.S. withdrawal would undermine U.S. leverage in talks to end Syria\'s civil war."The principal consequence is the United States surrenders the little influence it has over the future of Syria," he said.Experts warn an abrupt U.S. withdrawal could benefit Russia and Iran, U.S. rivals who could extend their influence in Syria.Trump noted that U.S. ally Saudi Arabia, Iran\'s arch-rival, was interested in his decision, adding: "Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe you\'re going to have to pay."Trump has previously lambasted his predecessor, Barack Obama, for his withdrawal from Iraq that preceded an unravelling of the Iraqi armed forces, which eventually collapsed in the face of Islamic State\'s advance into the country in 2014.It was unclear what Trump\'s vision of a post-war U.S. role in Syria would look like. But his recent decision to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria suggests resistance to a broad U.S. ground effort.McGurk acknowledged a review was underway to ensure U.S. taxpayer dollars were well spent.Votel said he saw a U.S. military role in stabilization efforts in Syria."The hard part, I think, is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes," Votel said, adding "there is a military role in this."(Reporting by Phil Stewart, Idrees Ali, Arshad Mohammed, David Brunnstrom, Lesley Wroughton, and Lisa Lambert; Editing by Mary Milliken, James Dalgleish and Tom Brown)

SAN FRANCISCO   As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy.The president - who frequently touted Wall Street\'s rally following his 2016 election victory - was partly blamed for a sharp stock selloff on Monday that investors believe is likely to continue, deepening cracks in a nine-year-old bull run.The selling was sparked by escalating fears of a trade war as China slapped tariffs on a host of U.S. goods as Trump prepares to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese imports, and by Trump\'s renewed criticism of Amazon.com Inc."The president\'s behavior is now beginning to impact the capital markets - both the averages and individual equities," said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Florida.Particularly worrisome to investors on Monday: more weakness in the tech sector, which led the market up in recent months, and a breach below a major S&P 500 technical level.In a Twitter post, Trump attacked Amazon for a second time in three days over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.Amazon\'s stock slumped 5.2 percent and led the S&P 500 and Nasdaq down, pressuring other high-growth, technology-related stocks, including Microsoft Corp, Apple Inc and Facebook Inc. Outcry in recent weeks over Facebook\'s handling of data about its users has shaken the tech sector with fears of greater governmental oversight."(One) big factor is Trump further going after the tech sector, namely Amazon," said Tom di Galoma, managing director at Seaport Global Holdings in New York. "It casts a shadow effectively around all of the tech sector."TECH SECTOR PAIN = MARKET PAINThe selloff in technology-related stocks was seen as a particularly worrisome sign for investors who have banked on that sector continuing to drive the broader market."It\'s very significant," said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at Weeden & Co in New York. "Selling tech is not a sector rotation story, its a sell-the-market story."Technology stocks have been widely viewed in recent months as a "crowded trade" - with most investors having the same opinion, increasing the potential for a volatile selloff if sentiment changes."What we\'ve learned over the past two weeks is just how overweight investors were in technology," said Nicholas Colas, co-founder of Datatrek Research, New York.Investors saw more selling pressure ahead, particularly after the S&P 500 dipped below a major technical level, the 200-day moving average, for the first time since Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016. The index closed at 2,582, for a year-to-date decline of 3.4 percent."We have been pounding on the 200-day for the last six sessions and now we\'ve broken through," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas. There may be support around the 2,537 level, he said, "but then below that we may be looking at 2,500 or so again, which is pretty scary."In Trump\'s first year as president, the S&P 500 surged 24 percent on bets he would boost the economy with fiscal spending, deregulation and deep tax cuts. Trump tweeted frequently about the stock market as it rallied through 2017. But since a selloff in February, he has been noticeably silent.But this bull market has frequently staged swift recoveries, and some were poised for opportunity."I\'m taking advantage of these markets and am heavily overweighted financials and banks," said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer Of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida. "I didn\'t buy today, we\'re in freefall, but I might tomorrow."(Reporting by Noel Randewich; additional reporting by Kate Duguid, Karen Brettell, Jennifer Ablan and Megan Davies in New York; editing by Megan Davies and Leslie Adler)
SAN DIEGO   In vowing Tuesday to use the military on the U.S.-Mexico border until his coveted wall is built, President Donald Trump heaped blame on his predecessor, congressional Democrats and Mexico for creating a dangerous and dysfunctional border.Here\'s a look at some of Trump\'s latest claims on the state of the border, including a caravan of Central Americans crossing Mexico, and how they stack up with the facts:TRUMP: "President Obama made changes that basically created no border. It\'s called catch and release. And we can\'t do anything about it because the laws that were created by Democrats are so pathetic and so weak."THE FACTS: Wrong on several fronts.In decrying what it calls "catch-and-release" policies, the White House cites a 2008 law that gave new protections to children who cross the border alone from countries other than Mexico or Canada. But the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act passed both houses of Congress unanimously with Republican President George W. Bush\'s enthusiastic support.The administration also points to a settlement of a class-action lawsuit in 1997 that established standards for detention, treatment and release of children who cross the border alone. Those protections have been extended by federal judges several times.Over objections from the Obama administration, U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles ruled that the settlement applies to children who come with their parents, as well as those who come alone.Obama\'s budget proposals for U.S. Customs and Border Protection grew 22 percent during his eight years in office to nearly $14 billion in his last year. The Border Patrol effectively ended its practice of turning Mexicans around without serious consequences, turning more often to formal removal orders in fast-track deportation proceedings or criminal charges.Overall, Border Patrol arrests dropped during Obama\'s tenure, despite surges in his second term. U.S. authorities were overwhelmed by unaccompanied children arriving at the border in 2014, predominantly fleeing violence and economic conditions in Central America, according to a U.S. Government Accountability Office report.TRUMP: "I said (to Mexican officials), \'I hope you\'re going to tell that caravan not to get up to the border.\' And I think they\'re doing that, because, as of 12 minutes ago, it was all being broken up. We\'ll see what happens."THE FACTS:  Nothing is being broken up in Mexico. The caravan of largely Central American migrants never intended to reach the U.S. border, according to organizer Irineo Mujica. The caravan was meant to end at a migrant\'s right symposium in central Mexico later this week.The caravan stopped to camp at a sports field in the southern Mexico state of Oaxaca over the weekend, not because it was forced to by Mexican officials, but because it was a convenient place with welcoming local authorities and there were no logistics to take the estimated 1,150 people any further. On Tuesday, they waited to see how they can get to the central state of Puebla, perhaps by buses. Life goes on normally at the camp, with people heating simple meals over fires and sleeping under the stars.All that Mexican immigration officers were doing at the camp was taking people\'s names, to sign them up for temporary transit visas, which would allow them to travel to the U.S. border, possibly to seek asylum in the U.S., or to seek asylum status in Mexico.TRUMP: "We really haven\'t done that before, or certainly not very much before," referring to deployment of U.S. military to the border.THE FACTS: Sending troops to the border has been done for years, and at least one member of Trump\'s own Cabinet has done it. In the summer of 2014, then-Texas Gov. Rick Perry, now serving as Trump\'s energy secretary, ordered the deployment of 1,000 Texas National Guardsmen to the Rio Grande Valley, the busiest region for illegal border crossings. Perry gave the order in response to a sharp rise in the numbers of Central American children crossing the border alone.About 100 of those Guardsmen remain on the border, Texas National Guard spokesman Lt. Col. Travis Walters said Tuesday.In 2006, under Operation Jump Start, 6,000 troops were sent to the border in an effort to increase security and surveillance. The operation used the National Guard to assist the Border Patrol with non-law enforcement duties while additional border agents were hired and trained.The number declined during the second year to about 3,000. Over the two years, about 29,000 National Guard forces participated in the missions, as forces rotated in and out.__Associated Press writers Jill Colvin in Washington, Nomaan Merchant in Houston and Christopher Sherman in Matias Romero, Mexico, contributed to this report.Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
IXTEPEC, Mexico/EDINBURG, Texas   In some of the Mexican towns playing host to a "caravan" of more than 1,200 Central American migrants heading to the U.S. border, the welcome mat has been rolled out despite President Donald Trump\'s call for Mexican authorities to stop them.Local officials have offered lodging in town squares and empty warehouses or arranged transport for the migrants, participants in a journey organized by the immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras. The officials have conscripted buses, cars, ambulances and police trucks. But the help may not be entirely altruistic."The authorities want us to leave their cities," said Rodrigo Abeja, an organizer from Pueblo Sin Fronteras. "They\'ve been helping us, in part to speed the massive group out of their jurisdictions."At some point this spring, the caravan\'s 2,000-mile (3,200-km) journey that began at Tapachula near the Guatemalan border on March 25 will end at the U.S. border, where some of its members will apply for asylum, while others will attempt to sneak into the United States.Abeja said there was a lot of pressure from authorities to stop the caravan "because of Donald Trump\'s reaction." The Mexican government issued a statement late on Monday saying it was committed to "legal and orderly" migration.The government said the caravan had been taking place since 2010 and was largely made up of Central Americans entering Mexico who had not met the necessary legal requirements."For this reason, participants in this (caravan) are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, while 400 have already been repatriated to their countries of origin, in strict accordance with the law and respecting their human rights," it said.Those without permission to stay in Mexico or who had failed to request it through the proper channels could expect to be returned to their homelands, a government official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.\'DOING LITTLE\'Trump railed on Twitter against the caravan on Monday, accusing Mexico of "doing very little, if not NOTHING" to stop the flow of immigrants crossing the U.S. border illegally. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA," he concluded.Mexico\'s interior minister Alfonso Navarrete did not directly address the caravan, but he wrote on Twitter that he spoke to the U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on Monday, and that the two had "agreed to analyze the best ways to attend to the flows of migrants in accordance with the laws of each country."Mexico must walk a delicate line with the United States because the countries are in the midst of renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) along with Canada.At the same time, Mexican left-wing presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has an 18-point lead ahead of the July 1 election, according to a poll published on Monday.A Lopez Obrador victory could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States on both trade and immigration issues.Mexican Senator Angelica de la Pena, who presides over the Senate\'s human rights commission, told Reuters that Mexico should protect migrants\' rights despite the pressure from Trump. Former President Vicente Fox called for Mexican officials to take a stand against Trump\'s attacks.Trump keeps "blackmailing, offending and denigrating Mexico and Mexicans," he wrote on Twitter on Monday.Under Mexican law, Central Americans who enter Mexico legally are generally allowed to move freely through the country, even if their goal is to cross illegally into the United States.\'WE\'RE SUFFERINGMigrants in the caravan cite a variety of reasons for joining it. Its members are disproportionately from Honduras, which has high levels of violence and has been rocked by political upheaval in recent months following the re-election of U.S.-backed president, Juan Orlando Hernndez, in an intensely disputed election.Maria Elena Colindres Ortega, a member of the caravan and, until January, a member of Congress in Honduras, said she is fleeing the political upheaval at home. "We\'ve had to live through a fraudulent electoral process," she said. "Were suffering a progressive militarization and lack of institutions, and ... they\'re criminalizing those who protested."Colindres Ortega, who opposed the ruling party in Honduras, said she spiraled into debt after serving without pay for the last 18 months of her four-year term. She decided to head north after a fellow congressman from her party put out word on Facebook that a caravan of migrants was gathering in southern Mexico, leaving home with a small bag with necessities and photos of her children.Pueblo Sin Fronteras has helped coordinate migrant caravans for the past several years, although previously they had a maximum of several hundred participants. During the journey members of the organization instruct the migrants about their rights."We accompany at least those who want to request asylum," said Alex Mensing, Pueblo Sin Fronteras\' program director. "We help prepare them for the detention process and asylum process before they cross the border, because it\'s so difficult for people to have success if they don\'t have the information."Typically, Central Americans have not fared well with U.S. asylum claims, particularly those from Honduras. A Reuters analysis of immigration court data found that Hondurans who come before the court receive deportation orders in more than 83 percent of cases, the highest rate of any nationality. Hondurans also face deportation in Mexico, where immigration data shows that 5,000 Hondurans were deported from Mexico in February alone, the highest number since May 2016.Maunel Padilla, chief of the border patrol\'s Rio Grande Valley sector, one of the busiest crossing points on the U.S. Mexico border, said in an interview with Reuters that he worries the caravan could "generate interest for other groups to do the same thing," but he was not terribly nervous about coping with the group currently traveling."Not to be flippant," Padilla said, "but it\'s similar numbers to what we are seeing every day pretty much."(Reporting by Delphine Schrank and Mica Rosenberg; Additional reporting by Dave Graham, Lizbeth Diaz, Diego Ore and Daina Beth Solomon; Editing by Sue Horton, Lisa Shumaker and Paul Tait)
WASHINGTON   The Dutch son-in-law of one of Russia\'s richest men was sentenced on Tuesday to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000 for lying to Special Counsel Robert Mueller\'s investigators about contacts with an official in President Donald Trump\'s 2016 campaign.Alex van der Zwaan, a lawyer who once worked closely with Trump\'s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former deputy chairman Rick Gates, became the first person to be sentenced in Mueller\'s ongoing probe, which has hung over Trump\'s presidency.Van der Zwaan, who told the court he was sorry for his actions, also was sentenced to two months of supervised release by U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson. He pleaded guilty on Feb. 20 as Mueller intensified his investigation into potential collusion between Trump\'s presidential campaign and Russia.Van der Zwaan\'s apology and his lawyer\'s explanations for his client\'s actions appeared to ring hollow for the judge."This was more than a mistake. It was more than a lapse or misguided moment," Jackson said.Van der Zwaan, 33, is married to the daughter of prominent Russian billionaire German Khan, founder of the privately owned Alfa Bank.In pleading guilty, van der Zwaan admitted that he withheld and deleted emails, and also that he lied to FBI agents about previous communications with Manafort protege Gates and a person who worked for Manafort in Ukraine identified as "Person A."The description of "Person A" in court records matches Konstantin Kilimnik, who worked for Manafort\'s consulting firm in Ukraine. Mueller\'s office has said "Person A" has maintained ongoing ties to the Russian military intelligence service and had communicated with Gates and van der Zwaan during the 2016 presidential election.While van der Zwaan does not appear to be a major figure in Mueller\'s probe, his sentencing indicates the special counsel will deal sternly with witnesses who lie to his investigators, with serious criminal consequences, as he scrutinizes the conduct of Trump and others.The judge said van der Zwaan, unlike some defendants who have come before her, possesses the financial and emotional resources to weather difficult times. "This glass was dropped on a very thick carpet and it has cushioned the blow," Jackson said."Your honor, what I did was wrong. I apologize to the court, and I apologize to my wife," van der Zwaan, who previously worked for the law firm Skadden Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom, told the judge.Van der Zwaan\'s attorney, William Jay Schwartz, asked Jackson to impose only a fine and allow his client to leave the country, saying he had already been punished enough and should receive credit for returning to the United States to correct the record after lying to Mueller\'s investigators.\'LITERALLY IN LIMBO\'Since his return in December, Schwartz said, van der Zwaan has been walled up in a residential hotel in Washington and unable to return to London, where his wife is undergoing a difficult first pregnancy."He is literally in limbo," Schwartz said.Andrew Weissmann, a prosecutor with Mueller\'s office, disputed the defense\'s characterization of van der Zwaan\'s cooperation, saying he returned to the United States after his first interview because he was compelled to do so by a grand jury subpoena.Weissmann also said van der Zwaan\'s conduct demonstrated a "lack of morality," noting he also lied to his former employer and the U.S. government.Van der Zwaan worked closely with Manafort and Gates in 2012, before their involvement in the Trump campaign, when they were serving as political consultants for Ukraine\'s former pro-Russia President Viktor Yanukovych on a report about former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko.Mueller has secured two indictments against Manafort arising from his lobbying for the pro-Russian Ukrainian Party of Regions, with charges ranging from failing to register as a foreign agent and conspiring to launder money, to bank fraud and filing false tax returns. Manafort has pleaded not guilty.Van der Zwaan and Gates are two of the four men who have pleaded guilty to charges brought by Mueller. Trump\'s former national security adviser Michael Flynn and former Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos also have pleaded guilty.Trump has called Mueller\'s investigation a witch hunt and has denied collusion with Moscow.The judge said she was disappointed van der Zwaan did not write a letter to the court on his own behalf to express remorse, and said it would not deter others if she merely let him "write a check and walk away."Jackson urged him not to despair."I assure you," she said, "that right now that while this might feel like the most momentous thing in your life, much of the story of your life, indeed the majority of the story of your life, has yet to be written."(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Will Dunham; editing by Will Dunham and Susan Heavey)
WASHINGTON   Two top Democrats on a House committee are demanding public hearings to force top Trump administration officials to explain their costly plane travel.In a letter Tuesday, Reps. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House oversight committee, and Raja Krishnamoorthi, a subcommittee chair, complained that federal agencies and the White House had repeatedly resisted the committee\'s requests made last fall for information on the extent of senior officials travel. Their request to Republican chairman Trey Gowdy cites recent reports of travel by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt involving military aircraft that cost taxpayers tens of thousands of dollars.Open hearings are needed to air out government spending before U.S. taxpayers and ensure "their hard-earned money is not wasted," Cummings and Krishnamoorthi wrote.A spokeswoman for Gowdy did not have immediate comment.The lawmakers\' call comes amid growing questions over Trump Cabinet members\' spending and travel following Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price\'s resignation last fall over his pricey travel. Last week, Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin was ousted, in part over ethics violations during an 11-day trip to Europe in which his staff doctored emails to justify his wife traveling for free at taxpayer expense.In their letter, Cummings and Krishanmoorthi complain that federal agencies have yet to fully respond to the oversight committee\'s requests last September that sought information on the use of government-owned aircraft for personal travel or private aircraft for official travel. They point in particular to delay from the White House, which they said had issued a series of "evolving and bizarre refusals" to avoid disclosing the extent of its private travel.Last month, the watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington released documents showing that Mnuchin had taken eight trips on military aircraft last year that totaled nearly $1 million, including a trip to Miami that cost more than $40,000.Pruitt also has come under fire for a flight to Italy to attend a G-7 summit that cost taxpayers more than $120,000; the trip included a private tour of the Vatican. The Associated Press reported that the known cost of Pruitt\'s previously reported trip grew last month after the agency disclosed a heavily censored document showing expenses for Pruitt\'s security detail cost more than $30,500. That\'s on top of nearly $90,000 spent for food, hotels, commercial airfare and a military jet used by Pruitt and nine EPA staff.Other Cabinet secretaries being scrutinized for their use of government or private flights costing tens of thousands of dollars are Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Energy Secretary Rick Perry.The Cabinet secretaries have generally denied wrongdoing and defended their travel as pre-approved and appropriate for their work.___
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump's strategy for dealing with illegal immigration coming through the border with Mexico includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said in a statement on Tuesday.The statement followed a meeting at the White House attended by Trump, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Homeland Security Secretary Kirsten Nielsen, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Joseph Dunford.(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)
WASHINGTON   The White House\'s top infrastructure adviser is leaving the administration as President Donald Trump\'s plans to inject funding to repair the nation\'s roads and bridges will most likely have to wait until after the midterm elections.The White House says DJ Gribbin, who formulated the Trump plan released in February, is leaving to pursue other opportunities. Trump\'s proposal would pair $200 billion in federal funding with state, local, and private investment. According to the White House\'s calculations, that investment would unleash $1.5 trillion in infrastructure spending over the next decade.Gribbin is the latest departure in a wave of exits  some forced and others voluntary  that have the White House on edge.Trump conceded last week that his plan would probably "have to wait until after the election."
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   A half century after the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., U.S. civil rights leaders say they are fearful President Donald Trump could reverse progress made on civil rights in the United States since King\'s death.The racism that King\'s leadership helped subdue has returned, said E. Lynn Brown, a former associate of King\'s who is bishop of the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church near Memphis, Tennessee, pointing to a resurgence of white supremacists since Trump launched his campaign for president."They were afraid to show their ugly heads in a prominent way. Now, Trump has given them a voice and created a climate where they are not afraid to show their ugly heads," Brown said.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.King died of an assassin\'s bullet in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968, ending his leadership of a nonviolent campaign for equal rights for African-Americans. His death shook the United States in a year that would also bring race riots, violent anti-war demonstrations and the assassination of presidential candidate Robert Kennedy.To be sure, Trump praised King in glowing terms upon the celebration of King\'s birthday in January, and the president has pointed to historically low unemployment for African-Americans as evidence that blacks are benefiting from his presidency.Black leaders were proud to have Barack Obama as president and some have lamented that Trump succeeded him.The maverick Republican has drawn criticism for praising pro-Confederate demonstrators in Charlottesville, Virginia, last August as "some very fine people." He has also picked Twitter fights with black athletes and appointed few minorities to high office.Some conservative African-Americans have seen the critique of Trump as unfair, saying white supremacists, neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan existed while Obama was president."We have to be very careful at pointing fingers at the White House when in fact racial progress happens at our house," said U.S. Senator Tim Scott, a Republican from South Carolina.Even so, Scott criticized Trump for his comments after Charlottesville as unhelpful but said the history of race relations was unrelated to the occupant of the White House."We\'re too quick to say that someone is racist if we don\'t hear in their words what we want to hear," said Ward Connerly, a conservative African-American who has long fought against racial preferences for minorities. "There are many things I think you can say about Trump, but I don\'t think that he\'s a racist."Still, some civil rights leaders have not forgiven Trump for his reaction to the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, in which white nationalists demonstrated to preserve pro-slavery monuments and neo-Nazis chanted anti-Semitic slogans.After a white nationalist killed a counter-demonstrator when he drove his car into a crowd, Trump said there was blame "on many sides.""When I heard Mr. Trump say there were good people, some good people on both sides, and saw the violence in Charlottesville, it made me cry. I really cried," said U.S. Representative John Lewis, a Democrat from Georgia who endured life-threatening injuries as a civil rights leader in the 1960s."But it also made me more determined to do all I could to help our country move forward," Lewis said.(Reporting by Kia Johnson; Additional reporting by Kevin Fogarty and Daniel Trotta; Writing by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Frank McGurty and Chris Reese)
WASHINGTON   Following attacks by President Donald Trump on Amazon.com Inc, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce criticized attacks by government officials against American companies.Its inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company," said Neil Bradley, executive vice president and chief policy officer for the Chamber of Commerce, the nation\'s largest business group."The U.S. economy is the worlds most powerful because it embraces the free enterprise system and the rule of law, whereby policy matters are handled through recognized policymaking processes. The record is clear: Deviating from those processes undermines economic growth and job creation.(Reporting by Ginger Gibson; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
MEXICO CITY   Migrants forming a caravan in southern Mexico are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Monday, after the caravan drew the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.In a statement, the ministry said that the U.S. government must determine whether it would allow any of the migrants from the caravan into the United States."It is not up to this government to make migration decisions for the United States or for any other nation," the ministry said.The ministry also said it did not foster illegal migration "under any circumstances".(Reporting by Dave Graham; writing by Julia Love)
MEXICO CITY   Migrants forming a caravan in southern Mexico are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Monday, after the caravan drew the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.In a statement, the ministry said that the U.S. government must determine whether it would allow any of the migrants from the caravan into the United States."It is not up to this government to make migration decisions for the United States or for any other nation," the ministry said.The ministry also said it did not foster illegal migration "under any circumstances".(Reporting by Dave Graham; writing by Julia Love)
WASHINGTON   The largest American business lobby group came to the defense of Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday after a multi-day Twitter attack by U.S. President Donald Trump that included unsubstantiated criticism of the world\'s biggest online retailer.The value of Amazon shares held by Jeff Bezos, the online retailer\'s chief executive and single largest shareholder, had taken a $10 billion hit in the week since Trump began attacking him and his company on Twitter.Citing an unspecified report, Trump told reporters at the White House that the company was not paying the U.S. Postal Service a fair rate, and that it was costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars and forcing other retailers out of business, and he threatened to raise rates.Late on Tuesday afternoon, a source familiar with proceedings at the White House said no specific actions addressing Trump\'s concerns about Amazon were on the table at the White House at this time, but that could change given Trump\'s dissatisfaction with the company.The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobby group in the country, stepped in on Tuesday to defend Amazon, which is a member."Its inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company," Neil Bradley, chief policy officer of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement, citing the value of the free enterprise system and the rule of law. "The record is clear: deviating from those processes undermines economic growth and job creation.It is not the first time Trump, or another U.S. president, has been publicly critical of a company. Trump has previously criticized automakers, Carrier Corp, which is owned by United Technologies Corp and Boeing Co.In 2015, then-President Barack Obama criticized office supply company Staples Inc for not embracing the Affordable Care Act, drawing a quick rebuke from Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.Trump has progressively escalated his criticism of Amazon and Bezos, who also privately owns The Washington Post, which has published stories that have angered the president.Bezos, ranked by Forbes magazine as the world\'s richest man with an estimated net worth of $115.6 billion, owns 78.89 million Amazon shares, worth about $110 billion at Tuesday\'s market close.Amazon shares closed up 1.5 percent at $1,392.05. The shares started the day higher but fell as low as $1,355.33 after Trump\'s latest Amazon-related tweet.Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough tax, taking advantage of the U.S. postal system and putting small retailers out of business, but he has offered no evidence to back up his criticisms."The post office is losing billions of dollars ... because it delivers packages for Amazon at a very low rate," Trump told reporters on Tuesday. "If you look at the cost that we\'re subsidizing, we\'re giving a subsidy to Amazon."Trump offered no details about the report he cited or how he might charge the company more through USPS.Amazon also ships packages through providers such as FedEx Corp and United Parcel Service Inc as well as its own experimental shipping service.Representatives of Amazon and USPS had no comment on Trump\'s tweet on Tuesday and could not be immediately reached regarding his latest comments to reporters.(Reporting by Ginger Gibson and Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason, Makini Brice and Lisa Lambert; Writing by Susan Heavey Editing by Bill Rigby and Leslie Adler)
WASHINGTON   Consumers getting financial assistance under former President Barack Obama\'s health care law will pay lower premiums this year, even though the "list price" for their health insurance shot up.That odd result is reflected in a report issued Tuesday by the Trump administration.After federal aid, the average monthly premium paid by subsidized customers on HealthCare.gov is dropping to $89 from last year\'s $106. That\'s a 16 percent savings even though the "list price" premium went up about 30 percent, now averaging $639 for those subsidized customers.The bottom line is counterintuitive, but it shows how "Obamacare" subsidies cushion consumers from rising premiums.Seema Verma, head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, says more affordable health care options are needed for people who aren\'t eligible for the Affordable Care Act\'s income-based financial assistance.But independent analysts say a big part of this year\'s premium increases is due to actions by the Trump administration, including the cancellation of major payments to insurers.Insurers jacked up premiums to make up for the loss of federal dollars to cover discounted copays and deductibles that the companies were required to provide to low-income customers. Congressional authorization of the payments was under a legal cloud, and President Donald Trump pulled the plug. Bipartisan efforts to restore the money recently fell apart over disputes about abortion coverage."These numbers show for the first time how the Trump administration\'s termination of payments to insurers in a sense backfired," said Larry Levitt of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. "The result, which is a little bizarre, is that consumers eligible for government premium subsidies are actually paying less out of their own pockets for insurance on average than last year."About 11.8 million people signed up for coverage this year through HealthCare.gov and state insurance markets, a slight dip from last year.
TEGUCIGALPA   A top Honduran official on Tuesday rejected President Donald Trump\'s threat to cut U.S. foreign aid unless a so-called caravan of more than 1,000 Central American migrants headed to the U.S. border with Mexico is stopped."We don\'t know what President Trump is talking about when he says that Honduras doesn\'t do anything" to stop illegal immigration, presidential spokesman Ebal Diaz said on a local TV program."I think he is not well informed, I think he is unfairly using Honduras in a political debate he has with the U.S. Congress," Diaz said, adding that Honduras deserved respect.Trump threatened in a Twitter post on Tuesday to cut off aid to Honduras in his latest criticism of the migrant caravan that set off from Mexico\'s southern border with Central America late last month.The U.S. president has stepped up his immigration rhetoric in recent days and his administration has moved to further crack down on people who are in the United States illegally."The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our \'Weak Laws\' Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!" Trump wrote on Twitter.Organized caravans of predominantly Central American migrants, including many escaping drug and gang-related violence in Honduras, have crossed Mexico since 2010, according to Mexico\'s government."The causes of immigration are violence, drug violence, drug trafficking. What has President Trump done to reduce the demand for the drugs that enters that market (in the United States) that generates violence in our country?," said Diaz.Honduras murder rate has been falling steadily in recent years, after hitting 85.5 murders per 100,000 people in 2011. Nonetheless, Honduras remains one of the worlds deadliest peacetime nations."We appreciate the help from the United States but we deserve respect as a nation ... Honduras will continue to grow, with or without the support of President Trump," said Diaz.(Reporting by Gustavo Palencia; Writing by Anthony Esposito and Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON   As Republicans run into a buzz saw of conservative criticism over a deficit-expanding new budget, GOP leaders and the White House are looking for ways to undo the damage by allowing President Donald Trump to rescind some of the spending he signed into law just 10 days ago.Rolling back the funds would be a highly unusual move and could put some lawmakers in the potentially uncomfortable position of having to vote for specific spending opposed by a president from their party. But it would also offer Republicans a way to save face amid the backlash over the bill that conservatives, and Trump himself, complain gives too much money for Democratic priorities.Trump has been talking with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., about the plan over the past couple of days, according to an aide to the House leader who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks. It is not clear how widely the idea has been embraced by other top Republicans, including House Speaker Paul Ryan or Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, whose offices declined to discuss it."There are conversations right now," said Matt Sparks, a spokesman for McCarthy. "The administration and Congress and McCarthy are talking about it."The idea emerged as lawmakers get hammered back home for the $1.3 trillion spending package that, while beefing up funds for the military, also increases spending on transportation, child care and other domestic programs in a compromise with Democrats that Trump derided as a "waste" and "giveaways."Trump\'s decision to sign the bill into law, after openly toying with a veto, has not quelled the unrest and may have helped fuel it."People are mad as hell about it and mad as hell that they put the president in that situation  that he sign the bill or shut the government down," said Amy Kremer, a founder of the tea party and co-chairman of Women for Trump.Kremer said Republicans in Congress have lost sight of the voters who propelled them to the majority on an agenda of fiscal restraint. "They are no better than the Democrats," she said.Lawmakers home on spring recess are feeling the brunt of the criticism. Rep. Mark Amodei, R-Nev., said he encountered a finger-wagging voter back home almost as soon as he stepped off the airplane.Fox News host Sean Hannity asked, "What happened to the Republican Party?" after Trump signed the bill. "Republicans should be ashamed of themselves," he added.In some ways, the rescission proposal is as close as Trump can get to the line-item veto, which he called on Congress to enact even though the Supreme Court decided in 1998 that it would violate the authority the Constitution gives Congress on legislation.The idea centers on a rarely used provision of the 1974 Congressional Budget and Impound Control Act. It allows the White House to propose rescinding funds and sets a 45-day clock for the House and Senate to vote.Congress could simply ignore the president\'s request and keep the funds in place.Sparks didn\'t specify how much spending could be rescinded or in what categories. But Trump would likely seek to focus on domestic spending he has attacked in recent tweets.Trump has been particularly upset the package did not include $25 billion he sought for the border wall with Mexico, even after the bill burst through previously set budget caps for military and domestic spending.Ryan and Trump have not yet talked this week, an aide to the speaker said, but likely will by week\'s end.Voting, though, could be difficult, even for fiscally conservative Republicans, since Trump\'s targets may be popular projects or programs back home, said Gordon Gray, the director of Fiscal Policy at the center-right American Action Forum, who notes the rescission tool is not as popular as it was when introduced in the Nixon era more than 40 years ago.Passage would not be certain, especially in the Senate, where Republicans hold a slim 51-49 majority.____
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s strategy for the U.S.-Mexico border includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said on Tuesday, after Trump had earlier spoken publicly to reporters about "guarding our border with the military" to stop illegal immigrants.The White House statement was released after Trump met with Defense Secretary James Mattis, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other officials on border issues. It gave no details on whether or when Trump\'s strategy might be implemented.The National Guard, part of the U.S. military\'s reserve forces, has been used in recent years for surveillance and intelligence on the border, but not direct law enforcement.The president\'s earlier remarks sharpened his recurring anti-immigration rhetoric. He said he wanted to deploy U.S. military forces until his long-promised border wall is built."Until we can have a wall and proper security were going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump told reporters at the White House, lamenting what he called "horrible" U.S. laws that left the southern border poorly protected.Trump railed against a "caravan" of Central American migrants traveling from the Mexico-Guatemala border in the last 10 days toward the United States, journeys that have occurred annually since 2010 in an effort to draw attention to the plight of people fleeing violence in their countries.On Tuesday night, Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said on Twitter that the caravan "dispersed gradually and at the decision of its participants." Mexican officials say privately that they believe Trump has exaggerated the caravan\'s importance to renew pressure on Mexico over the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.After 14 months in office, Trump still hammers regularly on an anti-immigration theme that helped to energize conservative  Republican voters who helped him win the presidency in the 2016 election. Trump took a hard line on illegal immigration during the campaign and has also sought to curtail legal immigration.His efforts have thus far failed to produce a comprehensive overhaul of America\'s immigration laws or full funding for his border wall in the Republican-led Congress. No major legislation was expected before November\'s congressional elections.LEGAL QUESTIONS RAISEDHis latest comments immediately raised questions in Congress and among legal experts about troop deployments on U.S. soil.The Posse Comitatus Act, a federal law on the books since the 1870s, restricts using the U.S. Army and other main branches of the military for civilian law enforcement on U.S. soil, unless specifically authorized by Congress.But the military can provide support services to law enforcement and has done so on occasion since the 1980s.Under Republican President George W. Bush, the National Guard between 2006 and 2008 provided border-related intelligence analysis, but had no direct law enforcement role.In 2010, President Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support to U.S. Border Patrol agents.Some specific statutes authorize the president to deploy troops within the United States for riot control or relief efforts after natural disasters."The details really matter here," said Stephen Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law."The real question is going to be if the president is serious about this, what kind of legal arguments do we get out of the White House and the Pentagon for such a deployment."A senior Republican aide in the U.S. House of Representatives said key lawmakers had not been briefed on the White House plan. The aide said there was no indication that a specific plan had even been formulated yet.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico\'s ambassador in Washington, said he had spoken to U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about Trump\'s remarks on the border and that Mexico had formally asked the U.S. government to clarify them."It\'s certainly not something that the Mexican government welcomes," Gutierrez told CNN.Nielsen, who took part in the meeting with Trump, said in a Twitter message late on Tuesday that she had been told by  Mexican officials "the caravan is dissipating."In southern Mexico, officials screened the dwindling number of hundreds of largely Central American migrants on Tuesday.At a campaign rally, Mexican leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is leading most polls by double digits before the July 1 presidential election, said that if the U.S. government militarizes the border, thousands of his supporters would protest by forming a "big human chain of Mexicans for peace."Some members of Congress said they were uncomfortable with the idea of using the military at the border.Democratic Senator Brian Schatz said Trump should have to seek approval from Congress for any such troop deployment. "We should put that new law to a vote in the Senate," he said on Twitter. I predict fewer than 20 votes."In a Twitter post earlier on Tuesday, Trump said the caravan "heading to our \'Weak Laws\' Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!" Congress is on vacation until next week.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Susan Heavey, Makini Brice, Amanda Becker, Richard Cowan, Eric Beech, Mohammad Zargham and Phil Stewart in Washington; Karen Freifeld in New York and the Mexico City newsroom; Writing by John Whitesides; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Grant McCool)
WASHINGTON   Microsoft Corp on Tuesday backed the Justice Department\'s request that the U.S. Supreme Court dismiss a case pitting the two against each other over whether prosecutors can force technology companies to hand over data stored overseas after Congress passed a law that resolved the dispute.The justices heard arguments in the high-profile case on Feb. 27, but President Donald Trump on March 22 signed legislation that makes clear that U.S. judges can issue warrants for such data while giving companies a way to object if the request conflicts with foreign law. [nL2N1QH0PU]In a filing with the Supreme Court, Microsoft said it would not oppose the Justice Department\'s bid to dismiss the case, filed last Friday, because the matter was now moot. [nL1N1RE011]"Microsoft agrees with the government that there is no longer a live case or controversy between the parties with respect to the question presented," the company\'s lawyers said in the filing.Microsoft and the Justice Department had been locked in a dispute over how U.S. prosecutors seek access to data held on overseas computer servers owned by U.S. companies. The case involved Microsoft\'s challenge to a domestic warrant issued by a U.S. judge for emails stored on a Microsoft server in Dublin relating to a drug-trafficking investigation.In its court filing, the Justice Department said it has obtained a new warrant that would be governed by the new law.(Reporting by Lawrence Hurley; Editing by Will Dunham)
BEIJING   China\'s commerce ministry said on Wednesday it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs following the Section 301 probe and will take counter measures, according to the official Xinhua news agency.The response follows a move by the Trump administration on Tuesday to slap 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices.The Ministry of Commerce (MofCom) said it "will soon take measure of equal intensity and scale against U.S. goods.""We have the confidence and ability to respond to any protectionist measures by the United States," said MofCom.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s (USTR) office target list is broad and includes products from military shotguns to sewing machines.The USTR list follows China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruit, nuts and pork to protest new U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by U.S. President Donald Trump."The findings of the US Section 301 investigation are a willful distortion of facts and full of selective assertions and allegations," said Zhang Xiangchen, Beijing\'s ambassador to the World Trade Organization.The investigation was made on Chinese imports under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."What Washington truly wishes is not a trade war, but to intimidate China by wielding the baton," said an editorial in the Global Times paper."The latest U.S. measures against China carry a sense of containment, which purportedly is commonplace among U.S. politicians," it added.The widely-read state run Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily equate with Chinese government policy.(Reporting by Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe in Beijing and Engen Tham in Shanghai; Writing by Engen Tham; Editing by Sam Holmes)
(Reuters) - Robert Mueller, the U.S. Justice Department's special counsel, is specifically authorized to investigate allegations that Paul Manafort, President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman, colluded with Russia to interfere with the 2016 presidential election, a court filing showed late on Monday.They court documents also show that Mueller is specifically authorized to investigate Manafort's ties to Ukraine's former pro-Russia government.The documents were filed in response to a motion by Manafort challenging Mueller's authority to prosecute him.Manafort does not currently face charges related to the 2016 presidential election or Russian interference. But he is charged with bank fraud, filing false tax returns, conspiring against the United States by plotting to launder money and failing to register as a foreign agent when he lobbied for the former Ukraine government.His court action sought to have those charges dismissed, arguing that Mueller lacked the authority to investigate his dealings with Ukraine.No one on either side of the case was available for comment early Tuesday.Trump has frequently declared no collusion occurred between his campaign and Russia.(Reporting by Rich McKay)
WASHINGTON   Anticipating an unpredictable president\'s next moves, U.S. officials have started actively planning for the likelihood that Donald Trump will announce next month that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal.But no one knows exactly what would happen next or how Iran would respond.Still, with less than five weeks until President Donald Trump\'s deadline, national security officials are exploring various "day after" scenarios. Those include how to sell a pullout as the correct strategy, how aggressively to reimpose U.S. sanctions on Iran that had been lifted under the agreement and how to deal with Iranian and European fallout from such a step, according to officials, diplomats and outside advisers to the administration.The planning is at an early stage but has taken on greater urgency as the clock ticks toward mid-May, when Trump has said he\'ll walk away unless his concerns are addressed. Another catalyst is the anticipated arrival of two new Trump aides strongly opposed to the deal: Mike Pompeo and John Bolton.Pompeo, the CIA director nominated for secretary of state, was briefed last week on the Iran deal by top State Department aides, including Brian Hook, the policy planning chief, and Andrew Peek, the deputy assistant secretary for Iran, U.S. officials said.Both Pompeo and Bolton, who takes over next week as Trump\'s national security adviser, have been highly critical of the landmark 2015 nuclear deal, and their appointments seemed to signal that one of former President Barack Obama\'s signature foreign policy achievements may soon be history.Another complicating factor is Trump\'s stated desire to withdraw U.S. personnel and resources from Syria, which many Iran hawks believe will cede the country to Tehran. Leaving Syria to keep his campaign promise of disentangling the U.S. military from the Middle East may force Trump\'s hand on the nuclear deal, according to hawks who have expressed dismay at the president\'s desire to pull back."I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back," Trump said Tuesday. "Sometimes it\'s time to come back home."Iran has said U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions would destroy the agreement and has threatened a range of responses, including immediately restarting nuclear activities currently barred under the deal.U.S. sanctions that were lifted in exchange for Iran curbing its nuclear program fall into several baskets, including some that can be restored by executive order and some that would require congressional action. Some sanctions target Iranian entities only while others punish third-country companies for doing business with Iran.One option being considered by the Treasury Department, which enforces sanctions, would be to immediately snap back sanctions that don\'t need action from Congress but delay their enforcement by four to six months, according to people familiar with the matter. That would give companies and governments time to prepare to comply with the changes. It would also keep the door open for last-minute changes that could potentially address Trump\'s concerns.Another option would be to reimpose U.S. sanctions but carve out certain exemptions that could allow Europe and Iran to remain in the agreement without U.S. participation. Then it would be up to Tehran to decide whether the benefits of a deal that no longer includes the U.S. would be valuable enough to keep it alive.The planning effort has also been spurred by growing signs that U.S.-European negotiations to address what Trump says are flaws in the agreement are deadlocked and unlikely to produce an outcome acceptable to the president before May 12. Complicating those talks is uncertainty over what might actually persuade Trump to stay in the deal, which he has called the worst ever negotiated by the United States. Diplomats involved in those discussions are increasingly pessimistic that a viable compromise is possible."We\'ve gone from a strategy of decertify, fix the deal and pressure Iran in the region to what increasingly appears to be one of decertify, nix the deal and withdraw from the region," said Iran deal critic Mark Dubowitz, the chief executive of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, who has pushed for tightening the accord.As the Europeans work to salvage the deal, France, Britain and Germany have been trying to persuade their fellow EU members to agree to new non-nuclear sanctions on Iran, including some related to Tehran\'s actions in Syria, said one European diplomat.The goal is to tee up a "package" of actions to present to Trump as evidence that the Europeans are taking his concerns about Iran seriously and demonstrating willingness to act. Several nations have objected, arguing it\'s illogical to make concessions to Trump when it\'s unclear that will be enough to keep him in the deal.The nightmare scenario for the Europeans is that they would go out on a limb by adopting sanctions they don\'t really want in the first place only to see Trump walk away from the nuclear deal anyway, said the diplomat, who wasn\'t authorized to discuss the situation and spoke on condition of anonymity.On two of Trump\'s concerns  Iran\'s ballistic missile testing and destabilizing behavior in the region  the U.S. and Europe have largely reached consensus that Tehran can and should be punished. But the two sides remain far apart on Trump\'s third concern: the "sunset provisions" that gradually allow Iran to resume advanced nuclear work after several years.Trump is demanding that those restrictions be extended or made permanent, but Iran and the Europeans argue that\'s unworkable because it would be tantamount to renegotiating the deal, which they have vowed not to do. Both sides have offered possible compromises on the sunset provisions, but none have yet met muster, according to the diplomats.___This story has been corrected to show that Dubowitz\'s title is chief executive, not executive director, of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies.
LOS ANGELES/SAN FRANCISCO   California farmers, many of whom voted for President Donald Trump and his tough talk on trade, say China\'s increased tariffs on products like almonds, pistachios and wine are a competitive blow, but some are hopeful they will lead to a better deal down the road.China said at the weekend that it was imposing retaliatory tariffs of between 15 and 25 percent on $2.75 billion worth of U.S. imports, including frozen pork, nuts and wine, in response to steep duties on aluminum and steel announced by the Trump administration.While California overall voted decisively for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, many of the state\'s farmers supported Trump, who said he wanted to make international trade deals more fair.All but one of the state\'s top-five pistachio-producing counties went for Trump, as did the state\'s top almond-producing county, Kern.California almond farmer David Phippen says he has talked to a number of fellow almond farmers who continue to support Trump\'s efforts on trade even though they are disappointed to be hit by new tariffs that make their products more expensive in China."Is the administration going to get us a better deal? How long will it take to get that better deal?" Phippen said. "We have sustainability, but it\'s limited."Pistachios are California\'s biggest agricultural export to China, which bought $531 million worth of the nuts in 2016. Prior to the new tariffs, China had existing duties of 5 percent on raw pistachios and 10 percent on roasted pistachios from the United States, said Richard Matoian, executive director of the American Pistachio Growers.The additional 15 percent tariff "impacts our ability to compete with our competitors from Iran," said Matoian. California and Iran over the years have traded the title of world\'s top pistachio producer, he added.Almonds are China\'s second-biggest import from California farms. In 2016, China took 12 percent of California\'s almond crop, which was valued at about $518 million.The Chinese levy on U.S. almonds goes up from 10 percent to 25 percent, said Richard Waycott, president and chief executive of the Almond Board of California.Nut producers and sellers including Blue Diamond Growers, the Wonderful Co and Emerald Nuts owner Campbell Soup Co declined comment.California wine is also taking a hit.The latest import levy on wine will increase the total tariff and tax paid on a bottle of U.S. wine imported into China from 48.2 percent to 67.7 percent, according to the Wine Institute, which represents 1,000 wineries and affiliated businesses in California.The United States, predominantly California, exported wine valued at nearly $79 million to China last year, according to the Wine Institute.Australia could be set to benefit. As well as being geographically closer to China, in 2019 it will begin exporting almonds, wine and other products to China tariff-free.Chile and New Zealand wines also enter China tariff-free and only pay a 30 percent combined tax rate, the Wine Institute said."U.S. producers were already at a disadvantage to many foreign competitors, and this will only exacerbate that problem," said Robert Koch, president and CEO of Wine Institute.(Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Ann Saphir in San Francisco, Editing by Rosalba O\'Brien)
WASHINGTON   Nearly a dozen U.S. states and Washington D.C. on Tuesday promised to defend federal automobile efficiency standards against a rollback proposed this week by Scott Pruitt, the embattled head of the Environmental Protection Agency."All Americans ... deserve to enjoy fuel-efficient, low-emission cars and light trucks that save money on gas, improve our health and support American jobs," the attorneys general from 11 states said in a statement responding to Pruitt\'s proposal on Monday to ease the Obama-era standards.The standards called for roughly doubling by 2025 the average fuel efficiency of new vehicles sold in the United States to about 50 miles (80 km) per gallon. Proponents say they help spur innovation in clean technologies and cut emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide.California has long been allowed by an EPA waiver to impose stricter standards than Washington does on vehicle emissions of some pollutants. And 12 other states follow California\'s lead on cleaner cars.The attorneys general, from states including New York, Iowa and Massachusetts, said they would challenge a rollback in court. California Attorney General Xavier Becerra has already threatened to sue in defense of the standards.The statement, also signed by more than 50 mayors from around the country, said automakers have been making progress in meeting the national standards and that compliance costs have been lower than projected.Auto industry executives have not publicly sought specific reductions in the requirements negotiated with the Obama administration in 2011 as part of a bailout deal. But they have urged Pruitt and President Donald Trump to revise the standards so it becomes easier and less costly to meet the targets.Pruitt defended his decision at EPA headquarters on Tuesday."We have nothing to be apologetic about with respect to the progress we\'ve made in reducing emissions as a country," Pruitt said. The EPA will make sure that U.S. consumers would not have to buy more expensive autos as a result of efficiency standards, he said.Pruitt, a former attorney general of Oklahoma, a major oil producer, has been criticized by politicians after reports that he paid well below market rates to live in a condo owned by a lobbyist who deals with issues overseen by his agency. Trump  and White House Chief of Staff John Kelly phoned Pruitt this week to say they support him, an administration source said on Tuesday.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner and Richard Valdmanis; Editing by James Dalgleish and Richard Chang)
BEIJING   Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told North Korea\'s foreign minister on Tuesday that Beijing supports the North\'s planned summits with South Korea and the United States.The Foreign Ministry cited Wang, China\'s state councilor and foreign minister, as telling Ri Yong Ho at a meeting in Beijing that China appreciates North Korea\'s efforts to ease tensions on the Korean Peninsula.The ministry described Ri as saying that North Korea would maintain close strategic communications with China as outlined at last week\'s surprise meeting between Chinese leader Xi Jinping and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Jong Un. Kim\'s visit to China made clear that Beijing, North Korea\'s only major ally and chief provider of energy and trade that keeps the country\'s broken economy afloat, will have a major role in any effort to rein in the North\'s nuclear program.Earlier Tuesday, Wang told reporters that China hopes a planned meeting between North Korea and the U.S. would be able to avoid "disruptive factors" and stick to the pursuit of dialogue between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump."Of course, historical experience tells us that when there is an easing in the situation on the peninsula and hopes for peace and dialogue appear, there will often be disturbances of this or that kind," Wang said at a briefing with reporters following a meeting with Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis. "We call on all parties to maintain their determination, eliminate interference, and go along in the right direction of dialogue and negotiation."North Korea\'s official Korean Central News Agency said Ri led a government delegation that left Pyongyang, the North\'s capital, on Tuesday to take part in a ministerial meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement to be held in Azerbaijan and visit Russia.The meetings between China and North Korea appear aimed at improving both countries\' positions ahead of Kim\'s anticipated meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and Trump in the coming weeks.A key objective for Beijing is to reassert its relevance to the talks, from which it has been excluded. China has appeared increasingly shut out as its relations with North Korea deteriorated and the North reached out to Seoul and Washington.Ties in recent months have frayed as China supported tougher U.N. sanctions on North Korea and suspended coal and iron ore imports. Last year, North Korea seemingly sought to humiliate Beijing by timing some of its missile tests to coincide with major global summits in China.
WASHINGTON   The U.S. State Department expressed concern on Tuesday at the Malaysian parliament\'s approval of a bill that would allow prison terms of up to six years for spreading "fake news" - an expression frequently used by U.S. President Donald Trump.Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak\'s government secured a simple majority in parliament on Monday to pass the bill, which sets out fines of up to 500,000 ringgit ($123,000) and a maximum six years in jail.The United States is concerned about the bills "potential impact on freedom of expression in Malaysia, as well as its global reach, which could impact U.S. citizens and companies," a State Department spokesperson said in a statement.The statement said the measure had moved "rapidly through Parliament without meaningful public consultation and debate," and urged the Malaysian government to consult with the business community and civil society before taking further action on the bill.In Malaysia, a bill requires the assent of the country\'s  figurehead sultan after passing parliament, but this is generally seen as a formality."We urge the Government of Malaysia to ensure that all its laws, existing and future, fully respect freedom of expression," the State Department spokesperson said.Trump often uses the term fake news to condemn news reports or organizations whose findings he disputes or that are critical of him. The term has also quickly become part of the standard repertoire of leaders in authoritarian countries.Malaysia, where a general election could be imminent, is among the first countries to introduce such a law. Other Southeast Asian countries, including Singapore and the Philippines, are considering how to tackle fake news. Rights activists worry that anti-fake news laws could be used to stifle free speech.On Tuesday, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered the withdrawal of rules punishing journalists held responsible for distributing fake news, giving no reason for the change, less than 24 hours after the original announcement. The move followed an outcry by journalists and opposition politicians.Malaysia\'s bill defines fake news as news, information, data and reports which is or are wholly or partly false, and includes features, visuals and audio recordings.It covers digital publications and social media and will apply to offenders who maliciously spread fake news inside and outside Malaysia, including foreigners, if Malaysia or a Malaysian citizen were affected.News reports and social media posts on a multi-billion-dollar scandal at state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB)have dogged Prime Minister Najib, who faces arguably his toughest contest in a general election that is due this year and could be called in days. Najib has denied any wrongdoing in connection with losses at the fund.(Reporting by David Brunnstrom; Additional reporting by Praveen Menon in Kuala Lumpur; Editing by Frances Kerry)
NEW YORK   "Roseanne" wasn\'t just a hit on opening night. The revived ABC comedy had legs.The Nielsen company said Tuesday that viewership for the show\'s premiere shot up to 25 million people when delayed viewing for the three days after last Tuesday\'s first showing is added. The increase of 6.6 million people sets a record for the biggest lift ever for a show in the three days after a premiere, Nielsen said. A lot of programs would be happy to get 6.6 million viewers, period."Roseanne" was helped by the extent to which it became part of the cultural conversation once its first-night ratings of 18.45 million people were reported, likely drawing in others who were curious about the fuss. President Donald Trump even congratulated star Roseanne Barr for the success of the show, in which her character supports him politically.Discussion of the unusually strong "Roseanne" ratings tended to overshadow CBS\' ratings for "60 Minutes" two days earlier, where an interview with adult film star Stormy Daniels about her alleged affair with Trump before he became president reached 22.1 million viewers. Trump has denied her story.Unlike "Roseanne," people weren\'t likely to watch the Daniels interview if they didn\'t see it live. Adding in people who watched during the three days after its initial airing, and the "60 Minutes" audience increased to just under 22.8 million. News programs generally have little delayed viewing compared to scripted entertainment, and the "60 Minutes" audience is among television\'s oldest, and less accustomed to time shifting.The reach for these two programs was a fresh reminder that for all of the attention received by streaming services, there\'s still no matching broadcast television\'s ability to entice a large number of people to look up from their personal devices. On a more modest note this week, NBC\'s "Jesus Christ Superstar Live" drew 9.6 million viewers for the network\'s most watched Easter in a dozen years.CBS won the week in prime time, averaging 6.9 million viewers. ABC was second with 5.9 million viewers, NBC had 5.4 million, Fox had 2.6 million, Univision had 1.5 million, ION Television had 1.3 million, Telemundo had 1.1 million and the CW had 1 million.The NCAA men\'s Final Four led TBS to the top of the cable news prime-time rankings, with the network averaging 2.47 million viewers for the week. Fox News Channel had 2.03 million, MSNBC had 1.69 million, HGTV had 1.45 million and ESPN had 1.44 million.ABC\'s "World News Tonight" topped the evening newscasts with an average of 8.6 million viewers. NBC\'s "Nightly News" had 8.3 million and the "CBS Evening News" had 6.1 million.For the week of March 26-April 1, the top 10 shows, their networks and viewerships: "Roseanne," ABC, 18.45 million; "The Big Bang Theory," CBS, 13.27 million; "NCIS," CBS, 11.94 million; "Young Sheldon," CBS, 11.92 million; NCAA Men\'s Final Four: Loyola-Chicago vs. Michigan, TBS, 10.75 million; NCAA Men\'s Final Four: Kansas vs. Villanova, TBS, 10.7 million; "Bull," CBS, 10.65 million; "The Voice" (Monday), NBC, 10.51 million; NCAA Men\'s Final Four: "Bridge Show," TBS, 9.86 million; "Jesus Christ Superstar Live," NBC, 9.61 million.___ABC is owned by The Walt Disney Co. CBS is owned by CBS Corp. CW is a joint venture of Warner Bros. Entertainment and CBS Corp. Fox is owned by 21st Century Fox. NBC and Telemundo are owned by Comcast Corp. ION Television is owned by ION Media Networks.___Online:http://www.nielsen.com
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.Trump, doubling down on his tough stance against illegal immigration, has railed against those making their way from the Guatemala-Mexico border in the past 10 days.Trump repeated threats to torpedo the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which underpins much of Mexico\'s foreign trade, and said he wanted to send troops to the U.S. border to stop illegal immigrants until a long-promised border wall is built.In response, the Mexican government has said the migrants  are being vetted to determine whether they have a right to stay, or would be returned to their countries of origin.Hundreds of men, women and children from Central America were stuck on Tuesday in the town of Matias Romero in the poor southern Mexican state of Oaxaca awaiting clarification of their legal status after officials began registering them.Confused and frustrated by paperwork, many were uncertain what lay in store, and desperate for information."What was the point of all this then if they don\'t let us stay?" Elizabeth Avalos, 23, a migrant from El Salvador who was travelling with two children, said angrily. "There\'s no food, my children haven\'t eaten since yesterday."Hundreds of people camped out overnight in a park near the town\'s train station, with shoes and bags strewn about.Jaime Alexander Variega, 35, sat alone in a patch of shade and cupped his head in his hands, weeping or praying, his feet  still bearing lacerations from walking for four or five days straight through Guatemala from El Salvador."We\'re not safe in El Salvador," said the former security guard, his hat smeared in dirt, explaining he had left his home because of the threats from local gangs. "I know it\'s difficult to get into the United States. But it\'s not impossible."Around them, Mexican migration officials with notepads and pens took basic information from the migrants, asking for names, nationalities, dates of birth and proof of identity.The caravan was organised by U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which seeks to draw attention to the rights of migrants and provide them with aid. The Mexican government says the caravan, which like others travels by road, rail and on foot, has been organised every year since 2010.Honduran Carlos Ricardo Ellis Garcia clutched a handwritten list of names belonging to more than 100 people who joined the caravan in the southern border town of Tapachula, where it began on March 25, reaching a peak of around 1,500 people.But by Tuesday the number was down to about 1,100, according to Pueblo Sin Fronteras spokeswoman Gina Garibo.Many had broken off from the group, eager to move on more quickly, she said. Many others aimed to stay in Mexico because they had family ties there or planned to work, Garibo said."Now they\'re separating these groups," Ellis Garcia said, referring to an estimated 300 people who split from the caravan on Monday. "I don\'t know what\'s the deal, we have no answers."Advocacy groups told Reuters dozens of people left the caravan and travelled to the crime-ridden eastern state of Veracruz, where they were met by migration officials and police.The government said on Monday evening around 400 people in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico\'s ambassador to the United States, told CNN that Mexican authorities were "looking at the status of the individuals so we can proceed either with a repatriation process" or offer humanitarian relief. That could include granting asylum or humanitarian visas.Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala are among the most violent and impoverished countries in the Americas, prompting many people to leave in search of a better life.Trump, who ran for office in 2016 on a platform to stem illegal immigrants from Mexico, said he had "told Mexico" he hoped it would halt the caravan.The migrant caravan also poses a political problem for Mexico\'s unpopular government in a presidential election year.President Enrique Pena Nieto is barred by law from seeking re-election in the July 1 vote, but the ruling party candidate is running third, well behind the front-runner.The government does not want to be seen as kowtowing to threats by Trump, who is deeply unpopular in Mexico.In a country where millions of people have friends or relatives who have migrated legally or illegally to the United States, many Mexicans harbour sympathy for the Central Americans.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Additional reporting by Lizbeth Diaz, Diego Ore and Daina Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Grant McCool)
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   The caravan of Central American migrants that angered U.S. President Donald Trump was sidelined at a sports field in southern Mexico with no means of reaching the border even as Trump tweeted another threat to Mexico Tuesday."The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our "Weak Laws" Border, had better be stopped before it gets there," Trump wrote. "Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen."The caravan that once numbered 1,150 or more people actually halted days ago in the town of Matias Romero in the southern state of Oaxaca, where participants slept out in the open. After days of walking along roadsides and train tracks, the organizers now plan to try to get buses to take participants to the final event, an immigrants\' rights conference in the central state of Puebla later this week.Bogged down by logistical problems, large numbers of children and fears about people getting sick, the caravan was always meant to draw attention to the plight of migrants and was never equipped to march all the way to the U.S. border."The idea was never for this group of people to reach the border. It was more to achieve a sensible and clear solution" to migrants\' need to leave their countries, said Irineo Mujica, director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, the activist group behind the annual symbolic event.With conditions bad in Honduras following that country\'s hotly disputed November presidential elections, unexpectedly large numbers of people showed for this year\'s march."We have never seen a march of this size. It is unmanageable," Mujica said.On Tuesday, the group  mostly Hondurans  spread out on blankets in walkways between buildings, on playing fields and on grassy spots between swing sets. Young children kicked soccer balls through the dust and climbed on resting parents, killing time. Adults gathered around the few power outlets to charge cellphones. A single municipal police officer kept watch.Women and children picked through piles of donated clothing, as volunteers ladled water boiled over a fire into cups with instant coffee and instant noodles.Aida Raquel Perez Rivera, 31, from San Pedro Sula  one of Honduras\' most violent cities  was sitting on a rolled blanket in the shade. She said she hopes for asylum in the United States because the father of her daughters is trying to kill her."I have been threatened with death and I had to leave my daughters back there," said Perez Rivera. "I left without money, without anything, just the clothes on my back."Perez Rivera said she joined the caravan because there was safety in numbers. She said she is also considering seeking asylum in Mexico, but worries she couldn\'t support her daughters from Mexico.On Monday, Mexican immigration officials began taking the names of people interested in filing for asylum, or temporary transit or humanitarian visas in Mexico.But Mujica said he didn\'t know "if that was just to calm down Donald Trump\'s tweets, or calm down Donald Trump." He said the group was waiting for the migration officers to return.About 150 men already did break off from the march Sunday, hopping a freight train north, probably with hopes of trying to enter the U.S.But the rest of the migrants at the camp seemed unlikely to move again until Wednesday or Thursday. Mujica said about 300 to 400 say they have relatives living in Mexico and so may consider staying here at least temporarily.The "Stations of the Cross" caravans have been held annually in southern Mexico for about 10 years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.The organized portions of the caravans usually have not gone much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz.This year\'s event seems to have gotten more notice in the U.S., and Trump has sent some angry tweets that raised hackles in Mexico, which in recent years has detained and deported hundreds of thousands of Central American migrants before they could reach the U.S. border."Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" Trump wrote in one. "With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours."In a statement late Monday, Mexico\'s government said about 400 participants in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries. "Under no circumstances does the Mexican government promote irregular migration," the Interior Ministry statement said.The department also said that unlike in previous yearly caravans, "this time Mexican immigration authorities have offered refugee status" to participants who qualify. But it suggested it is not up to Mexico to keep people from going to the U.S. to apply for asylum."It is not this government\'s responsibility to make immigration decisions for the United States or any other country, so it will be up to the appropriate authorities of the United States to decide whether to authorize the entry of the caravan participants to U.S. territory," the statement said.Navarrete Prida had said earlier that he talked with U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on Monday about handling migration, "in accordance with each country\'s laws."Nielsen later tweeted that their talk focused specifically on the annual migrant caravan. "Working with Mexican officials to address the yearly illegal alien caravan. Exploring all options," she wrote.Mexico routinely stops and deports Central Americans, sometimes in numbers that rival those of the United States. Deportations of foreigners dropped from 176,726 in 2015 to 76,433 in 2017, in part because fewer were believed to have come to Mexico, and more were requesting asylum in Mexico.Mexico granted 3,223 asylum requests made in 2016, and 9,626 requests filed last year are either under review or have been accepted.Deportations continued at about the same pace in the first two months of 2018, with 15,835 people returned to central American countries.
(Reuters) - About 11.8 million consumers nationwide enrolled in 2018 Obamacare exchange plans, a 3 percent drop from last year when 12.2 million consumers signed up, according to a final government tally released on Tuesday by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.The tally includes both sign-ups on the exchange run by the federal government for 39 states, which was released on a provisional basis late in 2017, and on the 12 other exchanges run by Washington, D.C. and the remaining states.CMS said the average premium before tax credits in 2018 is $621 a month, an increase of more than 30 percent from last year.However, those receiving tax credits - around 83 percent of consumers on Obamacare - will pay around $89 a month on average in premiums, the agency said. That is down 16 percent from $106 a month last year.Private insurers sell strictly regulated individual insurance plans through the Obamacare online exchanges that the government subsidizes based on a person's income.U.S. President Donald Trump in October cut off billions of dollars in subsidy payments to insurers that help people pay for medical costs, causing insurers to raise 2018 premiums or drop out of selling plans in the Obamacare marketplace.His administration also halved the enrollment period to six weeks and cut the federal advertising and outreach budget by 90 percent. It also has proposed putting cheaper insurance policies offering bare-bones medical coverage on the Obamacare market in 2019 or 2020.
LONDON   The United Nations has blacklisted a North Korean ship for receiving oil in an October transfer that breached U.N. sanctions, as first revealed by Reuters.Reuters in December reported that Russian tankers had supplied fuel to North Korea, which relies on imported fuel to keep its struggling economy functioning, by transferring cargoes at sea.European security sources told Reuters that a Russian vessel conducted a ship-to-ship transfer with the North Korean-flagged Sam Ma 2 tanker in open seas during October."A DPRK-flagged (Democratic People\'s Republic of Korea) tanker, SAM MA 2 owned by Korea Samma Shipping Company, conducted a ship-to-ship transfer of oil and fabricated documents in mid-October 2017, loading almost 1,600 metric tons of fuel oil in one transaction," the United Nations said.It is the first confirmation of the Reuters report.The U.N. Security Council on Friday blacklisted dozens of ships and shipping companies over oil and coal smuggling by North Korea, boosting pressure on Pyongyang as leader Kim Jong Un plans to meet with his South Korean and U.S. counterparts.The council\'s North Korea sanctions committee acted on a request by the United States, designating 21 shipping companies - including five based in China - 15 North Korean ships, 12 non-North Korean ships and a Taiwanese man.The 12 non-North Korea ships are now subjected to a global port ban and must be deregistered, while the 15 North Korean ships are subjected to an asset freeze and 13 of those a global port ban.The move comes days after Kim met Chinese President Xi Jinping and an announcement that the North Korean leader would meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27. He is also scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump some time in May.(Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge and Jonathan Saul in London and Polina Nikolskaya in Moscow; Editing by Mark Potter)
HENNIKER, N.H.   The Latest on Ohio Gov. John Kasich\'s presentation at the President\'s Speaker Series at New England College (all times local):7:45 p.m.Ohio Gov. John Kasich says he doesn\'t know if he\'ll run again for the White House.The 2016 Republican presidential candidate, speaking at New England College in New Hampshire Tuesday night, is in his last year as governor and says he must finish that first. He\'s term-limited and cannot seek re-election.But the former congressman, one of President Donald Trump\'s most outspoken Republican detractors, says he\'s "trying to be a voice that brings about stability and objectivity in our country."Kasich focused his presidential campaign\'s efforts in New Hampshire and came in second to Trump in the state\'s 2016 primary.Another potential 2020 presidential contender also was in the Granite State on Tuesday. Former Maryland Gov. Martin O\'Malley, a 2016 Democratic presidential candidate, spoke at the New Hampshire Institute of Politics.___12:21 a.m.Republican Gov. John Kasich (KAY\'-sik) has restored Ohio\'s membership in the National Governors Association as he seeks to shore up credibility for bipartisan deal-making that could bolster a 2020 bid for president.An invoice produced in response to a public records request shows Ohio rejoined the bipartisan policy group in January for the first time in eight years. Kasich withdrew Ohio from the group in 2011, citing budget concerns.The $88,000 membership renewal came about a month after The Associated Press sought records on Ohio\'s membership status and amid Kasich\'s negotiations with governors of both parties on compromises on issues, including health care, immigration and guns.A spokesman cited Kasich\'s "great working relationship and friendship" with the association\'s chairman, Republican Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval, as important to the renewal.
LIMA   Peru\'s new foreign minister said on Tuesday that Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro was still not welcome to attend a regional summit in Lima next week, upholding a decision by Peru\'s disgraced former president.U.S. President Donald Trump and heads of state from across the Western Hemisphere plan to travel to Peru for the Summit of the Americas, which will celebrate the theme "democratic governance fighting corruption" from April 13-14.In his first speech as Peru\'s foreign minister, Nestor Popolizio said Peru\'s decision not to invite Maduro to the event reflects the view of a dozen countries that have been pressuring Venezuela to hold free and fair elections.Maduro\'s refusal to heed calls for democratic reforms "negates even the slightest notion of democracy and represents an insurmountable impediment to taking part in the Summit of the Americas," Popolizio said before a crowd of diplomats and journalists in the foreign ministry."This is a firm decision that is not up for revision," Popolizio said.Maduro has vowed to attend the Summit of the Americas despite Peru\'s ban, which the center-right government of former president Pedro Pablo Kuczynski announced in February. Maduro says Latin America\'s right-leaning governments are part of a U.S.-led international conspiracy to topple him and take control of Venezuela\'s oil resources.Kuczynski had been one of Maduro\'s most outspoken critics, calling him a "dictator" and demanding he step down.But Kuczynski resigned after a scandal last month and was replaced by his vice president, Martin Vizcarra. Vizcarra declined to weigh in on Maduro and the summit last week, saying he would leave it up to the foreign ministry.(Reporting By Reuters TV and Mitra Taj, Editing by Rosalba O\'Brien)
BEIJING   China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China\'s ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.Cui Tiankai made the comments ahead of what is expected to be the announcement this week of U.S. tariffs on $50 billion to $60 billion in Chinese imports following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."If they do, we will certainly take countermeasures of the same proportion, and the same scale, same intensity," Cui said in an interview posted on the website of China Global Television Network (CGTN) and broadcast on state television on Tuesday.The U.S. tariffs are expected to target products benefiting from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" industrial development program, although it may be more than two months before the import curbs take effect, U.S. officials have said.China on Sunday announced tariffs on $3 billion in imports of U.S. food and other goods in response to U.S. tariffs on imports of aluminum and steel, a skirmish that investors fear is a prelude to a broader trade war."China does not provoke a trade war, and doesn\'t want to fight a trade war, but we also aren\'t afraid of a trade war," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular news briefing.The Section 301 investigation initiated by U.S. President Donald Trump is focused on accusations of theft of intellectual property and forced technology transfer by China, charges Beijing denies.Cui said China has been bolstering its protection of intellectual property rights."China has been strengthening its efforts and strengthening our legal system on this particular issue, and we are making good progress," he said.(Reporting by Lusha Zhang, Tony Munroe and Michael Martina; Editing by Nick Macfie)
BEIJING   China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China\'s ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.Cui Tiankai made the comments ahead of what is expected to be the announcement this week of U.S. tariffs on $50 billion to $60 billion in Chinese imports following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."If they do, we will certainly take countermeasures of the same proportion, and the same scale, same intensity," Cui said in an interview posted on the website of China Global Television Network (CGTN) and broadcast on state television on Tuesday.The U.S. tariffs are expected to target products benefiting from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" industrial development programme, although it may be more than two months before the import curbs take effect, U.S. officials have said.China on Sunday announced tariffs on $3 billion in imports of U.S. food and other goods in response to U.S. tariffs on imports of aluminium and steel, a skirmish that investors fear is a prelude to a broader trade war."China does not provoke a trade war, and doesn\'t want to fight a trade war, but we also aren\'t afraid of a trade war," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular news briefing.The Section 301 investigation initiated by U.S. President Donald Trump is focused on accusations of theft of intellectual property and forced technology transfer by China, charges Beijing denies.Cui said China has been bolstering its protection of intellectual property rights."China has been strengthening its efforts and strengthening our legal system on this particular issue, and we are making good progress," he said.(Reporting by Lusha Zhang, Tony Munroe and Michael Martina; Editing by Nick Macfie)
NEW DELHI   Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday ordered the withdrawal of rules punishing journalists held responsible for distributing "fake news", giving no reason for the change, less than 24 hours after the original announcement.The move followed an outcry by journalists and opposition politicians that the rules represented an attack on the freedom of the press and an effort by Modi\'s government to rein in free speech ahead of a general election due by next year.Late on Monday, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry had said the government would cancel its accreditation of journalists who peddled "fake news".After Modi\'s intervention, the ministry announced the withdrawal in a one-line statement.Journalists said they welcomed the withdrawal but could not rule out the possibility that it was a "trial balloon" to test the waters for putting more restrictions on the press."A government fiat restraining the fourth pillar of our democracy is not the solution," a statement issued by the Press Club said.Co-opted by U.S. President Donald Trump, the term "fake news" has quickly become part of the standard repertoire of leaders in authoritarian countries to describe media reports and organisations critical of them.Welcoming the change of heart, media groups in India nevertheless cautioned the government against changing its mind."The government has no mandate to control the press," Gautam Lahiri, president of the Press Club of India, told journalists.The events in India followed Malaysia\'s approval this week of a law carrying jail terms of up to six years for spreading "fake news".Other countries in Southeast Asia, including Singapore and the Philippines, are considering how to tackle "fake news" but human rights activists fear laws against it could be used to stifle free speech.India slipped three places last year to rank 136 among 180 countries rated in the world press freedom index of the watchdog Reporters Without Borders.The non-profit body said Hindu nationalists, on the rise since Modi\'s Bharatiya Janata Party swept to power in 2014, were "trying to purge all manifestations of anti-national thought".(Reporting by Manoj Kumar; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan and Nick Macfie)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump offered a measured gesture of support for the embattled head of the Environmental Protection Agency on Tuesday, but those words of encouragement for Scott Pruitt also came with a White House warning about the ethical questions surrounding his travel spending and ties to Washington lobbyists."I hope he\'s going to be great," Trump told reporters, declining to reiterate publicly his private praise for Pruitt\'s work.In a phone call Monday, Trump told the EPA chief that "we\'ve got your back" and urged him to "keep his head up" and "keep fighting," according to two administration officials. Trump\'s call was quickly followed by one from chief of staff John Kelly, who laid out the White House\'s displeasure over being caught blindsided by some of the ethical problems raised, according to two other officials.Those officials said the praise referred to Pruitt\'s work in loosening environmental regulations and his success at getting under the skin of environmental groups. But they added that the tone of Trump\'s call was not entirely positive.All of the officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss private conversations publicly.Trump has repeatedly praised endangered members of his administration while privately plotting their ouster and interviewing replacements. That tendency, and Trump\'s tepid words Tuesday, suggested that Pruitt\'s future at EPA is not assured despite the president\'s apparently high regard for him over the past year.Meanwhile, two Republicans representing left-leaning South Florida districts, Reps. Carlos Curbelo and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, joined Democrats and environmental groups on Tuesday in calling on Pruitt to resign or be fired.In a tweet, Curbelo said Pruitt\'s "corruption scandals are an embarrassment to the Administration, and his conduct is grossly disrespectful to American taxpayers."The White House has grown weary in recent weeks of the scrutiny of administration staffing after a wave of departures  some voluntary and others forced  weakened morale.Pruitt was one of several Cabinet officials summoned a month ago to meet with White House lawyers and Cabinet affairs staff over ethical questions, and they were warned that further negative headlines could imperil their jobs.Pruitt has come under intense scrutiny for his use of a Capitol Hill condominium owned by the wife of prominent Washington lobbyist Steven Hart, whose firm represents fossil fuel companies. An agency ethics official at the EPA has insisted that Pruitt\'s lease didn\'t violate federal ethics rules.A memo signed by Kevin Minoli contends that Pruitt\'s $50-a-night rental payments constitute a fair market rate. Pruitt\'s lease, however, required him to pay just for nights he occupied in the unit. Pruitt actually paid a total of $6,100 over the six-month period he leased the condo, an average of about $1,000 a month.But current rental listings for two-bedroom apartments in the neighborhood show they typically go for far more than what Pruitt paid. A two-bedroom townhome on the same block as the one leased by Pruitt was advertised for rent on Monday at $3,750 a month. Under the lease, Pruitt technically rented only one of the condo\'s two bedrooms, but his daughter stayed in the second room from May to August.Records show that while Pruitt was living in the condo, he met in his EPA office with a lobbyist from Hart\'s firm and two executives from an energy company seeking to scuttle tighter pollution standards for coal-fired power plants. EPA also granted a favorable ruling to a pipeline company also represented by Hart\'s firm.Walter Shaub, who ran the U.S. Office of Government Ethics until resigning last year, tweeted that EPA\'s legal justification of Pruitt\'s living arrangements was "Total Baloney."Democrats from both the House and Senate issued letters Tuesday urging the EPA\'s inspector general to investigate Pruitt\'s living arrangements. Spokeswoman Jennifer Kaplan said the watchdog office is evaluating the requests. It is already probing Pruitt\'s outsized 2017 travel spending, which included extensive use of bodyguards and frequent use of first-class airline tickets. Though federal regulations typically require federal officials to fly in coach, the EPA chief has said he needed to sit in premium seats because of security concerns.A Republican who previously served as the state attorney general of Oklahoma, Pruitt has long been a champion of the oil and gas industry. In the year he has served as the Trump administration\'s top environmental official, Pruitt has moved to scrap, gut or replace numerous environmental regulations opposed by the industry while boosting the continued burning of fossil fuels, which is the primary cause of climate change.On Tuesday, The Atlantic reported that Pruitt had also bypassed the White House to give big raises to two young aides he had brought with him to EPA from Oklahoma. After failing to win approval from the West Wing, Pruitt used a little-known legal maneuver to push the pay increases through. A 30-year-old lawyer serving as Pruitt\'s senior legal counsel got a 53 percent raise, boosting her salary to more than $164,000. Pruitt\'s 26-year-old scheduling director got a 33 percent raise, increasing her salary to nearly $115,000.Trump is said to be fond of Pruitt and has cheered his moves to roll back regulations and fight environmental groups.The president\'s call to Pruitt came just days after another Cabinet official, Veterans Affairs head David Shulkin, was dismissed after stirring ethics concerns. An inspector general\'s report concluded that Shulkin had inappropriately accepted Wimbledon tickets and his staff had doctored an email to improperly justify free travel for his wife. Shulkin denied any wrongdoing.Other Trump Cabinet members, including Housing Secretary Ben Carson and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, have also faced questions about their expenditures. Last year, Trump\'s first Health and Human Services secretary, Tom Price, was forced to resign over concerns about private air travel on the government\'s dime.___Associated Press writers Catherine Lucey and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.
FRANKFURT  Stocks in the United States were up slightly Tuesday morning after a tough day on Wall Street had sent the Standard & Poors 500-stock index down more than 10 percent from its recent peak.Major global indexes followed Wall Streets cue, trading mostly down on Tuesday, though they were largely spared Mondays pain. European stocks were down less than 1 percent in midafternoon trading, and stocks in Asia finished the day mixed.Investors around the world have recently been reacting to the same set of uncertainties, including growing concern over the prospect of a full-blown trade war between the United States and China.The recent downswing came on the heels of an extended period of calm in the markets. They have risen over the past couple of years as the economies of the United States, Europe and China appeared to be humming along together at a healthy clip for the first time in years.And the markets are still up more than 20 percent since November 2016, when Donald J. Trump won the presidency  a roller-coaster ride driven in part by expectations about what his administration could bring to Washington.But after such a long run-up, many investors have naturally begun to wonder how much longer the good times will last.We think the time has come to reassess the one-way bet on a continued and strengthening global economic expansion, Carl B. Weinberg, chief international economist at High Frequency Economics in White Plains, N.Y., said in a note to clients on Tuesday.Mondays slump in the United States, however, had another driver that world markets did not: big-name technology companies.Amazon, Facebook, Intel, Microsoft and Tesla were among the major contributors to Mondays stock slump on Wall Street. Amazon faces pressure from President Trump, while Facebook continues to grapple with privacy concerns and Tesla has been hit by a succession of negative headlines.Tech shares were among the worst performers in other markets too, like China, Hong Kong and Japan, though the worlds biggest technology companies primarily trade in the United States  in part to reach global investors.. Shares of Alibaba, a Chinese online retailer, joined the American tech rout on Monday, falling more than 3 percent, while shares of the Chinese search company Baidu fell more than 1 percent.The woes of tech companies may even be positive for some European companies. Teslas battery powered cars and self-driving technology were a threat to European luxury carmakers like BMW, Daimler and Volkswagens Audi unit, which remain heavily invested in internal combustion engines.But Tesla has had trouble ramping up production fast enough to meet demand, and its vehicles have suffered quality problems. On Tuesday, the company reported a significant increase in the production of its Model 3 sedans in the first quarter of 2018 compared with the previous quarter, though it failed to meet previously announced production targets. The companys difficulties have added credence to the argument that German carmakers have made all along: Mass producing cars is hard, and it will not be easy for new challengers to match the expertise of traditional carmakers.Still, shares of German carmakers were mixed in European trading on Tuesday, as the likes of BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen depend heavily on sales in Asia and would suffer from any economic turmoil there.
NEW YORK   The three major U.S. stock indexes ended higher after a choppy session on Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season while the S&P 500 pushed above a key support level and Amazon.com shares jumped on bets that criticism from President Donald Trump would not translate to policy changes.After a volatile session Amazon ended up being the biggest boost for Nasdaq. The White House said it wasn\'t taking action even as Trump continued his attacks on the online retailer, according to a Bloomberg report.Traders said they were heavily focused on technical levels after investors fled on Monday when the S&P 500 breached its 200-day moving average. The benchmark index pushed above that support level just ahead of the last hour of trading on Tuesday and stayed higher for the rest of the session."There was opportunity for sellers to break through the 200-day but that didn\'t happen. Fundamentals are holding the stock market up. We\'re on the verge of the earnings reporting season. That\'s going to be a blockbuster," said Bucky Hellwig, senior vice president at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama.Wall Street analysts expect S&P 500 earnings to increase 18.4 percent for the first quarter, according to Thomson Reuters data.The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 389.17 points, or 1.65 percent, to 24,033.36, the S&P 500 gained 32.57 points, or 1.26 percent, to 2,614.45 and the Nasdaq Composite added 71.16 points, or 1.04 percent, to 6,941.28.But some traders said technical sellers could still put pressure on stocks on Wednesday as the S&P\'s closing level was still too close for comfort to 2590.76 - the 200-day moving average - and 2532.69 - its Feb. 9 low."I don\'t think we\'re in the clear," said Dennis Dick, head of markets structure, proprietary trader at Bright Trading LLC in Las Vegas. "Tomorrow morning will tell us. Every time we get a good rally the sellers come in. What we need is a two-day rally with a sustained buying pressure."After spending the day swinging between positive and negative territory the S&P 500\'s technology sector, the biggest driver in the current bull market, ended up 1 percent.Tesla Inc shares gained 6 percent after the electric automaker said it need not raise more capital this year and announced robust production numbers for its cheaper Model 3 sedans.Amazon.com Inc shares ended up 1.5 percent at $1,392.05 though it was still well below its March 13 record of $1,617.54.In its high-profile market debut, digital music provider Spotify Technology SA closed at $149.01, 12.9 percent higher than the $132 reference price set by the NYSE late on Monday, though well below its intraday high of $169 and its opening price of $165.90.Viacom Inc fell 3.7 percent after Reuters reported that CBS Corp planned to make an all-stock offer that valued the media company below its current market valuation. CBS shares rose 4.2 percent. CNBC reported late Tuesday that CBS had submitted a bid for Viacom well below its market value.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 2.98-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.86-to-1 ratio favored advancers.The S&P 500 posted no new 52-week highs and 14 new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 36 new highs and 111 new lows.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.14 billion shares, compared to the 7.31 billion average for the last 20 trading days.(Additional reporting by Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and James Dalgleish)
SAN DIEGO   The Trump administration has introduced production quotas for immigration judges in an effort to reduce enormous court backlogs, raising concern among judges and attorneys that decisions may be unfairly rushed.The Justice Department\'s Executive Office for Immigration Review said judges must complete 700 cases a year to earn a satisfactory grade. The standards, which take effect Oct. 1, include six other measures indicating how much time judges should spend on different types of cases and court motions.The move, while significant, didn\'t come as a surprise. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who oversees immigration courts, has sought major changes to the long-clogged courts as a sharp increase in deportation arrests under President Donald Trump has pushed the backlog above 650,000 cases. In December, Sessions wrote judges that performance measures would aid in "the efficient and timely completion of cases and motions" while maintaining fairness.James McHenry, director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, used similar language in an email Friday that details the new measures for the department\'s approximately 350 immigration judges."Using metrics to evaluate performance is neither novel nor unique to (the Executive Office for Immigration Review)," McHenry wrote. "The purpose of implementing these metrics is to encourage efficient and effective case management while preserving immigration judge discretion and due process."The Associated Press obtained a copy of McHenry\'s memo and performance plan, whose contents were first reported by The Wall Street Journal.The measures are highly specific. A judge who completes more than 560 cases a year but fewer than 700 "needs improvement." Deciding fewer than 560 cases a year is deemed unsatisfactory.The Justice Department said Monday that judges complete an average of 678 cases a year.Under one benchmark, judges must rule the same day on every plea by asylum seekers to pass an initial threshold of establishing "credible" or "reasonable" fear to earn a satisfactory mark, unless the Homeland Security Department is responsible for them failing to show. Anything less than 80 percent is considered unsatisfactory.The National Immigration Judges Association, whose recent collective bargaining agreement allows for performance metrics, strongly opposes the numerical targets and will explore options under federal labor law, said Dana Leigh Marks, a union spokeswoman."We believe the imposition of numerical performance metrics is completely, utterly contrary to judicial independence," said Marks, who is also an immigration judge in San Francisco. "We believe assessing quality is fine, not quantity."Judges can argue that the nature of their cases justifies a lower completion rate, but Marks said keeping logs will add to their work burden and potentially create more backlog. She also said people may be more inclined to appeal decisions by arguing that the quotas denied them a fair hearing.Laura Lynch, senior policy counsel for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said immigration attorneys were deeply concerned that cases will be "rushed through.""Subjecting judges to numerical goals undermines one of the core principles of our judicial system, which is really a fair day in court," she said.
SYDNEY   Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.Safe-haven bonds, gold and the yen had run into selling as Wall Street benefited from bets that President Donald Trump\'s Twitter attacks on Amazon would not translate to actual policy.Yet trade worries weren\'t far away. Late on Tuesday, the Trump administration announced 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion of annual imports from China, covering around 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products.China\'s commerce ministry immediately warned it was preparing countermeasures of equal intensity."The largest concern remains whether this trade tension could further escalate, but history suggests negotiation is likely to follow," said Tai Hui, chief market strategist for Asia Pacific at J.P. Morgan Asset Management."That would provide some much needed short term relief to investors and allow them to focus back on economic and corporate fundamentals, which are still in decent shape."For now, caution was the watchword and MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was wavering either side of flat.Japan\'s Nikkei added 0.1 percent in thin volumes, while South Korea eased 0.2 percent. EMini futures for the S&P 500 <ESc1> also dipped 0.2 percent.Wall Street had rallied on Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season and the S&P 500 pushed above a key support level. The Dow ended up 1.65 percent, while the S&P 500 gained 1.26 percent and the Nasdaq 1.04 percent.Amazon.com shares bounced 1.5 percent on reports the White House would not take action even as Trump continued his attacks on the online retailer.FACTORIES FADE A LITTLEThe swing in risk sentiment sucked some strength out of bonds, with yields on U.S. 10-year Treasury debt <US10YT=RR> up five basis points overnight to 2.78 percent.The Japanese yen also edged back, with the dollar rising to 106.50 <JPY=> from a low of 105.70 on Tuesday. The euro hovered at $1.2275 <EUR=>, after easing from a top of $1.2335 overnight, while the dollar index was a fraction lower at 90.109.The Canadian dollar <CAD=> held firm after hitting a nearly five-week high as investors grew more optimistic about the prospect of a NAFTA trade deal.Investors also seemed to be keeping their nerve on the global economic outlook after a host of manufacturing surveys (PMIs) showed some slowing, but from lofty levels in many regions."If global PMIs slow and avoid overheating concerns, that is good for risk appetite. If they slow for "the wrong reasons" like trade protectionism, that is much more worrying," said Deutsche Bank global strategist Alan Ruskin."The March data is at the most a very early warning shot for policymakers not to get too complacent on global growth resilience," he added.Trade wars were a particular concern for developing Asia where South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, China, Indonesia, and India reported a slowing in factory activity.In commodity markets, gold had steadied around $1,332.90 an ounce <XAU=>, having lost 0.6 percent overnight.Oil prices slipped with Brent crude futures <LCOc1> off 13 cents to $67.99 a barrel, while U.S. crude <CLc1> fell 11 cents to $63.40 a barrel.(Editing by Jacqueline Wong and Sam Holmes)
BEIJING   China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in a deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute.China could target a broad range of U.S. businesses from agriculture to aircraft, autos, semiconductors and even services if the trade conflict escalates, the official China Daily newspaper said in an editorial on Thursday.President Donald Trump\'s move last week to slap up to $60 billion in tariffs on some Chinese imports has since provoked a warning from Beijing that it could retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports.China\'s biggest U.S. imports are aircraft and related equipment, soybeans and autos, with the total bill about $40 billion last year."The malicious practices of the United States are like opening Pandora\'s Box, and there is a danger of triggering a chain reaction that will spread the virus of trade protectionism across the globe," a commerce ministry spokesman said.The official line from China continues to be stern even as Beijing says it is all for dialogue and negotiations. The feedback from U.S. and Chinese officials on the nature and extent of trade talks remains mixed, media reports show.The Financial Times reported only on Monday that China had offered to buy more U.S. micro-chips and move more quickly to finalize rules allowing foreign firms to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, citing people briefed on the negotiations.Chinese customs data shows the U.S. accounted for just $11 billion, or about 4 percent, of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, with suppliers in South Korea, Taiwan and Japan commanding a bigger share. Semiconductors comprise chips, diodes and transistors.But a source in the U.S. semiconductor industry said U.S. companies have slightly more than 50 percent of China\'s market for chips, though export data does not reflect that because much of the product is sent offshore for low value added processing.The source said the U.S. semiconductor industry had not asked the Trump administration to urge China to buy more U.S. chips and had been told by senior U.S. officials that the U.S. government had not made such a request to Beijing."We don\'t need China to buy more chips," the source said, adding that U.S. industry was concerned about being targeted by Chinese non-tariff barriers."It\'s more about (Chinese) subsidies, IP protection, and cyber rules," the source said, referring to concerns over Chinese retaliation.China has long said it would like to import more U.S. high-tech goods, including high-end chips, but has been stymied by U.S. export controls set on national security grounds.The Trump administration is accusing Chinese firms of stealing intellectual property and forcing U.S. firms to share commercial secrets - allegations that China denies.On Thursday, China\'s State Council, or cabinet, said  transfers of Chinese intellectual property rights to foreign investors will be reviewed if national security is determined to be at stake, or if core technological innovations are involved.Government approval will also be needed for intellectual property transfers involving semiconductors, software and agriculture.SERVICES MAY BE TARGETEDChina\'s commerce ministry said on Thursday the U.S. approach to trade could trigger a domino effect and U.S. trade protectionism will only hurt U.S. consumers.While China hopes the U.S. will resolve trade conflicts with China through dialogue, it will take all possible steps to protect its interests, ministry spokesman Gao Feng told a regular briefing in Beijing."Negotiations must be equal, and China will not accept any consultation under unilateral coercion," Gao said.On Wednesday, Trump\'s top trade envoy said he would give China a 60-day window before tariffs on Chinese goods take effect, but added that it would take years to bring the two countries\' trading relationship "to a good place."The tariff list is expected in the next several days.The China Daily on Thursday quoted Premier Li Keqiang as telling a U.S. Congressional delegation this week that China was open to dialogue but "fully prepared with countermeasures".It warned that if the conflict continued to escalate "China could consider taking reciprocal measures against U.S. imports of agricultural products besides soybeans, as well as aircraft, automobiles and semiconductors.""And should the Trump administration further obstruct Chinese investments in the U.S., even tougher measures such as restrictions on imports of U.S. services and similar investment reviews would likely be on the table," it said.Separately, Hong Kong\'s South China Morning Post reported on Thursday that U.S. and Chinese officials had been holding talks to shield American soybeans and other agricultural products from trade sanctions.China is still considering import curbs on U.S. soybeans, U.S. Soybean Export Council Asia director Paul Burke said on Thursday, following a meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture.(Reporting by Se Young Lee and Yawen Chen in BEIJING; Additional reporting by Michael Martina, John Ruwitch, Dominique Patton and Stella Qiu; Additional writing by Ryan Woo; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Kim Coghill)
RIYADH   King Salman reiterated Saudi Arabia\'s support for a Palestinian state after his son and heir apparent said Israelis were entitled to live peacefully on their own land - a rare statement by an Arab leader.The king also emphasized the need to advance the peace process in a phone call with U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday night, made after Israeli security forces killed 16 Palestinians last week during a demonstration along the Israel-Gaza border. The number rose to 17 on Tuesday.King Salman reaffirmed "the kingdom\'s steadfast position toward the Palestinian issue and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people to an independent state with Jerusalem as its capital", state news agency SPA said on Tuesday.Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas praised King Salman, thanking him for his support."President Abbas expressed his gratitude and appreciation ... for his supportive positions of the Palestinian people, the Palestinian cause and the cause of Jerusalem and its sacred sites," said a statement published by the official Palestinian WAFA news agency.Abbas also praised Saudi Arabia for continuing to support the right of the Palestinian people to establish their independent state with East Jerusalem as its capital, the statement said.The report did not refer to the comments by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in an interview published on Monday by U.S. magazine The Atlantic, which are the latest public sign that ties between Saudi Arabia and Israel may be growing closer.Asked if he believes the Jewish people have a right to a nation-state in at least part of their ancestral homeland, Prince Mohammed was quoted as saying:"I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."Saudi Arabia, birthplace of Islam and home to its holiest shrines, does not recognize Israel. It has maintained for years that normalizing relations hinges on Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war, territory Palestinians seek for a future state.Increased tension between Riyadh and Tehran has fueled speculation that shared interests may push Saudi Arabia and Israel to work together against what they see as a common Iranian threat.(Reporting By Stephen Kalin; editing by David Stamp and Diane Craft)
MEXICO CITY   The United States, Mexico and Canada have made significant advances on reworking the NAFTA trade deal and ministers will meet in the coming days to determine the scope to agree on the basics of a deal, Mexico\'s economy minister said on Monday.Ildefonso Guajardo told Mexican radio he would travel to Washington on Wednesday for ministerial talks, adding that the United States was looking for a "quick solution."He added, "We\'ve made a lot of progress, but on the complex issues, well, it looks like there\'s a willingness to be flexible."Ministers and negotiating teams have been meeting for weeks to try to narrow their differences, and Guajardo also held out hope for progress on NAFTA at a summit in Peru that begins on April 13."There will be an opportunity at the Summit of the Americas for the three North American leaders to greet one another, and undoubtedly there could be an opportunity to send proactive messages and instructions at presidential level, irrespective of the fact that there is still technical work to do," he added.U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to dump NAFTA if it cannot be reworked to his satisfaction.In the next 12 days, there could be "the principal lines of understanding for solving complex issues" though the three sides were "not there yet," Guajardo said. A longer period would be required to hammer out technical details, he added."The ministers need to get working together to get things settled," said Guajardo, who has held meetings with his NAFTA counterparts, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer since a last formal round of negotiations ended in Mexico in early March.Guajardo said there was still no date set for another formal round of talks, adding, "It\'s clear that, given Washington\'s interest in advancing this process, they didn\'t want an eighth round."Instead, a ministerial meeting in "around two weeks" would decide what form another round could take, he said.Guajardo said the three were discussing a U.S. idea to have a certain amount of auto production in high-salary areas.Details of the plan began emerging after industry sources said U.S. officials had dropped a demand for at least 50 percent of automotive content to be from the United States, a highly contentious sticking point at the NAFTA negotiations.Such a modification could put Mexico at a disadvantage because of its lower salaries, and Guajardo said its potential impact would need to be evaluated.Besides autos, Mexico\'s negotiators aim for steps to improve conditions for its agriculture, textile, aerospace and medical device sectors, Guajardo said.(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz and Dave Graham; Writing by Julia Love; Editing by Sandra Maler and Clarence Fernandez)
(Reuters) - India on Tuesday withdrew rules to control "fake news" less than 24 hours after announcing them, following an outcry that the regulations could be used by the government to curb press freedom.Some other governments in Asia, however, have introduced laws to crack down on fake news or are in the process of setting them up.Co-opted by U.S. President Donald Trump, the term "fake news" has quickly become part of the standard repertoire of leaders in several countries to describe media reports and organisations critical of them.Following is a list of action against fake news taken by governments in the region:- Malaysia has passed a law which sets out fines of up to 500,000 ringgit ($123,000) and a maximum six years in jail for offenders who spread fake news inside and outside Malaysia, including foreigners, if Malaysia or a Malaysian citizen are affected. The law, which comes ahead of a general election, covers news outlets, digital publications and social media.- India withdrew plans to temporarily or permanently cancel government accreditation of journalists found to be spreading fake news, with Prime Minister Narasimha over-ruling the initial announcement by the information and broadcasting ministry. The accreditation is required to access government offices, news conferences and seminars and serves as security clearance at many other events.- In Singapore, a parliamentary committee has been reviewing possible measures to prevent "deliberate online falsehoods". An eight-day hearing - the longest in Singapore\'s history - drew to a close on March 29. The committee will prepare a report on possible new legislation in May, after parliament\'s mid-term break, its chairman, Charles Chong, told the final session.- Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has "lost trust" in news site Rappler and barred it from covering his official events, his spokesman said in February. Duterte has called Rappler a fake news outlet, making no secret of his annoyance at its reporting, which has heavily scrutinised his polices and the accuracy of his statements. Additionally, anti-fake news legislation, which would impose fines and prison terms of up to 20 years for spreading false information, is under consideration in the Philippines.- Thailand already has a cyber-security law under which the spread of false information carries a jail sentence of up to seven years, and the military government strictly enforces lese majeste laws that shield the royal family from insult.(This version of the story corrects name in paragraph six)(Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan, Robert Birsel)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. At least four people were wounded, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTubes headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., above. The shooter, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound.One employee tweeted that he had heard shots and saw people running while at my desk. He said that he was barricaded inside a room with co-workers, but moments later tweeted that he had been safely evacuated. Footage from the scene showed people being led away from the building with their hands in the air in a single-file line.Check back for updates on this developing story.____2. Were going to be guarding our border with the military.President Trump said hed order troops to guard the southern border until he can build a wall and tighten immigration restrictions. He made the announcement alongside Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, at a meeting with visiting leaders of Baltic nations, above.It wasnt immediately clear how hed carry that out, though. The active-duty military is generally barred by law from domestic law enforcement duties, though previous administrations have deployed the National Guard in support roles on the border.We fact-checked the presidents recent claims about immigration, and our reporter in Mexico City has more on the immigrant caravans making headlines this week.____3. Alex van der Zwaan, above, became the first person sentenced in the investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 election.The 33-year-old Dutch citizen used to be a lawyer for the powerful firm Skadden Arps. (Hes also the son-in-law of a Russian billionaire.)He had faced up to five years in prison for deceiving investigators who were examining links between key figures in the Trump campaign and a Ukrainian businessman. He was sentenced to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000.____4. It was Spotify day: The company that disrupted the music business made its highly anticipated debut on the New York Stock Exchange. The share price closed at $149.01, giving Spotify a market value similar to that of companies like M&T Bank and General Mills.There was one snafu, though: The exchange flew a Swiss flag in honor of the deal. Spotifys headquarters are in Sweden.____5. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated 50 years ago Wednesday.We remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.The Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African-Americans. He was their voice of anguish, it reads, their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity.____6. Alarming evidence and testimony at a federal civil rights trial in Mississippi is allowing a rare glimpse into the world of private prisons.The case was filed after years of complaints from inmates over dangerous conditions and extraordinary violence and neglect. We obtained surveillance footage, above, showing inmates beating a fellow inmate, with no response from guards for half an hour.The number of inmates in private facilities is increasing around the country, and the Trump administration has indicated that it will expand their use.____7. Hillary Clintons loss in the 2016 presidential election prompted a surge of Democratic women not only to run for office, but also to manage campaigns.With a seat at the head of the table, staff members like Emma Brown, above, are responsible for strategy, message, staff and creating networks for future campaigns.They have the potential to reshape a profession long dominated by men. This year, 40 percent of the campaign managers for Democratic congressional candidates are women, and the numbers are up for Republican candidates too.____8. Just one day after he announced it on live TV, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel reneged on a deal with the U.N. to resettle African asylum seekers in Western countries. Above, a protest outside of Mr. Netanyahus office in Jerusalem.The deal would have allowed thousands of recent migrants from Eritrea and Sudan, who cannot be returned to their own countries under international law, to remain in Israel. An equal number were to be resettled in Western countries.Mr. Netanyahus about-face came after an outcry from anti-immigration hard-liners, and it dented his image as a master political player.____9. Indias jeweler to the stars is on the run.Nirav Modi, seen above last year, had attained wealth and fame in a few short years. Kate Winslet, Taraji P. Henson and other celebrities wore his designs, and he rubbed elbows with British royalty and Donald Trump Jr. He disappeared after being accused of building his global empire through fraudulent bank transactions.The case has captivated and enraged India, reinforcing the notion that taxpayer-owned banks are footing the bill for the lavish lifestyles of a rising elite.Separately, less than a day after announcing penalties for journalists who write or broadcast fake news, the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi (no relation) withdrew them.____10. Finally, our food writer says cooking the perfect beef stew is a lifelong goal.It takes even longer after you realize that there isnt one perfect beef stew, but constellations of them, she adds. Her trick? Cook it low and slow, preferably in an oven. (Feel free to go straight to the recipe.)The late-night hosts caught wind of one Obama-era measure that President Trump has not repealed: declaring April National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month.At this point, hes just messing with us, Jimmy Kimmel joked. I mean, he might as well declare it National Bankrupt Casino Awareness Month.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
HOUSTON  Senator Ted Cruz of Texas kicked off his re-election campaign this week with a new Texas-themed slogan and a new video, but something else that was entirely new went largely unspoken  a formidable and well-funded Democratic opponent.For the first time in Mr. Cruzs rise to political prominence in Texas, he is facing a serious Democratic challenger, Representative Beto ORourke from El Paso, who has stunned political observers by raising more money than any Democrat who has ever run for a Senate seat in Texas.Mr. ORourke, a former punk-rock bassist and El Paso city councilman, has raised $13.2 million in the race so far, and outraised Mr. Cruz in three of four Federal Election Commission reporting periods. (Mr. Cruz has not yet reported his latest fund-raising.) In the first three months of 2018, Mr. ORourke raised $6.7 million, more than any other Democratic Senate candidate in the country in that period.Mr. ORourkes campaign has given Texas Democrats a burst of hope. They view Mr. Cruz as politically vulnerable and disconnected in Texas after his failed run for president, especially as anger against President Trump rises even in red states such as Texas. And they see in Mr. ORourke  an Irish-American congressman who is fluent in Spanish and has gone by Beto, a Spanish nickname of Roberto, since childhood  a model of the future of the Texas Democratic Party.Its kind of Ann Richards-level enthusiasm, in the crowds he gathers, said Harold Cook, a Democratic strategist in Austin and former executive director of the Texas Democratic Party, referring to the outspoken Democrat who served as Texas governor from 1991 to 1995 before losing to George W. Bush. I havent seen a response like Beto ORourke is getting in a very long time. Beto has got that thing, that star-power deal that you cant predict in advance.But political analysts say Mr. ORourkes chances are a long-shot at best, despite his fund-raising skills. He remains unknown to many voters, even as he has kept up a hectic travel schedule and visited 228 of the states 254 counties. In the Democratic primary last month, Mr. ORourke lost a number of counties to two lesser-known Democratic rivals, including the Hispanic-dominated border area of the Rio Grande Valley, parts of East Texas and the northern Panhandle region.On Monday, Mr. Cruz formally began his re-election campaign at a venue that has become one of his favorite political backdrops  the Redneck Country Club in Stafford, 17 miles southwest of downtown Houston. His speech and his surroundings were plastered with references to his new campaign slogan: Tough as Texas. It is meant to evoke the resilience of the state as it reeled from and united in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey.At a campaign event on Tuesday night in San Antonio, Mr. Cruz acknowledged Mr. ORourkes success in fund-raising and the challenge for Republicans this November.Thats a whole lotta money  theres no doubt about that  and it has been clear for some time that the hard left is energized and theyre mobilized and theyre angry at the president, Mr. Cruz said, according to The Texas Tribune. And we are seeing all across the country, the far left giving millions of dollars to liberal Democrats running for office, and it underscores that Republicans cannot take November for granted.Mr. Cruz remains popular with Texas conservatives, particularly the Tea Party activists who helped him, back in 2012, clinch the Senate seat by defeating one of the most powerful Republicans in Texas, David Dewhurst, then the lieutenant governor. And Republicans continue to dominate Texas, culturally and politically, controlling both chambers of the Texas Legislature, the governors mansion and all of the more than two dozen statewide-elected offices. Democrats have not won any statewide offices since 1994.Cruz has built-in name identification, conservative credentials and an R behind his name, so his candidacy was effectively born on third base, said Brandon Rottinghaus, a professor of political science at the University of Houston. These advantages give him a serious head start, but he doesnt want to be the hare who naps while the tortoise passes him by. ORourkes fund-raising should be an eye opener for Senator Cruz.Texas Democrats have been in this position before. In 2014, Democrats had believed that Wendy Davis would become the first Democratic governor in decades, but Ms. Davis lost and Greg Abbott won. In 2016, Democrats had believed that Hillary Clinton could win Texas in the presidential race, but she lost and Donald Trump won the state.The issue often comes down to voter turnout. In last months primary elections, Democrats surged to the polls in record-breaking numbers. More Democrats voted early this year than voted early in the presidential election year of 2016. In the end, though, they were still outvoted: A total of 1.5 million votes were cast by Texas Republicans in the primary, compared to 1 million by Democrats.Right now, history and recent elections are still on Ted Cruzs side, and the dynamics of this state are still on Ted Cruzs side, for Republicans to win at a statewide election from the governors office to senator and on down, said Ted Delisi, a Republican strategist in Austin who was the national field director for former Gov. Rick Perrys 2012 presidential campaign.At an event in Waco on Tuesday, Mr. ORourke suggested to The Texas Tribune that one of the differences between his race and Ms. Daviss failed bid for governor in 2014 was the backlash against the Trump White House. She did not have the benefit of this year, where, I hope youll agree, weve never seen this level of urgency, this level of motivation, Mr. ORourke said.Asked if he was running against Mr. Cruz or Mr. Trump, Mr. ORourke replied, Neither. He added: Im not running against anybody. That just doesnt get me going. It doesnt energize me.Mr. ORourkes fund-raising success is an outgrowth of a campaign driven by social media, which has refused to accept money from political action committees.Republicans say they are not worried about an upset but are certainly paying attention. They point to the 2002 race for governor, when the Democrat, Tony Sanchez, a Laredo oil executive, spent $67 million and lost to Mr. Perry. They said that Mr. Cruzs reputation among Texas conservatives took a knock in 2016 after he refused to endorse Mr. Trump at the Republican National Convention, but that Mr. Cruz had largely repaired the damage.I think hes recovered from that, said State Senator Paul Bettencourt, a Houston Republican who is a former treasurer of the Republican Party of Texas and who is supporting Mr. Cruz. This is an unusual year. The electorate is roiled. Statewide, Republicans are going to have to take these races seriously and campaign accordingly.On Monday, Mr. Cruz and Mr. ORourke jabbed at each other on social media. Mr. ORourkes campaign posted a Snapchat filter of a Cruz event in Beaumont and took a swipe at Mr. Cruzs failed presidential run. Ted Cruz visited 99 of Iowas 99 counties, read the filter, which included an image of a frowning Mr. Cruz. Whens the last time he listened to Texans in Beaumont?But Mr. Cruz wasnt taking the bait. He responded on Twitter, saying he had been to the city four times in the past year while pointing out Mr. ORourkes failure to win Jefferson County, which includes Beaumont, in the Democratic primary. As best I can tell, youve been there once for a drive-by campaign event on Feb 9, Mr. Cruz wrote on Twitter of Mr. ORourke. Maybe thats why you lost Jefferson County in the Dem primary.
PHILADELPHIA   Villanova players flash their fingers in a "V\'\' symbol to celebrate big wins.For coach Jay Wright, that\'s a finger for every national championship ring.Already cemented as a dominant program in college basketball, the Wildcats are flirting with putting their names on a more opulent D-list: dynasty.The Wildcats\' romp through the NCAA Tournament that ended Monday with a second national title in three seasons has them up for debate as one of the top programs since the tourney field was expanded to 64 teams in 1985.You know, the year the Wildcats won their first national title.There\'s plenty of time to talk about Villanova\'s place in history after the partying is done this week. The Wildcats were to return home to a raucous celebration at their suburban campus on Tuesday and a parade was planned for Thursday in downtown Philadelphia just hours before the Phillies\' home opener.Parades have suddenly become a thing in Philly.See: the Eagles.Jalen Brunson, Mikal Bridges and breakout star Donte DiVincenzo helped the Wildcats win all six tournament games by double digits, joining Michigan State in 2000, Duke in 2001 and North Carolina in 2009. Villanova also joined the 1968 UCLA team as the only ones to win both their Final Four games by 16 or more points."I knew we were good, but you don\'t think we can win this," Wright said.He should know they can: The Wildcats set a program best in wins (36-4) and won an NCAA-record 136 games over a four-year span.And if anyone is still stumped about how Villanova could be considered on the short list of college basketball\'s blue bloods following a decade of dominance, consider: In the post-John Wooden/UCLA era, only three other teams have won two titles in three seasons: Duke in 1991 and 1992, Florida in 2006 and 2007 and Kentucky in 1996 and 1998. Villanova became just the ninth program to win three championships (1985 and \'16) and has made three Final Fours since 2009. In the last five seasons, the Wildcats have four regular-season Big East titles, three Big East tournament titles and two national championships. The list of accolades under Wright stretches longer than the combined distance of the Final Four-record 18 3-pointers hit against Kansas in Saturday\'s national semifinals.Wright leads a loaded roster fully positioned to go back-to-back and show college basketball that Duke and Kentucky and Kansas and North Carolina can all be rolled into one program nestled in the Philadelphia suburbs.Here\'s what\'s ahead for the Wildcats:WHO\'S GOINGThe Wildcats had no seniors in their rotation and should return a nice chunk of their roster. But Brunson, the AP player of the year , and Bridges are both likely to declare for the NBA draft.Brunson already has two championship rings and more hardware from his various player-of-the-year awards than he can carry, and he is set to follow his dad, Rick Brunson, into the NBA.Bridges has played his way into becoming a likely NBA draft lottery pick and should make a serviceable pro. Brunson and Bridges would leave a considerable void in the lineup and be on the small list of \'Nova players under Wright who left early for the NBA.Hey, it worked out fine for Kyle Lowry.WHO\'S COMINGDiVincenzo, Eric Paschall, Omari Spellman and Phil Booth are all expected to be in the starting lineup and joined by five-star point guard Jahvon Quinerly. Quinerly is one of Wright\'s more anticipated and prized recruits in his 17 years at Villanova. Quinerly was set to attend Arizona until he reopened his recruitment in the wake of a federal probe.Cole Swider and Brandon Slater are also prized incoming freshmen expected to help.Throw in Collin Gillespie, Dhamir Cosby-Roundtree and Jermaine Samuels, and the Wildcats should keep rolling as national championship favorites.WRIGHT STUFFWright\'s success has again made his future a hot topic at Villanova. He\'s said many times he wouldn\'t leave \'Nova for another college job, and with good reason. He\'s turned the Wildcats into a dynasty even Blake Carrington would envy, and the program is set to move into its $60 million state-of-the-art renovated on-campus arena next season following a year of playing at the Wells Fargo Center, home of the Philadelphia 76ers. Wright, who made $2.6 million this season, is King of the Cats and he\'s pretty much guaranteed a job for life at Villanova.But the NBA is a different story.He\'s resisted overtures from NBA teams in the past but if the situation  and the cash  was right, the coach dubbed "GQ Jay" could be swayed to leave his cushy gig in the tony Philly \'burbs.The magic eight ball says he\'ll stay  but what\'s left to accomplish?RSVPThe Wildcats will have to decide if they\'ll visit the White House for a championship celebration should they be extended an invitation from President Donald Trump.Wright once worked in the marketing department for the Philadelphia Stars of the United States Football League and Trump owned the New Jersey Generals in the ill-fated league."When they signed Herschel Walker, they had a press conference and the Stars sent me up to represent them," Wright said. "I met Trump there. In the USFL championship game, the Stars owner asked me to work and be a runner for Trump in his box. He was very cool, very nice guy. He was relaxed. But when they signed Herschel Walker, he was very businesslike, very professional. That was a big day for him and the league."FAMILIAR FOEThe Wildcats thumped Kansas in the Final Four and the two powerhouse programs will get an immediate rematch in 2018. Villanova will play Dec. 15 at Kansas.___More AP college basketball: https://collegebasketball.ap.org ; https://twitter.com/AP_Top25 and https://www.podcastone.com/ap-sports-special-events
BEIJING   China appreciates North Korea\'s "important efforts" to ease tension on the Korean peninsula, senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told the North\'s foreign minister on Tuesday, hours after he called on all sides to stay focussed on talks.China has traditionally been secretive North Korea\'s closest ally, though ties had been frayed by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s pursuit of nuclear weapons and missiles and Beijing\'s backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.But in late March Beijing vowed to uphold its friendship with its isolated neighbour and won a pledge from Kim to denuclearise the peninsula during a meeting with President Xi Jinping.China\'s Foreign Ministry gave only hours notice that Wang, a State Councillor and China\'s Foreign Minister, would meet North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho.Wang told Ri that Xi and Kim had reached an important consensus on achieving a peaceful resolution to the peninsula nuclear issue during Kim\'s visit to Beijing, his first known trip outside North Korea since he assumed power in 2011."China appreciates North Korea\'s position working towards denuclearisation of the peninsula and its important efforts to ease the situation on the peninsula, and supports meetings between the leaders of the North and South and between the North and the United States," Wang said, according to a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement.The ministry cited Ri as saying that North Korea would "maintain close strategic communications" with China on peninsula-related issues, and that the Kim-Xi meeting was an "important juncture" in the development of bilateral relations.North Korea\'s official news agency KCNA had said that a delegation headed by Ri left on Tuesday to meet other foreign ministers in Azerbaijan and to visit Russia, but made no mention of China."DISRUPTIVE FACTORS"Earlier in the day, Wang said during a joint news briefing with visiting Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis that he hoped a planned meeting in May between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump would "increase mutual understanding"."But historical experience tells us that at the moment of easing of the situation on the peninsula and as first light dawns on peace and dialogue, frequently all manner of disruptive factors emerge," Wang said."So we call on all sides to maintain focus, eliminate interference, and firmly follow the correct path of dialogue and negotiation."Cassis said that he would discuss with Wang the role that Switzerland could play in the strategic meetings between Kim and "some important partners on the international level", but he did not elaborate.A time and place have not been set for the Trump-Kim meeting to discuss denuclearisation. North and South Korea will hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, South Korea has said.Kim\'s predecessors, grandfather Kim Il Sung and father Kim Jong Il, both promised not to pursue nuclear weapons but secretly maintained programmes to develop them, culminating in the North\'s first nuclear test in 2006 under Kim Jong Il.North Korea has said in previous, failed talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear programme that it could consider giving up its arsenal if the United States removed its troops from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan.Some analysts have said Trump\'s willingness to meet Kim handed Pyongyang a diplomatic win, as the United States had insisted for years that any such summit be preceded by North Korean steps to denuclearise.China had largely sat on the sidelines as North Korea improved relations with South Korea, raising worries in Beijing that it was no longer a central player in the North Korean issue.The two Koreas have seen a significant thaw in ties since the North\'s participation in the South\'s Winter Olympics in February.Kim Jong Un and his wife on Sunday made a surprise appearance at the first of two concerts performed by a South Korean art troupe this week in Pyongyang, titled "Spring is Coming".Kim proposed another concert in South Korea later this year with performers from the North in response to this week\'s shows in Pyongyang by K-pop artists, South Korea\'s Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters in Seoul.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the capital.(Reporting by Michael Martina and Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd and Dominique Patton in Beijing; Editing by Nick Macfie)
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Bernice King stared with purpose at the video of her father, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., concentrating on the tired look in his eyes as he spoke to reporters in the days before he was gunned down at a motel in Memphis, Tennessee.She was touring a new multi-media exhibit Monday at the National Civil Rights Museum  located at the site of the old Lorraine Motel, where her father was shot  when she stopped at the old newsreel. King was only 5 when her father was killed on April 4, 1968, while supporting a sanitation workers\' strike in Memphis. Still, she noticed something different about her dad, whose popularity had waned after fighting for years for racial and economic justice."I could sense that he was weary and tired," Bernice King said. "It looked like he was here but not here. When I looked at him other times, he seemed a little bit more vibrant in his eyes. But it almost seemed he was at a place of almost like, resignation."Her visit to the museum is one of several events taking place this week to commemorate the 50th anniversary of King\'s assassination, which is Wednesday. Museums, colleges and activists have organized three days of marches, speeches and conferences to remember King and his legacy. Her museum visit came after a speech by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder at the Peabody Hotel during a symposium sponsored by the University of Memphis and the museum.Bernice King walked slowly among the photos, videos and historical accounts that are part of the new exhibit opening to the public Wednesday. Museum officials say the exhibit, which featured photos by Ernest Withers and Art Shay, ties together King\'s experiences leading the civil rights movement with present events, such as protests by the Black Lives Matter movement.The exhibit includes photos of his viewing at a Memphis funeral home and the silent march that took place days after the assassination. It also has a timeline of King\'s final days and a clock that reads 6:01  the time in the afternoon that he was shot.King told reporters that if her father were alive, he would not be shocked or surprised about the racial, social and economic polarization seen today in the United States. Her father would say that society needs to root out the vestiges of institutional racism, "where we don\'t value people the same," she said."When I think about some of the policies that we make in this country, the policies are so self-driven," she said. "For me personally, it\'s on both sides of the aisle. We have not found a way collectively to create a policy that transcends party. Daddy was speaking to all that."Earlier Monday, Holder, the first black U.S. attorney general, made two thinly veiled references to President Donald Trump as he addressed politicians, activists, judges and community leaders during his luncheon speech. Holder was appointed attorney general by Barack Obama, the nation\'s first black president and Trump\'s predecessor.Holder said he is proud that the nation has made progress in the past 50 years achieving racial, social and economic justice. He said women, minorities, students against gun violence and members of the LGBTQ community have been inspired by King\'s nonviolent protests and have launched movements calling for "fairness, opportunity and justice."But in remarks that appeared to reference Trump without mentioning his name, Holder also noted that King\'s dream of equality for all has not been reached."We\'re still marching, we are still striving, and we\'re still calling on our nation\'s leaders to act with a sense of justice, compassion and common humanity," Holder said. "The unfortunate fact is that in 2018, America\'s long struggle to overcome injustice, to eliminate disparities and eradicate violence has not yet ended, and the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us."Holder said he is concerned with gun violence, the disproportional incarceration of young black men, and uneven educational opportunities for minorities. King\'s legacy includes the lesson that "it is necessary to be indignant, and to be impatient, so that it impels us to take action," Holder said.Holder said the "chief civil rights issue of our time" is ensuring minorities have equal voting rights."In many communities, our political system is far from fair," said Holder, who chairs the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a group that is pushing back against gerrymandered political districts nationwide. "It\'s been undermined by spurious and outright false claims of widespread voter fraud and by acts of voter suppression."Holder asked the crowd of hundreds to do more to help realize King\'s dream of racial and social equality and come together to "heal this divided nation.""As easy as it is, we must not look back to a past that was comforting to too few, and unjust to too many," Holder said.Then, in a reference to Trump\'s campaign slogan, he added: "That is not how we make America great."
___Spotify wins more fans in stock market debut as shares surgeSAN FRANCISCO (AP)  Spotify\'s opening act on Wall Street struck a chord with investors betting the unprofitable company\'s trend-setting music streaming service will maintain its early lead over Apple and other powerful challengers. After several hours of anticipation Tuesday, Spotify\'s shares traded as high as $169 in their stock market debut before falling back. The stock closed at $149.01, minting Spotify with a market value of about $27 billion, one of the best-ever debuts by a tech company.___Stocks jump late, clawing back ground lost on trade fearsNEW YORK (AP)  U.S. stocks jump in a late rally as banks and retailers recover some of their steep losses from a day earlier. GM and Ford finish solidly higher. CBS rises and Viacom falls on reports CBS will offer to buy Viacom, but that its bid will be for less than the company\'s current market value. Microsoft and Apple climb, as does Amazon.___Woman opens fire at YouTube, 4 wounded and shooter deadSAN BRUNO, Calif (AP)  Police say a woman opened fire at YouTube headquarters and wounded four people. Officials say the unidentified woman died of a self-inflicted gunshot. San Francisco General hospital says it was treating three patients. One is in critical condition and another patient is in serious condition. Police and federal agents swarmed YouTube\'s headquarters in San Bruno after the shooting was reported.___Sky News could be sold to Disney under new planLONDON (AP)  Sky News could be sold to Walt Disney or completely ring-fenced in concessions put forward Tuesday by Rupert Murdoch\'s 21st Century Fox as it seeks to bolster its chances of taking full control of the U.K. satellite broadcaster Sky. The proposals are aimed at easing some of the regulatory concerns over the extent of Murdoch\'s influence on British media if his 21st Century Fox is cleared to buy the 61 percent of Sky it doesn\'t already own for 11.7 billion pounds ($16.4 billion).___Tesla raises production but falls short of Model 3 goalsDETROIT (AP)  Electric car maker Tesla Inc. increased production of its Model 3 mass-market car in the first quarter but still fell far short of the numbers it promised last summer. The Palo Alto, California, company says it made just under 9,800 Model 3s from January through March.___Williams picked as next president of New York FedWASHINGTON (AP)  John Williams, currently head of the Federal Reserve\'s regional bank in San Francisco, has been selected to be the next president of the Fed\'s New York regional bank. The New York job is considered the most influential position among the central bank\'s 12 regional banks.___EPA chief draws Trump praise  and ireWASHINGTON (AP)  President Donald Trump has offered a measured gesture of support for the embattled head of the Environmental Protect Agency. But those words of encouragement for Scott Pruitt also came with a White House warning about the ethical questions surrounding his travel spending and ties to Washington lobbyists. And on Tuesday, a Republican in the House said Pruitt should quit or be fired.___Argentine drought hits farmers hard, undermining economyPERGAMINO, Argentina (AP)  A harsh drought in Argentina that began in November is causing big losses, reduced expectations of economic growth and growing concerns among farmers, government officials and experts in the world\'s third-largest exporter of soybean and corn. Farming is the Argentine economy\'s main engine, and what is expected to be the poorest harvest in at least a decade has already cut growth forecasts by up to a percentage point.___Midlife \'wealth shock\' may lead to death, study suggestsA new study says middle-aged Americans who experienced a sudden large economic blow were more likely to die than those who didn\'t. The study was published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association. It looks at what the researchers called a "wealth shock." Overall, wealth shock was tied with a 50 percent greater risk of dying, although the study couldn\'t prove a cause-and-effect connection.___Auto sales up 6.3 percent in March as SUV, pickups dominateDETROIT (AP)  U.S. auto sales grew 6.3 percent in March on rising sales of SUVs and pickup trucks. Automakers sold more than 1.6 million vehicles for the month as buyers came out of hibernation after a cold, snowy winter in much of the country Truck and SUV sales rose 16.3 percent while car sales plunged 9.2 percent, according to Autodata Corp. Nearly two-thirds of all vehicles sold were trucks or SUVs.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index rose 32.57 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,614.45. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 389.17 points, or 1.6 percent, to 24,033.36. The Nasdaq composite climbed 71.16 points, or 1 percent, to 6,941.28. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks added 19.62 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,512.15.A barrel of U.S. crude gained 50 cents to $63.51 in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 48 cents to $68.12 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline added 1 cent to $1.97 a gallon and heating oil rose 1 cent to $2 a gallon. Natural gas picked up 1 cent to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.
OTTAWA   The United States, Canada and Mexico could soon announce a deal in principle to update NAFTA that would likely tackle the key issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, three sources familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.After more than eight months of slow-moving talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Washington is keen to settle the process quickly, citing the need to finish before Mexico\'s July 1 presidential election.The ministers in charge of the talks are due to meet in Washington this week. If all goes well, the leaders of the three nations could make an announcement about progress on an updated NAFTA at a regional summit in Peru next week, Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said on Monday.Other sources agreed with that assessment on Tuesday, emphasizing that negotiators were focusing on the so called "rules of origin" issue which relates mostly to the auto sector."What they\'re looking to do is \'Let\'s hammer out as much as we can, with the specific focus on automotive, and if we can declare an agreement in principle in Lima that\'s a good moment for everybody\'," said one of the sources.Guajardo said the three nations had made significant advances, adding that the Washington meeting of ministers would determine the scope to agree on the basics of an agreement.The challenge is that a deal in principle might well be so vague on areas of disagreement that negotiators would be faced with many more months of very challenging work with no guarantee of success at the end.The sources, who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation, said the three nations had made progress on a U.S. demand that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA nations increase to 85 percent from 62.5 percent.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said last week he was "optimistic that we can get something done in principle in the next little bit".But Canada\'s chief negotiator, speaking the same day, said "significant gaps" remained on many issues, citing the U.S. positions on dispute settlement, government procurement and a sunset clause that would allow one country to quit NAFTA after five years.The sources said the U.S. administration -- gearing up for a possible trade war with China -- did not want to be distracted by NAFTA at the same time."If they don\'t do the dispute resolution ... or agriculture, I don\'t think it precludes them declaring victory in the parts they have (in hand)," said the first source.The sources spoke as U.S. President Donald Trump threatened yet again to walk away from the deal, saying Mexico needed to crack down on migrants crossing the border.A Canadian source familiar with government thinking said it was hard to predict what the meeting in Washington this week could achieve."These are complex and technical negotiations that encompass a huge number of issues. I think we all agreed to be a little bit realistic ... the important thing is that there is momentum towards meeting," said the source.Mexican chief negotiator Kenneth Smith tweeted on Tuesday that "it will be the substance of the negotiation that drives any potential conclusion".(With additional reporting by Steve Holland in Washington; Editing by Christian Plumb)
BEIJING   Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday China and the United States  should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease access for American businesses, as China scrambles to avert a trade war.Li told a conference that included global chief executives that China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, would not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington.The United States asked China in a letter last week to cut a tariff on U.S. autos, buy more U.S.-made semiconductors and give U.S. firms greater access to the Chinese financial sector, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing unidentified sources.Alarm over a possible trade war between the world\'s two largest economies has chilled financial markets as investors anticipated dire consequences should trade barriers go up due to President Donald Trump\'s bid to cut the U.S. deficit with China.U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer listed steps they want China to take in a letter to Liu He, a newly appointed vice premier who oversees China\'s economy, the Journal said, quoting sources with knowledge of the matter.The newspaper reported that Mnuchin was considering a visit to Beijing to pursue negotiations.Despite a steady stream of fierce rhetoric from Chinese state media lambasting the United States for being a "bully" and warning of retaliation, Chinese and U.S. officials are busy negotiating behind the scenes."With regard to trade imbalances, China and the United States should adopt a pragmatic and rational attitude, promote balancing through expansion of trade, and stick to negotiations to resolve differences and friction," Li told the conference in Beijing, state radio reported.China has offered to buy more U.S. semiconductors by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the negotiations. China imported $11 billion of semiconductors - comprising chips, diodes and transistors - from the United States last year.Chinese officials are also working to finalize rules by May - instead of the end of June - to allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, the Financial Times said."I anticipate that for political reason it would be logical for China to respond, because countries do," Blackstone Group Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the Beijing conference at which Li spoke, the China Development Forum."That\'s why I view this more as a skirmish, and I think the interests of both countries are served by resolving some of these matters."Fears of a trade war mounted this month after Trump imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and then on Thursday specifically targeted China by announcing plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.On Friday, China responded to the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports. The list of targeted goods contained no mention of soybeans or aircraft, China\'s two biggest U.S. import items.China could also inflict pain on U.S. multinationals that rely on China for a substantial - and growing - portion of their total revenues, said Alex Wolf, senior emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments."This could put U.S. companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Starbucks, GM, Nike, etc in the firing line," Wolf said in a note.China can increase the regulatory burden on U.S companies through new inspections and rules; ban travel; stop providing export licenses of key intermediate goods; raise the tax burden on U.S. multinationals in China; or block U.S. companies from the government procurement market, he said.FLOUTED RULESTrump unveiled the planned tariffs targeting Chinese goods after a U.S. inquiry found China guilty of intellectual property theft and unfair trade, by forcing U.S. investors to turn over key technologies to Chinese firms.On Saturday, Liu told Mnuchin in a telephone call the U.S. inquiry violated international trade rules and China would defend its interests, the official Xinhua news agency reported.A U.S. Treasury spokesman confirmed the call, but declined to comment on the content of any letter or on a possible visit by Mnuchin to Beijing."Secretary Mnuchin called Liu He to congratulate him on the official announcement of his new role," the spokesman told Reuters. "They also discussed the trade deficit between our two countries and committed to continuing the dialogue to find a mutually agreeable way to reduce it."The Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion."The U.S. has been wielding sticks worldwide over the past year. Washington needs to be taught a real lesson and such a lesson can only be taught by China, the world\'s second-largest economy," China\'s Global Times newspaper said in an editorial.The widely read tabloid is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily mirror government policy.Privately, Liu and Mnuchin exchanged letters in the past week on further opening China\'s financial services sector and cutting Chinese tariffs on imported cars, according to the Financial Times.China has a 25 percent tariff on U.S. cars and has talked recently of lowering it.China\'s imports of U.S. motor vehicles totalled $10.6 billion in 2017, about 8 percent of the country\'s overall U.S. imports by value, according to U.S. government data.On the reported offer to increase U.S. semiconductor imports, it is unclear how U.S. chips would replace South Korean and Taiwanese chips, since there is minimal overlap between U.S. chips and those of the two Asian producers.China is heavily dependent on foreign semiconductors, one of its biggest import categories by value. That said, the U.S. accounted for just 1 percent of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, according to Reuters calculations based on Chinese customs data.(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Matthew Miller, Ben Blanchard, Elias Glenn and Stella Qiu in Beijing; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore and Kim Coghill)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices.The U.S. tariff unveiling, representing about $50 billion of estimated 2018 imports and aimed at dealing a setback to China\'s efforts to upgrade its manufacturing base, drew an immediate condemnation from Beijing, along with a threat of retaliatory action.China\'s Ministry of Commerce said it "will soon take measure of equal intensity and scale against U.S. goods.""We have the confidence and ability to respond to any protectionist measures by the United States," the ministry said in a statement quoted by the official Xinhua news agency.The ministry did not reveal any specific countermeasures, but economists widely view imports of U.S. soybeans, aircraft and machinery as prime targets for trade retaliation.The tariff list from the U.S. Trade Representative\'s office followed China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest new U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by U.S. President Donald Trump.The standoff between the world\'s two largest economies has sparked market fears that they could spiral into a trade war that could crush global growth.Asian share markets were mixed amid trade tension concerns, with Japan\'s Nikkei 225 off 0.1 percent but Shanghai\'s main index poised to open 0.3 percent higher.MANY CONSUMER ELECTRONICS EXCLUDEDThe USTR list  ranged from chemicals to light-emitting diodes to machine parts,  but U.S. industry groups warned it would still hit supply chains that rely on Chinese components and would ultimately raise costs for consumers.Many consumer electronics products such as cellphones made by Apple Inc. and laptops made by Dell were excluded, as were footwear and clothing, drawing a sigh of relief from retailers who had feared higher costs for American consumers.But the USTR did include some key consumer products from China, including flat-panel television sets and motor vehicles, both electric and gasoline-powered with engines of 3 liters or less.A Reuters analysis that compared listed products with 2017 Census Bureau import data showed $3.9 billion in flat-panel television imports, and $1.4 billion in vehicle imports from China.Among vehicles likely to be hit with tariffs is General Motors Co\'s Buick Envision sport-utility vehicle, which is assembled in China and sold in the United States. Volvo, owned by China\'s Geely Motors, also exports Chinese-built vehicles to the United States.More than 200 products on the list saw no U.S. imports last year, including large aircraft and communication satellites, while some categories were highly unlikely to ever be imported, such as artillery weapons.Publication of the tariff lists starts a public comment and consultation period expected to last around two months, after which USTR said it would issue a "final determination" on the product list. It has scheduled a May 15 public hearing on the tariffs.China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017, a figure that Trump has demanded be cut by $100 billion.ALGORITHM SHIELDS U.S. CONSUMERSUSTR developed the tariff targets using a computer algorithm designed to choose products that would inflict maximum pain on Chinese exporters, but limit the damage to U.S. consumers.A USTR official said the product list got an initial scrub by removing products identified as likely to cause disruptions to the U.S. economy and those that needed to be excluded for legal reasons."The remaining products were ranked according to the likely impact on U.S. consumers, based on available trade data involving alternative country sources for each product," the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters.USTR said the China tariffs announced on Tuesday were proposed "in response to Chinas policies that coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to domestic Chinese enterprises."The agency added that such policies "bolster Chinas stated intention of seizing economic leadership in advanced technology as set forth in its industrial plans."China has denied that its laws require technology transfers and has threatened to retaliate against any U.S. tariffs with trade sanctions of its own, with potential targets such as U.S. soybeans, aircraft or heavy equipment.2025 PROGRAM TARGETEDA USTR official said the tariff list targeted products that benefit from China\'s industrial policies, including the "Made in China 2025" program, which aims to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products and build a dominant position in future industries.The state-led 2025 program targets 10 strategic industries:  advanced information technology, robotics, aircraft, new energy vehicles, pharmaceuticals, electric power equipment, advanced materials, agricultural machinery, shipbuilding and marine engineering and advanced rail equipment.Many products in those segments appear on the list, including antibiotics and industrial robots and aircraft parts.U.S. business groups reacted cautiously, saying they agreed with Trump\'s efforts to stop the theft of U.S. intellectual property, but questioning whether tariffs were the right approach."Tariffs are one proposed response, but they are likely to create new challenges in the form of significant added costs for manufacturers and American consumers," National Association of Manufacturers President Jay Timmons said in a statement.U.S. Senator Marco Rubio said in a letter to Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that he was glad to see "bold" action against China."These necessary actions constitute an important break with the appeasement of previous administrations, and provide an opportunity to chart a new course for Americas relationship with this strategic competitor," Rubio wrote.(Reporting by David Lawder; Additional reporting by Jason Lange, Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland and David Chance in Washington; Editing by Peter Cooney)
SAN BRUNO, Calif.   The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):9:15 a.m.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini says the YouTube shooter was angry about the policies and practices of the company and had visited a gun range before she drove to the company\'s headquarters near San Francisco.He says 39-year-old Nasim Najafi Aghdam got into the building through a parking garage.Barberini said Wednesday that investigators are in the process of executing search warrants at two properties.Police have said that she shot and wounded three people before she killed herself on Tuesday.___11:15 p.m.Police say the three people who were shot at YouTube\'s headquarters in California were not specifically targeted.San Bruno police said in a statement that 39-year-old Nasim Najafi Aghdam did not know the victims when she opened fire Tuesday afternoon before she killed herself.A law enforcement official said investigators believe Aghdam used the name Nasime Sabz online and had a long-running dispute with YouTube.A website in that name decried YouTube\'s policies and said that YouTube was trying to "suppress" content creators.Her father, Ismail Aghdam, told the Bay Area News Group that she "hated" the company.Earlier Tuesday, law enforcement said the shooting was being investigated as a domestic dispute but did not elaborate. It was not immediately clear why police later said the people shot were not targeted. Associated Press writer Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles.___10:20 p.m.The father of a woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube\'s headquarters says she was angry at the company because it stopped paying her for videos she posted on the platform.Ismail Aghdam told the Bay Area News Group that he warned police his daughter, Nasim Aghdam, might be going to YouTube because she "hated" the company.Ismail Aghdam said he reported his daughter missing on Monday after she did not answer her phone for two days.He said the family received a call from Mountain View police around 2 a.m. Tuesday telling they found Nasim sleeping in a car and he warned them she might go to YouTube.Mountain View Police spokeswoman Katie Nelson confirmed officers located a woman by the same name asleep in a vehicle asleep in a Mountain View parking lot Tuesday morning.She says the woman declined to answer further questions. Nelson did not respond to a question about whether police were warned Aghdam might go to YouTube.___9:30 p.m.The woman suspected in the shooting at YouTube headquarters Tuesday was a 39-year-old San Diego resident.Two law enforcement officials identified the suspect as Nasim Aghdam.Aghdam was quoted in a 2009 story in the San Diego Union-Tribune about a protest by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals against the use of pigs in military trauma training. She dressed in a wig and jeans with drops of painted "blood" on them, holding a plastic sword at the demonstration outside the Camp Pendleton Marine Corps base."For me, animal rights equal human rights," Aghdam told the Union-Tribune at the time.Police say the shooter opened fire with a handgun at the YouTube headquarters Tuesday and wounded three people before fatally shooting herself. A fourth person injured their ankle while fleeing.___8:55 p.m.A law enforcement official has identified the suspect in a shooting at YouTube headquarters as Nasim Aghdam of Southern California.The official who was briefed on the investigation spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini says a woman opened fire with a handgun in an outdoor courtyard Tuesday, then killed herself. Police provided no motive or other details about her.Hospital officials have said a man is in critical condition and two women are in serious and fair condition. Associated Press writer Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles.___5:40 p.m.Two law enforcement officials say a shooting that wounded three people at YouTube headquarters in California is being investigated as a domestic dispute.The officials with knowledge of the investigation spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini says a woman opened fire with a handgun in an outdoor courtyard Tuesday and then died after shooting herself. Police provided no motive or other details about her.Hospital officials have said a man is in critical condition and two women are in serious and fair condition. Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles and Eric Tucker in Washington.___5:10 p.m.Authorities are now saying three people were wounded by gunfire in a shooting at YouTube headquarters in Northern California.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini initially told reporters Tuesday that four people were wounded. He later clarified that one person who was taken to the hospital had a twisted ankle or similar injury but wasn\'t shot.He says a woman opened fire with a handgun Tuesday and died after shooting herself. Police provided no motive or other details about her.Hospital officials have said a man is in critical condition and two women are in serious and fair condition.___4:40 p.m.Google CEO Sundar Pichai is calling the shooting at the YouTube headquarters "a horrific act of violence."He says the parent company of YouTube is doing everything it can to support the victims and their families.Pichai also says the company "will continue to provide support to help everyone in our Google family heal from this unimaginable tragedy."Police say a woman opened fire Tuesday at YouTube headquarters. Three people were wounded before authorities say the woman killed herself.___4:05 p.m.A YouTube employee says the fire alarm went off at the company\'s headquarters in Northern California and workers didn\'t realize it was an active shooting.Senior software engineer Zach Vorhies said he and others were calmly leaving the building when he saw a shooter in a courtyard yelling, "Come at me, or come get me."Vorhies said he froze, then noticed a victim on his back with what looked like a gunshot wound to his stomach. Vorhies says an officer with an assault rifle then came through a security door.Authorities say a woman believed to be the shooter has died of a self-inflicted gunshot and three other people have been wounded.___3:55 p.m.A YouTube employee says she saw a woman open fire at the company\'s headquarters in Northern California.Dianna Arnspiger said she was on the second floor Tuesday when she heard gunshots, ran to the window and saw a woman firing a gun on a patio below.Arnspiger says she called out, "\'Shooter,\' and everybody started running." She and others hid in a conference room for an hour while someone called 911 repeatedly for updates. She says, "it was terrifying."Authorities say a woman believed to be the shooter has died of a self-inflicted gunshot and three other people have been wounded.___3:10 p.m.President Donald Trump is offering his "thoughts and prayers" after a shooting at YouTube headquarters.Trump said Tuesday on Twitter that he was briefed on the shooting in San Bruno, California. He wrote, "Our thoughts and prayers are with everybody involved. Thank you to our phenomenal Law Enforcement Officers and First Responders that are currently on the scene."Authorities say a woman believed to be the shooter is dead of a self-inflicted gunshot and three other people have been wounded.___3:05 p.m.Google says its security team has been working with authorities to evacuate buildings at YouTube headquarters after a shooting.The company that owns the world\'s biggest online video website said Tuesday on Twitter that it\'s advising employees and others to stay away from the area and that it\'s set up a help line for workers.Police say a woman believed to be the shooter is dead of what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot and three others have been wounded.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini told reporters that authorities found a victim with a gunshot wound toward the front of the business when they arrived. Several minutes later, they found the female shooter.Two additional victims were found in an adjacent business several minutes later.___2:50 p.m.Authorities say a woman believed to be the shooter at YouTube headquarters is dead of a self-inflicted gunshot and three others have been wounded.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini told reporters Tuesday that the victims have gunshot wounds and were taken to hospitals.A spokesman for San Francisco General Hospital says it received three patients. Spokesman Brent Andrew says a 36-year-old man is in critical condition, a 32-year-old woman is in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman is in fair condition.He says the hospital is expecting more patients but doesn\'t know their conditions.___2:25 p.m.The White House says President Donald Trump has been briefed on a shooting at YouTube headquarters in Northern California and that officials are monitoring it.Coroner\'s spokesman Thomas McGovern says investigators were called to the scene Tuesday afternoon. He wouldn\'t say if anyone was dead.Police in the city of San Bruno have confirmed an active shooter.Television images showed people leaving the building in a line, holding their arms in the air for police to inspect as they were leaving the building. Officers then patted down people grouped outside.___1:50 p.m.Police in Northern California say they\'re responding to an active shooter at YouTube headquarters.The San Bruno Police Department told people on Facebook to stay away from the area Tuesday. There was no other immediate information.Google, which owns the online video website, posted on Twitter that the company is coordinating with authorities.City Manager Connie Jackson says there have been multiple 911 calls reporting a shooting and that police and fire officials have responded.Television images showed people leaving the building in a line, holding their arms in the air for police to inspect as they were leaving the building. Officers then patted down people grouped outside.___1:35 p.m.Police in Northern California are responding to reports of a shooting at YouTube headquarters in the city of San Bruno.City Manager Connie Jackson says there have been multiple 911 calls reporting a shooting and that police and fire officials have responded.TV helicopter video shows officers patting down people grouped outside a building and police vehicles surrounding the area. San Bruno police said they could not provide more information.The world\'s biggest online video website is located on a suburban campus.Calls and emails to YouTube representatives were not immediately returned Tuesday afternoon.___This story has been corrected throughout with new information from authorities that three victims suffered gunshot wounds and a fourth was taken to the hospital but wasn\'t shot. The 2:10 p.m. item also has been removed because Stanford Hospital said it gave incorrect information about receiving patients from the shooting.
MADISON, Wis.   The Latest on the Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):10:18 p.m.Wisconsin Republican Gov. Scott Walker is warning of a possible Democratic wave in November after the liberal candidate for state Supreme Court thumped her conservative opponent.Walker tweeted Tuesday night after Rebecca Dallet easily defeated Michael Screnock in the Supreme Court race.Walker says the results show "we are at risk of a #BlueWave in WI." Walker is up for re-election to a third term in November.He says, "Big government special interests flooded Wisconsin with distorted facts & misinformation. Next, they\'ll target me and work to undo our bold reforms."Screnock was backed by the state chamber of commerce, National Rifle Association and state Republican Party. Dallet was supported by labor and teacher unions, most of the state\'s judges and a host of current and former Democratic officeholders.___9:50 p.m.The losing candidate for Wisconsin Supreme Court is blaming his defeat on liberal special interests that backed his opponent.Milwaukee Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet easily defeated conservative Sauk County Circuit Judge Michael Screnock. Democrats hailed the win as another sign of momentum for liberals this year. It\'s the first time a liberal candidate has won an open seat for Wisconsin Supreme Court since 1995.Screnock says he was proud of his campaign "in spite of tremendous outside influence from liberal special interest groups that were willing to say and spend anything to elect their preferred candidate to the bench."Both candidates were backed by partisans. Screnock was supported by the National Rifle Association, Republican Gov. Scott Walker and the state GOP, while Dallet was endorsed by former Democratic Vice President Joe Biden and others.___9:14 p.m.Liberal Rebecca Dallet says her victory in Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court race over conservative Michael Screnock shows that voters are tired of special interests and want to have a "fair and independent court."Other Democrats were quick to brand the win for Dallet a defeat for Republican Gov. Scott Walker and others in the GOP. Walker had endorsed Screnock.Dallet tells The Associated Press that her win shows "people are tired of what\'s been going on in our state in terms of the money coming in to buy these elections and people spoke out tonight."Her victory marks the first time since 1995 that a liberal candidate for Supreme Court won in a race where the seat is open.The victory reduces conservative control of the court from 5-2 to 4-3.___8:58 p.m.Liberal Rebecca Dallet has easily defeated conservative Michael Screnock in a Wisconsin Supreme Court race seen as the latest bellwether of voter attitudes ahead of the November election.Dallet\'s victory cuts conservative control of the state\'s highest court from 5-2 to 4-3. She also becomes the sixth woman on the seven-member court.Conservative Justice Michael Gableman did not seek a second 10-year term.Wisconsin\'s high court has become notably partisan in recent years even though it\'s nonpartisan in name.Dallet, a Milwaukee County judge, drew strong Democratic support including an endorsement from former Vice President Joe Biden.Screnock, a Sauk County judge appointed and endorsed by Republican Gov. Scott Walker, had the backing of the National Rifle Association and the Wisconsin Republican Party.___8:45 p.m.The liberal candidate for Wisconsin Supreme Court is leading the conservative in early results of the first statewide general election this year in the United States and the latest measure of voter attitudes heading into the November midterms.The election Tuesday pit conservative Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock, who was appointed by Republican Gov. Scott Walker, against liberal Milwaukee County Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet. She drew support from former officials from Barack Obama\'s administration.Dallet led by 16 points with 30 percent of precincts reporting.The race was nonpartisan in name only, with both sides eager to win the 10-year seat on a high court whose ideological split has been on public display in recent years. Michael Gableman, part of the court\'s current 5-2 conservative majority, did not seek a second term.___8:10 p.m.Polls have closed in Wisconsin where a race for the state Supreme Court is drawing national interest.Both Democrats and Republicans invested heavily in the officially nonpartisan race, which is being viewed as a bellwether for how voters in the state that narrowly went for Donald Trump in 2016 are feeling heading into the November midterms. The race is the first statewide general election contest in the country this year.Liberal Milwaukee County Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet is facing conservative Sauk County Circuit Judge Michael Screnock. The winner will be elected to a 10-year term on a court currently controlled 5-2 by conservatives.Former Vice President Joe Biden and a host of other Democrats supported Dallet, while the state Republican Party and Gov. Scott Walker came out for Screnock.___12:35 p.m.A spring storm that\'s dumping snow across central Wisconsin isn\'t causing any known problems in an election for a new state Supreme Court justice.Wisconsin Elections Commission spokesman Reid Magney said that as of midday Tuesday the commission was not aware of any access issues being caused by the snow storm.Liberal candidate Rebecca Dallet is taking on conservative Michael Screnock for a 10-year term on the court. The race has become a partisan slugfest, with national Democrats spending money and giving endorsements in an effort to win the seat over the GOP-backed Screnock.Turnout in Madison was strong in the morning as a cold rain fell across the reliably liberal capital city. Dane County Clerk Scott McDonell says 14 percent of registered voters had cast ballots by 11 a.m., putting the county on pace for 50 percent turnout. The statewide average is about 21 percent.___11:15 a.m.Voters supporting the conservative candidate for Wisconsin Supreme Court say they cast their ballots with the Second Amendment in mind.Tuesday\'s election between conservative Michael Screnock and liberal Rebecca Dallet has drawn national attention because its results can gauge voters\' mood ahead of the midterms.Sixty-year-old voter Michael George, of Brookfield, says he likes that Screnock supports gun rights because "that\'s what we need right now."The National Rifle Association has endorsed Screnock.Another Screnock supporter from Brookfield, 37-year-old Vincent Bortolotti, says he voted for Screnock for "his conservative values" and thinks the election results will show a favorable trend for state Republican candidates in the midterms.___9:45 a.m.Supporters of the liberal candidate for the Wisconsin Supreme Court say they are motivated to send a message to President Donald Trump and the National Rifle Association.The NRA has endorsed conservative candidate Michael Screnock in Tuesday\'s election. Liberal candidate Rebecca Dallet was backed by former Vice President Joe Biden and a host of other Democratic office holders.Voter Doug Clawson, of Madison, says he voted for Dallet to send a message to Trump and Republicans that "we\'re going to take our country back."Phil Ouellette (EW-let), also of Madison, says he was turned off by the NRA\'s backing of Screnock. Ouellette says "I don\'t want to support anyone who\'s backed by the NRA right now."___8:45 a.m.A spring snowstorm could be a player in Wisconsin\'s election day.Voters statewide are deciding on a new Supreme Court justice, deciding whether to eliminate the state treasurer and taking on a host of local issues.But getting to the polls won\'t be easy for some people. Up to 10 inches (25 centimeters) of snow is expected in the central part of the state. Dozens of schools are already canceling classes.Turnout is usually around 21 percent for Wisconsin\'s spring election.The Supreme Court election has been an expensive and highly partisan race, with Milwaukee Judge Rebecca Dallet backed by liberals and Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock, an appointee of Republican Gov. Scott Walker, favored by conservatives.___7:10 a.m.Polls are open in the Wisconsin race for the state Supreme Court.Voters are casting their ballots Tuesday in the race between Milwaukee County Judge Rebecca Dallet and Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock for a 10-year term on the high court.Dallet drew the support of national Democrats, including former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and former Vice President Joe Biden. Biden recorded a robocall for Dallet that went out on Monday night encouraging people to vote for her.Screnock was the conservative choice  an appointee of Republican Gov. Scott Walker who had the backing of the state GOP and the state chamber of commerce.Both candidates argue the other can\'t be trusted to serve as an independent voice on the state\'s highest court.___12:03 a.m.An expensive and openly partisan Wisconsin Supreme Court race is nearing an end.Voters cast their ballots Tuesday in the race between Milwaukee County Judge Rebecca Dallet and Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock for a 10-year term on the high court.The state\'s spring election is capping weeks of intense campaigning. Dallet drew the support of liberals including former Attorney General Eric Holder and former Vice President Joe Biden.Screnock was the conservative choice  an appointee of Republican Gov. Scott Walker who had the backing of the state GOP and the state chamber of commerce.Both candidates argued the other couldn\'t be trusted to serve as an independent voice on the state\'s highest court.
WASHINGTON   John Williams, currently head of the Federal Reserve\'s regional bank in San Francisco, has been selected to be the next president of the Fed\'s New York regional bank, considered the most influential position among the central bank\'s 12 regional banks.The selection was made by the eligible members of the New York Fed\'s board of directors and approved by the Fed\'s board in Washington. Even before the official announcement Tuesday, the choice had generated controversy. Opponents said the search process had failed to come up with a candidate who would diversify the top ranks of the Fed system, which is heavily dominated by white males.Williams, 55, has spent most of his working life in the Fed system, becoming president of the San Francisco Fed in 2011, succeeding Janet Yellen.He will take over for William Dudley, who announced last year that he planned to step down this summer. Dudley\'s last day will be June 17, and Williams will take over on June 18, the New York Fed said in an announcement."After a thorough process, my fellow search committee members and I felt that John best fulfilled the criteria we\'d identified as well as the feedback received through our public outreach efforts," said Sara Horowitz, founder of the Freelancers Union and chair of the New York Fed\'s board of directors and co-chair of the search committee.Williams said that he was honored to be chosen lead the New York Fed and "represent the diverse needs and economic challenges of all people living and working" in the New York Fed district.But Shawn Sebastian, director of the Fed Up Coalition, a collection of liberal groups, said the New York Fed search process had failed in its job to offer diverse candidates."The New York Fed\'s claims that there are no qualified candidates who are women or people of color working in the public interest who would take this job are untrue," he said in a statement.At the moment, the 12 Fed regional banks have only two women presidents, Loretta Mester in Cleveland and Esther George in Kansas City. Last year, Raphael Bostic became the first African-American to lead a Fed regional bank when he was chosen as president of the Atlanta Fed.A number of New York officials including New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio had also raised concerns about a lack of diversity in the search process."The New York Fed has never been led by a woman or a person of color and that needs to change," Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-New York, said in a recent statement.But Yellen, the first woman to serve as Fed chair, said Tuesday that she strongly supported Williams\' selection for the New York job. During Yellen\'s four years leading the Fed, Williams was viewed as an ally who supported her cautious, gradual approach in raising interest rates."He is a distinguished economic who has made major contributions to the formulation of monetary policy," Yellen said in a statement.The president of the New York Fed has a permanent vote of the central bank\'s rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee, which is composed of Fed board members in Washington and the Fed\'s regional bank presidents.The president of the New York Fed serves as the vice chairman of the panel and has a permanent vote on interest rates. The other 11 regional presidents participate in the discussions but vote on a rotating basis, with only four of the other presidents able to vote in any given year.The president of the New York Fed also plays a critical role in serving as the Fed\'s liaison to Wall Street.Williams, who earned a doctorate in economics from Stanford University, is viewed as one of the country\'s top experts on monetary policy. He will take over as vice chairman of the FOMC at a time when the seven-member Fed board in Washington has four openings.President Donald Trump selected board member Jerome Powell to succeed Yellen as Fed chairman in February. He has yet to nominate anyone for the job of vice chairman of the Fed board, which came open in October when Stanley Fischer stepped down.
SAN BRUNO, Calif.   A woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself was furious with the company because it had stopped paying her for videos she posted on the platform, her father said late Tuesday.Two law enforcement officials identified the suspect as Nasim Aghdam of Southern California. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.YouTube had "stopped everything," and "she was angry," her father Ismail Aghdam said from his San Diego home in a telephone interview with the Bay Area News Group.People who post on YouTube can receive money from advertisements that accompany their videos, but the company "de-monetizes" some channels for reasons including inappropriate material or having fewer than 1,000 subscribers.Ismail Aghdam said he reported his daughter missing on Monday after she did not answer her phone for two days.He said the family received a call from Mountain View police around 2 a.m. Tuesday saying they found Nasim sleeping in a car.He said he warned them she might be headed to YouTube because she "hated" the company.Mountain View Police spokeswoman Katie Nelson confirmed officers located a woman by the same name asleep in a vehicle asleep in a Mountain View parking lot Tuesday morning. Nelson said the woman declined to answer further questions but the police spokeswoman did not respond to a question about whether police were warned Aghdam might go to YouTube.Authorities said earlier Tuesday that the shooting was being investigated as a domestic dispute.Terrified employees huddled inside, calling 911, as officers and federal agents swarmed the company\'s suburban campus sandwiched between two interstate freeways in the San Francisco Bay Area city of San Bruno.YouTube employee Dianna Arnspiger said she was on the building\'s second floor when she heard gunshots, ran to a window and saw the shooter on a patio outside.She said the woman wore glasses and a scarf and was using a "big huge pistol.""It was a woman and she was firing her gun. And I just said, \'Shooter,\' and everybody started running," Arnspiger said.She and others hid in a conference room for an hour while another employee repeatedly called 911 for updates."It was terrifying," she said.A 36-year-old man was in critical condition, a 32-year-old woman was in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman was in fair condition, a spokesman for San Francisco General Hospital said.Witnesses described terror before officers arrived and discovered a victim near a front door and then found the shooter several minutes later with what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound, San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini said.He said two additional gunshot victims were found at an adjacent business minutes later. Barberini initially said there were four people who had been shot but later clarified that a fourth person had suffered an ankle injury.Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said he was at his desk working on the second floor of one of the buildings when the fire alarm went off. He got on his skateboard and approached a courtyard, where he saw the shooter yelling, "\'Come at me, or come get me.\'"He saw somebody lying nearby on his back with a red stain on his stomach that appeared to be from a bullet wound. Vorhies said he realized there was an active shooter when a police officer with an assault rifle came through a security door.He said the public can access the courtyard where he saw the shooter during work hours.Michael Finney, a 21-year-old supervisor at Carl\'s Jr. across from the campus, said he came out of the bathroom to see a woman in a booth bleeding from the calf. Two friends were trying to stop the bleeding, using the victim\'s sweatshirt as a tourniquet, but it wasn\'t helping, he told the San Jose Mercury News."Everyone was figuring out what to do," Finney said. "I was trying to stay calm and see what I could do. Everybody is shocked."Google, which owns the world\'s biggest online video website, said the company\'s security team worked with authorities to evacuate buildings and was doing whatever it could support the victims and their families.YouTube\'s headquarters has more than a thousand engineers and other employees in several buildings. Originally built in the late 1990s for the clothing retailer Gap, the campus south of San Francisco is known for its sloped green roof of native grasses.Inside, Google famously outfitted the office several years ago with a three-lane red slide for workers to zoom from one story to another."Today it feels like the entire community of YouTube, all of the employees, were victims of this crime," said Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman. "Our hearts go out to all those who suffered."The White House said President Donald Trump was briefed on the shooting and that officials were monitoring developments.___Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles, Eric Tucker in Washington and Janie Har in San Francisco contributed to this report.___This story has been corrected with new information from authorities that three victims suffered gunshot wounds and a fourth was taken to the hospital but wasn\'t shot. A reference also has been removed to patients being taken to Stanford Hospital because the facility says it gave incorrect information.
MADISON, Wis.   Rebecca Dallet, a liberal Milwaukee judge, easily defeated conservative Michael Screnock on Tuesday in the race for Wisconsin Supreme Court, fueling optimism among Democrats for more victories in the fall midterms.The win in the first statewide general election in the country this year forced Gov. Scott Walker, who endorsed Screnock, to warn his fellow Republicans."Tonight\'s results show we are at risk of a #BlueWave in WI," Walker, who is up for re-election in November, tweeted. "Big government special interests flooded Wisconsin with distorted facts & misinformation. Next, they\'ll target me and work to undo our bold reforms."Although the race was viewed by some as a bellwether, results of past Supreme Court elections have not consistently proven to be predictive of what will happen in November. President Donald Trump won the state by less than 1 percentage point in 2016, while Dallet thumped Screnock by double digits.She won by a nearly 12-point margin with 87 percent of precincts reporting, based on unofficial results.The race for a 10-year seat was nonpartisan in name only, with millions in ad spending and public endorsements from the likes of Joe Biden, Eric Holder and the National Rifle Association.Dallet said her victory, which Democrats quickly seized on as another sign of momentum, was a rejection of special interest influence on Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court."The candidate with the most experience in our courts and standing up for the fairness of our courts won," she said. "I think people are tired of what\'s been going on in our state in terms of the money coming in to buy these elections and people spoke out tonight."Screnock said he was proud of his campaign, in the face of "tremendous outside influence from liberal special interest groups that were willing to say and spend anything to elect their preferred candidate to the bench."Wisconsin Democratic Party Chairwoman Martha Laning said the win was a warning shot to Walker, calling it a "huge loss" for him because his "endorsement, philosophy and politics were on the ballot."One of the Democratic challengers to Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan, of Wisconsin, immediately tried to raise money off the Dallet win. Randy Bryce called the Dallet win "a rallying cry for working folks."Screnock, a Sauk County circuit judge, was endorsed by Walker and backed by about $400,000 from the state GOP.Dallet\'s victory narrows conservative control of the court from 5-2 to 4-3. She also will become the sixth woman on the court. And it\'s the first time a liberal candidate has won a race for an open seat on the court since 1995. The court has been a reliable ally of Walker and Republicans who have controlled the governor\'s office and Legislature since 2011.Voters who supported Dallet said they hoped her win would send a message."People are pretty motivated on the left, from what I can see," said Doug Clawson, 58, a communications professional who cast his ballot at a Madison public library as cold rain fell outside.He said a Dallet win "would send a message that we\'re not kidding around here and maybe to borrow an axiom from the right: We\'re going to take our country back."Dallet\'s victory follows a surprising Democratic win in January in a special election for a state Senate seat held by Republicans for 17 years. Two other special legislative elections are coming this June, giving Democrats more chances to build momentum heading into the fall.Dallet, 48, has been a Milwaukee County circuit judge since 2008 and before that was a prosecutor for more than a decade. She will join the court in August.Screnock, 48, was appointed judge by Walker in 2015. Before that he was part of a team that defended Walker\'s Act 10 law that effectively ended collective bargaining for most public workers.Several voters in liberal Madison said they were motivated to vote against Screnock because of his NRA support."I don\'t want to support anyone who\'s backed by the NRA right now," said Phil Ouellette, 59, who works in advertising.Both candidates argued the other couldn\'t be trusted to serve as an independent voice on the state\'s highest court because of the partisans supporting their campaigns.Dallet ran with a tough-on-crime message, focusing on her 11 years as a prosecutor followed by 10 years as a judge in Milwaukee. She argued that the current conservative-controlled Supreme Court is "broken," and she criticized the justices for not adopting a recusal rule forcing them to step down from cases involving large campaign donors.___
NEW DELHI  Nirav Modi brightened Kate Winslets earlobes and made Taraji P. Hensons collarbone glitter.A jeweler to the stars, Mr. Modi attained wealth and fame at home in India in a few short years. He socialized with British royalty and rubbed elbows with Donald Trump Jr. He opened an opulent outlet on Madison Avenue in New York. In January, he met with Narendra Modi, Indias prime minister and no relation, at the annual gathering of the worlds elite in Davos, Switzerland.Today, he is on the run.About a week after Mr. Modi grinned for the cameras with the prime minister, a state-run Indian bank told regulators that it had found nearly $1.8 billion in fraudulent transactions linked to the jewelers account. Indian officials now accuse Mr. Modi, his family and business associates of assembling a global empire with nearly $3 billion in money obtained illegally, mostly from government-run banks. He denies wrongdoing.The chase has enraged and captivated India at a time when the public increasingly believes the countrys debt-laden government banks are enriching its flashiest, most corrupt business tycoons. Parliament sessions have deteriorated into screaming matches, with political opponents exchanging accusations of collusion with the jeweler.Finding Mr. Modi has become something of a national pastime. Reporters in New York camped outside a luxury hotel, the JW Marriott Essex House, where they believed Mr. Modi was staying. One who rang the bell outside what they believed to be his room found only a servant and a fluffy white dog.For many Indians, the allegations against Mr. Modi further cement the notion that taxpayer-owned banks are footing the bill for the lavish lifestyles of a rising elite. That idea has particular resonance in a country where stark poverty  India is home to a third of the worlds poorest people  remains dire.Before Mr. Modi, India watched as Vijay Mallya, an airlines-and-liquor magnate known as the King of Good Times, fled to Britain as banks tried to collect $1.4 billion. Many of the banks left on the hook were state-owned. He has denied wrongdoing.The state-owned Bank of Baroda has drawn news media attention over its business with the three Gupta brothers, who left India in 1993 and built a sprawling corporate empire in South Africa. They have been caught up in a political scandal there that led to the resignation of South Africas president, Jacob Zuma.Bank of Baroda denied wrongdoing in a written response to questions, asserting that it acted in good faith and that many of the transactions it handled for the Gupta brothers were received from other banks.In February, the Indian authorities arrested Vikram Kothari, a ballpoint pen magnate, saying he had diverted loans given to his company by seven government-owned lenders. He also denied wrongdoing.The allegations against Mr. Modi have only strengthened peoples wariness of the state banks. Indian officials have publicly accused him of working with tellers at a single branch of one of them, Punjab National Bank, to obtain $1.8 billion from branches of other banks. So far, five Indian banks have been swindled in the scandal, four of them government-owned, the authorities in New Delhi say.Just a decade ago, during the global financial crisis, Indian lenders were held up as a bastion of stability. Today, they are considered more vulnerable than those in other leading emerging markets, mostly because state-controlled lenders dominate the sector, according to the International Monetary Fund.Of the $6.5 billion in fraudulent loans that have hit the industry over the past two years, the most egregious cases were at government-owned banks, according to figures released by Parliament. Executives at those lenders are more likely to be appointed for their political connections than for their talent, financial analysts say.For every Nirav Modi in this country, theres 10 more, and they are emboldened when they see the government failing to take action or pursue the right protocols, said Vineet Dhanda, a lawyer who is urging the Indian government to tighten up the banking sector.Mr. Dhanda questioned how major business figures like Mr. Modi could raise billions from banks without providing collateral, yet the average farmer struggles to get a few hundred dollars for a loan.The money they are stealing is from the poor people of this country, he said. If this money is swindled away, then it comes from the taxpayers to fix the banks.Mr. Modis lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, denies his client defrauded banks and says there is only a misunderstanding over a much smaller loan worth about $40 million. He accused the banks and government authorities of damaging his clients reputation and the Nirav Modi brands value, making it harder for the company to settle its debts.This was a case of civil transaction which the authorities have converted into a criminal one unnecessarily, Mr. Aggarwal said in an interview.Diamond traders and jewelers have long marveled at Mr. Modis rise. Nicknamed NiMo in the press, from the first syllables of his name, Mr. Modi was known for wearing custom-made cuff links with the fish from Finding Nemo.Born in Antwerp, Belgium, to a relatively small diamond trading family, Mr. Modi attended the prestigious Wharton School of Business before dropping out at 19 to join the family business in Mumbai.He first rose to international prominence in 2010, when he designed a necklace featuring a 12.29-carat diamond set with smaller pink diamonds. It was auctioned by Christies in Hong Kong for $3.56 million, nearly $1 million more than its asking price.The bidding war landed Mr. Modi on the cover of the Christies catalog, the first Indian to be featured so prominently by the auction house. He formed his Nirav Modi brand later that year and announced plans to open 100 stores around the world by 2025.In 2015, Mr. Modi opened his flagship store on Madison Avenue, a few blocks from the luxury giants Cartier, Saks and Dior. Donald Trump Jr. was there, taking a break from his fathers presidential campaign, as were actors and models: Naomi Watts and Coco Rocha posed for photos on the red carpet in front of the Nirav Modi logo. The next year, Mr. Modi designed 100 carats worth of diamonds that Ms. Winslet wore to the Oscars.His rapid ascent puzzled some in the diamond industry, who say building a luxury brand takes both time and money.Using models and actresses that are world-renowned to consumers  that makes a brand seem solid, said Karma El Khalil, a jeweler based in New York. But its incredibly expensive.His lifestyle rose with his fame, according to interviews with colleagues and friends and local news reports that tracked his purchases. He bought a Rolls-Royce for family use. He had an aquarium built that covered an entire wall of his office. He bought an apartment in an exclusive, seaside high-rise called Sea Palace that is home to some of Mumbais wealthiest people, including one of the founders of the information technology giant Infosys.But the authorities in New Delhi say he projected an image of success built on bank loans and fraudulent letters of understanding, part of a strategy to expand his business in the hope that profits would eventually outstrip debts.The arms of the law are long, said Abhishek Dayal, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Investigation, the main government body investigating the case. We will get them.Mr. Modis flight has shaken diamond traders in Antwerp and Mumbai.Until the allegations surfaced, he seemed to fit well in an international industry that often works based on trust and personal relationships. For example, a trader will often mail a diamond to another and give the other person a window of up to four months to evaluate the gem before expecting payment.Mr. Modi quickly won a reputation as someone who could be trusted, say diamond traders. He often paid within days after receiving diamonds.Now traders are wondering whether the industry trusted him too quickly, and what the fallout on the international diamond trade will be. A diamond dealer in Antwerp said he and his colleagues became anxious last month when the Indian government banned its banks from issuing letters of credit to finance trade abroad, making it harder for Indian diamond traders  some of the biggest players in the industry  to buy stones.Your reputation is based on today, said Sabyasachi Roy, the executive director of Indias Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce.Today youre great until youre not. Today you have actresses wearing your designs; tomorrow no one will look at you. But everyone was surprised by his quick rise.
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook is expanding its response to people using the platform improperly and on Tuesday said it had deleted hundreds of Russian accounts and pages associated with a "troll factory" indicted by U.S. prosecutors for fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.Facebook said many of the deleted articles and pages came from Russia-based Federal News Agency, known as FAN, and that the social media company\'s security team had concluded that the agency was technologically and structurally intertwined with the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency.Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg told Reuters in an exclusive interview that the agency "has repeatedly acted to deceive people and manipulate people around the world, and we don\'t want them on Facebook anywhere."The world\'s largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, which worked on then-Republican candidate Donald Trump\'s campaign.The removed accounts and pages were mainly in Russian, and many had little political import, the company said. Previously Facebook focused on taking down fake accounts and accounts spreading fake news.The new policy will include otherwise legitimate content spread by those same actors, Zuckerberg said."It is clear from the evidence that we\'ve collected that those organizations are controlled and operated by" the Internet Research Agency, he added.In February, the agency known as IRA was among three firms and 13 Russians indicted by U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller on charges they conspired to tamper in the presidential campaign and support Trump while disparaging Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.Russian media organization RBC last year reported that FAN and IRA once shared the same street address and had other connections. One of the people that it said made decisions at FAN was indicted by Mueller\'s office, which is investigating U.S. intelligence agency conclusions that Moscow tried to undermine the democratic process. Russia denies interfering in the elections.BAN ACCOUNTSFacebook disclosed in September that Russians used Facebook to meddle in U.S. politics, posting on the social network under false names in the months before and after the 2016 elections.Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that improved machine learning had helped find connections between the latest posts and IRA. He and Facebook security officials said the company would do the same when they find more legitimate content being pushed out by groups exposed as manipulators."Were going to execute and operate under our principles," Zuckerberg said. "We dont allow people to have fake accounts, and if you repeatedly try to set up fake accounts to manipulate things, then our policy is to ban all of your accounts."Zuckerberg said that the standard is high for such retribution toward news organizations and that state-owned media by itself was fine.The company decided to root out as much as it can of IRA, which was involved with posts including sponsoring fake pages that were pro-Trump, pro-border security and protesting police violence against minorities, among other topics.The expanded response could provoke a backlash from Russian internet regulators.Last October, Google followed up on reported connections between FAN and IRA by removing FAN stories from its search index. Media regulator Roskomnadzor asked Google for an explanation, saying that it needed to protect free speech. Google then reinstated FAN, according to reports at the time.Facebook officials said its accounts and pages in question had 1 million unique followers on Facebook and 500,000 on Instagram, mainly in Russia, Ukraine, and nearby countries such as Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.Zuckerberg, who founded Facebook in his college dorm room in 2004, personally kept quiet about the Cambridge Analytica data leak for four days before apologizing and outlining steps that he said would help protect personal data.The 33-year-old billionaire plans to testify before U.S. lawmakers to explain Facebook\'s privacy policies, a first for him, a source said last week, although he has so far not committed to doing the same for UK lawmakers.Britain\'s data protection authority, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and some 37 U.S. state attorneys general are investigating Facebook\'s handling of personal data.Zuckerberg initially downplayed Facebook\'s ability to sway voters, saying days after the U.S. elections that it was a "pretty crazy idea" that fake news stories had an influence.Eventually, though, Facebook\'s security staff came to the conclusion that the social network was being used by spies and other government agents to covertly spread disinformation among rivals and enemies.Critics including U.S. Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, have complained Facebook moved too slowly to investigate and counter information warfare.Facebook stepped up efforts to shutter fake accounts before  a national election last year in France, and has said it will work with election authorities around the world to try to prevent meddling in politics.The company, which is now one of the main ways politicians advertise to voters, plans to start a public archive showing all election-related ads, how much money was spent on each one, the number of impressions each receives and the demographics of the audience reached.Facebook is on track to bring that data to U.S. voters before congressional elections in November, Zuckerberg said on Tuesday. Facebook plans to send postcards by U.S. mail to verify the identities and location of people who want to purchase U.S. election-related advertising.(Reporting by Joseph Menn and David Ingram; additional reporting by Jack Stubbs; editing by Peter Henderson and Grant McCool)

NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO   John Williams, the genial president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and a top monetary economist, was promoted on Tuesday to head the New York Fed in a politically explosive decision that has been criticized for ignoring more diverse candidates.The New York Fed\'s directors said Williams will on June 18 succeed William Dudley in what is seen as the second-most influential position at the U.S. central bank. In selecting a white man and long-time Fed insider, they said he was the best of an "exhaustive and inclusive" search of diverse candidates and highlighted Williams\' commitment to public service.Fed Chairman Jerome Powell had a bigger hand than predecessors in stressing the need to select someone with monetary expertise, according to people familiar with his role in the process. That suggests Williams, 55, could in effect become the face of the current policy of "gradual" U.S. interest-rate hikes, even as the New York Fed president\'s traditional role as financial markets expert could diminish.In a statement, Powell welcomed Williams to the role and said he "valued his insight and wise counsel during my years at the Federal Reserve, and look forward to continuing to work with him in the years ahead."The New York chief is traditionally among the Fed\'s three core policymakers and unlike other district presidents has a permanent vote on rates. The job also oversees market operations including the management of some $4.4 trillion in assets, and supervises the largest U.S. banks - two weak spots on Williams\' resume relative to some other candidates Reuters reported to be considered as the list narrowed in recent months.The Fed\'s Board of Governors in Washington approved the decision in New York. Powell and the other two Fed governors had a say on the ideal nominee before he was chosen, according to the co-chairs of the New York Fed\'s search committee.Because this is the only top Fed job where the candidate is not selected by U.S. President Donald Trump and confirmed by the Senate, Democratic lawmakers and community activists saw it as an opportunity to lobby for someone who breaks from a long tradition of white men with ties to Wall Street.The outcry against the selection process reached an extraordinary pitch last week after the Wall Street Journal cited unnamed sources and reported Williams as the front runner. In response, at least two U.S. senators urged more congressional oversight of the process and argued women and people of color should not be overlooked so that the Fed better reflects the public.While the ranks of minorities and women are growing across the Fed, all but two of its 15 current policymakers are white and all but three are men. The 104-year-old central bank had never had a black district president until last year."I am disappointed by the search committee\'s selection of another Fed insider," Senator Sherrod Brown, ranking Democrat on the committee that oversees the Fed, said on Tuesday.The New York Fed directors heading the search, Board Chair Sara Horowitz and Glenn Hutchins, published a timeline saying that roughly half of the qualified candidates at each stage in the search process were "diverse," including two of the final three. They did not name candidates.Williams "best fulfilled the criteria we\'d identified as well as the feedback we\'d received through our public outreach efforts," said Horowitz, founder of the Freelancers Union.POWELL\'S HANDDudley, a key architect of the Fed\'s crisis era response, will step down on June 17.He and Williams were reliable advocates for years of near-zero rates to drive down unemployment. In 2016 Williams was among the first of the so-called doves to back more frequent hikes, in part due to worries over inflation that has not yet materialized. (For a graphic of the Fed\'s doves and hawks, see: http://tmsnrt.rs/2d4Mta4; for a graphic of the legacy of the Fed\'s stimulus, see: http://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/rngs/USA-FED/010050VD1YM/index.html)After succeeding former Fed Chair Janet Yellen as San Francisco Fed president in 2011, Williams has continued to publish his influential research suggesting the neutral rate of interest has dropped sharply thanks to an aging population, dragging down overall economic growth.Williams has repeated he does not actively monitor financial markets at his office desk because he wants to focus on longer-term trends, not the ups and downs of asset prices - an omission that has raised questions for some bankers that interact daily with the New York Fed.Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren meanwhile questioned his "fitness" to oversee Wall Street given that the 2016 Wells Fargo fake-accounts scandal happened on his watch in San Francisco.But Powell, a trained lawyer and former banker who succeeded Yellen in February, has quietly stressed continuity and economic expertise amid a ongoing leadership transition.Reuters reported March 1 that Powell had in January favored Williams for Fed vice chair - but Williams\' bid for that job fell through and the White House ultimately decided on Richard Clarida, an economist at Pimco, who is yet to be formally named.The search committee co-chairs said they had regular consultations with the Fed Board to make sure they were considering the right sort of candidate. One source familiar with the New York Fed\'s search process said Powell made it clear he trusts Williams. The Fed Board declined to comment on Powell\'s role.In an interview on Tuesday, Yellen, who stepped down as Fed chair in February, called Williams an "adept, practical and thoughtful policymaker" who "made important contributions that have been immensely influential in the conduct of monetary policy."Yet the drum beat of criticism in recent weeks, including a demonstration outside the New York Fed and letters from state and city lawmakers, is raising worries within the Fed about independence from political pressure. Some lawmakers have in the past said the New York Fed president should be a presidential appointment like Fed governors."Just as public companies are subject to greater shareholder activism and need to be proactive and vigilant about corporate governance, the Fed needs to take its shareholders seriously, recognize they have been failing in their stated desire for diversity and address the obvious shortcomings in their search process," said Julia Coronado, founder of MacroPolicy Perspectives and a former Fed economist.The New York Fed\'s directors said diversity was a focus from the beginning and even hired a second executive search firm specializing in it. Reuters previously named six candidates who were interviewed for the job, most of them with Wall Street ties, including two women and two black men.Williams\' departure leaves another vacancy at the central bank, for which the San Francisco Fed\'s head of research, Mary Daly, is seen as an early contender.(Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir; Editing by Andrea Ricci)


WASHINGTON   The Latest on the Trump administration\'s proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of American technology. (all times local):8 p.m.China\'s Commerce Ministry says it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed new U.S. tariffs and warns of retaliatory action."We will prepare equal measures for U.S. products with the same scale" according to regulations in Chinese trade law, a spokesman says in comments carried by the official Xinhua News Agency.The ministry says "the U.S. has published these tariff proposals with disregard to China\'s solemn representations and without factual basis.""This is typical of unilateralism and trade protection," it adds.The statement says the U.S. move ignores the voices of industry in both countries and the interests of consumers and is not conducive to China, the U.S, and the world\'s economic interests. China intends to refer this to the WTO\'s trade dispute settlement mechanism, it says.___7:40 p.m.The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a U.S. think tank for science and technology policy, is cautioning the Trump administration against imposing tariffs on Chinese goods that the foundation says support U.S. productivity."The Trump administration is right to push back against China\'s abuse of economic and trade policy," its president, Robert Atkinson, said in a statement. "The list of tariffs that USTR has proposed today would hurt companies in the U.S. by raising the prices and reducing consumption of the capital equipment they rely on to produce their goods and services.Atkinson added:"The focus should be on things that will create the most leverage over China without raising prices and dampening investment in the kinds of machinery, equipment, and other technology that drives innovation and productivity across the economy."___7:05 p.m.The Chinese embassy in Washington says it "strongly condemns" the Trump administration\'s planned tariffs. In a statement, the embassy says the proposal "serves neither China\'s interest, not the U.S. interest, even less the interest of the global economy."And it hinted that Beijing would retaliate with trade sanctions of its own: "As the Chinese saying goes, it is only polite to reciprocate."The embassy said China would seek relief from the World Trade Organization and "take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products in accordance with Chinese law."___6:45 p.m.The U.S.-China Business Council has long complained that China\'s policies have discriminated against U.S. technology companies. But the council argues that the latest proposed tariffs against Beijing are not the answer."Unilateral tariffs may do more harm than good and do little to address the problems in China (intellectual property) and tech transfer policies," said John Frisbie, president of the council.___5:54 p.m.The Trump administration is recommending 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of American technology.The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative has issued a list targeting 1,300 Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecommunications equipment. But the proposed tariffs wouldn\'t take effect before a public comment period ends May 11.The move is the latest in a series of aggressive actions the administration has taken to combat what it calls unfair trade practices by China and other countries. American businesses worry that the administration\'s moves will draw painful retaliatory sanctions.
JERUSALEM   In an abrupt and startling reversal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu nixed his own deal Tuesday with the United Nations to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants in Israel and other Western nations, caving in to nationalist critics who have demonized the migrants for taking over poor neighborhoods in Tel Aviv.The move leaves unresolved one of Israel\'s most charged and divisive issues  what to do with the Africans who say they fled for their lives in search of sanctuary in the Jewish state.The about-face also opened Netanyahu to scathing assaults on his leadership, raising doubts about his ability to make controversial decisions on bigger issues in the future, including how he would respond to a peace plan promised by President Donald Trump.Netanyahu proudly announced the deal Monday in a nationally televised news conference, saying Israel had agreed to cancel a planned expulsion of tens of thousands of Africans that had been widely condemned both at home and among Jews around the world.Under the deal, roughly half of the 35,000 migrants living in Israel would be resettled in the West with the rest absorbed in Israel. Netanyahu praised it as a "good agreement" that marked "an important day" for Israel.But hours later, after heavy criticism among nationalists within his own ruling coalition, he said he was putting the plan on hold. After meeting angry residents of working-class neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv on Tuesday, Netanyahu said he was canceling it outright."From time to time there are decisions that have to be reconsidered," he said. "We will continue to act determinedly to exhaust all our options of removing the infiltrators."A coalition of human rights organizations in Israel said the flip-flop proved the government could not be trusted to fulfil any "moral, legal or international commitments."Domestic critics said it raised broader questions about whether Netanyahu could carry out any proper decision-making process."How will you, as prime minister, handle the Iranian threat? How will you deal with the cost of living?" asked Avi Gabbay, leader of the opposition Labor Party. "Lack of leadership, cowardice, escape from responsibility, incitement, empty slogans, inability to make decisions and zero ability to implement them  this is what we have seen over the past few hours from he who pretends to deal with the real threats and problems of Israel."The aborted U.N. deal had looked to avoid the specter of forced deportations to undisclosed African destinations, widely believed to be Rwanda and Uganda, with which Israel said it had reached a secret agreement. Israel had planned to begin the mass deportations on Sunday.The Hotline for Refugees and Migrants advocacy group said Netanyahu\'s initial announcement revealed there was no such agreement. Rather than resolving the migrants\' status, it said they were once again in limbo while the state had no legitimate recourse to deport any of them."Of course we will continue our struggle and consider all our legal options until every last asylum-seeker gets the status they deserve," said Dror Sadot, a spokeswoman for the group.Rwanda\'s minister of state for foreign affairs, Olivier Nduhungirehe, and Ugandan Foreign Affairs Minister Okello Oryem also said no deal had ever been signed with Israel.While nationalist activists celebrated Netanyahu\'s reversal, dozens of migrants and their Israeli supporters protested in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. Some stripped to the waist, draped themselves with chains and taped their mouths shut at a protest in Tel Aviv. Others waved signs reading, "Human lives are not to play with. Yes to the deal."Teklit Michael, a 29-year-old asylum-seeker from Eritrea, said that while he had unanswered questions about the U.N. draft he was at least encouraged about the efforts to address his needs. Now, he said, he was confused and dispirited."Not only do we have no security, we also have no one to believe," he said. "People have no hope and no trust in the state of Israel."In Geneva, the U.N. Refugee Agency expressed "disappointment" with Netanyahu\'s decision and urged him to reconsider. It noted that the deal had been reached after lengthy negotiations, and reflected a "shared effort" to find a solution that would benefit all parties."UNHCR continues to believe that a win-win agreement that would both benefit Israel and people needing asylum is in everyone\'s best interest," it said in a statement.Nearly all the migrants hail from war-torn Sudan and dictatorial Eritrea. The migrants say they are asylum-seekers fleeing danger and persecution, while Israeli leaders have dismissed them as mere job seekers.The Africans started arriving in 2005, after neighboring Egypt violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel.Tens of thousands crossed the porous desert border before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx. But Israel has struggled with what to do with those already in the country, alternating between plans to jail and deport them and allowing them to work in menial jobs.Thousands have concentrated in poor neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv, an area that has become known as "Little Africa." Their presence has sparked tensions with working-class Jewish residents, who have complained of rising crime and pressed the government to take action.On the other hand, a wide coalition of critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the government\'s deportation plans unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants.Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, Holocaust survivors, rabbis, poets and pilots had all appealed to halt the plan. Several mass protests against it have taken place in recent months.As in other recent moves, Netanyahu appears to have been taking his cues from his education minister, Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home party.Bennett and other nationalist allies who dominate Netanyahu\'s coalition had harshly criticized the deal because it would allow thousands of Africans to remain in Israel, even though it also called for them to be dispersed throughout the country and for investments to be made in rehabilitating Tel Aviv\'s impoverished southern neighborhoods.Ironically, their victory raised the possibility of leaving the migrants in Israel for even longer while their status is resolved.Nduhungirehe, Rwanda\'s foreign affairs minister, said that while no deal was ever signed with Israel, his country has a "general open policy" toward the migrants, as long as they come "without any form of constraint."But Oryem, Uganda\'s foreign affairs minister, said his country was not an option.If any migrants deported from Israel arrive in Uganda, "we will insist that the airlines return them to the country where they came from.""We do not have a contract, any understanding, formal or informal, with Israel for them to dump their refugees here," he said.____Associated Press writers Ignatius Ssuuna in Kigali, Rwanda, and Rodney Muhumuza in Kampala, Uganda, contributed to this report.____
SAN FRANCISCO   Scott Pruitt, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, turned his sights this week on a nearly half-century-old federal waiver that allows California to pursue its own, tough tailpipe emission standards, and allows other states to opt in to California\'s standards rather than federal ones if they choose.The waiver has allowed California, the U.S. state with the most people and the biggest economy, to steer the rest of nation toward tougher limits on car and truck emissions that pollute the air and change the climate.Pruitt said this week the agency will work with all states, including California, to set new pollution and mileage standards for gas- and diesel-powered vehicles.Here\'s a look at California\'s unique waiver from federal emissions standards for cars, why it matters to the rest of the country, and what could happen if the Trump administration moves against California\'s ability to set its own vehicle-emissions standards.___WHAT IS THE WAIVER?A combination of climate, geography and a lot of cars and trucks has given California some of the worst smog in the country, especially in the Los Angeles basin and other inland valleys. To fight that, California has regulated vehicle-tailpipe emissions since before 1970, when the EPA and the federal Clean Air Act came into force. Because of that, Congress wrote an exemption into the landmark Clean Air Act: California could seek waivers to set its own limits for pollutants from cars as long as its rules were at least as tough as federal standards. Since then, Democratic and Republican administrations have renewed California\'s waiver dozens of times. A Trump administration challenge would revive an abortive 2007 effort by the Bush administration to block California\'s power to set its own emissions rules.___WHY DOES THE WAIVER MATTER?While the California waiver is unique, at least 12 other states in the Northeast and elsewhere have chosen to opt into the tougher tailpipe emissions standards that California sets. That means up to 40 percent of cars on the road nationwide follow California\'s emissions standards.Gasoline and diesel exhaust is a main source of pollutants and gases that endanger public health and are changing the climate. California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, wants to reduce the state\'s climate-changing greenhouse-gas emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. Receiving continued federal waivers for progressively tougher state emissions standards will be a critical part of that.Currently the federal and California standards are the same.Some car manufacturers and conservative groups want the EPA to roll back federal controls on greenhouse-gas emissions from vehicles, arguing for a single emission standard set by the federal government. That makes the question of whether California\'s waiver survives still more critical nationally.___WHAT HAPPENS IF THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION MOVES AGAINST THE WAIVER?California officials have vowed to fight to preserve the state\'s waiver."We\'re ready to file suit if needed to protect these critical standards and to fight the Administration\'s war on our environment," California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said Monday in a statement. "California didn\'t become the sixth-largest economy in the world by spectating."The Trump administration would have a tough fight legally if it tries to revoke California\'s waiver outright, especially since it\'s stood for nearly a half-century, said Richard Frank, director of the California Environmental Law and Policy Center at the University of California, Davis.California would have "somewhat less of a powerful argument" legally, however, if the Trump administration refuses to renew the waiver the next time the state comes before the EPA with a plan to tighten state emissions rules, Frank said.President George W. Bush\'s administration made its own move against California\'s unique say on emissions standards in 2007, for the first time denying California its waiver.Before courts could decide the matter conclusively, the Obama administration reversed that waiver denial in 2009.

WASHINGTON  A largely Democratic coalition of 17 state attorneys general and seven cities filed a lawsuit Tuesday to block the Trump administration from asking respondents to the 2020 census whether they are citizens, opening a constitutional battle that some experts believe is destined to be settled by the Supreme Court.In the lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in New York, the officials argued that adding the citizenship question would depress the response to the census by noncitizens and their relatives, thwarting the Constitutions requirement of an actual enumeration of the nations residents. The suit also claimed that the decision violated federal administrative law and a law setting standards for data quality.At a news conference announcing the suit, officials and House members representing some of the plaintiff states accused the White House of seeking to destroy the censuss bipartisan tradition for political gain.This is a brazen attempt by the Trump administration to cheat on the census, to undermine the accuracy of the census and to attack states that have large immigrant populations  states, most of which just happen to be Democratic states, said Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York.The decennial count of United States residents, which the Constitution mandates to include both citizens and noncitizens, is used to apportion House seats among the states and to redraw both local and state political boundaries. The head count also determines the allocation of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal grants and subsidies.Seventeen Democratic state attorneys general and seven cities joined the lawsuit, as well as the United States Conference of Mayors, which represents 1,400 cities with both Republican and Democratic leaders. Among the cities was Providence, R.I., where the only full dress rehearsal of the 2020 census is currently underway.The decision to add a citizenship question to the census, announced March 26 by Commerce Secretary Wilbur L. Ross Jr., came too late for the question to be included in the Providence trial.A prolonged legal battle over the issue could complicate preparations for the 2020 count. Census officials said last week that they hope to begin finalizing plans for the census this autumn, and delays in printing  not just census forms, but material to train workers who will ask questions, and public information brochures  could drive up costs.Courts usually have been respectful of these sorts of deadlines, said Robert M. Groves, the provost at Georgetown University and a director of the census during the Obama administration. To the unschooled observer, a census seems like it just cant be that complicated. But there are certain things you just cant postpone.In adding the question to the census, Mr. Ross bypassed the years of testing and evaluation given all other questions, stating that there was only limited evidence that asking respondents whether they were citizens would keep people from participating. But the lawsuit noted that both the Census Bureau and all its living former directors had repeatedly warned since 1980, in lawsuits and congressional testimony, that questioning residents about their immigration status or citizenship would inevitably jeopardize the overall accuracy of the population count.Those concerns have been amplified by the anti-immigrant policies, actions and rhetoric targeting immigrant communities from President Trump and this administration, the lawsuit stated.The suit also argued that the administrations stated reason for gathering citizenship information  to better enforce the 1965 Voting Rights Act  was specious, noting that Trump re-election campaign materials stated that the president officially mandated the inclusion of the question.The filing also claims that by skirting requirements to test the citizenship question, and offering no valid reason for its addition, the Commerce Department violated the Administrative Procedure Act and the Information Quality Act, also known as the Data Quality Act.The procedure act prohibits actions by federal agencies that are arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion. The Information Quality Act requires agencies to set testing and evaluation requirements that result in accurate and reliable data and high response rates by citizens participating in surveys.
WASHINGTON   No specific actions addressing U.S. President Donald Trump's concerns about Amazon.com Inc are on the table at the White House at this time but that could change, a source familiar with proceedings at the White House said on Tuesday.White House officials have said repeatedly that, despite Trump's tweets about Amazon, no specific actions were being formulated.But the source made clear that, given Trump's dissatisfaction with the company, policy changes were possible.(Reporting by Jeff Mason)
NEW YORK   The Latest on Deadspin video illustrating Sinclair stations\' messaging (all times local):8:05 p.m.A Sinclair executive says he finds it curious that the company would be attacked for asking news people to remind the audience that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media.Scott Livingston, Sinclair\'s senior vice president of news, responded Monday to backlash the broadcasting company has received following the rapid spread of a video showing anchors at its stations reading a script criticizing "fake" news stories.Livington calls it "ironic" that the company would "be attacked for messages promoting our journalistic initiative for fair and objective reporting."Sinclair owns nearly 200 local stations, and a video released by Deadspin over the weekend illustrated many of their anchors saying they were concerned about a "troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country." Deadspin said the anchors looked like hostages recording videos to prove they are alive.___10:40 a.m.President Trump is jumping to the defense of the Sinclair Broadcast Group, which is under fire following the rapid spread of a video showing anchors at its stations across the country reading a script criticizing "fake" news stories.Trump tweeted Monday that it was funny to watch "Fake News Networks" criticizing Sinclair for being biased. The president singled out CNN and NBC.Sinclair owns nearly 200 local stations, and a video released by Deadspin over the weekend illustrated many of their anchors saying they were concerned about a "troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country." Deadspin said the anchors looked like hostages recording videos to prove they are alive.There has been no immediate comment from Sinclair.
NEW YORK   A group of U.S. states and cities sued the Trump administration to stop it from asking people filling out 2020 census forms whether they are citizens.The lawsuit by 17 states, Washington D.C. and six cities challenged what they called last week\'s "unconstitutional and arbitrary" decision by the U.S. Department of Commerce, which oversees the Census Bureau, to add the citizenship question.It was also a fresh challenge to what New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, at a press conference announcing the lawsuit, called the administration\'s "anti-immigrant animus."All of the states bringing the case have Democratic attorneys general.They were joined by New York City, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle and Providence, Rhode Island, which all have Democratic mayors, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors.Another state, California, filed a similar lawsuit last week.Asked to comment, a U.S. Department of Justice spokeswoman in an email referred to Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' April 2 statement lamenting how California\'s "meritless" lawsuit forced it to litigate whether the government deserves an "accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections."The U.S. Constitution mandates a decennial census, which is used to determine the drawing of political boundaries, the allocation of seats in Congress and at the state and local level, and the annual distribution of about $700 billion of federal funds.Critics of the citizenship question say it might dissuade immigrants, and perhaps many citizens, from being counted, with a disproportionate impact on Democratic-leaning states.Supporters, including Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, say the question will help the country enforce the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965.A citizenship question has not appeared on the decennial census form since 1950.The lawsuit accused the Trump Administration of violating the Constitution\'s requirement for an "actual enumeration" of the "whole number of persons" every 10 years.At the press conference, Schneiderman called the citizenship question a "blatant effort" by the administration to prevent the Census Bureau from doing its job."This is an affront to our national ideals," Schneiderman said. "This is an affront to the Constitution."The lawsuit said adding the question could particularly exacerbate undercounting of the fast-growing Hispanic population, after an estimated 1.54 percent undercount in 2010.It said the question would add fuel to a threat made in Congressional testimony last June by Thomas Homan, acting director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The lawsuit quoted Homan as saying undocumented immigrants "should be uncomfortable. You should look over your shoulder. And you need to be worried."(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Additional reporting by Makini Brice in Washington, D.C.; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Richard Chang)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHITE HOUSE SEEKS BILL TO CLOSE IMMIGRATION \'LOOPHOLES\'Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters.2. US RAISES PROSPECT OF TRUMP-PUTIN MEETING AT WHITE HOUSEThough no preparations have begun for such a visit, it would be the Russian president\'s first Washington visit in more than a decade.3. NETANYAHU CANCELS DEAL WITH UN TO RESETTLE AFRICAN MIGRANTSThe Israeli prime minister cancels the agreement with the world body after pressure from hawks in his coalition prompted him to suspend it.4. EDUCATORS LEAD RED-STATE REVOLTMany schools will remain closed for a second day in Oklahoma as teachers continue to rally for higher pay and education funding in a rebellion that has hit several GOP-led states.5. \'THAT PERIOD, FOR ME, IS LIKE YESTERDAY\'Martin Luther King Jr.\'s three surviving children have spent much of the past five decades coming to terms with the civil rights leader\'s assassination and legacy.6. IN A CORNER OF SPAIN, A STRUGGLE TO STOP DRUG SMUGGLINGLa Linea de la Concepcion is reeling under an escalating war between authorities and criminal gangs who have turned it into a key entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin into Europe, AP learns.7. WHAT EGYPTIAN ELECTION REVEALEDThe vote for Egypt\'s president produced a surprise runner-up  an unusually large number of invalid ballots, suggesting a possible protest vote against el-Sissi or the election itself.8. JUDGE TO DECIDE IF NAZI \'TROLL STORM\' IS PROTECTED SPEECHA Montana jurist will decide whether a neo-Nazi website publisher has a First Amendment right to unleash a "troll storm" of anti-Semitic and threatening messages against a Jewish family.9. SPOTIFY TO TEST HOW IT PLAYS ON WALL STREETThe No. 1 music streaming service, which has drawn comparisons to Netflix, is about to find out how it plays on the stock market in an unusual IPO.10. VILLANOVA AMONG THE GREATS AFTER NCAA HOOPS WINThe Wildcats beat Michigan 79-62 to become only the fourth program since UCLA to win two titles in the span of three years  joining Duke, Kentucky and Florida.
NEW YORK   The Environmental Protection Agency has exempted one of the nation\'s largest oil refining companies, Andeavor, from complying with U.S. biofuels regulations - a waiver historically reserved for tiny operations in danger of going belly up, two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.The exemption, which applies to the three smallest of Andeavor\'s ten refineries, marks the first evidence of the EPA freeing a highly profitable multi-billion dollar company from the costly mandates of the U.S. Renewable Fuel Standard. The law requires refiners to blend biofuels such as ethanol into gasoline or purchase credits from those who do such blending.The decision, which has not been previously reported, raises the question of whether other big and profitable oil firms with small refineries - such as Exxon Mobil Corp <XOM>, Chevron Corp and Phillips 66 - also have or could receive the waivers, which are granted by the EPA in secret.Such waivers were designed for refineries producing less than 75,000 barrels per day that can demonstrate that they suffer a "disproportionate economic hardship" from the costs of RFS compliance.Andeavor posted net profits of about $1.5 billion last year.The EPA exemption, granted about a month ago, could reduce Andeavor\'s regulatory costs by more than $50 million this year, based on the number of biofuels credits that two brokers say the refiner recently sold into the market, along with previous disclosures by firms that own refineries of a similar size.Biofuels credit prices tied to ethanol dropped by 6 cents, to 38 cents each, after Reuters reported Andeavor\'s exemption, traders said. Andeavor shares jumped by more than 1 percent on the news, hitting a session high of $102.78.Bob Dinneen, head of the Renewable Fuels Association, reacted to the report by calling the exemption an "outrageous abuse" of the law."Providing a small refiner waiver to a company like Andeavor is laughable and abandons the commitment of President Trump to protect the RFS," he said in a statement.U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley, a Republican who represents Iowa - the nation\'s largest corn-growing state - and a staunch defender of the biofuels program, raised questions over the legality of the exemption.Giving Andeavor a free pass when other companies are required to follow the law of the land isnt just unfair, it may be illegal," Grassley said late Tuesday in a statement to Reuters. "It would also amount to a massive government handout to a big corporation that made billions in profits just last year."The exemption releases the firm of its obligation to provide the EPA with biofuels credits proving compliance at the three refineries - two located in North Dakota and one in Utah - for the year 2016, which would have come due this year, the sources said. Andeavor is also asking EPA for a waiver for its 2017 obligations for the same refineries, but has not yet received a decision, the sources said.Andeavor spokeswoman Destin Singleton declined to comment. EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman did not immediately comment in response to Reuters inquiries on Monday and Tuesday.As a matter of policy, the agency refuses to release any information on the waivers, or to name their recipients, citing concerns over disclosing private business information. The EPA denied a Freedom of Information Act request from Reuters seeking information on companies receiving the waivers.Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Phillips 66 also own refineries small enough to meet the barrel-per-day standard, as does billionaire investor and Trump ally Carl Icahn - whose efforts last year to overhaul the biofuels program drew scrutiny from federal investigators.Icahn, majority owner of refiner CVR Energy, had served as an advisor to Trump on regulatory issues during his push to reform biofuels regulations early last year, but he resigned amid allegations that the role gave him a conflict of interest.Spokespeople for all four companies declined to comment on whether they had applied for or received any exemptions.The lucrative waivers are typically only reported if a publicly-traded firm considers them to be material to their financial or operational performance, in which case they must disclose the information through Securities and Exchange Commission filings.The RFS has long been a lightning rod of conflict between the corn lobby, which supports the policy as an engine for demand, and refiners who say it costs them a fortune.The White House has sought to broker a deal between two of its key political constituencies in a series of meetings, but the effort has failed to yield policy changes acceptable to both sides.Ethanol industry advocates argue exemptions for refiners undermine the intent of the law, originally designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reduce dependence on foreign oil and boost farm economies.While the EPA\'s motives in providing hardship waivers are unclear, the exemptions are one of the tools at the administration\'s disposal to ease financial pressure on refiners without undertaking a reform of the RFS policy.EPA chief Scott Pruitt, appointed by Trump, has repeatedly said the RFS is too costly to oil refiners and should be overhauled. But Trump\'s Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, told an agriculture conference in February that Trump "stands with corn farmers, biofuels farmers and the RFS," according to a recording heard by Reuters.White House spokeswoman Kelly Love did not respond to a question about whether the administration was expanding the use of the RFS waivers to help refiners. Bowman, of the EPA, also did not comment on the question.LAWSUIT OVER \'HARDSHIP\' STANDARDAndeavor\'s waiver follows a successful lawsuit by another refiner, Sinclair Oil, last year challenging the strict standard the EPA has used under past administrations for determining financial hardship."The EPA\'s interpretation takes the statutory language too far," wrote Chief Judge Timothy Tymkovich of the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver. "A \'hardship\' is something that makes one\'s life hard or difficult - not just something that makes continued existence impossible."The lawsuit - along with a perception that the Trump administration might be more sympathetic to refiners - has sparked a big increase in applications from refining firms for he exemptions this year. More than 30 refineries have sought the waivers, according to sources familiar with the matter.In a typical year, the EPA would receive about 12 to 15 requests for hardship exemptions and would grant about half of them, a former official familiar with the program told Reuters.EXEMPTIONS SAVE REFINERS BIG BUCKSAndeavor sold some 100 million of those credits to its competitors in recent weeks, according to two brokers in the biofuels credit market. The company otherwise would have needed to provide those credits to the EPA to prove compliance with the RFS.Those credits would be worth about $58 million based ona Reuters calculation ofaveragerenewable fuel RINprices this year.In the past, other companies have said the exemptions they were granted saved them tens of millions of dollars, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings.Last year, for example, HollyFrontier disclosed a reduction of almost $58 million in its costs of credits for two refineries for 2016.Refiners granted exemptions win in two ways: They no longer have to blend biofuels or buy credits to comply with the law, and they can sell any credits they had previously purchased to use for compliance.(Reporting by Jarrett Renshaw and Chris Prentice; Additional reporting by Jessica Resnick-Ault; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Brian Thevenot)
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: Some of the biggest companies in the U.S., including General Electric and Goldman Sachs, are warning the White House about the negative effects of punitive measures against China. Theyre worried theyll be cut off from the worlds most lucrative and fastest-growing market.China has long been accused of unfair economic practices, and the Trump administration has promised to crack down on such behavior. Now China is retaliating. Thats unnerved the markets. Steep declines on Monday left stocks down more than 4 percent this year, and shares had their first quarterly decline since 2015. Heres a snapshot of global markets today. President Trump is making a new push to crack down on those who enter the U.S. illegally, and to make it more difficult to get refuge in the country.For two days, the president has warned that caravans of immigrants are heading toward the U.S. from Central America. We explain what those are. Separately on Monday, Russia pressed Mr. Trump to meet with President Vladimir Putin at the White House, a visit that the Kremlin said Mr. Trump proposed last month. Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency approved a Canadian energy companys pipeline-expansion plan. At the same time, the agencys chief, Scott Pruitt, was renting a condominium linked to the companys lobbying firm.Mr. Pruitt was paying $50 a night for the condo on Capitol Hill, where rates are typically considerably higher. Both the E.P.A. and the lobbying firm deny that there was a connection between the rental and the deals approval. Separately, Mr. Pruitt said on Monday that Obama-era car pollution standards were too high, setting up a fight with California, which has the authority to set its own emissions rules and wants to stick with tougher regulations. We looked at how U.S. fuel economy standards compare with those of other countries. Thousands of teachers in Kentucky and Oklahoma walked off the job on Monday, shutting down schools as they protested cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts and rallies, which followed a similar movement in West Virginia last month, have caught lawmakers and sometimes the teachers labor unions flat-footed. In Kentucky, What Im seeing in Louisville is teachers are a lot more politically engaged than they were in 2015 or 2016, a math teacher said. It really is a wildfire. After a cheerleader for the New Orleans Saints was fired for posting a picture that the team deemed inappropriate to her private Instagram account, a Times reporter reviewed seven of the N.F.L.s cheerleader handbooks.He found stringent rules governing personal hygiene, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons, as well as attire outside the workplace. In some cases, wearing sweatpants in public is forbidden. The N.F.L. declined to comment. Tesla says that it has addressed bottlenecks in production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week. The vehicle is crucial to the companys efforts to shore up its finances. In his first report to Congress as the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney asked lawmakers to severely curb his agencys power and independence. Facebook should consider adding a Why me? button next to all pushed content, our business columnist writes. Nirav Modi has been a jeweler to the stars. Hes now on the run, accused of bank fraud. The chase has both enraged and captivated his homeland, India.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young might create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: I wrote a story about dulse a while ago. This led to a lot of people asking me what it is, and where it comes from.The short answer is that its seaweed, and a lot of it comes from Grand Manan, in New Brunswick.Check out this beautiful short film by Tory Lovekin, Dark Harbour Dollar: Dulse, for more. [Vimeo] Sam Sifton, food editor In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81. 130 miles, 26 checkpointsFew American reporters have spent more time reporting from Iraq in the last 15 years than Alissa J. Rubin, who was Baghdad bureau chief for The Times at the height of the conflict.She returned to the region in January and, in a drive to the Iraq-Syria border, found that competing military and militia groups had set up checkpoints everywhere. Heres her account of the journey. The mummy and the F.B.I.A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. So F.B.I. forensic scientists were called in to crack the coldest of cases. Villanova makes it look easyThe Wildcats completed a dominant run through the N.C.A.A. mens basketball tournament, crushing Michigan, 79-62.Its the second title in three years for Villanova, whose star on Monday was Donte DiVincenzo and his 31 points. Best of late-night TVThe comedy hosts were puzzled after President Trump declared April to be National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. April is also National Presidential Unawareness Month, Jimmy Fallon said. Quotation of the dayWere going to have a lot of teachers at the ballot box who I dont think would normally go in a midterm year. If I were a legislator right now, Id be honestly sweating bullets. Noah Karvelis, an elementary school music teacher in Arizona fighting for better pay. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

WASHINGTON  The Trump administration said on Tuesday that 11.8 million people had signed up for health insurance through the Affordable Care Act marketplaces for 2018  roughly 400,000 fewer than last year. The drop was relatively small, given that Mr. Trump had sharply cut federal outreach efforts and the open enrollment period was half as long as in past years.Virtually the entire decrease came in the 39 states that use the marketplace run by the federal government, HealthCare.gov. In the 11 states that sell coverage for the Affordable Care Act  popularly known as Obamacare  through their own marketplaces, enrollment remained the same as last year. Seema Verma, the administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, congratulated her agency in a Twitter post on the most cost-effective and successful open enrollment to date!Yet Ms. Verma, who frequently echoes Mr. Trumps attacks on the health law, also said on Twitter that Americans continue to experience skyrocketing premiums and limited choice under the law.According to the agency's final enrollment report, monthly premiums for federal marketplace customers before any subsidy was applied rose by 30 percent this year, to $621 from $476. Subsidies are covering about 86 percent, on average, of the premium cost for those who qualify.New customers made up about 27 percent of the total enrollment, down from 31 percent last year. The share of customers younger than 35 dropped slightly, while the share of customers older than 55 grew slightly. In all, 83 percent qualified for subsidies that lowered the cost of their premiums, often significantly. Only people with incomes between 100 percent and 400 percent of the poverty level  for an individual, between $12,140 and $48,560  can get subsidies, with the poorest customers getting the most help.The administration should view this report as further evidence for the need for healthy and robust health insurance marketplaces, said Joshua Peck, who was the chief marketing officer for HealthCare.gov in the Obama administration and now advocates on behalf of the health law.Mr. Trumps decision last fall to halt a certain type of payment to insurers was initially expected to hurt enrollment, but it actually ended up helping people who qualify for premium subsidies. Insurers and state regulators worked together to find a way to protect them from cost increases.Customers who did not qualify for subsidies had no such protection. As a result, Ms. Verma said, they chose plans that were 18 percent less expensive, on average, than those chosen by people with subsidies.The laws future remains uncertain despite the failure of Republican efforts to repeal it last year. The tax cut that Congress passed this year repeals the laws tax penalties for Americans who go without insurance, starting next year, which is likely to lead to further drops in enrollment.And Ms. Vermas agency has proposed expanding the availability of short-term insurance, which she said on Tuesday would provide additional options to Americans who cannot afford to pay the costs of soaring health care premiums. Such plans are cheaper, but they skirt provisions of the health law and may not cover pre-existing conditions or basic medical needs.In a poll released on Tuesday by the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, 53 percent of respondents said they believed that the Affordable Care Act marketplaces were collapsing. But some experts believe that the market has stabilized, with many insurers no longer losing money.
After rising through the ranks of comedy with roles on Saturday Night Live and 30 Rock, Tracy Morgan gets his own sitcom. And the comic-book show Legion returns on FX. THE LAST O.G. 10:30 p.m. on TBS. Tracy Morgan stars as Tray, a former drug dealer who returns to his gentrified Brooklyn neighborhood after a 15-year prison stint and is baffled by how much has changed. While staying in a halfway house, Tray tries to make amends with his ex-girlfriend (Tiffany Haddish), build a relationship with two children he didnt know he fathered and redeem the time he lost. The show speaks to Mr. Morgans own experiences: He sold drugs before becoming a comedian, and survived a near-fatal car accident a few years ago. This shows about redemption, Mr. Morgan said in an interview with The New York Times.MY LITTLE LIFE 10 p.m. on TLC. This new reality series follows five little people from across the country as they grapple with the complications of living in a world that doesnt accommodate their needs, as well as run-of-the-mill issues like family troubles, work-life balance and the search for love. The 16th season premiere of Little People, Big World leads in at 9 p.m.LEGION 10 p.m. on FX. In Season 1, David (Dan Stevens) learned that the voices he hears and the visions he sees are symptoms of his telepathy. Specialists helped him realize that he had been haunted by a being known as the Shadow King. After an orb whisked David away, Season 2 picks up with the search for him and the Shadow King, whos on the loose in the form of Davids therapists husband (Jemaine Clement). Though Legion is based on a story from Marvels X-Men franchise, its no ordinary comic-book show, James Poniewozik wrote in The Times.THE QUAD 10 p.m. on BET. Georgia A&M, the fictional historically black university at the center of this drama, has had a tumultuous spring semester. After dealing with a virus outbreak, violent protests and an announcement of a merger with Georgias public and predominantly white university system, the students take matters into their own hands in this Season 2 finale.MAKE AMERICA GREAT-A-THON: A PRESIDENT SHOW SPECIAL 11 p.m. on Comedy Central.  The creator and star of The President Show, Anthony Atamanuik, is back as President Trump in an hourlong special in which he hosts a telethon to fund projects. Peter Grosz returns as Vice President Mike Pence and Kathy Griffin makes her first appearance in a TV role since the photo that depicted her holding the severed head of Mr. Trump drew condemnation last year.PHILADELPHIA (1993) on iTunes and Amazon. After a prestigious law firm fires Andrew (Tom Hanks) under questionable circumstances, he sues the company over AIDS discrimination with the only lawyer (Denzel Washington) willing to defend him. Watch for moving performances and a stellar soundtrack.
HOUSTON   President Donald Trump's announcement that he wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border echoes the response of Texas leaders during a surge of Central American children crossing the Rio Grande four years ago.Former Gov. Rick Perry ordered the Texas National Guard to deploy along the Rio Grande in July 2014. About 1,000 guardsmen were eventually deployed. Around 100 guardsmen remain there.Perry sent the National Guard because he said former President Barack Obama's administration had failed to secure the border.Perry is now Trump's energy secretary. His successor in Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott, has ramped up the state's border security spending and maintained state troopers and resources along the border.But critics and nonpartisan observers question whether the guardsmen and the extra spending have improved security.
NEW YORK   Seventeen states, the District of Columbia and six cities sued the U.S. government Tuesday, saying the addition of a citizenship question to the census form is unconstitutional.The Trump administration\'s decision to ask people about their citizenship has set off worries among Democrats that immigrants will dodge the survey altogether, diluting political representation for states that tend to vote Democratic and robbing many communities of federal dollars.Supporters of the plan for the 2020 census argue that obtaining more data on the voting-age population of citizens than current surveys are providing will help the Justice Department enforce the Voting Rights Act, which protects minority voting rights. It would be the first time in 70 years that the government used the census form sent to every household to ask people to specify whether they are U.S. citizens.New York Attorney General Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat who announced the new lawsuit in Manhattan federal court, said the plans would have a "devastating effect on New York, where we have millions of immigrants."The lawsuit, also brought by the bipartisan U.S. Conference of Mayors, said adding the citizenship question was arbitrary and would "fatally undermine the accuracy of the population count." It asked for a ruling that the citizenship demand is unauthorized and unconstitutional.A government spokesman did not immediately comment. The Justice Department has said it "looks forward to defending the reinstatement of the citizenship question." The Commerce Department has said the benefits of obtaining citizenship information "outweighed the limited potential adverse impacts."The defendants in the lawsuit are the U.S. Department of Commerce, responsible for the census, and the Bureau of the Census. Plaintiffs include New York, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, Vermont, Washington, the District of Columbia, New York City, Chicago, Philadelphia, Rhode Island, San Francisco, Seattle and Providence, Rhode Island.California\'s attorney general filed a similar lawsuit last week.___This story has been corrected to remove the reference that several states have joined a separate lawsuit filed by California. They have not.
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration on Tuesday escalated its aggressive actions on trade by proposing 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing\'s policies that require foreign companies to hand over their technology.China immediately said it would retaliate against the new tariffs, which target high-tech industries that Beijing has been nurturing, from advanced manufacturing and aerospace to information technology and robotics.The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative issued a list targeting 1,300 Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecommunications equipment. The suggested tariffs wouldn\'t take effect right away: A public comment period will last until May 11, and a hearing on the tariffs is set for May 15. Companies and consumers will have the opportunity to lobby to have some products taken off the list or have others added.The latest U.S. move risks heightening trade tensions with China, which on Monday had slapped taxes on $3 billion in U.S. products in response to earlier U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports."China\'s going to be compelled to lash back," warned Philip Levy, a senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs and an economic adviser to President George W. Bush.Early Wednesday in Beijing, China\'s Commerce Ministry said it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs and warned of retaliatory action."We will prepare equal measures for U.S. products with the same scale" according to regulations in Chinese trade law, a ministry spokesman said in comments carried by the official Xinhua News Agency.The U.S. sanctions are intended to punish China for deploying strong-arm tactics in its drive to become a global technology power. These include pressuring American companies to share technology to gain access to the Chinese market, forcing U.S. firms to license their technology in China on unfavorable terms and even hacking into U.S. companies\' computers to steal trade secrets.The administration sought to draw up the list of targeted Chinese goods in a way that might limit the impact of the tariffs  a tax on imports  on American consumers while hitting Chinese imports that benefit from Beijing\'s sharp-elbowed tech policies. But some critics warned that Americans will end up being hurt."If you\'re hitting $50 billion in trade, you\'re inevitably going to hurt somebody, and somebody is going to complain," said Rod Hunter, a former economic official at the National Security Council and now a partner at Baker & McKenzie LLP.Kathy Bostjancic of Oxford Economics predicted that the tariffs "would have just a marginal impact on the U.S. economy"  unless they spark "a tit-for-tat retaliation that results in a broad-based global trade war."Representatives of American business, which have complained for years that China has pilfered U.S. technology and discriminated against U.S. companies, were nevertheless critical of the administration\'s latest action."Unilateral tariffs may do more harm than good and do little to address the problems in China\'s (intellectual property) and tech transfer policies," said John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council.Even some technology groups that are contending directly with Chinese competition expressed misgivings."The Trump administration is right to push back against China\'s abuse of economic and trade policy," said Robert Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation think tank.However, he said the proposed U.S. tariffs "would hurt companies in the U.S. by raising the prices and reducing consumption of the capital equipment they rely on to produce their goods and services.""The focus should be on things that will create the most leverage over China without raising prices and dampening investment in the kinds of machinery, equipment, and other technology that drives innovation and productivity across the economy," Atkinson added.The United States has become increasingly frustrated with China\'s aggressive efforts to overtake American technological supremacy. And many have argued that Washington needed to respond aggressively."The Chinese are bad trading partners because they steal intellectual property," said Derek Scissors, a China specialist at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.In January, a federal court in Wisconsin convicted a Chinese manufacturer of wind turbines, Sinovel Wind Group, of stealing trade secrets from the American company AMSC and nearly putting it out of business.And in 2014, a Pennsylvania grand jury indicted five officers in the Chinese People\'s Liberation Army on charges of hacking into the computers of Westinghouse, US Steel and other major American companies to steal information that would benefit their Chinese competitors.To target China, Trump dusted off a Cold War weapon for trade disputes: Section 301 of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, which lets the president unilaterally impose tariffs. It was meant for a world in which much of global commerce wasn\'t covered by trade agreements. With the arrival in 1995 of the Geneva-based World Trade Organization, Section 301 largely faded from use.Dean Pinkert of the law firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed, found it reassuring that the administration didn\'t completely bypass the WTO: As part of its complaint, the U.S. is bringing a WTO case against Chinese licensing policies that put U.S. companies at a disadvantage.China has been urging the United States to seek a negotiated solution and warning that it would retaliate against any trade sanctions. Beijing could counterpunch by targeting American businesses that depend on the Chinese market: Aircraft manufacturer Boeing, for instance, or American soybean farmers, who send nearly 60 percent of their exports to China.Rural America has been especially worried about the risk of a trade war. Farmers are especially vulnerable targets in trade spats because they rely so much on foreign sales."Beijing right now is trying to motivate US stakeholders to press the Trump Administration to enter into direct negotiations with China and reach a settlement before tariffs are imposed," the Eurasia Group consultancy said in a research note."The next couple of weeks will be very interesting," says Kristin Duncanson, a soybean, corn and hog farmer in Mapleton, Minnesota.____AP writer Gillian Wong in Beijing contributed to this report.____
 Three people were injured by gunfire, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTubes headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., on Tuesday afternoon. The San Bruno Police Department identified the attacker, who died of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s. President Trump has been briefed and tweeted thoughts and prayers to the victims.Here is the latest information on the attack.Chief Ed Barberini of the San Bruno Police Department said at a news conference that three victims had been transported away with gunshot wounds. He had previously indicated that there were four shooting victims; the discrepancy stemmed from the fact that at least one person was injured while fleeing the building but not shot.The gunshot victims were taken to Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital, the only Level 1 trauma center in San Francisco. Brent Andrew, a spokesman for the hospital, said at a news conference that a 36-year-old man was in critical condition, a 32-year-old woman in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman in fair condition.(READ MORE: Law enforcement officials were still investigating the attack at the YouTube headquarters Tuesday.)Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google, which owns YouTube, said in a statement late Tuesday afternoon that Google was doing everything we can to support them and their families at this time.The police found a woman, believed to be the attacker and later identified as Ms. Aghdam, dead in the building from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Social media postings associated with her included a video in which she criticized YouTube.Chief Barberini said that the suspect had used a handgun, and that there was no evidence of a second attacker.Ms. Aghdams gender is noteworthy because mass shootings are almost always perpetrated by men. An F.B.I. study released in 2014 found that, from 2000 to 2013, women were responsible for only six of 160 mass shootings in the United States.When the police arrived, two minutes after receiving 911 calls, they had to wade through YouTube employees fleeing the building.Many employees interviewed outside said they had initially thought the episode was a fire drill. Others said they ran when people started shouting that there was a shooter.Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said in an interview that he had been sitting at his desk when the fire alarm went off, and that he grabbed his electric skateboard and headed for the back exit. As he rode down a gravel hill, he said, he heard someone shouting and saw a man lying motionless in one of the offices outdoor dining areas.He had a red spot on his stomach, and he was lying on his back, not moving, Mr. Vorhies said. I saw the blood soak through the shirt.About 25 feet away from the victim, he said, a heavyset man wearing gray was shouting, Come at me! Mr. Vorhies thought the man was the attacker, but he did not see a gun, and said it was possible the man had actually been taunting the shooter.The dining area can be reached from an adjacent parking structure without an employee badge, Mr. Vorhies said.In a nearby parking lot to which 200 or so employees had evacuated, armed police officers waded into the crowd. The police asked for employees who had witnessed something firsthand to come forward, and about two dozen people, some visibly distraught, walked over to the officers.Vadim Lavrusik, a YouTube employee who formerly worked for The New York Times, tweeted just before 1 p.m. that there was an active shooter at YouTube HQ and that he had heard shots and saw people running while at my desk. He said that he was barricaded in a room with co-workers, but moments later tweeted that he had been safely evacuated.By 2:15 p.m., President Trump had been briefed on the shooting, and Cameron Rogers Polan, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Division of the F.B.I., said in an email that the agency was in contact with the San Bruno police. The San Francisco division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives tweeted that it, too, was responding to the attack.Rattled by a mass shooting in their midst, several Silicon Valley giants tweeted their concern  and acknowledged the role their own platforms had played in spreading false information during this and other violence.Were also aware of the misinformation being spread on Twitter, Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter, tweeted. Were tracking, learning, and taking action.
WASHINGTON   The government of Aung San Suu Kyi is opening the economy and growth is rebounding in Myanmar, though the possibility of broader Western sanctions over the Rohingya refugee crisis is nevertheless giving some foreign investors pause, according to a senior IMF official.Shanaka Jay Peiris, the International Monetary Fund\'s (IMF) mission chief to Myanmar, said in a recent interview that initial data reviewed by the IMF indicated that some foreign investors were delaying final approval of projects until there was clarity about how the situation may unfold."The numbers we have for FDI (foreign direct investment) aren\'t showing it yet ... but foreign investment approvals are slowing down, so there is some indicator that going forward FDI may be weaker," Peiris told Reuters following the publication last week of the IMF\'s latest review of Myanmar\'s economy."Since August, investors are taking a pause. It isn\'t a surprise," he said. He said it was unclear which projects were being delayed and added that more data was necessary to better understand whether the "pause" was temporary or not.However, leading indicators such as FDI project amounts approved by Myanmar\'s government for the first 10 months of fiscal 2017/18 from April show "a marked slowdown" since September 2017, according to the IMF.For now, FDI inflows for 2017/18 still look to be a "solid number," Peiris added.While it is too soon to know what it could mean for the overall economy, Peiris said: "We have to see whether project approvals were temporarily lower or will be a trend, as well as whether actual FDI inflows will fall by much. The magnitude would also matter.""We are not operating under the assumption that there are going to be broad economic sanctions," he added, downplaying the risk of a decline.Myanmar government spokesman Zaw Htay said that, "Especially in Myanmar, because of the Rakhine issue, tourism has come down, investments and FDI have come down too," adding that the authorities were working hard to ensure macroeconomic stability.The report by the IMF, which follows annual consultations with the government, followed a November visit to Myanmar, the first since nearly 700,000 Rohingya fled to Bangladesh after a military crackdown condemned by the international community.The World Bank announced on Oct. 13 it was delaying the release of $200 million in budget support for Myanmar in response to the "forced displacement of the Rohingya."Both the United States and Canada imposed sanctions against a general in Myanmar\'s military for his role in the crackdown against the Muslim Rohingya. The European Union said in February it was preparing sanctions against military leaders to hold them accountable for their role in the crisis.The Trump administration\'s aid chief, Mark Green, said last month he will visit Myanmar soon for talks with the government and see for himself conditions of the Rohingya refugees.TARGETED SANCTIONSPeiris said the IMF believed that any more Western sanctions would likely target individuals in the military and not the  economy."If the sanctions are limited to the military personnel, which has been the case to now, we believe it will be less of an impact" on the economy," Peiris said. "If it is broader, it would be more worrying."Overall, the IMF sees economic growth picking up towards an estimated potential rate of about 7-7.5 percent after lower-than-expected growth of 5.9 percent in 2016/17.The United States remains concerned about the plight of the Rohingya, a Treasury official told Reuters, declining to comment on the status of sanctions investigations. Another U.S. official said the Trump administration was reviewing all options on Myanmar.When asked by Reuters how concerned the government was about more sanctions, the Myanmar spokesman said such actions would affect "the whole country" because Myanmar was no longer a military dictatorship but instead run by "a democratic government elected by the people.""They shouldn\'t do the economic sanctions," the government spokesman said. "If the investments are affected, then it affects the people."OPENING UPThe IMF visit came shortly before Myanmar introduced regulations to bring the country\'s banks closer to international standards and force them to recover mostly open-ended "overdraft loans" that make up the bulk of their lending.Mynamar\'s central bank deputy governor, Soe Thein, told Reuters in November that private banks had been given more time to clear most of their loan books.Private banks account for more than half of banking system assets and the largest six private banks hold around 80 percent of private bank assets, according to the IMF.The new rules compel banks to open their books to the central bank, and Peiris said initial data raised concerns about the need for more bank capital."It is more fragile than what has been published, so banks will have to raise capital and recognise losses," he said."The question is whether owners are willing to put up the money, and if they can\'t, will they try to find partners? How that will evolve is hard to tell but they will need more capital," he said. The Fund would have a better perspective of the situation during its next visit later this year, he said."We and the central bank do have a sense that it is a significant issue," he added.Asked whether the government agreed with the IMF assessment on the banks, the Myanmar government spokesman said reforms were important to build economic stability."It is necessary to be careful," he said, "We cannot afford to make any mistakes."(Additional reporting by Shoon Naing in Yangon; editing by Daniel Wallis and Tom Brown)

NEW DELHI  The Indian government called the decree a crackdown on fake news. It lasted less than a day.On Monday evening, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting abruptly announced that it would penalize journalists who spread fake news, the term popularized by President Trump to disparage what he has regarded as unfair coverage of his 2016 American presidential campaign and first year in office.The term is now widely used around the world by authoritarian politicians and governments to describe reporting that they find objectionable.Members of Indias freewheeling press expressed shock and outrage at the announcement, seeing the hidden hand of Prime Minister Narendra Modi  who enjoys warm relations with Mr. Trump  to quell negative media coverage ahead of Indias general election next year.Within hours of the reaction, Mr. Modis government annulled the announcement without explanation on Tuesday morning. Press Release regarding Fake News uploaded last evening stands withdrawn, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said on its website.The U-turn was welcomed by free-press advocates who worry about what they see as a global threat in the guise of prohibitions on news deemed by governments to be false. Malaysias lower house of Parliament just approved a measure threatening spreaders of fake news with prison sentences.But some Indian journalists said the original announcement might have been meant to test the tolerance of news media outlets for more restrictions. They noted that journalists critical of leaders from Mr. Modis Bharatiya Janata Party had been under pressure since the party came to power in 2014.The original announcement said journalists found to have written or broadcast fake news would lose their official accreditation.Make no mistake: this is a breathtaking assault on mainstream media, Shekhar Gupta, a prominent journalist, wrote on Twitter before the amendment was withdrawn.The penalties in the original announcement did not apply to independent or partisan digital media outlets, some of them regarded in India as major disseminators of fake news. These platforms are not regulated by the two main media regulatory bodies, the Press Council of India or the News Broadcasters Association. Instead, the rules would have been felt primarily by large, established outlets.In its original announcement, since taken offline, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said that guidelines for the accreditation of journalists were being amended to counter increasing instances of fake news in various mediums. The statement did not define fake news or provide guidelines about who could lodge complaints against journalists.The statement said a journalists accreditation would be revoked for six months after a first violation, one year after a second violation and permanently after three violations. It also said that once a complaint against a journalist was registered, his or her accreditation would be suspended until a determination had been made.An accreditation is not required in India but is regarded as critical for access to news makers. Accredited journalists in India face fewer security clearances when visiting government offices and are eligible for subsidized train travel, among other benefits.Smriti Irani, who runs the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, had said on Twitter that complaints against journalists would be handled by the Press Council of India and the News Broadcasters Association. She said neither body was controlled by the government.Rajat Sharma, the president of the News Broadcasters Association, said that his group had not been consulted before the announcement on Monday. M. V. Shreyams Kumar, the vice president of the association, called the announcement ridiculous.This whole exercise is to curb the freedom of the press, Mr. Kumar said.Ms. Irani, after arguing the measures merits on Twitter with journalists and opposition figures, was taking a more conciliatory tone by midday Tuesday, inviting journalists to meet with her and provide suggestions so that together we can fight the menace of fake news & uphold ethical journalism.Raj Kamal Jha, the chief editor of The Indian Express, said, Of course, fake news pollutes public discourse but whose fake news is it anyway?Spin, cheap shot, empty boast, outright lie, innocent mistake, an oversight  who gets to decide whats fake, whats not? he continued. Thats why the governments order last night using fake news as an excuse to punish journalists was an assault on the freedom of the press.The Indian Express reported on Tuesday that at least 13 government ministers, including Ms. Irani, had tweeted a link to an article claiming to have exposed four major fake news stories. The article, on a website called The True Picture, accused sections of the media of supporting the opposition and trying to portray the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party in a bad light.The Indian Express reported that the website shared a phone number with a company involved in publishing a childrens book written by Mr. Modi. Employees of the company, Bluekraft Digital Foundation, said they did not run the website.
HONG KONG   Asian stock markets were mixed in early trading Wednesday as investors pondered the latest volley of tariff measures and threats between the U.S. and China.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 dipped 0.1 percent to 21,271.03 and South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 2,432.83. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng edged 0.1 percent higher to 30,198.18 and the Shanghai Composite added 0.6 percent to 3,154.88. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 edged 0.1 percent lower to 5,745.60. Shares fell in Singapore.TARIFF TENSIONS: In the latest salvo escalating the U.S.-China trade dispute, the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion worth of imports from China to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of U.S. technology. China\'s Commerce Ministry responded quickly to the announcement, which came after U.S. trading ended, by vowing to retaliate with measures of equal strength to be announced soon. Earlier this week, China rocked world markets when it said it would impose tariffs on a small number of imports from the U.S. but this time the reaction in Asia appeared more measured.INVESTOR INSIGHT: "The much-anticipated U.S. tariffs list finally saw the light of day and would be one for markets to digest in today\'s session," said Jingyi Pan, market strategist at IG. "China\'s response following the release had provided little fresh insights as the market had been well aware that retaliation steps are expected to follow." Pan noted that investors in mainland China may be extra cautious as they head into a long weekend starting Thursday.WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended higher after a late rally. The S&P 500 index rose 1.3 percent to 2,614.45. It dropped 2.2 percent a day earlier. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.6 percent to 24,033.36. The Nasdaq composite climbed 1 percent to 6,941.28.CURRENCIES: The dollar slipped to 106.49 yen from 106.62 yen in late trading Tuesday. The euro rose to $1.2283 from $1.2272.ENERGY: Oil\'s rally fizzled. A barrel of U.S. crude lost 18 cents to $63.33 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract gained 50 cents to settle at $63.51 on Tuesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 21 cents to $67.91 a barrel in London.
Before reading the article:Do you attend music concerts?If so, where do you buy tickets, and what kinds of fees are placed on the purchase?Do you think tickets are overpriced? Why or why not?What do you know about the booking of music talent, the selection of venues and the selling of tickets for concerts?Now, read the article, Live Nation Rules Music Ticketing, Some Say With Threats, and answer the following questions: 1. What concerned the critics of the merger of Ticketmaster and Live Nation in 2010, and why?2. What was the consent decree negotiated as part of the merger approval designed to do, according to the article, and has it achieved its aim?3. What are the details the article gives about the Department of Justices inquiries into possible antitrust violations and Live Nations behavior in the marketplace?4. Under the subheading Multiple Incomes, what is the problem with the possibility Live Nation has become too big and too empowered by the merger, and why?5. Under the subheading Talent Needs, what happened to AEG officials when they considered replacing Ticketmaster with their own ticketing service, and why did AEG complain about the incident to the Justice Department?6. Under the subheading A Regulators Quandary, what was Live Nations response to the Los Angeles Football Clubs complaint to Major League Soccer that Live Nation had threatened to withhold talent?7. Under the subheading A Regulators Quandary, do you think the case demonstrates bullying on the part of Live Nation, or just a business decision? Why?Finally, tell us more about what you think: Do you think Live Nation has gotten too big and too powerful? Why or why not?The Timess David Leonhardt wrote an Opinion essay, Big Business Is Too Big, that begins:Do you think, as Mr. Leonhardt does, that the United States has an oligopoly problem  a concentration of corporate power that has been building for years and that aggravates inequality?Why or why not, and if so, what should be done about it
WASHINGTON   A Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced Tuesday to 30 days in prison in the first punishment handed down in the special counsel\'s Russia investigation. He was also ordered to pay a $20,000 fine.Alex van der Zwaan\'s sentence could set a guidepost for what other defendants charged with lying in special counsel Robert Mueller\'s investigation may receive when their cases are resolved. Among them are a former White House national security adviser and a Trump campaign foreign policy aide.Van der Zwaan, 33, had faced up to six months in prison under federal sentencing guidelines, and his attorneys had pushed for him to pay a fine and leave the country.But U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson, citing the need to deter others from lying in an investigation of international importance, said incarceration was necessary."These were not mistakes. These were lies," Jackson told van der Zwaan as he stood before her. Being able to "write a check and walk away," she added later, would not fit the seriousness of the crime or send the right message.The criminal case against van der Zwaan is not directly related to Russian election interference, the main focus of Mueller\'s probe. But it has revealed new details about the government\'s case against Manafort and opened a window into the intersecting universes of international law, foreign consulting work and politics.The case has also exposed connections between senior Trump campaign aides, including Rick Gates, and Russia. Just last week, the government disclosed that van der Zwaan and Gates spoke during the 2016 presidential campaign with a man Gates had previously described as having ties to the GRU, Russia\'s military intelligence agency. Gates is now cooperating with Mueller.During the hearing Tuesday, van der Zwaan made only a brief statement, telling Jackson, "Your Honor, what I did was wrong. I apologize to the court. I apologize to my wife."Van der Zwaan, who was fired last year by the high-powered international law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, admitted in February to lying to federal agents about his contacts with Gates and the person with ties to Russian intelligence.Van der Zwaan had previously grown close to Manafort, Gates and the person, Konstantin Kilimnik, during his work on a 2012 report commissioned by the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice. The report, written by the law firm, was about the corruption trial of former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Kilimnik, who was born in Ukraine while it was a Soviet republic, has previously denied having any relation to Russian intelligence services.Though prosecutors did not take a position on whether van der Zwaan should be locked up, they stressed that he had lied "repeatedly" to investigators. "This is not an isolated instance of bad judgment or criminal conduct," prosecutor Andrew Weissmann said.Van der Zwaan\'s attorneys argued that he had suffered enough already. His life has been destroyed by his "terrible decision" to lie to federal authorities, they said. The attorneys pushed Jackson to allow van der Zwaan to return to London, where he lives with his wife, who is going through a difficult pregnancy."He has been here well over four months without a home, without his wife and without his family," his attorney, William Schwartz, said. "He is literally in limbo."Schwartz stressed that his client had made the effort to return to the U.S. to "correct the record" after he lied to the special counsel\'s office, though prosecutors took issue with the characterization, noting that van der Zwaan was under a grand jury subpoena at the time.Jackson said she recognized that van der Zwaan has been away from his family for months, but the defense\'s attempts to paint him as a tragic figure didn\'t ring true."This is not something that happened to him. He did not suffer unavoidable circumstances of tragedy. This is something he did," she said.Jackson also said his signs of remorse were relatively "muted." He didn\'t write a letter to the judge, as his family and friends did, and hasn\'t used his time in the U.S. to perform community service or other good deeds to make up for his actions, she said.In addition to the prison time and fine, Jackson imposed two months of supervised released. She allowed him to voluntarily surrender to prison authorities.The sentencing came just hours after another development in the special counsel\'s investigation.In a court filing late Monday, prosecutors revealed that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein had in August explicitly authorized the special counsel to investigate allegations that Manafort colluded with the Russian government.Manafort has challenged Mueller\'s authority and asked a judge to dismiss charges against him that include acting as an unregistered foreign agent and conspiring to launder tens of millions of dollars he received from his Ukrainian political consulting. He said Mueller overstepped his bounds by charging him for conduct that occurred years before the 2016 presidential election.But in their new filing , prosecutors revealed that Rosenstein  who appointed Mueller  specifically authorized the investigation of any crimes related to payments Manafort received from the Ukrainian government during the tenure of former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. The description largely captures the charges against him.Rosenstein also empowered Mueller to investigate allegations Manafort "committed a crime or crimes by colluding with Russian government officials" to interfere with the presidential election.None of the charges Manafort faces alleges coordination with the Kremlin. He has pleaded not guilty and denied any wrongdoing related to Russian election interference.___Associated Press writer Eric Tucker contributed to this report.___
 Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching: Spotifys shares opened at $165.90. If the markets fall again, we have some possible explanations. Should Facebook offer Why Me? buttons? Disney has offered to buy Sky News to help Foxs Sky bid.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Spotify is a loss-making company that might not report a profit until next decade, but that didnt stop investors from valuing the company at $30 billion when it debuted Tuesday on the United States stock market.Spotify is an impressive company. Its loyal, paying customer base is enormous and is expected to keep growing. Also, Spotify has so far held its own in the face of competition from Apple, Amazon and Google, all of which want to win new subscribers to their music streaming services.But there is an important reason that Wall Street is flocking to Spotify: It is doing a great job at getting record companies to roll over.Spotifys main cost is what it pays record companies for the music it streams to its customers. As Spotify has grown, that expense has fallen as a share of its total revenue, which shows that Spotify is negotiating increasingly advantageous deals with record companies.That has bolstered Spotifys gross profit margin, which measures how much money a company keeps after paying out the costs directly related to generating its revenue. Last year, that margin was 21 percent of revenue at Spotify, well up from 14 percent in 2016.Crucially, though, Spotify has said it expects its gross margin to expand to as much as 35 percent over the longer term. In other words, as Spotifys spending on music grows, so will its leverage over record companies. And it may well achieve its gross margin target. After all, Netflix, which occupies a similar position in the market for streaming video, has a gross margin of 35 percent.But Spotifys main rivals could complicate things. What if Amazon offered record companies better terms than Spotify? That would reduce Spotifys bargaining power, making it harder to deliver wider gross margins investors are expecting. And Amazon, along with Apple and Google, has far deeper pockets to slog it out over the long term. Peter EavisSpotifys unusual path to the public markets was a success.On its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the music streaming service finished with a valuation of $26.5 billion.Spotifys shares opened at $165.90 before closing at $149.01.Thats well above the high of $132.50 that its shares changed hands at in private transactions this year. Its also well above the $137.50 the WSJ reported its private shares were trading at during the past week.Spotify had eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing. That meant there was no deal price for investors to reference on the first day of trading and no underwriters acting as stabilizing agents if the stock began to plunge.Despite all that, Spotifys valuation at the close on Tuesday ranks among the highest for a tech company debuting on an American exchange.Heres a look at the tech companies with the 10 biggest market capitalizations after their first day of trading, courtesy of Dealogic:Alibaba  $233.9 billionFacebook  $81.7 billionPalm  $53.3 billionInfineon Technologies  $47.9 billionJD.com  $28.9 billionSnap  $28.9 billionGoogle  $27.2 billionSpotify  $26.5 billionTwitter  $24.9 billionAgilent  $20.1 billionShares of the electric carmaker are up 3.3 percent Tuesday after the company released production data Tuesday that showed progress in producing its mass-market Model 3.Tesla said: It built 2,020 Model 3s in the past seven days. That fell short of its goal of 2,500 by the end of the quarter. Tesla produced 9,766 Model 3s during the quarter. In total, Tesla produced 35,000 cars in the first quarter. It has delivered 8,800 Model 3s during the first quarter, below the 8,800 analysts expected according to Bloomberg. In all, Tesla delivered a record 29,980 vehicles during the quarter. The company said it expects Model 3 weekly production to reach 5,000 by the end of the second quarter. The combined deliveries of the Model X and Model S came to 21,800 cars, the lowest total in several quarters.ContextTeslas stock and bond prices have plunged amid concerns about how much cash the company is using as it struggles to speed up assembly and sales of the Model 3. With a starting price of $35,000, the car is supposed to be more affordable than Teslas other cars. The company has been counting on a quick expansion of its Model 3 business to increase revenue.The president reiterated his claim that Amazon is costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money in a post to Twitter on Tuesday morning.Shares are essentially flat on the day.The accusation is the latest in a string of critical tweets that began Thursday about the e-commerce giant. As The Associated Press pointed out over the weekend, Mr. Trump is misrepresenting Amazons record with the United States Postal Service.Could Mr. Tumps criticism lead to action against Amazon?Gabriel Sherman over at Vanity Fair reports on a few of the ideas being tossed around, including pushing for the Postal Service to renegotiate its contract with Amazon and encouraging attorneys general in red states to open investigations into Amazons business practices.Wall Street analysts are largely advising investors to ignore the noise. But even if changes were made to sales tax collection, that may end up benefiting Amazon. Michael Olson, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, writes:Elliott Management has acquired a $1 billion stake in Hyundai Motors, Kia Motors and Hyundai Mobis.Last month, Hyundai simplified its ownership structure. The aim was to resolve the groups circular shareholdings, which critics have long said give too much power to Hyundais controlling Chung family at the expense of shareholders, Reuters reported.S.&P. 500 futures are up this morning, suggesting yesterdays market rout may not continue. And European and Asian markets didnt fall as sharply as did the U.S.s. But whats behind the markets dropping 4 percent so far this year? A couple of ideas: Washington (and Beijing), again: Chinas tougher-than-expected retaliatory tariffs gave investors more reason to fear a trade war. American pork and fruit producers are among those sweating. The Trump administrations unorthodox and unpredictable decision-making is likely to keep markets on edge, Mike Ryan of UBS Wealth Management told the FT. Tech, again: The FAANG stocks are still weighing down the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq, as the likes of Facebook and Google face the prospect of greater regulation and President Trump repeats his attacks on Amazon. (Tesla was down, too, but thats more understandable.) Technical issues: Traders could be trimming bull market bets.Peter Eaviss take: Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock markets ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Analysts expect S.&P. 500 companies earnings to grow 25 percent this year. But rising interest rates worldwide could affect revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected, profit margins could get squeezed.The bottom line: Uncertainty has descended upon the markets, and it will be hard to shake off.In his latest column, Andrew suggests a way the company could make its practices more transparent  one that Google and Amazon could consider, while were at it: a button next to every ad and piece of content that would explain why a user is seeing it.More from Andrew:Also: Mark Zuckerberg just mused about greater transparency to Vox, and suggested an independent appeals process to review content on Facebook. Scott Stringer, the New York City comptroller, wants him out as Facebooks chairman. And why Southeast Asia, Facebooks fastest-growing market, poses it unique problems.Elsewhere in data privacy: Beijing and other governments are figuring out what data regulation means for A.I. And Grindr, the gay dating app, has stopped sharing users HIV statuses after a BuzzFeed expos. Amazon has visited more than half the cities shortlisted for its second headquarters, unnamed sources said, and the rest are scrambling for tips on their itineraries. (WSJ) Anthony Tan, the C.E.O. of Grab, speaks about beating Uber in Southeast Asia. (CNBC) Walmart is partnering with MoneyGram on a global remittance service, Walmart2World. (CNBC) Apple reportedly aims to start replacing Intel chips in iMacs with its own from 2020. (Bloomberg) Federal authorities arrested two founders of Centra, a virtual currency endorsed by Floyd Mayweather, and accused them of fraud. Shares in Monex Group rose after reports that it might buy the troubled cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck. And researchers suggest a new way to value Bitcoin (they say its overpriced).In offering to buy Sky News outright, Walt Disney is hoping to finally win regulatory approval for Foxs bid to buy the 61 percent of Sky that it doesnt already own. (Fox itself has proposed making Sky News fully separate, giving it an independent board and funding it for 15 years.)The bottom line: Disney wants Fox to have full control of Sky to support its $52.4 billion deal to buy most of Fox, and it wants to get ahead of Comcasts rival effort to buy that 39 percent of the British broadcaster.Elsewhere in deals: Harbor Energy has offered more than $10 billion to buy Santos, the Australian natural-gas driller. Why Sumner Redstone wont have the last word on merging CBS and Viacom. Walmart is reportedly in talks to buy PillPack, an online pharmacy start-up. G.E. will sell part of its health care info-tech business to Veritas Capital for $1.05 billion. And GreenSky, an online lender to customers of retailers like Home Depot, has reportedly filed for an I.P.O. John Kelly has considered firing Scott Pruitt, the director of the Environmental Protection Agency, whose travel expenses and housing arrangements have faced scrutiny. (Politico) The E.P.A. has challenged Californias car emission standards, while the Justice Department has sued the state over a newly passed state law governing land use. Mick Mulvaney asked Congress to weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, where hes acting head. (NYT) The White House nominated Justin Muzinich, an architect of the Republican tax overhaul, to be Steven Mnuchins deputy at the Treasury. (NYT) New York State may offer its own retirement fund for private-sector workers. (NYT) Meet Brian Ballard, one of Washingtons most powerful lobbyists. (Politico) John Thain is reportedly set to join Deutsche Banks supervisory board as part of a broader reshuffle. (Bloomberg) Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven Cohens investment firm Point72, will join Citadel as deputy head of global equities. (NYT) John Giannandrea will step down as head of search and A.I. at Google. Ben Gomes will take over the search unit and Jeff Dean will lead the A.I. division. (The Information) Three directors  Jim Messina, Jim Rosenthal and Peter Diamandis  have stepped down from Virgin Hyperloop Ones board. A fourth, Ziyavudin Magomedov, was arrested in Moscow on fraud charges unrelated to the transport company. (Bloomberg) Adam Metz, the Carlyle Groups head of international real estate, and Jason Lee, the firms head of Asia real estate, have left the firm or will depart soon, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg) Sinclair Broadcast Group is taking heat over videos that show dozens of its local newscasters reading the same script criticizing their industry. Meanwhile, Malaysias lower house of Parliament passed a bill outlawing fake news. A celebrity jeweler, Nirav Modi, is on the run amid accusations that he accumulated almost $3 billion illegally, most of it from Indias state-run banks. (NYT) Mario Batali, who vanished from television and daily operations in his restaurant empire after accusations of misconduct, is eyeing a comeback. (NYT) Iftikar Ahmed was found liable for defrauding the venture firm Oak Investment Partners, where he was a general partner. (Axios) Private capital markets have become the most popular way to raise money in the U.S., raising concerns about oversight and concentration of power. (WSJ) A writer at Splinter reflects on what private equity has meant for his publisher, Univision. (Splinter) Michael Liberty has been accused by the S.E.C. of looting Mozido, the fintech company he founded, for tens of millions of dollars. (WSJ)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A celebrity jeweler on the run, the Vaticans deal with China crumbles and Apple scores a coup in the fight for A.I. Heres what you need to know:  At least four people were injured, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTubes headquarters in San Bruno, Calif.The shooter, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound. Check back for the latest on this developing story.Google, which owns YouTube, said on Twitter that it was coordinating with authorities and would provide more information when it was available._____ Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military.President Trump made the pledge on his third day of railing about Americas weak border laws, stirred by Fox Newss alarmist coverage of a caravan of migrants slowly heading north through Mexico.Our reporters note: The U.S. military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions like apprehending people at the border.The Trump administration also published a list of more than 1,000 Chinese products that will soon face a 25 percent import tax, including electronic touch screens, iron and steel plates, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries.The move is likely to inflame a trade war that has already drawn fierce opposition from some of Americas biggest companies. An unexpected pawn: Californias wine._____ Another quote worth noting: I think there is no religion in human society that is above the state.That was a senior Beijing official, underscoring Chinas intention to maintain strict control over all religious organizations and their believers  and dimming the prospects of what appeared to be an imminent deal with the Vatican.And our Magazine looks at President Xi Jinpings consolidation of power by considering Hong Kongs missing booksellers._____  In India, less than a day after announcing penalties for journalists who write or broadcast fake news, the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi withdrew them.The government gave no official explanation, but some in the country had seen the rules as an attack on the press ahead of campaigning for national elections.The country may be more captivated  or enraged  by the tale of Nirav Modi, Indias jeweler to the stars. Hes now on the run, accused of amassing a global empire with nearly $3 billion obtained illegally from government-run banks._____ The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King was assassinated 50 years ago.Today, we remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.The Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African Americans.He was their voice of anguish, it reads, their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity. Tesla says it is rapidly addressing bottlenecks in the production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week  a nice jump from last year but still short of investors hopes. Teslas shares, which have been battered recently, rose on the news. Apple hired Googles chief of artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea, 53, a major coup in the race for A.I. skills and tech. Welcome to the Big Board: Spotify shares began trading at $165.90, initially giving the Swedish company a valuation of more than $33 billion. (There was some botched hospitality: The New York Stock Exchange flew the Swiss flag.) The Walt Disney Company offered to buy Sky News  an effort to help Rupert Murdochs 21st Century Fox buy full control of Sky Newss parent company, the broadcaster Sky. U.S. stocks were up across the board. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Indonesia declared a state of emergency over a seven-square-mile oil spill off the coast of Borneo whose source had not yet been identified. At least four fishermen were killed over the weekend when the fuel ignited, and hundreds of people reported health issues. [BBC] The Thai police found 9.4 million speed pills and 788 kilograms (more than 1,700 pounds) of crystal meth hidden in tea packets in a truck. Street value: more than $54 million. [Bangkok Post] A pair of Belarusian sex instructors who say they have evidence that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential race face imminent deportation from Thailand to Russia or Belarus. [The New York Times] The cherished sword of a samurai who in the late 19th century established a prominent winery in California was found in the ruins of a building destroyed in last years wildfires. [The Asahi Shimbun] Foodies in Southeast Asia have laid into a British cooking shows judges for insisting that a Malaysian contestants chicken rendang curry should have been crispy. [A.P.] A story sweeping China: A taxi driver from Chengdu and his wife will be reunited with their missing daughter after searching for her for 24 years. [South China Morning Post]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Save your relationship  outsource the chores (if you can). Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips. Recipe of the day:  Swedish meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam. Special rules in American football: A Times reporter found stringent rules in place for N.F.L. cheerleaders, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons  even as the sport grapples with accusations of domestic violence and sexual harassment. From our At War blog: Alissa J. Rubin, our former Baghdad bureau chief, made a return trip to northern Iraq  and found herself navigating checkpoints as endless as the rival armed fighters manning them. Anna Chennault, a Chinese-born anti-Communist Washington lobbyist, died last week. She dabbled in foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, the renowned leader of World War IIs Flying Tigers.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from last Wednesdays crossword puzzle:  Like ___, all tears: Hamlet. The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in William Shakespeares Hamlet:It was arrogance that was Niobes undoing, and the cause of her tears.The story of Niobes tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to Earth and killed all of Niobes children. In deep anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to put an end to her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would not feel anymore.However, even as a rock, Niobes tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mothers eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A flip-flop in Israel, insults from Turkey and the worlds first ban on fake news. Heres the latest: Guess its just one of those days.So began a tweet from the European Unions delegation in Israel, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that he had reached a surprise deal with the United Nations refugee agency to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries.But Mr. Netanyahu suspended the deal hours later, after facing a barrage of outrage from his conservative coalition partners angry that half the migrants would be allowed to stay in Israel. His opponents on the left described the reversal as cowardly.The deal, which had brought Israel some short-lived international good will after a deadly clash with Palestinians last week, was intended to avoid a contentious Israeli plan that had offered the migrants a stark choice: forced deportation to Africa or prison.Above, protesting the plan last month in Tel Aviv._____ His favorite script: insulting people his supporters love to hate, like the liberal elite.No, were not talking about President Trumps tweets.Befitting the current era of strongmen, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey also has a well-honed strategy for winning public support. He gives up to three speeches every weekday  two a day on weekends  broadcast live on multiple channels.Another of his preferred targets? European leaders._____ What do a pair of Belarusian sex instructors detained in Thailand have to do with the investigation into Russias meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential race?Alexander Kirillov and Anastasia Vashukevich, above, say they have evidence showing Russia interfered, and they claim to be the targets of a covert Russian plot to silence them because they know too much.That might seem far-fetched, but the seduction coaches have powerful Russian enemies. And the F.B.I. says it tried to talk to them, suggesting that American investigators had not entirely dismissed their story._____ Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____ Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.Thats how our obituary describes Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.She died early Monday at the age of 81.In time, our former international correspondent wrote, her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandelas quest for racial inclusiveness._____ The worlds first ban on fake news.The lower house of Malaysias Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its upper house is expected to rapidly follow suit. Above, an advertisement discouraging the spread of fake news, at a train station in Kuala Lumpur last month.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a forced read of a corporate script from the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair. Critics have accused the company of using its stations to bolster public support for President Trump. The U.S. stock market tumbled, spurred by a flurry of bad news about technology companies and continued worries about a trade war with China. Above, a New York Stock Exchange trader on Monday. Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, its using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Fridays Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.)  Heres a snapshot of global markets. President Trump is renewing a push to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States. Above, a Honduran mother and children next to the U.S.-Mexico border fence in February. [The New York Times] More than one in five British manufacturers are expected to lay off workers because of Brexit, according to a study released on Sunday. [Politico] In India, seven people have died during huge protests against a Supreme Court order that many fear will weaken protections for lower-caste communities, which have long faced violence and discrimination. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus. The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. Thats when the F.B.I.s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agencys oldest case. Above, a team of doctors extracting a tooth from the mummy head in 2009. In the wake of mass shootings in the U.S., a lifelong gun owner questions the weapons he has long believed are essential to protecting himself and his country. The French-Polish photographer Tim Franco used portraits to tell the stories of North Korean defectors, opening a window into the identities of people whose lives are brutally cut into two parts: before and after. A year in a masters life: In 1932 the world was tilting toward catastrophe. Picasso was becoming a god, says our reporter, who reviews the Tates new exhibition in London, Picasso 1932, which is filled with point-blank masterpieces. The redemption of a violin prodigy. Saul Chandler played at Carnegie Hall in New York before he was 11, but the pressure to perform grew so unbearable that he gave up the violin at 16. This riveting story explores how he remade his life  and found peace  by building boats. And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program and about 50,000 rabbits.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Dear Match Book,Ever since the election Ive had a hard time reading books that are emotionally and psychically challenging. After Trump leaves office Ill be able to go back to something like Bastard Out of Carolina, by Dorothy Allison, or Mans Search for Meaning, by Viktor E. Frankl, but for now I want to read books in which people like each other and everything turns out O.K. If its funny, all the better. I enjoyed Ivan Doigs The Whistling Season, which a librarian friend recommended, as well as Pete Hamills Snow in August. Next I may just reread an old childhood favorite like The Little Prince, by Antoine de Saint-Exupry.I am looking for comfort books, in the way that others turn to comfort food in tough times. Do you have any more ideas?AMY STODOLAHARRISVILLE, N.H.Dear Amy,The books youve turned to for solace do still feature some dramatic downbeats: Theres that scene in The Whistling Season in which wolves are skinned alive, and the wrenching, violent anti-Semitism that erupts more than once in Snow in August. The Little Prince, too, strikes a deeply melancholy tone, with lines like this: And when he watered the flower one last time, and put her under glass, he felt like crying.State of the UnionsBut your favorites also share a sense of nostalgia: for early 20th-century Montana; for midcentury Brooklyn; for childhood. In Wallace Stegners grand novel of the American West The Angle of Repose, a historians romanticized vision of 19th-century America clouds when, in the course of researching the life of his grandmother  a writer and artist who came West not to join a new society but to endure it  he uncovers a breach and a tragedy in her marriage, the effects of which reverberate in the books present.Another story of an ancestral union unfolds in Rita Doves Pulitzer Prize-winning collection of poems, Thomas and Beulah. Inspired by the lives of her maternal grandparents, Doves book reads like an intimate historical novel of black America in verse. The transporting poems, according to Doves epigraph, tell two sides of a story (Thomass in the first half and Beulahs in the second). The result is a composite portrait of the protagonists Southern childhoods, and their courtship and family life in Ohio from the early years of the 20th century through their deaths in the 1960s, all told against the backdrop of the Great Migration.Comic ReliefMore recent history haunts the characters of Meg Wolitzers witty, compassionate novel The Interestings. The central characters  five worldly teenagers plus Jules, an awkward, redheaded, blotchy girl  meet in the summer of 1974 at Spirit-in-the-Woods, a camp for creative kids. To Jules, her friends seem destined for artistically significant careers, and she eagerly joins their circle. The book follows the group through middle age as some reach the heights of their ambitions and others drift into more ordinary lives. But even the novels hard truths  about aspirations and talent, marriage and friendship  seem softened by a placid sense of inevitability. And every sentence is so casually and relentlessly insightful that youll be temporarily distracted from the news cycle.Please stretch to consider another equally diverting novel, Cold Comfort Farm, Stella Gibbonss gleeful satire from 1932. The merciless parody of purple-prosed, rural, English melodramas (stay with me: You dont have to be a master of the form to get Gibbonss jokes) stars Flora Poste, an urbane, 19-year-old orphan with a small yearly allowance. Flora lands with some of her mothers distant relatives in Sussex, in exchange, she says, for my beautiful eyes and a hundred pounds a year. When she arrives on the decaying farm near a village called Howling, neither the cows (named Graceless, Pointless, Feckless, Aimless and Fury) nor the moody assortment of relatives and their hired hands can deter sunny Flora from trying to civilize the bunch and modernize the farm.Natural WondersWhen you are ready to dip back into real life, two meditative memoirs offer rich forms of literary escapism. In The Shepherds Life, James Rebanks tells the story of a family and a farm from the ground up, including the authors early years and the history of agrarian life in Englands Lake District.More restorative reading lies in the stream of observations that tumble through An American Childhood, by Annie Dillard. Her impressions of her mid-20th century Pittsburgh girlhood  her vibrant parents, the dreaming memory of land, terrifying neighbors  overflows with specificity, but her distillation of the dawning of a childs consciousness extends the narrative to reach the universal.Yours truly, Match BookDo you need book recommendations? Write to matchbook@nytimes.com.Check out Match Books earlier recommendations here.
WASHINGTON   His moniker was "DARKKING22," and authorities say he offered a cornucopia of illicit drugs through the click of a mouse.But it was his ads on a hidden website for pure fentanyl, the powerful painkiller driving a record number of overdose deaths across the U.S., that caught FBI agents\' attention. They bought some, and days later it arrived in a small, clear, plastic bag complete with a thank-you card, a sign of how easy it is to buy drugs on the so-called darknet.The dealer did not stay anonymous for long. Federal authorities say "DARKKING22" was 28-year-old Antoin Austin, of Euclid, Ohio. His arrest last week is among the first by a new team of federal agents, computer experts and analysts tasked with fighting the kind of online opioid trafficking that law enforcement officials say can be more persistent and vexing than more traditional trafficking by cartels.Frustrating authorities in their pursuit of online dealers is the anonymity in which they work. Buyers access stores through secret web browsers and make purchases using encrypted channels, code names and virtual currency such as Bitcoin.Attorney General Jeff Sessions said darknet vendors are "pouring fuel on the fire of the national drug epidemic" and this year doubled the number of federal agents working on those cases. It\'s part of the Trump administration\'s tough approach to the drug crisis that has focused on harsh punishments for dealers. Critics say the overall strategy resembles a return to failed drug-war tactics and that the record $4.6 billion included in the spending plan the president signed last month is not nearly enough to establish the kind of treatment system needed to reverse the crisis.But there\'s bipartisan agreement that more resources and new restrictions are needed to stem the stream of opioids entering the U.S. from overseas, especially China, and into households through the U.S. mail.Darknet marketplaces are thriving, even after authorities in recent years dismantled two of the most notorious, the Silk Road and AlphaBay, where hundreds of thousands of customers bought not just illegal drugs but weapons, malware and counterfeit and stolen identification. Authorities on the new task force, the Joint Criminal Opioid Darknet Enforcement team, in this case targeted the vendors who sell illicit fentanyl by mail."It\'s not enough simply to take the sites down," Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Richard Downing said. "Vendors look for another opportunity, another site, another place where they can go and sell their drugs and guns."In its first operation, the team arrested Austin and seven others and seized weapons, computer equipment and more than 2,000 lethal doses of the deadly drug. Investigators uncovered 19 overdose deaths they believe are connected to fentanyl purchased online.Austin\'s public defender declined to comment.Before the team\'s formation, federal agents would dive into complicated investigations largely on their own, sometimes without realizing others were already on the case. But the team has forged a new level of cooperation that its members say is critical in increasingly sophisticated darknet cases that combine tech savvy with old-fashioned drug dealing.Agents in Pittsburgh, for example, have found drug gangs that traditionally peddled narcotics smuggled from beyond the southern border are now also selling drugs from China online, said Shawn A. Brokos, a supervisory special agent there. Buyers sometimes turn to the dark web for drugs to then deal on the street."A lot of them start on a smaller level and then they see how lucrative this can be and they keep expanding," she said.Investigators from several agencies made a list of "targets," not just the fentanyl peddling vendors, but buyers and users, then set out to contact them, building on existing intelligence. They spoke to more than 160 people, getting a clearer picture of the landscape, said Kyle Rau, of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service."They share their secrets, they share their tradecraft," said Emily Odom, chief of the FBI\'s Hi-Tech Organized Crime Unit. "They\'re working together, so we have to do a better job working together as well."
ATLANTA   A federal appeals court on Tuesday rejected the arguments of a Georgia death row inmate whose scheduled execution was temporarily halted last year by the U.S. Supreme Court.Keith Leroy Tharpe, known as "Bo," had been scheduled to die on Sept. 26, but the Supreme Court stepped in and granted him a temporary stay hours after the appointed execution time had passed. The justices voted 6-3 in January to order the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta to take up his case, giving him another chance to raise claims of racial bias on his jury.Tharpe, 59, was convicted of murder and two counts of kidnapping in the September 1990 slaying of his sister-in-law, Jacquelyn Freeman.His appeal arises from interviews his legal team did in 1998 with Barney Gattie, a white juror. Gattie freely used racial slurs and said his study of the Bible had led him to question "if black people even have souls," according to court filings. Gattie signed an affidavit, though he later testified that he voted to sentence Tharpe to death because of the evidence against him.State and federal courts had ruled that Gattie\'s statements and some other evidence cannot be used because of a state evidentiary rule that prohibits jurors from impeaching their verdicts. Tharpe\'s lawyers argued that two recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings opened the door for that evidence to be admitted.The Supreme Court ruled in March 2017 that if a juror states clearly that he relied on racial stereotypes or animus to reach a conviction, the rules that bar jurors from impeaching their verdicts can be set aside so the judge can determine whether the right to a fair trial was upheld.A federal judge last year declined to reopen the case, and Tharpe\'s lawyers appealed to the 11th Circuit. A three-judge panel of the 11th Circuit declined to halt Tharpe\'s execution, saying he didn\'t make a "substantial showing" that his constitutional rights were denied. The appeals court also said that if Tharpe wanted to rely on the Supreme Court ruling from March 2017, the issue would have to be taken up first in state court rather than federal court.Tharpe\'s lawyers appealed the 11th Circuit ruling to the Supreme Court and also tried unsuccessfully to get a state court to examine the alleged juror racial bias.The Supreme Court ruled in January that the 11th Circuit had been mistaken. The unsigned majority opinion noted that Gattie never retracted his "remarkable affidavit" and that it provides strong evidence that "Tharpe\'s race affected Gattie\'s vote for a death verdict."Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in a dissenting opinion, joined by Justices Samuel Alito and Neil Gorsuch, that the court was letting Gattie\'s "odious opinions" trump the right approach to the law. He predicted the 11th Circuit would reach the same conclusion and deny Tharpe\'s appeal on other grounds and referred to his colleagues\' action as a "useless do-over."Indeed, the 11th Circuit panel on Tuesday said it was denying Tharpe\'s appeal for the other reason that it originally cited, that his arguments based on the March 2017 Supreme Court opinion had not been exhausted in state courts. The appeals court said its denial allows Tharpe to pursue those arguments in the state courts.Brian Kammer, a lawyer for Tharpe, did not immediately respond to email and phone messages seeking comment Tuesday.Tharpe\'s wife left him in August 1990, taking their four daughters to live with her mother. About a month later, on Sept. 25, 1990, Tharpe\'s wife was driving to work with her brother\'s wife when Tharpe used a truck to block them. Armed with a shotgun, he ordered them out of their vehicle and fatally shot Freeman during an argument over whether his estranged wife would go with him, his lawyers have said.About three months after the killing, Tharpe was tried, convicted and sentenced to death.
TRENTON, N.J.   Gov. Phil Murphy said Tuesday he wants $100 million in new spending to address New Jersey\'s opioid crisis while shutting down the prospect of any Chris Christie-style public service announcements to promote substance abuse treatment.Murphy, a Democrat, outlined the budget proposal Tuesday at the Rescue Mission of Trenton, a recovery house for poor residents and those with drug addiction that Christie, the Republican former governor, also visited throughout his two terms."They need a government that understands that recovery doesn\'t end when someone walks out of treatment and back into society," Murphy said of people with opioid addictions.The state has spent about $90 million of the roughly $200 million Christie pledged last year on the crisis, the governor said, pointedly saying that no new funds would be spent on public service announcements.Christie\'s administration set aside more than $40 million for an ad campaign featuring the governor in TV and radio spots last year, inviting people with substance abuse problems to seek help."I think if you\'re a television production firm you\'re going to be disappointed because that\'s not the way we\'re going to go," Murphy said.Murphy said of the $100 million, $56 million would go toward expanding access to services, including outpatient treatment. He also outlined $31 million that would go toward "social risk factors," including providing money for housing for high-risk families. Thirteen million dollars would go toward supporting technology and data-sharing infrastructure, like helping treatment centers transition to electronic health records, Murphy said.Barrett Young, chief operating officer of the Rescue Mission, said it was too early to tell for certain whether Murphy\'s proposal, if adopted, would help, hurt or not change the state\'s efforts on opioid addiction treatment.He declined to weigh in on whether Christie\'s public service announcements were effective but said as long as those who need help can get it, it\'s a good thing."As long as there is money for treatment, which equals access to the folks we\'re serving, I\'m OK however that is," Young said.Christie left office this year after dedicating much of his final year in office to the epidemic, which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says has killed more than 42,000 in 2016. That was more than any other year on record.Christie also led President Donald Trump\'s panel on opioid addiction. The Republican president declared a national health emergency last year because of the crisis.Murphy\'s proposal comes as his $37.4 billion budget begins moving through the Democrat-led Legislature. A new budget must be in place by June 30.
RIYADH   Saudi Arabia\'s crown prince said in a published interview that Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land, another public sign of an apparent thawing in ties between the two countries.Asked if he believes the Jewish people have a right to a nation state in at least part of their ancestral homeland, Mohammed bin Salman was quoted by U.S. magazine The Atlantic as saying:"I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."Saudi Arabia - birthplace of Islam and site of its holiest shrines - does not officially recognize Israel. It has maintained for years that normalizing relations hinges on an Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war - territory Palestinians seek for a future state."We have religious concerns about the fate of the holy mosque in Jerusalem and about the rights of the Palestinian people. This is what we have. We don\'t have any objection against any other people," said Prince Mohammed, who is touring the United States to drum up investments and support for his efforts to contain Iranian influence.Increased tension between Tehran and Riyadh has fueled speculation that shared interests may push Saudi Arabia and Israel to work together against what they regard as a common Iranian threat."There are a lot of interests we share with Israel and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries," Prince Mohammed added.The German foreign ministry welcomed his comments and ministry officials underscored the Saudi role in pushing for an Arab peace initiative as early as 2002."The prince\'s comments are very close to the position of Germany and the EU: We need a two-state solution and serious negotiations to achieve that," said one ministry official. "Israelis and Palestinians have a right to peaceful lives in their own country."Israeli-Palestinian peace talks envisaging a Palestinian state alongside Israel have been frozen since 2014.Saudi Arabia opened its air space for the first time to a commercial flight to Israel last month, which an Israeli official hailed as historic following two years of efforts.In November, an Israeli cabinet member disclosed covert contacts with Saudi Arabia, a rare acknowledgment of long-rumoured secret dealings which Riyadh still denies.Saudi Arabia condemned U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel last year. But Arab  officials told Reuters at the time that Riyadh appears to be on board with a broader U.S. strategy for an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan still in its early phases of development.(Reporting by Stephen Kalin in Riyadh and  Sabine Siebold in Berlin; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
RUD, Kosovo  Fetah Rudi, a former schoolteacher and political activist, has been using a wheelchair for 17 years, ever since unidentified gunmen unloaded 14 bullets into his stomach and shoulder in a drive-by shooting near his small village in central Kosovo.He has no hope of ever walking again but, thanks to a new war crimes tribunal, he finally has some hope that, after 10 years as an independent country, Kosovo will belatedly grapple with a singularly taboo topic: why ethnic Albanians like him kept getting attacked and in some cases killed even after their Serbian tormentors had fled.He has watched in dismay over the years as the United Nations and then the European Union  which have both tried to establish the rule of law in this tiny Balkan nation since it broke free from Serbia in 1999  failed to deliver justice for a wave of violence that followed Serbias retreat.The new court, based in The Hague but governed by Kosovo law, will focus on judging not Serbian atrocities during the 1998-99 war but crimes committed during and after the conflict by the Kosovo Liberation Army, or K.L.A., an ethnic Albanian guerrilla force whose former commanders now run the country.The court, Mr. Rudi said, is the last chance to finally make our people free.In the nearly two decades since it split from Serbia, Kosovo has been governed as a United Nations protectorate and, since February 2008, as an independent state. Throughout that time, it has been dogged by demons left from its violent birth and a culture of impunity left by its failure to come to terms with the fact that some of Kosovos most powerful figures have been accused of major crimes.The special court, which is expected to issue its first indictments soon, is supported by the United States and Europe, Kosovos main backers and funders. But it poses risks for them, too, as it will examine crimes directly related to the foundation of the Wests state-building project in Kosovo: its alliance with the K.L.A. during NATOs bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999; its failure to disarm the K.L.A. after the war ended; and its inability to protect not only ethnic Serb residents who stayed behind, but also the K.L.As ethnic Albanian political rivals.In a sign that United States support for the court is perhaps flagging under President Trump, the American chief prosecutor, David Schwendiman, stepped down recently after the State Department declined to extend his appointment by two years to enable him to complete his term with the court, despite assurances during the Obama administration that he would be able to do so.Mr. Rudi said the bullets that nearly killed him in December 2000  18 months after the end of the war and the departure of Serbian forces  were shot from the same gun that a month earlier had been used to murder Xhemajl Mustafa, a prominent journalist.Both attacks occurred despite the presence of more than 45,000 NATO troops in Kosovo, a force that, wary of confronting the K.L.A., did little to halt post-conflict score settling.Both Mr. Rudi and Mr. Mustafa were outspoken supporters of the Democratic League of Kosovo, an originally pacifist group led by Ibrahim Rugova that shared the K.L.A.s desire to end Serbian oppression but, once the Serbs left, challenged the self-declared right of the groups fighters to run Kosovo as their own fief.The expectation of imminent indictments has delighted Mr. Rudi, who was held in a secret K.L.A. prison and violently beaten toward the end of the war and, after the conflict ended, was targeted for assassination by what he suspected was a K.L.A. hit squad. He said he would leave Kosovo and move to Western Europe with his wife and four children if the court flubbed its mission.The prospect of the courts digging into cold cases left from Kosovos birth as a separate state has sent former K.L.A. members  who include the countrys president, prime minister and speaker of Parliament  into a panic. They tried in December to torpedo the special court with legislation that would have emasculated its function. They backed off after the United States and the European Union protested the move in unusually strong terms. The American ambassador, Greg Delawie, called it a stab in the back.In an interview on the eve of a visit to Washington in February to attend a prayer breakfast with President Trump, President Hashim Thaci  the K.L.A.s political commissar during the war, when he was known to his comrades as the snake  denounced the special court as a historic injustice but pledged to let it proceed.We have nothing to hide, he said, insisting that the K.L.A. as an organization never imprisoned or murdered its ethnic Albanian rivals, massacred Serbian civilians or committed other war crimes, despite the persistent allegations that prompted the establishment of the special court.Mr. Thaci (pronounced THAH-chee) conceded that some individuals in the K.L.A. had taken the law into their own hands, and he said he wanted to see their crimes punished. At the same time, he complained that you cant put an equal sign between the crimes of the Serbs and those of the K.L.A.Few if any Kosovars would dispute that but, with Serbian forces long gone, many are asking why so few of the hopes raised by the K.L.A.s NATO-enabled victory in 1999 have been fulfilled  why nearly 60 percent of young people are unemployed, why corrupt politicians, many of them former K.L.A. fighters, can ransack the economy with impunity, and why witnesses in criminal cases against senior K.L.A. figures keep disappearing or refusing to testify.We thought it would be completely different, said Mr. Rudi, the former teacher. We thought we would have a functioning country with laws, institutions, security and a developed economy. We never thought there would be all this killing and stealing.Beriane Mustafa, the daughter of the murdered journalist, said she did not know who killed her father, but I do know it was a political murder, probably by political opponents. Mr. Mustafas murder and the attack on Mr. Rudi followed the defeat of the K.L.A., which had been reconfigured as a political party, in local elections in early October 2000.The timing, Ms. Mustafa said, suggested a kind of revenge by fighters who, furious at being denied the political support they thought they deserved, calculated that if we kill these people we will come to power.By 2007, the K.L.A.s political party was the countrys dominant political force. Mr. Thaci became prime minister in 2008, one month before Kosovo declared independence, and then president in 2016.Mr. Thaci has become the emblem of two diametrically opposed views of Kosovos liberation struggle and its aftermath. In 2010, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. described him as Kosovos George Washington, the nations heroic founding father. A report issued the same year by the Council of Europe, however, described him as the most dangerous of the K.L.A.s criminal bosses.The report had been commissioned after ghoulish allegations of organ trafficking by the K.L.A. appeared in a book published by Carla del Ponte, the former chief prosecutor at United Nations war crime tribunals in The Hague.Written by the Swiss prosecutor Dick Marty, the report portrayed Kosovo as a failed state run by gangsters and thugs. It caused outrage in Kosovo across the political spectrum, mostly because it repeated Ms. del Pontes claims that the K.L.A. had killed Serbian prisoners for their organs. But it nonetheless set in motion calls for a reckoning that led to the establishment of the special court.The accusation of wartime organ theft has never been substantiated, but the issue continues to haunt Kosovo, fueled in part by the discovery in 2008 of an organ trafficking ring operating out of a medical center near the capital, Pristina. The man accused of leading the ring, an Israeli citizen, Moshe Harel, was arrested in January in Cyprus.Clint Williamson, an American appointed by the European Union in 2011 to head an investigation into Mr. Martys allegations, concluded that the practice of killing prisoners for their organs did occur on a very limited scale but that finding evidence to prove it would be very difficult.Instead, he said, future indictments against former K.L.A. commanders should focus on their responsibility for a campaign of persecution directed at Serbs and other minority groups, as well as toward fellow Kosovo Albanians whom they labeled either to be collaborators with the Serbs or, more commonly, to have simply been political opponents of the K.L.A. leadership.In his interview in February, Mr. Thaci dismissed the Marty report as part of a Russian-orchestrated program of fake news, a farrago of lies and disinformation intended to undermine Western influence in the Balkans.Calling Kosovo the most pro-American country in the world, he said that by blackening its name, Russia, a firm ally of Serbia, wanted to damage the United States. He produced no evidence that Russia had a hand in Mr. Martys report.Whether the special court can get to the bottom of what happened nearly 20 years ago will depend to a large extent on whether witnesses will agree to testify and, if they do, whether they and their family members can survive.When a former K.L.A. commander living abroad, Agim Zogaj, agreed in 2011 to testify against former comrades in a war crimes trial, he was put into a witness protection program run by the European Union. Before the trial could start, he was found hanging from a tree in the western German city of Duisburg.Ms. Mustafa, the daughter of the murdered journalist, said she was not optimistic about the courts ability to succeed where the United Nations and European Union had failed, but added, If you want to consider yourself a real state, a serious state, you have to deal with all crimes, no matter who committed them.
BRASILIA   Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China are unlikely to hurt global economic growth, Brazilian central bank chief Ilan Goldfajn told Reuters on Tuesday, playing down recent turmoil in Latin American markets.Emerging markets sold off on Monday after China announced retaliatory tariffs against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s protectionist efforts. Goldfajn said he expects global trade tensions to generate short-term uncertainty, but they should eventually be resolved through new trade deals."If at the end of the day we reach new deals, global trade is maintained, this would not affect" global growth, Goldfajn said. "Of course, if there\'s a larger dispute, it would affect (growth)."An uncertain global outlook is one of several factors the bank is weighing as it decides when to end a cycle of interest rate cuts that brought Brazil\'s benchmark interest rate to an all-time low of 6.50 percent.The bank caught many by surprise last month by signalling it would likely cut the benchmark Selic rate by an additional 25 basis points at its May meeting, just a month and a half after hinting at the end of easing.High unemployment rates and widespread idle capacity have kept inflation below the official target range and brought down inflation expectations in the years ahead.Goldfajn has repeatedly said that the bank could "pause" rate cuts in mid-2018 as it assesses the risks going forward.Asked about whether the bank could cut interest rates after that pause ends, Goldfajn was noncommittal."This is not something that we have communicated" he said. "I don\'t think this is the time to issue signals.""Look, if you think about it, I\'m saying that there are two main risks. We will assess both of these risks to the baseline scenario."BLOCKCHAINAsked about efforts by Brazilian banks to eventually use blockchain technology to register certain transactions, Goldfajn said efforts to improve the payments system through innovation are positive and he saw no need for central bank regulation."If over time it becomes necessary, we will regulate, but we don\'t want to be heavy-handed while dealing with innovation - we want it to flourish, to bear fruit," Goldfajn said.His remarks underscored the bank\'s combination of market-based mechanisms and more hard-edged regulations as it tackles longstanding challenges in Brazil such as costly credit and wide banking spreads, which have declined slowly despite loose monetary policy.Last month, for example, the bank introduced a cap on fees paid by businesses to debit card issuers in a move to enhance consumer protections at the expense of an increasingly concentrated banking sector.On the other hand, Goldfajn said he is counting on "self-regulation" to reduce bank overdraft fees and is counting on the private sector to introduce credit card-related products that take less time to pay businesses."Our idea is to neither force nor forbid  nothing of the sort  but rather for the market to offer what already exists today, but with less distortions," he said.(Reporting by Bruno Federowski and Marcela Ayres; Additional reporting by Brad Haynes and Patricia Duarte in Brasilia; Aluisio Alves in Sao Paulo; Editing by Matthew Lewis)
Connie Lawn, a radio and broadcast reporter who covered the White House in the waning days of Lyndon B. Johnsons administration, when women were a rarity there, to the first year of Donald J. Trumps, died on Monday at her home in Falls Church, Va. She was 73.The cause was a rare form of Parkinsons disease, said her husband, Dr. Charles Sneiderman.Unlike many White House correspondents, Ms. Lawn built her nearly 50-year career without the consistent support of an established media company. She created an independent news service called Audio Video News (she was the only employee) and reported for different clients, like the BBC, Radio New Zealand, USA Radio Network and Salem Radio Network.Ms. Lawn said she had created her own company in order to maintain her independence and pursue stories that interested her.And like many women in politics and the media, she endured sexual harassment on the job, she said. In 2016, for example, she told The Washington Post that when she was a young reporter a senator groped her in his office after inviting her there.But she was not discouraged by such experiences, colleagues said, and did what she could to make the White House press corps more welcoming. Ann Compton, a longtime White House correspondent for ABC News, wrote in an email on Monday that Ms. Lawn was ever-present, and ever-supportive, of her fellow reporters.There are some flaky figures on the press corps fringe, but Connie wasnt a flake, Ms. Compton continued. She was a character, but decent and kind to everyone.Ms. Lawn, who worked alongside trailblazing female reporters like Helen Thomas, was one of the most senior reporters at the White House.It is something that reminds me to keep striving, Ms. Lawn wrote about her longevity in the job  on HuffPost in 2017. I want to remain a viable part of this unfolding history as long as I can.Her husband said that the last press briefing she attended was on Dec. 14, 2017.Constance Ellen Lawn was born on May 14, 1944, in Long Branch, N.J., to the former Pearl Bergman, a chemist and homemaker, and Howard Lawn, a lawyer. She graduated from high school there, then received a bachelors degree in political science from Simmons College in Boston before moving to Washington.Ms. Lawn worked briefly for a congressman before becoming a reporter for an all-news station in Washington. She volunteered for the 1968 presidential campaign of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy before deciding that she preferred journalism to politics.In her memoir, You Wake Me Each Morning, she recalled traveling with Robert F. Kennedy during his presidential campaign and conducting one of the last interviews with him before his assassination in Los Angeles on June 5, 1968. She also covered violent protests, the Watergate scandal and John Hinckley Jr.s shooting of President Ronald Reagan in 1981.She told the New Zealand newspaper The Southland Times that the following year, while covering the tension between Palestine and Israel, she escaped from a would-be abductor in Lebanon by slamming a bag into his face, leaping out of his Jeep and running toward Israeli soldiers while shouting Shalom!Her first marriage, to Steve Rappaport, ended in divorce. She married Dr. Sneiderman in 2000.In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Richard Lawn; two sons from her first marriage, Daniel and David Rappaport; and two grandchildren.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Kimberly Archies son stopped playing football by age 15. But by then he had already absorbed many hits to the head during eight years of Pop Warner football and one year playing as a high school freshman.By 2014, Ms. Archies son, Paul Bright Jr., was 24, and had done something out of character, his mother said: He bought a motorcycle off Craigslist, despite having no riding experience. He fixed it up, and rode it fast without a license or insurance. On Labor Day that year he T-boned another vehicle and died.An examination of her sons brain revealed previous damage to its frontal lobe, and he was found to have chronic traumatic encephalopathy, more commonly known as C.T.E.Now, California state lawmakers are being asked to bar children under 12 from playing organized tackle football  a requirement supporters say will protect their brains from unnecessary injury and trauma. Ms. Archie, who had been working to make sports safer long before her sons death, supports the bill, but thinks the age limit should be pushed even higher.If Im wrong there is going to be less brain-injury exposure, she said. If theyre wrong, kids can die.A fact sheet in support of the bill  known as the Safe Youth Football Act  says children who wait until they are 12 to play tackle football decrease their risk of life-impacting brain damage by 50 percent. Doctors have also noted that head hits are more damaging to young players because their brains are not fully developed, and are less capable of fully repairing themselves. Similar legislation has been proposed in Illinois, Maryland and New York, officials said.But passing anti-football laws, even at the state level, can be an uphill battle. Despite a decline in youth football participation over the past decade, the sport remains very popular. A Facebook group titled Save Youth Football  California already has more than 4,000 members. On the page, critics of the proposed law call it government overreach, share stories about the value of football and question the research into its harm.Im opposed to anything thats going to tell me how to raise my kids thats not a black-and-white situation, Nick Hardwick, a former center for the San Diego Chargers who now is the teams radio analyst, told The San Diego Union-Tribune. And youth football is a gray area.Assemblyman Kevin McCarty, Democrat of Sacramento, and Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez, Democrat of San Diego, unveiled the bill in February. The bill is currently in committee and is expected to be heard no later than the first week of May, officials said.Over my sons dead body, Ms. Archie said, will it not pass.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) The Environmental Protection Agency has taken steps to challenge Californias right to set its own air pollution rules. A showdown is likely. [The New York Times] In a separate action, the Justice Department has sued the State of California, claiming that a state law illegally blocks the federal governments right to buy and sell federal land. [The New York Times] And one day after declaring NO MORE DACA DEAL, President Trump has begun a new push for legislation that would crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States. [The New York Times] Sheriff Scott Jones of Sacramento County said he believed his deputy did not know his car had hit an activist during protests over the shooting death of Stephon Clark. [The Sacramento Bee] The California Supreme Court let stand a provision that says any adult arrested or charged with a felony must give up his or her DNA. [The Los Angeles Times] The markets are tumbling again. The Standard & Poors 500-stock index sank 2.2 percent on Monday as investors jettisoned shares of financial and technology stocks. [The New York Times] Does Representative Devin Nunes actually use his Clovis office? They just use us as a mail slot, a building employee recently said. [The Fresno Bee] How much damage do natural disasters actually do? Officials say Januarys deadly mudslides caused more than $421 million in insured losses. [Reuters] April measurements of the Sierra Nevada snowpack show that the water content is more than 40 percent below normal. Helpful, the state climatologist said. But not enough. [KQED] Yosemites new superintendent faces several challenges, including parking and even a new Starbucks. Thankfully, he knows the place rather well. [The San Francisco Chronicle] New details have emerged about a crash involving a sport utility vehicle that plummeted off a California cliff with a family inside. It was pure acceleration, a California Highway Patrol official said. [The New York Times] A camera system on a Bay Area freeway has been counting the people inside every vehicle in the car pool lane to detect cheaters. Could the experiment become permanent? [The San Francisco Chronicle] California has a law prohibiting taxpayer-funded travel to eight states. So lawyers for the public universities with basketball teams have had to devise legal workarounds during March Madness. [The New York Times] The Charlotte Hornets have formally offered their vacant general manager position to the longtime Los Angeles Lakers executive Mitch Kupchak. [The New York Times] The Times has written an obituary about Stephen Reinhardt, the judge featured in yesterdays newsletter. [The New York Times]Officials at the Los Angeles Tourism & Convention Board have done the focus groups, and theyve come up with a controversial conclusion.The younger generations living in New York love Los Angeles, Don Skeoch, the boards chief marketing office said in an email. This is not fake news, we promise.Theyre so sure theyre right, the tourism board started a campaign called L.A.  seeking to sell New Yorkers on a trip to Southern California. New Yorkers visit L.A. more than any other American market, they say, and part of the reason is that  wait for it  New Yorkers and Angelenos actually like lots of the same things.The advertisements flashing across boards in New York City highlight some of those things: public transportation, the morning commute and that view, for example. (Whether Angelenos actually love public transportation is highly questionable, and it should be noted that the photo that serves as the backdrop of the morning commute ad depicts young people hiking Runyon Canyon instead of a traffic jam on the 405 Freeway.) The New York-specific ads will run through the end of May, officials say. They are part of a broader campaign in major cities across the United States and even Mexico City and China.Asked to pitch Los Angeles to the most skeptical New Yorkers, Mr. Skeoch said: Were just asking that you give us a long weekend.Near-perfect 72-degree days, he noted, tend to warm even the coldest hearts.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
SAN BRUNO, Calif.  A woman opened fire with a handgun at YouTubes headquarters in California on Tuesday afternoon, shooting three people  one of whom was critically injured  before killing herself, the authorities said.The San Bruno Police Department identified the attacker late Tuesday as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s. The motivation for the shootings was under investigation, the police said, although her social media postings included criticisms of YouTube.Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital received three patients: a man, 36, in critical condition; a woman, 32, in serious condition; and a woman, 27, in fair condition, a hospital spokesman, Brent Andrew, said at a news conference. A fourth person had injuries that werent from a gunshot, the police said.At this time there is no evidence that the shooter knew the victims of this shooting or that individuals were specifically targeted, the San Bruno Police Department said in a written statement.Word of the attack in San Bruno at YouTube, which is owned by Google and is one of the worlds largest social media companies, quickly spread online through employees social media feeds.Vadim Lavrusik, a YouTube employee who formerly worked for The New York Times, tweeted just before 1 p.m. that there was an active shooter at YouTube HQ and that he had heard shots and saw people running while at my desk. He was barricaded in a room with co-workers, he said, but moments later tweeted that he had been safely evacuated.The last known address for Ms. Aghdam was in Menifee, a city in Southern California about halfway between Los Angeles and San Diego.Ms. Aghdam was active on various social media outlets, including YouTube, where she had a number of channels in Persian, Turkish and English. On YouTube, she published an eclectic set of videos, including music parodies and workouts, on topics like animal cruelty and vegan cooking.In February 2017, she recorded a video on Facebook criticizing YouTube for taking measures that decreased the number of views on her videos.She said that she had contacted YouTube, but that the sites support staff told her that her workout videos contained inappropriate scenes and needed to be restricted from younger audiences.This is what they are doing to vegan activists and many other people who try to promote healthy, humane and smart living  people like me are not good for big business, like for animal business, medicine business and for many other businesses. Thats why they are discriminating and censoring us, she said in the video on Facebook.YouTube had pulled down all of her channels as of Tuesday night.A 2009 story by The San Diego Union-Tribune quoted a woman with the same name as Ms. Aghdam at an animal rights protest outside Camp Pendleton, the Marine Corps base in Southern California. Two dozen attended the protest organized by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals against the use of pigs in military trauma training.For me, animal rights equal human rights, said Ms. Aghdam, then 29, who attended the protest carrying a plastic sword and wearing a wig and jeans painted with drops of blood.The shootings on Tuesday took place in a courtyard at YouTubes offices, the police said. Those offices, like other Google facilities, maintain light security, with employees using badges to go through security gates or doors. Usually, the main lobby is attended by a receptionist. There are no visible metal detectors or armed guards.San Bruno is about nine miles south of San Francisco, with a population around 43,000. YouTube is the citys biggest employer, and many workers commute here from San Francisco. Though YouTube is owned by Google, it operates in a separate office, about 20 miles from Googles main campus in Mountain View, Calif.Outside the YouTube headquarters, armed police officers waded into a crowd of 200 or so employees who had evacuated to a nearby parking lot Tuesday afternoon. The police asked for employees who had witnessed something firsthand to come forward, and about two dozen, some visibly distraught, walked over to the officers.Many employees said they had initially thought the episode was a fire drill. Others said they had run when people started shouting that there was a shooter. Two hours after the attack, YouTube employees, including Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive, continued to stream slowly down the hill, away from the office.Footage broadcast by CNN showed people leaving the building in single file with their hands raised above their heads. Separate footage showed a large crowd lining up to be frisked, one by one, by the police.Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said in an interview that he had been sitting at his desk when the fire alarm went off. He grabbed his electric skateboard and headed for a back exit, he said. As he rode down a gravel hill, he heard someone shouting and saw a man lying motionless in one of the offices outdoor dining areas.He had a red spot on his stomach, and he was lying on his back, not moving, Mr. Vorhies said. I saw the blood soak through the shirt.About 25 feet away from the victim, he said, a man was shouting, Come at me! Mr. Vorhies thought the man was the attacker, but he did not see a gun and said it was possible that the man had actually been taunting the shooter.A moment later, an armed police officer entered the patio area, and Mr. Vorhies quickly left, he said.The dining area can be reached from an adjacent parking structure without an employee badge, Mr. Vorhies said.By 2:15 p.m., President Trump had been briefed on the attack. He tweeted a short time later: Was just briefed on the shooting at YouTubes HQ in San Bruno, California. Our thoughts and prayers are with everybody involved. Thank you to our phenomenal Law Enforcement Officers and First Responders that are currently on the scene.Cameron Rogers Polan, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Division of the F.B.I., said in an email that the agency was in contact with the San Bruno police. The San Francisco division of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives tweeted that it, too, was responding to the shooting.Google said on Twitter that it was coordinating with authorities.I know a lot of you are in shock right now, Googles chief executive, Sundar Pichai, said in a statement posted to Twitter. Over the coming days, we will continue to provide support to help everyone in our Google family heal from this unimaginable tragedy.Executives at other Silicon Valley companies took to Twitter to send their condolences to YouTube employees.From everyone at Apple, we send our sympathy and support to the team at YouTube and Google, especially the victims and their families, Apples chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, wrote.Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, wrote on Twitter: I cant imagine what our friends at YouTube are feeling and dealing with right now. Were here for you and your families and friends.Others, including a trauma surgeon at the hospital where shooting victims were taken, expressed anger at continued gun violence.Youd think that after weve seen Las Vegas, Parkland, the Pulse nightclub shooting, that we would see an end to this, but we have not, the surgeon, Dr. Andre Campbell, told reporters Tuesday afternoon.
Teachers in multiple states have walked off the job or are making plans to do so after a statewide teachers strike in West Virginia last month yielded a pay raise and significant public support.Oklahoma teachers clogged the State Capitol on Tuesday, protesting budget cuts and demanding higher wages. It was the second day of a widespread walkout. At least 50 school districts were closed across the state, including those in Oklahoma City and Tulsa.The protests continued in Kentucky, too, where many teachers are on spring break but have swarmed their own Capitol to denounce a pension reform bill.In Arizona, teacher organizers have mounted a grass-roots effort to recruit school representatives across the state, and are particularly interested in building support in rural areas for a potential statewide walkout. Heres the latest on the protests:In Oklahoma, teachers  asked for a $10,000 raise for themselves, a $5,000 raise for support staff, $200 million over three years in funding for local schools and $500 million over three years in funding for state agencies and other public employees. On Tuesday, Gov. Mary Fallin signed legislation to fund a $6,000 average increase in teachers base salaries, a $1,250 annual raise for support staff and raises between $750 and $2,000 for state public employees. The bill also provides $33 million for textbooks.The Oklahoma Education Association, the states largest teachers union, responded that it wasnt enough to end the walkout. The union has argued that more money could be found through repealing a capital-gains tax exemption and allowing ball and dice gambling, which would be taxed; the Legislature has already voted to raise taxes on the oil and gas industry and on tobacco and motor fuels.In Kentucky, teachers are protesting education budget cuts and a plan to make teacher retirement pensions more like the 401(k) accounts used in the private sector.In Arizona, where the movement is still building, teachers are asking for a 20 percent raise and an increase in school funding.The states in question, whose legislatures are dominated by the Republican Party, have pursued years of tax cuts and cuts to public services. Teachers, parents and students have noticed the impact of budget cuts on the classroom, whether it is a four-day school week in rural Oklahoma or canceled drama classes in Tulsa. When educators saw West Virginia teachers win a raise last month after a daring strike, they realized more radical tactics might work in their states, too.Other movements have also energized teachers. Some have been inspired by #MeToo, the March for Our Lives and protests against President Trump and his lightning-rod secretary of education, Betsy DeVos.Few states allow public employees to strike. Oklahoma, Kentucky and Arizona are no exception.Rank-and-file teachers dont hesitate to use the term strike to describe their actions, but union leaders prefer the term walkout. They point out that teachers arent striking against their managers  principals, administrators or local school boards  but are instead protesting state policies. In Kentucky, teachers are mostly calling in sick to attend rallies, which, according to the union, is allowed in their contract.It is unlikely that teachers participating in a mass movement would lose their jobs en masse; all of these states have teacher shortages because of pay and other factors. During the wave of teacher strikes in the 1960s and 1970s, union leaders like Albert Shanker sometimes did go to jail, but it would be surprising to see that happen now.You may have noticed that the majority of the teachers photographed at these protests are female.About three-quarters of American teachers are women. When the modern teachers union movement began in Chicago in 1897, it was an explicitly feminist movement with close ties to the suffragists. Teachers are relatively underpaid compared with other skilled workers because they historically have been women. Many policymakers assumed teachers were being supported by higher-earning spouses or other male relatives.Today, two women  Lily Eskelsen Garca and Randi Weingarten  lead the two national teachers unions, and state affiliates in West Virginia, Oklahoma and Kentucky are also led by women. Even so, many of the most visible grass-roots leaders of this new protest movement are young men who started Facebook pages to help organize protests, rallies and walkouts.There is a notable lack of quality opinion polling on this question. Organizers point to the many restaurants and hotels that are offering discounts to protesting teachers, to supportive comments on social media and to online polls conducted by local newspapers, which find readers overwhelmingly in favor of the teachers actions.Though teacher walkouts are incredibly disruptive for families, who rely on schools for child care and nutrition, the public is often supportive. When teachers walked out in Chicago in 2012 and Wisconsin in 2011, nonpartisan polling found the majority of parents and the public supported the teachers.When Chicago teachers went on strike in 2012, they had some of the same concerns that teachers in red states do in 2018. In particular, they wanted more funding for support staff at their schools, like guidance counselors and nurses.The biggest issue in Chicago, however, was the school reform agenda of Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who was pushing to evaluate teachers using student test scores. Education policy changes arent the focus of the current movement, which is more about salaries and school funding for basic needs like textbooks and foreign language classes.Even so, teacher activists in Arizona say they are frustrated by public funds being diverted to charter schools and tax credits that help parents pay for private school tuition. Many Kentucky teachers oppose charters, too, and those in West Virginia were angry after legislators proposed making it easier to become a teacher without training in education.The public employee protests at the Wisconsin State Capitol in 2011 began after Gov. Scott Walker introduced a plan to roll back collective bargaining and cut pensions. In that case, the teachers lost, and both policies became law.This is a movement that was largely organized on Facebook by rank-and-file teachers, who moved faster and more aggressively than their union leaders in demanding action from lawmakers. In conservative states like these, union membership is optional for teachers.That said, the state and national unions have stepped in with crucial organizing and lobbying muscle, and are now coordinating closely with grass-roots leaders.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Tuesday named John C. Williams as its next president, choosing a longtime insider for what is widely regarded as one of the Feds most influential positions.Mr. Williams, the 55-year-old president of the San Francisco Fed, is a respected economist who will bring academic expertise that is in short supply among the Feds senior leaders. But unions, progressive groups and Democratic lawmakers had pushed the Fed to diversify its senior leadership beyond Fed veterans and white men, and the selection drew immediate criticism.Mr. Williams will succeed William C. Dudley, who announced last fall that he planned to step down this summer after nine years in the post. The appointment, which will take effect in June, was widely expected after news leaked late last month that Mr. Williams was a favorite for the job.The position is unique among the Feds top policy roles. While the Fed chairman and other members of the board of governors are appointed by the president and subject to Senate confirmation, regional Fed appointments are made outside the political process.And unlike the 11 other regional Fed chiefs, New Yorks president has a permanent vote on the policymaking Open Market Committee and serves as the committees vice chairman. The New York bank also plays a key role in carrying out monetary decisions and overseeing many of the countrys largest financial institutions.Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, issued a statement saying that given the importance of the job, the New York Fed should have solicited a wide set of views, but instead turned the process over to a handful of private individuals and ignored calls to choose one of many qualified alternatives who might have brought a new perspective.If the Fed wants to regain some of its credibility around this decision, she added, it should have Mr. Williams and the co-chairs of the New York Fed search committee promptly testify before Congress.Those leading the search said they had indeed cast a wide net, and advocates for Mr. Williams argue he is well suited to the complex role. He has led the San Francisco bank for seven years and has spent virtually his entire career inside the Fed system. He is an influential expert on monetary policy who has worked closely with progressives  including Janet L. Yellen, who before her term as Fed chairwoman was Mr. Williamss predecessor at the San Francisco Fed  and with conservatives such as John B. Taylor, the Stanford economist.His work is rigorous and thoughtful, and he discusses it carefully, considers other views, said Mr. Taylor, who was Mr. Williamss thesis adviser in graduate school. Ms. Yellen also released a statement on Tuesday praising Mr. Williamss selection.Mr. Williams would also bring a seasoned policymaking hand to a Fed that is short on them. Jerome H. Powell, the Feds newly appointed chairman, has been at the Fed since 2012, but he is a lawyer by training and not  unlike Ms. Yellen and most of her recent predecessors  an economist. The Feds vice chairmanship is vacant, and the candidate President Trump has been reported to favor, Richard Clarida, a Columbia University economist, has little policy experience. Three other positions on the seven-member board of governors are also vacant, and several regional bank presidents are new in their roles.The relative inexperience at the top of the Fed made finding someone with practical experience a priority, two people close to the search process said. The search committee, these people said, wanted a candidate who understood the Feds inner workings and who would protect the Feds independence.But Andrew Levin, a Dartmouth economist and former Fed staff member, said there are also risks to picking an insider. Fed officials failed to appreciate the risks posed by the housing bubble in the mid-2000s, for example, even as some outside voices tried to raise the alarm.The problem with picking a longtime Fed insider is it just amplifies the risk of groupthink, Mr. Levin said, and I think groupthink has been proven to be a very serious threat at the Fed.Mr. Williams also has less experience with financial markets than many past New York Fed chiefs. The banks president and its staff are traditionally responsible for communicating Fed decisions to Wall Street, and for interpreting financial markets reactions for Fed policymakers.Mr. Williams was chosen by a search committee headed by two members of the banks board: Sara Horowitz, founder of the Freelancers Union, a New York-based labor organization, and Glenn Hutchins, a private-equity investor and philanthropist. Under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law enacted after the financial crisis, board members who represent financial institutions regulated by the Fed are excluded from the appointment process.Mr. Williamss appointment was also approved by the Feds board of governors.In a statement announcing the decision, Mr. Hutchins praised Mr. Williams as someone who has a rare mix of policy expertise and management experience and who understands the plumbing of the financial system. In a call with reporters, Mr. Hutchins and Ms. Horowitz also cited Mr. Williamss record of community engagement in San Francisco and his progress in diversifying the banks senior leadership.Progressive groups seized on Mr. Dudleys retirement as a rare opportunity to influence an economic policy appointment that is outside Mr. Trumps control. Protesters marched on the banks Lower Manhattan headquarters last month to demand a president who would represent working people.In a statement Tuesday, the Fed Up campaign, a progressive group, criticized the New York Feds board for ignoring the demands of the public and choosing yet another white man whose record on Wall Street regulation and full employment raises serious questions. The group said the search process calls into question whether the Federal Reserve can be trusted to act in the public interest.Yet in one sense, the protesters got their wish. Unlike Mr. Dudley, who was chief economist for Goldman Sachs before he joined the Fed, Mr. Williams has never worked on Wall Street. And some of his positions have drawn cheers from progressives. He has, for example, pushed the central bank to consider a new approach to monetary policy that could lead the Fed to be more aggressive in fighting the next recession.But Mr. Williams has also supported gradually raising interest rates to stave off inflation, an approach that progressive economists worry could prematurely choke off the economic recovery. And his regulatory record is also drawing scrutiny: He was president of the San Francisco Fed while Wells Fargo, which is based in San Francisco, engaged in aggressive sales practices that resulted in the opening of millions of accounts without customers knowledge. (Regulatory policy is set in Washington, and Fed insiders say regional bank presidents play only a limited role overseeing banks in their districts.)Perhaps the loudest criticism has focused on the fact that Mr. Williams, like every other person to lead the New York Fed in the banks century of history, is a white man.The New York Fed has never been led by a woman or a person of color, and that needs to change, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, said in a statement last week.The search committee promised to consider a diverse pool of candidates, and the two leaders of the search said they had succeeded. Neither of the other two finalists for the job  Raymond McGuire, an executive at Citigroup, and Mary J. Miller, a former Treasury official  is a white man, and the search committee also interviewed other candidates who would have brought diversity to the Fed. One such candidate, Peter Blair Henry, who recently stepped down as dean of New York Universitys Stern School of Business, said that the search committee had pushed him to pursue the job, but that he had declined.Im just one data point, but if the effort they put into trying to persuade me to be a candidate is any indication, then they took diversity pretty seriously, said Mr. Henry, who like Mr. McGuire is African-American.But Sarah Binder, a George Washington University political scientist who has studied the Fed, questioned whether there were really so few qualified candidates who werent white men. And she said that the closed-door nature of the process made it hard for the public to evaluate how the search committee had carried out its work.Its such an opaque and pretty byzantine process, Ms. Binder said. The fact that it is so cloistered from public view and really has very little if any public accountability for how that choice is made  given the importance of the position, its really quite glaring.
LOS ANGELES  Our God! the worshipers belted out, swaying inside a towering cathedral. Our God!Amid the rising voices, the Rev. Charles E. Blake gently swayed and clapped, head bowed and tortoiseshell glasses halfway down his nose.Bishop Blake, 78, the pastor of the West Angeles Church of God in Christ in Los Angeles, has developed a reputation as a calming force in raucous moments  whether in the church or the community. But presiding over a Pentecostal denomination of roughly six million members worldwide, he is well aware of his power. And, like many black clergy members, he is grappling with how to use that power in an activist climate that has drastically shifted in style and substance since the civil rights era.Bishop Blake is one of dozens of ministers who will converge on Memphis on Wednesday to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., one of the most famous preacher-activists in history. But more than bowing their heads and saying prayers, the pastors will confront a reality that there is no singular leader among them with the national following of Dr. King, and that their churches are not as central to the social justice movement as they once were.They are trying to figure out how to strike a balance of engaging in Dr. Kings unfinished work of fighting racism, while remaining true to a historically conservative institution.The church has been to some degree disengaged, said the Rev. Dr. W. Franklyn Richardson of Grace Baptist Church in Mt. Vernon, N.Y. Churches that have social consciousness are pushed by this anniversary into a place of reflecting on how far we have come or not come, and have we abandoned what he gave his life for?For pastors like Bishop Blake, that means embracing the parts of the movement he agrees with  ending police violence and empowering black entrepreneurs, for instance. But it also means holding the line on church teachings that young activists disagree with.There are also differences in approach. Pastors often want to work within the system to effect change, while many activists try to disturb and upend the system.Bishop Blake is not someone to be found on protest lines or shouting down law enforcement; he tends to advocate through more formal channels. He departs from some activist ministers in his social conservatism, opposing same-sex marriage and abortion. Yet he tries to strike a welcoming posture in an era of activists who can feel like the church is judging them.He hosted a rally at his church to protest the killing of Trayvon Martin. Last year, he wrote a letter to the mayor of St. Louis suggesting that if police practices were not reformed, his denomination could take its annual convention  and the millions of dollars that come with it  elsewhere. And at a gathering of black congressional leaders, his raspy voice grew louder as he declared that black people needed to take charge of our destiny.Religion at its best shows people how to live productively, safely and wisely and altruistically, said Bishop Blake, who has led the Church of God in Christ since 2007.Some ministers have an approach that is a more natural fit with the renewed religious left. Last year, the Rev. Dr. William Barber II, the pastor of Greenleaf Christian Church in Goldsboro, N.C., helped to start the Poor Peoples Campaign, patterned after the effort that Dr. King established to address urban poverty. Dr. Kings campaign, which was to include setting up an encampment in Washington, was cut short by his death.Dr. Barber is apt to politicize his sermons on Sundays and advocate civil disobedience to win change. He has linked L.G.B.T.Q. rights to the civil rights struggle.The one thing that would be dishonorable for us is to bring all this attention to the assassination of Dr. King and not have a resurrection of the efforts and the unfinished business dealing with systemic racism, systemic poverty, Dr. Barber said.Even in Dr. Kings day, black churches were not unified. Many did not follow Dr. King, and stayed on the sidelines. Some worried about attracting violent backlash. Some preferred a more gradualist approach. Similar tensions remain in the fight for his legacy.The Rev. Traci Blackmon, an executive with the United Church of Christ, a Protestant denomination, and the leader of a church near Ferguson, Mo., sees the work that many churches perform, like feeding and housing the poor, as distinct from the advocacy that Black Lives Matter and other organizations are doing, she said.Im talking about the organized countermovement that has as its end goal the changing of systems and the dismantling of structures, said Ms. Blackmon, who was a front-line activist in the wake of the 2014 killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. Often, the work that we do on church local levels does not have that as the end goal.Black churches were born out of political and social resistance, with enslaved African-Americans organizing around a theology that God would deliver them from their oppression. With all that is going on around social justice, churches must calibrate what that means for them in the present, said the Rev. Dr. Yolanda Pierce, a professor and dean of the Howard University School of Divinity.Churches have to ask the fundamental question: Are we going to be at the forefront of struggles for justice, or are we always going to be catching up to where the arc of justice will literally take us,  she said.The son of a pastor, Bishop Blake came of age during the 1960s, with Dr. King serving as his model for what a preacher should be  an activist in the pulpit and the community.He became the pastor of West Angeles in 1969, when there were only about 50 members. Today the congregation has about 25,000 members, including luminaries like Denzel Washington, Magic Johnson, Angela Bassett and her husband Courtney B. Vance.I think Black Lives Matter is doing a wonderful job, and what they have to figure out also is how to come together with the churches, Magic Johnson said. Everybody wants the same thing.Bishop Blakes church has developed 400 units of affordable housing, and it has ministries that provide counseling, help the homeless and ex-convicts, assist black-owned businesses and tutor students. Many have credited him with transforming a once struggling corridor in the Crenshaw neighborhood, and he has laid out a plan for churches nationwide to do the same in their communities.Bishop Blake tends to avoid politics in church but his stances are clear when hes not in the pulpit. He called police violence atrocious. He hopes that someday we will see some sign that President Trump is interested in the needs of all the people of our nation. And he said people buy guns under the false fear that blacks are going to come rushing out of the inner city and run up in all of their communities and rape their women and take their money, take their lives.Melina Abdullah, a professor of Pan-African studies at California State University, Los Angeles, and a Black Lives Matter organizer, lauded Bishop Blakes community work. But she said she wished that he would use his power and influence more to advocate for systemic change.I know he has a prison ministry and all of these things, Professor Abdullah said. Its all kind of focused on an individual coming to Jesus, rather than how do we create freedom in the world.While he may differ from other activists in style and substance, Bishop Blake said he hoped they all could find common ground.Were in too much trouble to be divided and fighting and criticizing one another, he said. Whos ever doing good, lets join together around them and stand with them in the endeavor.
JACKSON, Miss.  On the witness stand and under pressure, Frank Shaw, the warden of the East Mississippi Correctional Facility, could not guarantee that the prison was capable of performing its most basic function.Asked if the guards were supposed to keep inmates in their cells, he said, wearily, They do their best.According to evidence and testimony at a federal civil rights trial, far worse things were happening at the prison than inmates strolling around during a lockdown: A mentally ill man on suicide watch hanged himself, gang members were allowed to beat other prisoners, and those whose cries for medical attention were ignored resorted to setting fires in their cells.So many shackled men have recounted instances of extraordinary violence and neglect in the prison that the judge has complained of exhaustion.The case, which has received little attention beyond the local news media, provides a rare glimpse into the cloistered world of privately operated prisons, at a time when the number of state inmates in private facilities is increasing and the Trump administration has indicated that it will expand their use.Management & Training Corporation, the private company that runs the East Mississippi facility near Meridian in Lauderdale County, already operates two federal prisons and more than 20 facilities around the nation.The use of private prisons has long been contentious. A 2016 Justice Department report found that they were more violent than government-run institutions for inmates and guards alike, and the Obama administration sought to phase out their use on the federal level. Early last year, President Trumps attorney general, Jeff Sessions, reversed the ban.Several states, including Michigan and Utah, have stopped using private prisons in recent years because of security problems.But more than two dozen other states, including Mississippi, contract with privately managed prison companies as a way to reduce costs. Prisons are usually among the most expensive budget items for states.Since 2000, the number of people housed in privately operated prisons in the nation has increased by 45 percent, while the total number of prisoners has risen by only about 10 percent, according to an analysis by the Sentencing Project.The genesis of the problems at East Mississippi, according to prisoner advocates, is that the state requires private prisons to operate at 10 percent lower cost than state-run facilities. Even at its state-run institutions, Mississippi spends significantly less on prisoners than most states, a fact that state officials once boasted about.The federal civil rights lawsuit, filed against the state by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Southern Poverty Law Center after years of complaints from inmates, seeks to force wholesale changes at the prison.Testimony has described dangerous conditions, confused lines of oversight and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified staff.Security staff at East Mississippi earn even less than the $12-an-hour starting wage made by their public service counterparts, and private prison guards receive only three weeks of training  less than half the training time required of state prison guards.The states contract with Management & Training Corporation is particularly economical. Mississippi pays the company just $26 a day  or about $9,500 a year  for each minimum-security inmate. That is far less than the $15,000 a year neighboring Alabama spends per inmate, and only 13 percent of what New York, which spends more than any other state, pays per inmate.Called as an expert witness for the Mississippi inmates, Eldon Vail, the former state prisons chief in Washington State, told the court that the focus on cutting costs had sent East Mississippi into a downward spiral.There are not a sufficient number of correctional officers, and most of their problems stem from that issue, he said.Mr. Vail said that with too few guards to maintain order, inmates felt compelled to protect themselves with crudely made knives and other weapons, prompting a chain of retaliatory violence. And having too few doctors and nurses meant that inmates with mental illnesses were also more likely to act out violently.Lawyers for the state and representatives of Management & Training say prisons are meant to be tough environments, and that East Mississippi is no worse than most others.We can say  unequivocally  that the facility is safe, secure, clean, and well run, Issa Arnita, a spokesman for the company, said in a statement released during the trial. From the warden on down, our staff are trained to treat the men in our care with dignity and respect. Our mission is to help these men make choices in prison and after theyre released that will lead to a new and successful life in society.Trial testimony has presented a radically different picture.Mr. Shaw, the warden  who works for Management & Training, not for the state  receives incentives for staying within budget, but is not penalized when inmates die under questionable circumstances or when fires damage the prison. Four prisoners have died this year.The warden said that he had been unaware of cases in which inmates had been so badly beaten that they required hospitalization, and that he had not disciplined guards who failed to ensure that inmates were unable to jam door locks and leave their cells.When Mr. Shaw was asked about the variety of homemade objects used to commit assaults at the prison, he was dismissive. Inmates have weapons, he said. Its a fact of life.Mr. Shaw had previously been warden at an Arizona prison operated by Management & Training, where there was a riot in 2015. A scathing state report determined the riot was sparked by Management & Trainings culture of disorganization, disengagement and disregard of policies and fundamental inmate management and security principles.At East Mississippi, the prison designated by the state to hold mentally ill inmates, there was a glaring lack of oversight of inmate care, according to testimony. Four out of five inmates in the prison receive psychiatric medication, but the facility has not had a psychiatrist since November.The state prison mental health director is not a medical doctor, but a marriage and family therapist. And Gloria Perry, who became the prison systems chief medical officer in 2008, said that she had never been to the East Mississippi prison.Pelicia E. Hall, the commissioner of the state prison system, testified that she may have been unaware of many problems at the facility because she did not read weekly performance reports from the states own monitor.In the courtroom, the reports were delivered in person: An inmate testified in tears that a female guard had mocked him when he tried to report being raped in a cell in January. The guard never informed her superiors about the rape.In an unrelated assault, surveillance video showed an inmate being beaten by other prisoners for 14 minutes before guards arrived.Neither the state nor the private prison company has contested the accuracy of the prisoners accounts heard in court, although lawyers for the state say the stories should be treated with skepticism.An inmate described another attack that occurred this year. He said a prisoner armed with a knife and a 4-foot section of pipe charged at him while he was being escorted to his cell by two guards. Instead of helping him, he said, the two guards ran away.The inmate said he was chained at the ankles, waist and wrists at the time. He estimated that the other prisoner assaulted him for three minutes before other guards arrived and pulled the attacker off him.They laughed and told him not to do it again, the inmate said, adding that the same man had beaten him with a pipe the previous month.At the prison infirmary, he said, the medical staff simply poured distilled water onto his puncture wounds and sent him back to his cell.I was in excruciating pain, he said.It was not until three days later, the inmate said, when there was blood covering much of the floor of his cell, that he was taken to a hospital. He was treated for four stab wounds and a broken leg.The inmate testified without giving his name, worried about retaliation from prisoners and guards alike. He said that whatever luck he has had may soon run out: When he went back to prison from the hospital, he said on the stand, he was placed in a cell next to that of his attacker.
Cabernet isnt the most obvious pawn in a trade war between the United States and China. Airplanes and their parts are the leading American export to China. Soybeans and wheat grow in Trump country.But Chinas selection of wine as a target of retaliatory tariffs did not surprise Michael Honig, a winemaker in the Napa Valley, where the tariff would hit hardest.The reason the government realizes they should penalize us is, we are branded, said Mr. Honig, the president of Honig Vineyard and Winery. Its hard to go after a wheat grower, because who is a wheat grower? Its a commodity. We are not a commodity.The news was an unwelcome turn of events for Mr. Honig and many California winemakers, who have spent years trying to carve out a place in the hearts of wealthy Chinese consumers. That hard work has earned them a prized sliver of what is becoming one of the fastest-growing markets for wine imports.Chinas imports of American wine reached $82 million last year  not including bottles entering duty-free through Hong Kong  a sevenfold increase in the last decade. But growing visibility may have turned Napa wine into easy prey.Wine is something people can relate to, said Jim Boyce, who has been covering the industry from Beijing for a decade on his blog, the Grape Wall of China. Its like putting a tariff on Chinese dumplings. Its something you can feel on an emotional and personal level.The 15 percent tariff, announced Monday, on top of existing tariffs and taxes, is a gut punch to winemakers marketing their wares to the mushrooming legions of young, recently wealthy Chinese.It is that group, one or two levels below Chinas ultrarich, that holds huge potential for California vintners. Those consumers are far more numerous than 1-percenters. And more crucially, theyre the ones driving the recent blossoming of a wine culture in China in which bottles are actually consumed rather than simply traded among elites as trophies.Mr. Honig and his business partner and wife, Stephanie, have spent a decade wooing that clientele, making a trip a year to China to pitch sommeliers in top restaurants and hotels. He has recently expanded beyond the obvious stops in Beijing and Shanghai, visiting cities like Guangzhou, in southern China.There are people who want to spend the most, but there are also aspirational buyers, Mr. Honig said. You may want to buy the Rolls-Royce, but you can afford the Mercedes. And thats his sweet spot.His most popular cabernet goes for around $25 a bottle wholesale, and he sends more than 500 cases of it every year to a plucky Shanghai importing business started by two brothers with dual citizenship. With existing tariffs and value-added taxes mixed in, the total charge tacked on to California wine was already close to 50 percent. After the importer factors in shipping, takes its cut and passes the bottles to a hotel or retail store, which takes its cut, the Napa red ends up selling for the equivalent of around $100.An extra 15 percent charge would be brutal. No one wants to overpay, Mr. Honig said. If all theyre looking at is two different bottles side by side, and we are competing with Australia and Chile, thats a big competitive disadvantage.Chilean and New Zealand wines face no Chinese levies, thanks to free-trade agreements. Australian bottles will enter the country tariff-free next year.Larry Yang, an importer in Shanghai, said his customers liked California wines, but not enough to ignore an even higher price tag. The wine isnt cheap as it is, he said, and if it gets pricier, he will look elsewhere.There are so many countries producing fine wine, he said. I dont have to buy relatively expensive California wine. I could choose from New Zealand, Australia, Chile and South Africa.And Chinese drinkers have a growing array of homegrown brands to choose from. Expert winemakers have spent years harvesting cabernet sauvignon, merlot and cabernet franc varietals at the foothills of the Helan Mountains in Ningxia, a region that borders Inner Mongolia. They have started winning international awards, even beating out French favorites.Then the government began protecting its domestic players.When the European Union put tariffs on Chinese solar panels in 2013, Beijing blustered back by opening an inquiry into whether European winemakers were dumping cheap, improperly subsidized bottles onto the Chinese market. It ended the investigation a year later, after the Europeans agreed to help train Chinese winemakers.Sophisticated wine shops have sprouted up across Shanghai, the online retailer Alibaba now runs a yearly wine sale, and other sites will deliver cases to peoples doors within two days. In August, China got its first master sommelier, a distinction reserved for people who can pass a rigorous series of tests, including verbal and tasting exams.It wasnt like this when David Pearson made his first business trip to Beijing 15 years ago, intent on selling Chinese customers on his super-premium Napa wine Opus One. The rich drank French Bordeaux if they drank wine at all. He had to make the case for his California winery, a joint venture between Robert Mondavi and Baron Philippe de Rothschild.He found a natural audience.People will buy symbols of luxury  watches, cars, expensive bottles of wine  to demonstrate they have the means to do that, said Mr. Pearson, the Opus One chief executive. There was no middle market. You were either spending all your money on the highest quality of wine or you couldnt afford to buy anything other than the least expensive wine.The change started when Xi Jinping became president in 2013 and began an anti-corruption campaign that zeroed in on illicit gift-giving. Wine imports dipped for a couple of years but then recovered as sellers began to learn how to market to a person who would buy a bottle at a time, not several cases.The distributors who learned how to deal with consumers survived and got better at it, said Mr. Boyce, the wine blogger.It isnt clear how exactly the new tariffs will affect Opus One. Mr. Pearson sells the wine to a group of intermediaries in France known as negociants, who then send it to Chinese importers. Its also unlikely that anyone willing to spend the $600 for Opus One in China would even notice the added charge.The middle-market wine buyer  with $20 or so to spare  would notice. France and Australia are already monsters in that market, sending half of all of the foreign wine that went to China last year. The United States share is just 2 percent, and it has been shrinking. The Wine Institute, which represents California growers, says thats partly because theyre selling less for a higher price.California has had a tough time getting into the conversation, said David Amadia, the president of Ridge Vineyards. It wasnt considered a top wine region in China.After his Geyserville zinfandel blend was served at a meeting between Mr. Xi and President Barack Obama in 2013, a flurry of new importers began asking for 1,000 cases at a time. He was initially excited about the attention. Then he realized he had no idea where it was going, or who exactly was so interested in it."We had concerns about gray market and counterfeiting," he said. So he rejected those orders, and says other American winemakers may also be choosing control over quantity. No one knows how much fake wine flows in China, but experts say French and Australian labels are stolen most often, and slapped on random bottles, because they are so well known and abundant.On Mr. Pearsons desk, in Napa, he has a box of counterfeit Opus wines on display. The scammers did a terrific job on the box, he said, other than the X they inserted into the name Rothschild.Part of me takes a strange amount of pride in it, he said. Your brand has to have enough value associated with it in order for someone to think its worth counterfeiting.
BOSTON   Tom Brady is losing one of his top receivers, and Jared Goff is getting a speedy new target.The New England Patriots traded receiver Brandin Cooks to the Rams on Tuesday for Los Angeles' first-round draft pick, the 23rd overall.New England also sent a fourth-round choice to the Rams, and the Patriots got a sixth-rounder from Los Angeles.The 24-year-old Cooks had 65 catches for 1,082 yards and seven touchdowns in his only season with the Patriots. His receiving stats were second on the defending AFC champions' roster only to tight end Rob Gronkowski, who barely topped Cooks in all three categories.Cooks' clear chemistry with Brady makes the trade fairly surprising for New England, particularly after the recent departure of another favorite Brady target, Danny Amendola, who signed with the Dolphins.But the defending NFC West champion Rams made an aggressive offer to secure a potential No. 1 receiver and proven deep threat just three weeks after the departure of Sammy Watkins, who got a three-year, $48 million deal from the Kansas City Chiefs in free agency.After weeks of rumors about the Rams' interest in acquiring star receiver Odell Beckham Jr. from the New York Giants, they managed to find another elite talent at the position. Cooks' speed and versatility should fit in well in coach Sean McVay's schemes as he lines up alongside Robert Woods and Cooper Kupp in the NFL's highest-scoring offense last season.The trade also appears to be a strategic move on the part of the Patriots: Cooks is entering the fifth year of his rookie contract, and he can become a free agent after the 2018 season.With three 1,000-yard seasons in a four-year pro career that began with New Orleans, Cooks would likely be a coveted player after another big year, and the Patriots may not have been willing to pay a high price to keep him and may be looking to get maximum value now.Watkins was in the same contractual situation when the Rams acquired him from Buffalo during training camp last year, and he parlayed a solid season in Los Angeles into an enormous contract elsewhere. Yet the Rams don't appear to regret the trade, even though Watkins was their fourth-leading receiver with 39 catches, because he excelled in the red zone with eight TD grabs and provided a deep threat that had to be respected by opponents.Cooks will be asked to do all that and more with the Rams, who haven't let up on their intense offseason pursuit of a championship roster.The Rams acquired elite cornerbacks Marcus Peters and Aqib Talib last month, and they signed defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh last week to form a ferocious duo with AP Defensive Player of the Year Aaron Donald. Los Angeles has lost leading tackler Alec Ogletree and top cornerback Trumaine Johnson during its machinations, yet kept its entire offensive line intact for Goff and running back Todd Gurley.With the draft picks acquired in Tuesday's deal, New England now holds four picks in the first two rounds later this month and four more picks in Rounds 3-7. That gives coach Bill Belichick the ability to go shopping for a young prospect or perhaps to make a deal for a veteran.Still, there's also the possibility that the Patriots may do nothing at all at receiver heading into training camp.Julian Edelman is expected to return after suffering a preseason knee injury, and Malcolm Mitchell is also slated to return after spending time on injured reserve with a knee issue.Cooks was New Orleans' first-round selection out of Oregon State in 2014, and he played three solid seasons for the Saints while emerging as a top young receiver.Yet when the competitive receiver apparently disagreed with the Saints about the height of his abilities and his long-term future, he was traded to New England 13 months ago for a first-rounder and other picks.Although Cooks is one year away from free agency, the Rams probably feel they've got a better chance to do a long-term deal with Cooks. Cooks and Goff are represented by the same agent, and Cooks is a Stockton, California, native whose family will be able to see him play regularly.___AP Sports Writer Greg Beacham in Los Angeles contributed to this story.___
GAZA/JERUSALEM   A Palestinian man was killed by Israeli gunfire in Gaza on Tuesday, Palestinian medics said, raising the death toll from clashes along the border to 17, and Israel\'s defence minister warned further protests would be met with similar force.Tens of thousands of Palestinians began a six-week-long protest last Friday in tent encampments set up along the fenced border of the Israeli-blockaded Gaza Strip. They are pressing for a right of return for refugees to the villages and towns where their families lived before 1948 in what is now Israel.Sixteen Palestinians died after being shot by Israeli troops on the first day of the protest, Palestinian medical officials said. The 17th Palestinian killed, 25-year-old Ahmed Omar Arafa, was standing about 50 metres (165 feet) from the fence when he was shot, his father, Omar Arafa, told Reuters."He was standing next to me; he posed no danger to them but they killed him," he said. An Israeli military spokeswoman had no initial information on the latest reported fatality.The deaths occurred in the course of one of the largest Palestinian demonstrations along the 65-km (40-mile) border in years. Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman defended Israel\'s response."I warn (Gaza protesters) against continuing the provocation. We have set clear game rules and we do not intend to change them. Every person who comes close to the fence is endangering their lives," he said on a visit to the border."This was a well-organised provocation by Hamas\'s armed wing in an attempt to harm our sovereignty, to disrupt daily life and to disturb Israelis on their Seder (traditional Passover meal) night. We are doing what we must do."Gaza, a small coastal enclave, has been ruled by Hamas, a Palestinian Islamist movement sworn to Israel\'s destruction, for much of the time since Israeli soldiers and settlers withdrew in 2005 after a 38-year occupation.The military said its troops used live fire only against people trying to sabotage the fence or rolling burning tyres and throwing rocks. Palestinian organisers said they had called for a peaceful protest and Hamas denied that its fighters had fired on Israeli forces, using the crowds as cover, though it said five of the dead were members of its armed wing.Lieberman has characterised most of those killed last week as "terrorists that we know well who are active in the armed wing of Hamas and Islamic Jihad. They were not innocent civilians who were part of a civil protest".In Gaza, protesters have begun gathering thousands of mirrors which they hope to use to blind Israeli soldiers on the other side of the fence. The protesters say they also intend to use laser pointers to distract Israeli army sharpshooters.We were saddened by the martyrdom of 16 of us, some of them we knew as friends. This Friday we shall rise to challenge the occupation which killed them, and show them we are not afraid, said Issa Abu Jamea\', 29, from Khan Younis in Gaza\'s south.He said he had taken part in protests every Friday since U.S. President Donald Trump\'s Dec. 6 decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital, and to move the U.S. Embassy to the city. Its eastern half was taken by Israel in a 1967 war and is wanted by Palestinians for the capital of a future state.FRIDAY OF TYRESPalestinian organisers said they expect the number of participants to again swell to tens of thousands on Friday.Riding on donkey carts and rickshaws, protesters scoured towns and villages across Gaza on Tuesday collecting old tyres from mechanics\' shops, fields and garbage dumps. The thick, black smoke emitted by burning tyres can reduce the effects of tear gas used by Israel security forces, they say.Abu Jamea\' said that he and his friends had collected about a thousand tyres. The hash tag "Jomaat Al-Kawshook", or "Friday of Tyres", was trending on Twitter."We have prepared mirrors, lasers and tyres to burn ... they will help to distract Israeli snipers and blind them. We aim to protect ourselves and the protesters," Abu Jamea\' said.In Gaza City, Daoud Shehab, a protest organiser who is also spokesman for the militant Islamic Jihad, urged participants to remain peaceful. "We urge our people not to fall for Israeli provocation attempts," said Shebab.The protest action is set to wind up on May 15, when Palestinians mark the Naqba, or Catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands fled or were driven out of their homes during violence that culminated in war in May 1948 between the newly created state of Israel and its Arab neighbours.Israel has long ruled out any right of return, fearing it would lose its Jewish majority.(Writing by Nidal Almughrabi and Ori Lewis, editing by Mark Heinrich)
