WASHINGTON  Even for Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has emerged as one of his partys most fervent critics of President Trump, the warning he issued recently that firing the special counsel could lead to the presidents impeachment was extraordinary.From what I can see, thats the only remedy, Mr. Flake said.But it is anything but clear that the long-speculated dismissal of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, would have the tectonic consequences that Mr. Flake and other Republicans and Democrats have spoken of  or any consequences at all. In truth, the fallout on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers alone may decide what happens, would probably be far messier than the swift justice that Mr. Trumps critics imagine.For months now, Democratic leaders and their aides have gamed out crisis situations during planning meetings, talking through the implications for the potential firings of not just Mr. Mueller but also the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein. But as the minority, they have little recourse without Republican support. Whether they would get it could depend in large part on what Mr. Trump and Mr. Mueller ultimately have to say.And any real repercussions for Mr. Trump may have to wait for the midterm elections, when voters decide whether to hand one chamber of Congress  or both  to the presidents opposition.I hope that my colleagues would stand up and say, This is the Saturday Night Massacre all over again; we cant go there,  Mr. Flake said in an interview, referring to the night Richard M. Nixon fired top Justice Department officials and the special prosecutor investigating him. But I am more and more concerned all the time.For now, the chances of the presidents impeachment remain remote, even though Democrats may be outspoken on the subject. I will sleep with my cellphone next to my ear, and if the word comes down that Donald Trump is taking out Sessions, taking out Mueller, taking other actions to undermine the rule of law and obstruct justice, I will be on the first plane to Washington, said Representative Luis V. Gutirrez, Democrat of Illinois and a member of the House Judiciary Committee, where impeachment proceedings would begin.It would leave this committee no choice to go ahead with impeachment hearings, he added.But Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, the Judiciary Committees chairman, have given no indication of how they would proceed, and aides say privately that Republican leaders view the possibility of Mr. Muellers firing as too improbable to warrant hypothetical discussions.Short of that, there are other options. Congress could pass a law reinstating an independent investigator in the executive or legislative branch, though Mr. Trump would have to sign it. Lawmakers could demand that Mr. Muellers evidence be turned over to Congress. They could press to censure the president. Or they could make his fate a political issue and let the voters decide in November.Republicans and Democrats do agree on one thing: Should the special counsel be ousted, the business of Congress  hearings, nominations and legislation  would screech to a stop, replaced by a painful, consequential debate over the most serious constitutional challenge in a generation.The rule of law is very dear to many of us, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. I dont think you have to be too creative to understand how damaging that would be.Mr. Trump has made no secret of his contempt for Mr. Muellers investigation into potential ties between his campaign and Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, and into possible obstruction of justice by the president himself. He ordered the firing of Mr. Mueller over the summer  before backing down.But more recently the president has shifted to a more aggressive, direct attack on the special counsel and the legitimacy of his inquiry.Under current law, Mr. Trump cannot directly fire the special counsel. Even if he ordered the Justice Department official overseeing the case  right now, the deputy attorney general  to dismiss Mr. Mueller, he would have to cite good cause. But Mr. Trump has proved willing to fire or push out other top F.B.I. officials tied to the investigation, as well as his secretary of state and his national security adviser, and could choose to remove those who objected to the order.An unleashed president has members of both parties nervous.If Mr. Mueller were fired and the investigation disbanded, of primary importance would be preserving the evidence gathered by the special counsels investigation, aides in both parties say. Congress could leverage its control of the Justice Departments nominees and purse strings to ensure its safekeeping while other matters were sorted out. Relevant committees could then call for Mr. Mueller to testify, as they weighed a path forward legislatively.But Mr. Mueller would have to be willing to share his knowledge. If he were inclined to disclose details of his investigation to Congress, many of which are not protected by grand jury secrecy, it would be very difficult, if not impossible, for Mr. Trump to stop him, legal experts said.If Mueller or members of his team are subpoenaed by Congress, and theyre willing to tell their story, then I think theres a strong likelihood that the story gets told, said Ross H. Garber, an expert in impeachment law who has represented several politicians in high-profile investigations.The spectacle of a fired special counsel  and former F.B.I. director  publicly divulging the results of his investigation would raise parallels to the Watergate hearings and raise pressure on Republicans to break rank. On top of that, a potential subpoena fight over Mr. Muellers records would add a nasty sideshow that would sap Mr. Trumps political agenda.We have to expect that all the information that Mueller and his team have discovered will ultimately be made public one way or another, Mr. Garber said.Democrats say they also fear a less dramatic outcome: In lieu of demanding the firing of Mr. Mueller, the president could replace Mr. Sessions and Mr. Rosenstein as part of what has become regular turnover in a tumultuous administration. A new attorney general could then declare that further investigation was unnecessary and dismiss Mr. Mueller on his or her own. The end result would be the same, but it could give the White House the argument that the Justice Department made the decision independently of the president, making it harder to build support for Congress to act.Without support for impeachment, Democrats say the most realistic path toward Republican cooperation would be an effort to get Mr. Mueller, or another investigator, reinstated. Options under discussion include hiring Mr. Mueller as a special congressional investigator, passing a new independent counsel law that would restore him or another trusted law enforcement figure as an executive branch employee with explicit protections from Mr. Trump, or enacting legislation that would allow Mr. Mueller to appeal his firing to a panel of judges.None of those options are a sure thing.It would be a mess, said Senator Chris Coons, a moderate Democrat from Delaware who has all but pleaded with colleagues to support a measure he has drafted with Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, giving Mr. Mueller the right to appeal his dismissal.My concern is that they would want to do the least effective thing, which is send the president a resolution of reprimand or censure, urge him to reconsider and then just sort of go sideways for a week or two, Mr. Coons added.Even if Congress passed legislation reinstating a special counsel in some fashion, it is unclear whether such a law would have teeth, and many legal experts said the legislation could almost certainly prompt a legal challenge from the White House.The more likely outcome is that the executive branch would ignore Congress, said Mr. Garber, the lawyer. And hiring Mr. Mueller as a congressional investigator would not be the same as maintaining him as a special counsel, with the F.B.I. and a grand jury at his disposal.If he has no resources, and no ability to get resources, then it doesnt seem like he can do very much, Mr. Garber said.The voters, however, would eventually have a say. Democrats have signaled that they would take a much more aggressive posture if they take the majority. Liberals say they already feel that their political base favors removing the president.Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, who stands to inherit the chairmanship under Democratic control, has resisted telegraphing what steps he would take if his party were to retake the House. But he has made clear he would not stand by idly.Should a red line be crossed, and firing the special counsel or throttling his investigation are red lines, then there would be a total sea change in the political landscape of the country, he said at a recent news conference. And at that point, all options would be on the table.

PALM BEACH, Fla.  President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly dangerous flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced liberal laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the nuclear option to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact tough laws NOW.It was unclear whether the presidents tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a Fox and Friends segment on immigration that had aired minutes before.Whatever his intention, Mr. Trumps Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country.In his tweets, Mr. Trump referred to caravans of immigrants heading north toward the United States-Mexico border  a subject that was addressed on the Fox program. A group of hundreds of Central Americans has been traveling through Mexico toward the United States, where some hope to seek asylum or sneak across the border. A reporter for BuzzFeed has been traveling with the group as it makes its way north.As he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible.Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough.Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats blew it after having had a great chance.But well have to take a look, he added.Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations.NO MORE DACA DEAL?!! Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota wrote on Twitter. You were never doing a DACA deal. Your actions gave you away: cancelling DACA with no plan, making racist comments about Black/Brown immigrants, ejecting several by bipartisan deals. You didnt fool anybody.Representative Dwight Evans, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said on Twitter that DACA recipients were students, military service members, teachers, scientists, doctors, and lawyers  they are integral members of our community.Mr. Evans said the presidents comments were simply unacceptable.The presidents remarks also drew a rebuke from a high-profile member of his own party. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio wrote on Twitter: A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesnt take hope from innocent children who call America home.Mr. Trump directed an equal measure of anger at Mexico, saying the country was doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. He said Mexican leaders must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA.NEED WALL! he added.It was far from the first time that Mr. Trump has threatened to scrap Nafta as he pushes to change American trade policies that he says have hurt the United States economy and cost the country large numbers of jobs. The United States, Mexico and Canada are locked in difficult negotiations over a revamping of the trade pact.The presidents tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security.But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations tough stance on immigration.The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called Catch & Release, a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them.Critics say the practice  which, contrary to the presidents tweet, is not enshrined in law  gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out.Mr. Trumps tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on Fox and Friends by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past.Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want, Mr. Judd said on the program. They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program thatll allow us to hold them for a long time.Mr. Judd also said that the catch and release policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States.A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then.Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials.Many of them know they wont qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained, said Roberto Corona, the groups communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that countrys Congress.Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants.

It was sweet redemption for Charles Kushner last year when his son Jared was named senior White House adviser. A dozen years earlier, a sordid scandal stemming partly from a family falling-out had reduced the senior Mr. Kushner from real estate baron to felon making wallets at a prison camp in Alabama.Now, with his son newly installed as a top aide to the president, Mr. Kushner even expressed hope, one close family friend said, that he might receive a pardon.Absolution, however, is not what the White House has conferred on the Kushners. For the patriarch and his family, the pinnacle of American political power has turned out to be a wellspring of trouble.Jared Kushner is embroiled in the special counsel inquiry, including questions about whether he discussed the familys business with foreign officials  a suggestion he has denied. His younger brother, Josh, has opposed the Trump presidency, driving a wedge between the men in a family that prizes close ties.The elder Mr. Kushner, his company and his family are assailed by criminal and regulatory inquiries largely rooted in their newfound access to presidential power. The familys East Coast-based real estate empire is under a fiscal and ethical cloud, shunned by some investors who fear being dragged into the spotlight trained on the Kushner nexus with President Trump. Two major Manhattan properties are on creditors watch lists, one after foreign investors backed out of a financing deal.In a recent interview in his 15th-floor office at 666 Fifth Avenue  an aluminum-clad Manhattan skyscraper that has become a symbol of the familys troubles  Charles Kushner brushed it all aside as false insinuations whipped into a publicity frenzy partly by political opponents.Slender, silver-haired and impeccably dressed, Mr. Kushner, 63, was by turns charming, blunt and philosophical, an engaging contrast to Jared Kushners more stilted persona. He made little effort to hide his contempt for the investigations of his business and family, saying that the stacks of records he has voluntarily given investigators rebut any suggestion of impropriety.Go knock yourselves out for the next 10 years, he said. We didnt do anything wrong.A long list of investigators are testing that claim. Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn are studying whether one of Mr. Kushners daughters dangled White House influence before prospective Chinese investors. So is the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Brooklyn federal prosecutors also are investigating the terms on which Deutsche Bank, Germanys largest lender, refinanced a Kushner-owned property in Times Square.State regulators in New York are examining Kushner loans from that bank and two others, including lines of credit to Jared Kushner. Jared Kushners White House meetings with lenders and partners of Kushner Companies have raised repeated questions about conflicts between his official and personal interests.Most recently, the head of the federal Office of Government Ethics informed a House member in a letter that he had asked the White House counsel to examine meetings in the White House last year between Jared Kushner and officials from two financial companies. The companies later lent Kushner Companies more than a half-billion dollars.The meetings were reported earlier by The New York Times; the letter was reported by CNN. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday that the counsels office was not investigating whether Mr. Kushner broke the law. Charles Kushner described the loans as arms-length transactions that did not involve his son.On top of all of this, the political prize at the root of those travails  Jared Kushners White House post  appears to be losing its luster. Although he remains Mr. Trumps senior adviser, Jared Kushner, 37, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance in February for reasons that remain undisclosed. Mr. Kushner, who friends say was taken aback by the decision, has avoided questions about how he will fulfill his once-sweeping White House duties without that privilege.He has also lost some of his closest allies: two aides, Reed Cordish and Josh Raffel, recently announced their departures, as did Gary D. Cohn, the presidents economic adviser. Still hoping to make an impact on global affairs, Mr. Kushner has  turned his attention from the Middle East stalemate to American relations with Mexico.Charles Kushner is adamant that his family remains united in the face of their difficulties. But friends say Jared Kushners sister is distressed by investigators focus on her, and there are tensions between Jared and Josh over Mr. Trump. That Josh Kushner, 32, has made no secret of the fact that he did not vote for Mr. Trump upset his brother, several friends said. Voting records show Josh Kushner did not vote in the 2016 presidential election. Joshs spokesman, Jesse Derris, said the brothers are just as close as ever.Tales of his distaste for the Trump administration continue to surface, most recently at a January party at Oscar, a health insurance firm that he helped found. According to one attendee, Josh Kushner listed the years challenges, concluding with a laugh: We survived Donald Trump. Dont tweet that. Really, dont tweet that. Ill get in so much trouble.The Kushners have weathered ordeals before and emerged stronger and more prosperous. In 2004, Charles Kushner pleaded guilty to 18 counts of witness retaliation, tax violations and false statements to the Federal Election Commission after he hired a prostitute in a scheme to entrap and retaliate against his brother-in-law, who he suspected was cooperating with a federal inquiry into his business.Charles Kushner still does not speak to his brother, whom he publicly blamed for instigating the investigation that led to his two-year prison sentence. Asked whether he hoped for presidential absolution, Mr. Kushner said, I would prefer not to have a pardon because it would trigger only further publicity.His real estate empire is now under a national microscope, its every deal scrutinized for hints of federal influence. And while Charles Kushner insists his bankers are loyal, investors are eager and deals are plentiful, some business associates say the drumbeat of unflattering headlines is putting tremendous pressure on the family business. Banks must assess the risk of any continuing regulatory or criminal inquiries before making loans; potential investors are worried that they could come under scrutiny or that projects will be delayed or fall apart.Mr. Kushner scoffs at such fears. We are actively involved in more than $3 billion of projects and banks are providing $1.5 billion of financing in the first six months of this year, he said. Does that seem like we are lacking in funds?That said, the company has been forced to rule out two major sources of financing  foreign nations sovereign wealth funds and a federal program that offers foreign investors a path to citizenship  after questions about the propriety of tapping them given Jared Kushners foreign policy influence. While Mr. Kushner transferred some holdings in Kushner Companies to a trust run by his mother, he retains the vast majority  holdings estimated to be worth at least $761 million.Avoiding such entanglements has proved harder, company officials said, than they expected. Bloomberg recently reported that two months after Mr. Kushner joined the White House, the firm sold a stake in a Brooklyn building to an entity whose largest shareholder is the Japanese government. A spokesman said Kushner company officials were unaware of the Japanese governments involvement until the news report.The finance minister of the tiny, oil-rich Gulf nation of Qatar also met separately early last year with both Josh and Charles Kushner at a time when the Qataris were seeking White House support against their powerful regional rivals. Josh Kushner, who runs the investment firm Thrive Capital, which recently raised a $700 million fund, cleared the meeting with outside counsel beforehand, his spokesman said.Josh met with the minister for less than 30 minutes, Mr. Derris said. There has been no contact since that time.The elder Mr. Kushner said he made clear to the minister that he had no interest in government-sponsored investment, and like his son, has had no further contact with him.The familys costliest and most ambitious real estate project  a $7.5 billion plan to raze their 41-story Fifth Avenue office tower and replace it with a new architecturally dazzling one, twice as high  was an early casualty of the familys White House connection. A financing pact with a Chinese firm connected to some of the Communist Partys leading families collapsed in the face of public scrutiny.Now the Kushners are scrambling. They have only 10 months before a $1.2 billion mortgage comes due to find a profitable use for a 61-year-old office tower with dark corridors, low ceilings and too few tenants to cover the interest on the purchase loan.By some estimates, the skyscraper is now worth about one-quarter less than the then-record price of $1.8 billion they paid for it in 2007. Vornado Realty Trust, which also took a 49.5 percent share in the office space, wants out. The shortfall this year between the income it generates and the interest on the loan exceeds $30 million, split evenly with the Kushners. Charles Kushner says that he is willing to buy out his partner, but some business associates say that would only double an already money-losing real estate bet.Company officials have sought to minimize the effect of the towers financial troubles, saying it is one property among many and they marked down its value so it is less than 4 percent of Mr. Kushners net worth, estimated at $2.5 billion.Debt for the Kushners portion of the Times Square property at 229 West 43rd Street is also on a watch list, according to Trepp, a firm that analyzes mortgage-backed securities. But both Mr. Kushner and Laurent Morali, the firms president, call that building, the former headquarters of The New York Times, an excellent investment. They insisted that the 2016 loan from Deutsche Bank, which is now under scrutiny by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, was an arms-length business transaction.But financing for a third $800 million project, two towers across the Hudson River in suburban New Jersey, has been delayed by yet more questions arising from the familys White House connections. The company had hoped to attract $150 million from foreign investors via a federal visa program, EB-5, that offers green cards and eligibility for permanent residence to those who invest at least $500,000 in an American business.In a marketing event last May in Beijing, Charles Kushners daughter Nicole Kushner Meyer, 34, a comparative neophyte in the family business, told potential investors that the project meant a lot to my entire family. She added that her brother had left the firm to work in the Trump administration.The Kushners apologized and abandoned the program  purely to avoid unwanted attention, Mr. Kushner said. My daughter, our company, did nothing wrong, he said.But prosecutors and S.E.C. regulators have sought documents from the Kushners and their business partner, KABR Group, apparently in part to determine whether potential investors were misled about their visa prospects. Mr. Kushner has hired a criminal defense lawyer for Nicole, adding to his familys roster of legal defenders.Some in the Kushner camp are hopeful that particular inquiry is fading. But yet another one began two weeks ago after The Associated Press reported that the Kushner Companies had secured more than 80 construction permits after falsely declaring it had no rent-regulated tenants.The company said it had outsourced the applications to a third party, and added that it had corrected the errors. But the New York City Buildings Department said it was investigating whether city laws were broken.
Separated by as much as half a century, the two mens public lives run strikingly parallel. Its as if they drank from the same political cup: George C. Wallace, the Alabama governor who ached to become president, and Donald J. Trump, the developer and showman who made it to the top. They are bound by their streaks of opportunism and by their campaigns tailored to resentful voters brimming with the conviction that societys deck is stacked against them.What both share is the demagogues instinctive ability to tap into the fear and anger that regularly erupts in American politics, Dan T. Carter, a historian and Wallace biographer, wrote in The New York Times during the 2016 presidential campaign.Retro Report, a collection of video documentaries examining major news stories of the past and their enduring impact, begins a new series with a look at the rise and fall of Mr. Wallace, a four-time governor and three-time presidential candidate who embodied the populist conservatism now associated with Mr. Trump.Mr. Wallace is probably best remembered for his fierce opposition to racial integration. Having lost a campaign for governor in 1958 with relatively tolerant views on race, he vowed not to be outdone on that score ever again. In January 1963, delivering his first inaugural address, he pledged to protect the great Anglo-Saxon Southland with this battle cry: Segregation now, segregation tomorrow and segregation forever. Five months later, in an exercise that was more stagecraft than true resistance, he made a futile stand in the schoolhouse door to keep two black students from enrolling in the University of Alabama.But his appeal for many white working-class men and women extended beyond Alabamas borders and even beyond matters of race. When he ran for president  briefly in 1964, more substantially in 1968, 1972 and 1976  he found ready support among white ethnic groups in the industrial Midwest, which even then were wilting economically as factories closed and populations migrated south and west. Perhaps not coincidentally, it is the very region that gave Mr. Trump his surprising triumph in 2016.The two men fired up crowds in similar fashion. Both appealed to forgotten Americans, stoking fear and loathing of the other  blacks in Mr. Wallaces case, immigrants in Mr. Trumps (though he also has had race cards up his sleeve, as with his embrace of birtherism to discredit President Barack Obama). The message from both was that a nefarious other, enabled by a bumbling government, was stealing work and wealth from upright Americans.Wallace understood that there were people who were hurting, struggling, losing jobs, B. Drummond Ayres Jr., who long covered the South for The Times, told Retro Report. He tapped into that and appealed to that, because folks that are struggling often feel put upon.The similarities between then and now are unmistakable.Mr. Wallace demonized the federal government as an oppressor trampling on states rights. Mr. Trump and his ardent supporters denounce Washington as the swamp and its bureaucracy as a malevolent deep state. Mr. Wallace told listeners in 1968 that they had been treated like a doormat long enough. Mr. Trump said when he declared his candidacy that the United States had become a dumping ground for everybody elses problems.Mr. Wallace sneered at the press, often singling out The Times for special scorn. Mr. Trump can hardly pass up a Twitter opportunity to rail about fake news, especially in the failing Times. He has gone so far as to call the news media in general an enemy of the American people.In speeches, both took delight in belittling people. Mr. Wallace made rhetorical pin cushions of pointy-head college professors who cant even park a bicycle straight. At one of his rallies, he called out to a longhaired male protester, Oh, I thought you were a she. Mr. Trump has yet to meet a demeaning adjective he doesnt like, with his Crooked Hillary, Lyin Ted, Liddle Bob Corker and other insults.Both exhorted audiences to get physically rough with hecklers. Both called for certain malefactors to be put to death. Bam, shoot em dead on the spot! Mr. Wallace said in 1968, referring to those rioting in Americas cities. Last month, Mr. Trump said drug dealers should be executed. The two men even had similar speech mannerisms, often saying the exact same sentence twice in rapid succession.For a time, a George Wallace presidency was not an outlandish notion. He ran well on the American Independent Party ticket in 1968, capturing 13.5 percent of the popular vote and the 45 electoral votes of five southern states  Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana and Mississippi  plus a faithless elector in North Carolina, a state won by Richard M. Nixon.In 1972, Mr. Wallace seemed to have the wind at his back in pursuing the Democratic presidential nomination, until he was gravely wounded by a would-be assassins bullets at a campaign stop in Maryland. From then on, his was a life in a wheelchair and in constant pain. (The gunman, Arthur Bremer, now 67, served 35 years of a 53-year prison sentence and was paroled in 2007.)Mr. Wallace had one more presidential race in him, in 1976, but he quickly faded. Six years later, he was elected Alabama governor for a fourth time. But long before then, he cast himself as a changed, even chastened, man on race relations.In 1973, he crowned the University of Alabamas first black homecoming queen, Terry Points. More substantively, he began speaking remorsefully about his race-baiting past  how wrong it was and how sorry he was. In 1979, he went to a church in Montgomery, Ala., where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had once been pastor. There, he spoke of having learned the meaning of suffering. I think I can understand something of the pain that black people have come to endure, he said. I know I contributed to that pain, and I can only ask your forgiveness.African-Americans in Alabama granted him redemption. They voted for him in large numbers in his final runs for governor. After he died in 1998 at age 79, Representative John Lewis, an icon of the civil rights era, wrote in The Times that George Wallace should be remembered for his capacity to change.Even so, questions linger about the genuineness of his personal road to Damascus. After all, as time passed, he needed to appeal to Alabamas expanding black electorate if he hoped for political survival. Only the good Lord knows whether or not he was sincere, Mr. Ayres said.But at least Mr. Wallace, once a great divider, had the capacity to say Im sorry. For all their oratorical similarities, that is where he and Mr. Trump notably diverge. Im sorry. Those are two words conspicuously missing from the Trump lexicon.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.   The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local):11:25 a.m.President Donald Trump says Mexico has "got to help us at the border."Trump says a lot of people are coming into the U.S. from Mexico because they want to take advantage of a U.S. program that protects "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.Trump ended the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last year, though a federal judge has ordered the administration to continue renewing permits.Months of negotiations between the White House and lawmakers in both parties have failed to produce a deal to protect the "Dreamers."Trump tweeted about the issue before he attended Easter services at a church near his Palm Beach, Florida, home.Asked about the tweets, Trump blamed Democrats, saying they blew a "great, great chance" to make a deal.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump is attending Easter services at an Episcopal church near his home in Palm Beach, Florida.The president was accompanied by his wife, Melania, and daughter Tiffany.He was expected to return to his Mar-a-Lago estate afterward to join other families for annual Easter festivities, including brunch and an Easter egg hunt.Trump has attended the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea for years. It\'s also where he and the first lady got married in 2005.The president opened the religious holiday by tweeting "HAPPY EASTER!" to his many followers. He complained in a follow-up tweet about "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that he says make it harder for Border Patrol agents to do their jobs. He also said a deal to help immigrants known as "Dreamers" was "NO MORE."___10:40 a.m.President Donald Trump says he\'ll stop Mexico\'s "cash cow" unless it does more to stop its people from crossing into the U.S.Trump tweets on Easter that Mexico is doing next to "NOTHING" to stop illegal immigration and laughs "at our dumb immigration laws." The president adds that Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"The U.S., Canada and Mexico are currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA hurts the U.S.Trump promised during the presidential campaign to build a southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming in from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated the president by not moving as quickly on the wall as he would like.___10:25 a.m.President Donald Trump is claiming that Border Patrol agents can\'t do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweets on Easter that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He offers no information to back up his claims.Trump also says Republicans in charge of the Senate "must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW."Senate rules require 60 votes for legislation in the 100-member Senate. Republicans only control 51 seats, and GOP Senate leaders basically have rejected Trump\'s calls to change the longstanding rules.Trump also says "NO MORE DACA DEAL!" to help immigrants known as "Dreamers."
NEW YORK   An activist art group has staged an exhibit featuring live rats and a Donald Trump impersonator inside a Trump hotel in New York City.The Daily News reports that the group called Indecline installed the guerrilla art show inside a suite at the Trump International Hotel.The newspaper says seven people showed up at the hotel Thursday night carrying suitcases filled with supplies.Over the next 24 hour they transformed the suite into a shocking exhibit featuring a Trump impersonator in a jail cell surrounded by rats and McDonald's wrappers.The group cleaned up the installation before checking out early Saturday.A woman who answered the phone at the hotel said she could not comment.Indecline's other stunts have included a naked Trump statue in Union Square last August.___Information from: Daily News, http://www.nydailynews.com
PALM BEACH, Fla.   President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they\'re coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S."Mexico has got to help us at the border," Trump, holding his wife\'s hand, told reporters before the couple attended Easter services at an Episcopal church near his Palm Beach home. "If they\'re not going to help us at the border, it\'s a very sad thing between our two countries.""A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA," he added.Former President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to provide temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought here as children. Trump ended the program last year, but gave Congress six months to pass legislation enshrining it. A deal has so far proved elusive and Trump has blamed Democrats.It was not immediately clear what Trump was referring to when he said people are coming to take advantage of the program.The Department of Homeland Security is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed. The Obama administration allowed signups during a set period of time, and the program is closed to new entrants.Proposed DACA deals crafted by lawmakers and rejected by Trump also were not open to new participants.Trump did not explain what he meant when questioned by reporters as he entered the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea with the first lady and his daughter Tiffany. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for clarification.Trump, when addressing reporters briefly before entering the church, again blamed Democrats for failing to protect the "Dreamers.""They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it. They had a great, great chance, but we\'ll have to take a look because Mexico has got to help us at the border. They flow right through Mexico. They send them into the United States. It can\'t happen that way anymore."Trump promised during the 2016 presidential campaign to build a Southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated him by not moving as quickly as he wants to provide money for construction.The president also complained on Twitter that border patrol agents can\'t do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweeted that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He did not offer details to back his comment.The president\'s tweets came after Fox News\' "Fox & Friends" reported early Sunday on what it said is a group of 1,200 immigrants, mostly from Honduras, headed to the U.S. The segment was a follow-up to a report by Buzzfeed News on hundreds of Central Americans making their way through Mexico in hopes that American authorities will grant them asylum or be absent when they attempt to cross the border.The Fox headline was "Caravan of illegal immigrants headed to U.S." The president is known to watch the cable TV program in the morning.Brandon Judd, leader of the union representing border patrol agents, predicted on "Fox & Friends" that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for what he described as immigration reform. Judd also said Congress needs to pass tougher laws, an idea Trump appeared to echo, and create more bed space for immigration authorities to house people.Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, chided Trump over the tone of the tweets."A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn\'t take hope from innocent children who call America home. Remember, today is Easter Sunday," tweeted Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Trump critic who challenged him for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination.Arizona Republican Sen. Jeff Flake, another Trump foe, urged Congress to take up the fight for Dreamers."There are plenty of lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who stand ready to work with the administration on legislation to protect DACA kids who call America home," he tweeted. "Let\'s do it."Sunday\'s church visit was Trump\'s first public appearance with his wife since CBS\' "60 Minutes" aired an interview the previous Sunday with Stormy Daniels, the adult-film star who says she had sex with Trump in 2006, early in his marriage and a few months after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son. The White House says Trump denies the affair. Mrs. Trump spent most of the past week in Palm Beach with her son.The Trumps returned to Washington later Sunday.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report.___
In a story April 1 about the Trump administration\'s treatment of skilled immigrants, The Associated Press reported erroneously that the administration ended a program to admit foreign entrepreneurs. A judge ruled in December that the program must take effect, though the administration has not approved any applications and says it will rescind the program.A corrected version of the story is below:Trump says he wants skilled migrants but creates new hurdlesTrump wants the US immigration system to focus on skills instead of family ties, but his administration is making it harder on skilled immigrantsBy NICHOLAS RICCARDIAssociated PressIt may be a while before President Donald Trump gets another chance at creating a new, "merit-based" immigration system, a keystone of his four-part plan that Congress rejected last month. In the meantime, his administration is busy making it harder, not easier, for skilled migrants to come work in the United States.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program to admit foreign entrepreneurs who want to start companies in the United States. It is more aggressively scrutinizing visas to skilled workers from other countries. And it is contemplating ending a provision that allows spouses of those skilled workers to be employed in the U.S.The administration and its backers contend it\'s trying to fix flaws in the existing, employer-centric skilled immigration system while advocating for a complete overhaul of America\'s immigration system."The stuff that they\'re actually doing is not so much restricting skilled immigration as enforcing the law," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports reducing immigration. "They\'re rolling back some of the extralegal measures that other administrations have taken."A primary avenue for skilled immigrants to enter the United States is the H1B visa for specialty workers, which is heavily used by the technology industry. About 85,000 visas are issued annually in a lottery system. Some critics argue they are a way for companies to avoid hiring U.S. citizens; Trump himself has said H1B recipients shouldn\'t even be considered skilled.In 2016, two technology workers sued Disney, alleging 250 U.S. employees were laid off and many were forced to train replacements who were hired on H1B visas. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, saying Disney was following existing immigration laws.The Trump administration has increased its scrutiny of H1B applications, requiring renewals be submitted in person and asking for additional proof the workers are needed and are being paid top tier."This increase reflects our commitment to protecting the integrity of the immigration system," said Joanne Fereirra, a spokeswoman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. She added that 92.5 percent of the visas are still approved, only two percentage points lower than under the Obama administration in 2016.Still, businesses have noticed a change."We\'ve got employees that are going through the process, who have gone through such a level of scrutiny and interrogatory that is unprecedented," said Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which advocates for H1B visas and has had one of its own workers have to move back overseas because of delays in approving the requisite visa.The extra time with H1B visas is only part of the administration\'s changes to skilled, work-based immigration.Last year, Trump signed an executive order that directed all government agencies to "rigorously enforce and administer the laws governing entry into the United States of workers from abroad" to ensure the maximum number of U.S. citizens have jobs. The order also called for shifting H1Bs from lower-paid workers to higher-paid ones who truly have skills that can\'t be obtained from the native workforce.The administration also moved to stop an Obama administration program that was about to start last year to let international entrepreneurs who start companies in the United States live in the country for renewable, 30-month stints. Though a judge in December blocked the government\'s effort prevent the program from taking effect, the Trump administration says it has not approved any of the about 10 entries it has received and still plans to end the program.Also in December, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security released its new regulatory agenda which included further, unspecified changes to the H1B program. The administration also indicated it will roll back the STEM OPT program expanded by President Barack Obama that lets international science and technology students work legally in the U.S. for up to three years.Meanwhile, the State Department said last week it is seeking to further enhance vetting of potential immigrants and visitors by requiring all U.S. visa applicants to submit their social media usernames, previous email addresses and phone numbers  information that was previously sought only from applicants identified for extra scrutiny. The department estimates 710,000 immigrant visa applicants and 14 million non-immigrant visa applicants will be affected annually.Akash Negi, 26, graduated last month with a master\'s in sciences and analytics from Pennsylvania\'s Harrisburg University of Science and Technology that he earned while working as a big data analyst at JP Morgan Chase. Negi moved to the United States after his father got a diplomatic visa as part of a job at the United Nations, but his legal residency doesn\'t include a work permit.He was able to work while a student but is waiting for his STEM OPT visa to remain employed, and is concerned Trump will gut the program.Negi noted he understands Trump\'s stated goals of protecting U.S. workers but says he\'s going about it incorrectly."Any country wants to protect its own citizens, but you don\'t just end the program when you don\'t have your own population trained," Negi said.The Trump administration has also signaled it may end another Obama-era program that allowed spouses of H1B visa holders to work legally in the U.S. Many of these people have been in the U.S. for years, sometimes long enough to have children who are now U.S. citizens, yet can face a decades-long wait for a green card. The prospect of being unable to work is a shock to them."I would like to make my own living. I am qualified and skilled," said Anushri Maru, 35, a business analyst in Houston, adding she\'s baffled her new home doesn\'t want her talents. "I\'m not sure they understand that we are skilled immigrants."
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.   Red paint was splashed across the sign outside President Donald Trump's golf club near his Florida estate.Images posted online by The Palm Beach Post show a worker cleaning red paint Sunday morning from the stone sign at the entrance to the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach.Palm Beach Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Therese Barbera said the U.S. Secret Service was investigating.Secret Service spokesman Joseph Casey referred questions to the sheriff's office.Images posted online by ABC News early Sunday showed large splotches of red paint obscuring some of the letters on the polished stone surface.The golf club is less than 5 miles (8 kilometers) from Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate. Trump attended Easter services at a nearby Episcopal church.
WASHINGTON/IXTEPEC, Mexico   President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.After tweeting a "Happy Easter" message on Twitter, he said: "Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous."\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!" he wrote, adding a threat to kill the North American Free Trade Agreement which is being renegotiated with Mexico and Canada.DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is a program created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Trump sought to rescind last autumn.Designed for people brought to the United States as children by parents who were undocumented immigrants, the program shielded them from deportation and gave them work permits.Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats who want to protect DACA in exchange for funding to build a U.S.-Mexico border wall, a campaign trail promise.He insisted during his 2016 White House run that Mexico would pay for the wall, something the Mexican government has repeatedly rejected.Mexico\'s presidential front-runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, launched his campaign close to the border on Sunday demanding respect for Mexicans and signaling he may take a harder line toward Trump if he wins the July 1 election."Mexico and its people will not be the piata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, which borders El Paso, Texas.  "It\'s not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Whether Trump will stick to his guns on DACA is unclear. Trump last month threatened to veto a spending bill because it did not address the fate of Dreamers and did not fully fund his border wall but he ultimately signed the bill.In the months after Trump took office, apprehensions of illegal crossers along the U.S.- Mexico border dropped from more than 42,400 arrests in January 2017 to a low of around 15,700 in April, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection data. Since then, the number of arrests has risen and in the first months of 2018 was above Obama administration levels."Mexico has got to help us at the border," the president, who is spending Easter at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, told reporters on his way into an Easter church service. "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA. They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it."MIGRANT CARAVANTrump\'s DACA tweets came after a report on the Fox New Channel\'s Fox & Friends program, one of his favorites, that a "caravan" of mostly Honduran migrants was crossing Mexico and headed to the United States, "either illegally or by asking for asylum."More than 1,000 would-be migrants have passed through Mexico\'s southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca in recent days in a so-called "refugee caravan" organized by U.S.-based immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In the town of Ixtepec, more than 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala waited in a sweltering warehouse on Saturday, mattresses rolled and bags packed, as local authorities and immigration officials from Mexico\'s federal government organized 15 buses to take them to their next stop on the long journey north.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.Gina Garibo, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras traveling with the migrants, said the group would hold a meeting to discuss Trump\'s statements on Sunday and stressed that the caravan\'s aim was to protect vulnerable people."The main people here are fleeing criminal violence, political violence, in their country and this allows us to save lives," she said in response to Trump\'s comments.A guest on Sunday\'s Fox & Friends show, Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council union, said illegal immigrants benefit from the "catch and release" program that Trump referenced in his tweet. Under it, they can be freed while awaiting court hearings if detained in the United States.If recent border crossers do not claim asylum, they can usually be deported quickly. But if they say they fear targeted violence or persecution in their home countries, they can begin the long process of petitioning for asylum in immigration court.Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that Mexico is doing "very little, if not NOTHING," to stop the flow of people across the southern border. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said the United States and Mexico work together on migration every day."An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter," he said in a tweet.Mexico deported some 80,000 people in 2017, down from about 160,000 in 2016, official statistics show. The vast majority were from Central American nations. The drop reflects fewer Central Americans crossing the country last year.(Reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Delphine Schrank in Ixtepec, Mexico; Additional reporting by by Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Mica Rosenberg in New York, David Lawder in Washington and Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Daniel Wallis)
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico   Mexico\'s presidential front-runner launched his campaign close to the U.S. border on Sunday, demanding respect for Mexicans hours after U.S. President Donald Trump again threatened to scrap a key trade pact and erect a wall between the countries.Striking a nationalistic tone, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador signalled that if he won the July 1 election, he would be less accommodating towards Trump than the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which has lagged in opinion polls over its failure to contain violence and corruption."Mexico and its people will not be the piata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech to thousands of people who jeered and swore at the mention of Trump. The U.S. president is almost universally disliked in Mexico."It\'s not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Symbolically, the three-month campaign began in Ciudad Juarez, whose namesake, Benito Juarez, was a 19th century Mexican president from indigenous roots whose exiled government resisted a French colonialist intervention from the unruly city that borders El Paso, Texas.Trump on Sunday morning reiterated his threat that has hung over the campaign, to cancel the North American Free Trade Agreement among Mexico, Canada and the United States, tying its future to its efforts to stop migrants going north."Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border," he said in a tweet.Lopez Obrador criticized President Enrique Pena Nieto for export-focused economic policies that he said benefited the few, and promised a strategy to build up Mexico\'s internal markets.He decried the paltry minimum wage in Mexico, which is less than 90 pesos ($4.96) a day, and the huge salary differences between U.S. and Mexican auto industry workers, challenging Trump\'s narrative that Mexico has benefited most from NAFTA.While he reaffirmed his backing for the pact, he said talks to renegotiate the agreement should be suspended until after the election, and that any new deal should address wages and immigration."I liked that he said we won\'t be Trump\'s servants, nobody has said it like that," Abelardo Ochoa, 32, said at the rally. "We work so hard here to earn well, but you cross the border and it\'s something else."\'EXPERIENCE OF SERVING\'The ruling-party candidate trailing in third place, former Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade, launched his own campaign on Sunday at the other end of the country in the southeastern town of Merida, touting his years in government as his strength."I have the experience of serving and getting results for more than 20 years, without scandals. I live off my salary," Meade told a cheering crowd dressed mostly in white.Second-place Ricardo Anaya began campaigning on Friday.Silver-haired Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, first ran for president in 2006. He said he would treat Trump\'s administration with respect but would demand the same for Mexicans.His unconventional, and at times inconsistent, policy stances have sometimes led to comparisons with the U.S. president.The 64-year-old candidate played to his leftist base, attacking the current government and saying he would suspend a $13 billion airport, an important project for Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, which he says is tainted by corruption.He has promised to "consult the people" on reforms and plans to turn the presidential residence into a cultural centre, sell the presidential plane and cut his salary in half.Sandra Flores, 24, who was at Sunday\'s rally with her two children, said she and members of her family, including those living in California, supported Lopez Obrador."I voted for the president we have now and honestly I\'m not satisfied," she said. "(Lopez Obrador) will be able to stand up against what Trump is doing."(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico; Writing by Christine Murray; Editing by Frank Jack Daniel, Peter Cooney and Richard Chang)
WASHINGTON   Despite its bumpy relationship with the Palestinians, the Trump administration is siding with the Palestine Liberation Organization in urging the Supreme Court to reject an appeal from American victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East more than a decade ago.The victims are asking the high court to reinstate a $654 million verdict against the PLO and Palestinian Authority in connection with attacks in Israel in 2002 and 2004 that killed 33 people and wounded hundreds more.The case was scheduled to be considered at the justices\' private conference on Thursday. A decision to reject the appeal could come as early as Monday. If the court decides to hear the case, it could say so by the middle of this month.The federal appeals court in New York tossed out the verdict in 2016. It said U.S. courts can\'t consider lawsuits against foreign-based groups over random attacks that were not aimed at the United States.The victims sued under the Anti-Terrorism Act, signed into law in 1992. The law was passed to open U.S. courts to victims of international terrorism, spurred by the killing of American Leon Klinghoffer during a 1985 terrorist attack aboard the Achille Lauro cruise ship.The victims argued that offices the Palestinians maintain in the nation\'s capital to promote their cause in speeches and media appearances and to retain lobbyists were sufficient to allow the lawsuit in an American court. The appeals court disagreed.In late June, the justices asked the administration to weigh in on the case, as they often do in cases with foreign policy implications. The Justice Department filed its brief eight months later, saying there was nothing in the appeals court ruling to "warrant this court\'s intervention at this time."In unusually strong language for a Supreme Court filing, Theodore Olson, the lawyer for the victims, wrote, "The government is not being square with the court." Olson said the administration was being cagey about its view of the law, even after the lower court cut back on its use by attack victims to try to hold groups financially liable.If the appeals court decision is left in place, it would close the courthouse door to U.S. victims of "many acts of terrorism overseas in which terrorists maim and kill indiscriminately, without regard to nationality," Olson said. He pointed to recent attacks in Belgium, Britain, France and Spain as examples. Even Klinghoffer\'s relatives would have no case, unless they could prove he was killed because he was American, rather than Jewish, he said.The administration said it is "far from clear" that so many claims would be kept out of court.Democrats and Republicans in both houses of Congress also are calling on the court to take up the victims\' case. "The Trump administration had the opportunity to stand with American victims of terrorism by defending and restoring the law. But it failed to do so. The Supreme Court should not," Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, a sponsor of the law, wrote in an essay on medium.com.The jury award in February 2015 came during President Barack Obama\'s administration. The Justice Department at that point took no position, but urged the judge to take into account the financial implications for the Palestinian Authority, which could be hurt by enforcement of the judgment against it. A U.S. official wrote in court papers that the United States has provided billions of dollars to strengthen Palestinian institutions, promote security in the West Bank, expand Palestinian economic growth and help create conditions for peace.Since taking office, President Donald Trump has infuriated the Palestinians by recognizing Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital and announcing plans to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv.The Palestinians also have called on the court to reject the appeal.The attacks occurred in and around Jerusalem during a wave of violence known as the second, or Al-Aqsa, intifada. The jury found the PLO and Palestinian Authority liable for six attacks and awarded $218 million in damages. The award was automatically tripled under the law.
TRADEThe Trump administration is expected this week to announce the list of Chinese products that will be hit with tariffs over what the administration has called the countrys theft of intellectual property. Mr. Trump has said the levies will affect at least $50 billion in imported goods and will most likely focus on cutting-edge tech products of the kind that United States fears losing out on to China. Americans are more likely to feel the impact of these tariffs than those applied to steel and aluminum in March, because they will probably hit consumer products found on store shelves, rather than raw materials used by manufacturers. Natalie KitroeffECONOMYThe Federal Reserve Bank of New York will begin publishing a new short-term market interest rate on Tuesday. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or S.O.F.R., was created to wean the worlds financial markets off the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, a benchmark rate that currently serves as the basis for hundreds of trillions of dollars of financial instruments  from interest rate swaps to credit card and mortgage debt  that incorporate floating interest rates. Since the 2008 financial crisis, policymakers and financial institutions alike have wanted to find a replacement for Libor, as the process for setting the rate has been vulnerable to manipulation. The New York Feds new rate is based on the rates in the active market for a kind of short term-loan known as a repurchase agreement, or repo, which uses Treasury securities as collateral. Matt PhillipsREGULATIONBy Wednesday, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees in Britain must publish figures showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. The requirement to submit this data to the government has put pressure on companies to explain the differences, which are often a result of fewer women in management and more women in lower-paid levels or occupations. EasyJet, one of the companies that has already filed, reported a 52 percent pay gap and its chief executive cut his salary by 34,000 pounds to match his female predecessors earnings. The filings have fueled debate over pay for women, which has been under greater scrutiny since the British Broadcasting Corporation attracted high-profile criticism for its pay practices. Amie TsangECONOMYLast months jobs report was a barn burner: Employers added 313,000 jobs in February, the most in one month since 2016, and the strong labor market drew hundreds of thousands of Americans into the work force. Marchs data, due from the Labor Department on Friday, is unlikely to match those highs. Still, all signs point to the job market  and the economy, in general  remaining strong. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected the report would show a gain of 189,000 jobs and a decline in the unemployment rate to 4 percent, which would represent the best mark since 2000. And in good news for workers, economists expect a modest pickup in wage growth, which was sluggish in February and has been weak for much of the nearly nine-year-long recovery. Ben CasselmanJerome H. Powell will make his first speech outside Washington as the chairman of the Federal Reserve on Friday, choosing an itinerary that demonstrates his concern for business and entrepreneurship. Mr. Powell will tour a manufacturing incubator in Chicago on Friday afternoon, after giving a speech on the economic outlook at the Economic Club of Chicago. Jim TankersleyINTERNATIONALCrown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia has met with President Trump, business leaders, journalists, technology executives and even rabbis on his whirlwind multiweek tour of the United States. He will finish up his trip on Saturday in Houston, the global energy capital, with visits to Saudi Aramco facilities, including a technology center and a refinery outside the city. Clifford Krauss
WASHINGTON   A senior Republican senator on Sunday warned U.S. President Donald Trump against pulling U.S. troops from Syria, saying it would lead to a resurgence of Islamic State and increased Iranian sway over the Syrian government in Damascus."Itd be the single worst decision the president could make," Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said on the Fox News Sunday program."We got ISIL on the ropes. You want to let \'em off the ropes, remove American soldiers," Graham said, using an acronym for Islamic State.With Islamic State having lost almost all the territory it once held in Syria, Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops.That position appears to put the president at odds with U.S. military officials, who see the fight against Islamic State as far from complete.The White House\'s National Security Council is expected to meet early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria.A senior administration official told Reuters that Trump\'s advisers believe the U.S. military needs to stay in Syria in small numbers for at least two more years.Trump is unhappy with the advice, but it is unclear if he will actually order a troop withdrawal, the official said.About 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Graham, in the television interview, echoed White House advisers\' concerns about an early pullout."This is a disaster in the making," he said."There are over 3,000 ISIS fighters still roaming around Syria," Graham said, using another acronym for Islamic State. "If we withdrew our troops anytime soon, ISIS would come back, the war between Turkey and the Kurds would get out of hand, and youd be giving Damascus to the Iranians without an American presence."(Reporting by Warren Strobel and Steve Holland Editing by Bill Rigby)
WASHINGTON   Rex Tillerson has all but vanished from the State Department\'s website as his unceremonious firing by tweet took effect over the weekend.The "Secretary of State Tillerson" link at the top of the department\'s homepage (www.state.gov ) disappeared overnight Saturday and was replaced with a generic "Secretary of State" tab.When clicked, it leads to a page that informs visitors in a brief statement that Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan "became acting Secretary of State on April 1, 2018." It shows a photo of Sullivan signing his appointment papers as deputy in June 2017 but offers no explanation for the change in leadership.In addition to that change, links that had connected to Tillerson\'s speeches, travels and other events now display those of Sullivan. The link to Tillerson\'s biography as the 69th secretary of state briefly returned a "We\'re sorry, that page can\'t be found" message. After being notified of the message, the State Department restored the link and an archive page for Tillerson\'s tenure was enabled.President Donald Trump fired Tillerson in a Twitter post on March 13, but his departure did not become official until March 31.Sullivan will continue as acting secretary of state until Tillerson\'s designated successor, CIA director Mike Pompeo, is confirmed by the Senate, possibly later this month.
By Lawrence HurleyThe U.S. government\'s Supreme Court battle with Microsoft Corp over whether technology companies can be forced to hand over data stored overseas could be nearing its end, after federal prosecutors asked that the case be dismissed.President Donald Trump on March 22 signed a provision into law making it clear that U.S. judges can issue warrants for such data, while giving companies an avenue to object if the request conflicts with foreign law."This case is now moot," the U.S. Department of Justice said, citing the newly passed legislation, in a 16-page court filing on Friday that requested the dismissal.The Supreme Court on Feb. 27 heard arguments in the case, which had been one of the most closely watched of the high court\'s current term. Some justices urged Congress to pass a law to resolve the matter.Microsoft and the Justice Department had been locked in a dispute over how U.S. prosecutors seek access to data held on overseas computer servers owned by American companies. The case involved Microsoft\'s challenge to a domestic warrant issued by a U.S. judge for emails stored on a Microsoft server in Dublin relating to a drug-trafficking investigation.The bipartisan new law, known as the Cloud Act, was supported by Microsoft, other major technology companies and the Trump administration. But civil liberties groups opposed it, saying it lacked sufficient privacy protections.Microsoft, which has 100 data centers in 40 countries, was the first American company to challenge a domestic search warrant seeking data held outside the United States. The Microsoft customer whose emails were sought told the company he was based in Ireland when he signed up for his account.A representative for Microsoft did not immediately return requests for comment on the Justice Department\'s filing.(Reporting by Lawrence Hurley and Alex Dobuzinskis; Additional reporting by Dustin Volz; Editing by Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)
WASHINGTON   Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he\'s glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump\'s national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."A U.S.-North Korean summit is slated for May. Hopes have been raised that Kim Jong Un  may be willing to discuss his nuclear weapons program and other measures to reduce the threat of war, possibly in exchange for security guarantees and an easing of the international sanctions that have severely pinched the already struggling North Korean economy.Graham said he had dinner with Bolton a couple of nights ago and the hawkish former ambassador to the U.N. expressed fears that North Korea is "just buying time" as it seeks to develop a nuclear-armed missile."He sees these negotiations as a way of buying time. That\'s what they\'ve done in the past," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.Bolton replaces Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster on April 9.Graham said he would be skeptical about the terms and conditions of the summit, but he does hope the president will meet with the North Korean leader. He called for negotiations that are "very focused and get quick action.""We don\'t want to give him nine months or a year to talk and build a missile at the same time," Graham said on "Fox News Sunday."At the same time, Graham warned Trump not to remove troops from Syria. Trump declared earlier this week: "Let the other people take care of it now."Graham said that leaving Syria would allow the Islamic State group to strengthen, the fighting between the Syrian Kurdish militia and Turkey would get out of hand, and Russia and Iran would go on to dominate Syria."It would be the single worst decision the president could make," Graham said.
BEIJING   U.S. policy toward China has been misdirected for decades and policymakers are now recalibrating ties, Senator Elizabeth Warren told reporters during a visit to Beijing amid heightened trade tensions between the world\'s two largest economies.Warren\'s visit comes as U.S. President Donald Trump prepares to implement more than $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods meant to punish China over U.S. allegations that Beijing systematically misappropriated American intellectual property.The Massachusetts Democrat and Trump foe, who has been touted as a potential 2020 presidential candidate despite rejecting such speculation, has said U.S. trade policy needs a rethink and that she is not afraid of tariffs.After years of mistakenly assuming economic engagement would lead to a more open China, the U.S. government was waking up to Chinese demands for U.S. companies to give up their know-how in exchange for access to its market, Warren said."The whole policy was misdirected. We told ourselves a happy-face story that never fit with the facts," Warren told reporters on Saturday, during a three-day visit to China that began on Friday."Now U.S. policymakers are starting to look more aggressively at pushing China to open up the markets without demanding a hostage price of access to U.S. technology," she said.Warren discussed trade issues and North Korea with senior Chinese officials, including Liu He, the vice premier for economic policy, Yang Jiechi, a top diplomat, and the Minister of Defence Wei Fenghe.She said she told officials she met that Americans cannot support a more integrated economic system with China if it "fails to respect basic human rights".China\'s ruling Communist Party has tightened controls on society since President Xi Jinping assumed power, from online censorship to a crackdown on activists and non-governmental organizations, though Chinese officials routinely deny accusations of rights abuses.Warren also made stops in Japan and South Korea, and she said that U.S. allies in Asia were having trouble understanding Trump\'s "chaotic" foreign policy.North Korea\'s Kim Jong Un and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war over North Korea\'s tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement last month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Warren said success for that meeting would mean getting a commitment to discuss verifiable steps to reduce North Korea\'s nuclear threat, which would require careful negotiations from a State Department whose role has been vastly diminished under Trump, with several high-profile posts unoccupied.Trump\'s efforts to "take the legs out from underneath our diplomatic corps" are a "terrible mistake", she said.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)
WASHINGTON   Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin is making it clear he was fired from his job amid conflicting claims from the White House.White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters on Sunday told The Associated Press that Shulkin had "resigned" from his job when President Donald Trump abruptly announced via Twitter last Wednesday that he was nominating White House doctor Ronny Jackson to replace him.But in television interviews, Shulkin said he had not submitted a resignation letter, or planned to, and was only told of Trump\'s decision shortly before the Twitter announcement. He said he had spoken to Trump by phone earlier that day about VA improvements, with no mention of his job status, and was scheduled to meet with the president the next morning."I came to run the Department of Veterans Affairs because I\'m committed to veterans," Shulkin said. "And I would not resign because I\'m committed to making sure this job was seen through to the very end."The semantics could be relevant to Trump\'s ability to name an acting VA secretary to temporarily fill Shulkin\'s place. Last week, Trump named Defense Department official Robert Wilkie to the acting position, bypassing Shulkin\'s deputy secretary, Tom Bowman. Bowman has come under criticism for being too moderate to push Trump\'s agenda.Under federal law, a president has wide authority to temporarily fill a federal agency job if someone "dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office." There is no mention of a president having that authority if the person is fired. Still, it\'s unclear if courts would seek to draw a legal distinction between a firing and a forced resignation, if that is indeed what happened to Shulkin.The day after announcing he was replacing Shulkin, Trump told a rally in Richfield, Ohio, that he had been dissatisfied with efforts to improve the VA. Shulkin had enjoyed Trump\'s support for much of his first year in the administration, but that eroded in February after a bruising ethics scandal and political infighting at the VA.On Sunday, chagrined by Shulkin\'s public statements blaming his ouster on unfair "political forces" in the Trump administration, the White House circulated a "talking points" memo to some veterans groups in a bid to discredit him. The three-page memo points out seven "lies" that it said Shulkin had spread, including statements in which he minimizes a VA watchdog report in February that concluded he violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The VA inspector general has previously found Shulkin made misleading statements about the trip to investigators and the news media.A VA spokesman did not have immediate comment. Wilkie, now listed on the VA website as acting secretary, took over Shulkin\'s duties last week.The back and forth over the circumstances behind Shulkin\'s departure  and what it could mean for Wilkie\'s status  comes as the nomination of Jackson is drawing concern among lawmakers and veterans groups. They worry the Navy rear admiral and lifelong physician lacks the experience to manage an enormous agency paralyzed over Trump\'s push to expand private care.Trump\'s new Cabinet nominees also are beginning to pile up in the Senate, likely leading to weeks of confirmation battles and other delays in the run-up to congressional midterm elections in November. That could mean an extended reign for an acting VA secretary.On Sunday, Shulkin, who had previously recommended Jackson to be VA undersecretary of health, repeatedly demurred when asked to fully endorse Jackson for the job of VA secretary. He noted the complexity of running the government\'s second-largest department."This is a very tough job," Shulkin said. "I\'m not sure that anybody realizes how complex this is. ... I think he is going to need to have a good team around him, like everybody will, to be successful."Shulkin\'s dismissal comes amid a broader shakeup of top Trump administration officials and accusations of excessive spending by Cabinet officials. Also currently under fire are Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson.The Associated Press reported last week that Pruitt paid just $50 a night for about six months last year to stay in a Capitol Hill condominium linked to a prominent Washington lobbyist whose firm represents fossil fuel companies.On Sunday, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, and Sen. Doug Jones, D-Ala., questioned whether Pruitt would be able to last in his job."I don\'t know how you survive this one, and if he has to go, it\'s because he never should\'ve been there in the first place," Christie said."He\'s in real trouble," Jones said. "I think it seems that he may be on his way out."Shulkin spoke on CNN\'s "State of the Union" and NBC\'s "Meet the Press," and Jones and Christie appeared on ABC\'s "This Week."___Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed from Palm Beach, Florida.
BEIJING   China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in an escalating tariff dispute with President Donald Trump that companies worry might depress global commerce.The Finance Ministry said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum that took effect March 23. But a bigger clash looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods in a separate argument over technology policy.The tariff spat is one aspect of wide-ranging tensions between Washington and Beijing over China\'s multibillion-dollar trade surplus with the United States and its policies on technology, industry development and access to its state-dominated economy.Forecasters say the immediate impact should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if it prompts other governments to raise import barriers. Those fears temporarily depressed financial markets, though stocks have recovered some of their losses.On Monday, stock market indexes in Tokyo and Shanghai were up 0.5 percent at midmorning.Beijing faces complaints by Washington, the European Union and other trading partners that it hampers market access despite its free-trading pledges and is flooding global markets with improperly low-priced steel and aluminum. But the EU, Japan and other governments criticized Trump\'s unilateral move as disruptive.The United States buys little Chinese steel and aluminum following earlier tariff hikes to offset what Washington says is improper subsidies. Still, economists expected Beijing to respond to avoid looking weak in a high-profile dispute.Effective Monday, Beijing raised tariffs on pork, aluminum scrap and some other products by 25 percent, the Finance Ministry said. A 15 percent tariff was imposed on apples, almonds and some other goods.The tariff hike has "has seriously damaged our interests," said a Finance Ministry statement."Our country advocates and supports the multilateral trading system," said the statement. China\'s tariff increase "is a proper measure adopted by our country using World Trade Organization rules to protect our interests."The White House didn\'t respond to a message from The Associated Press on Sunday seeking comment.China\'s government said earlier its imports of those goods last year totaled $3 billion.The latest Chinese move targets farm areas, many of which voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.U.S. farmers sent nearly $20 billion of goods to China in 2017. The American pork industry sent $1.1 billion in products, making China the No. 3 market for U.S. pork."American politicians better realize sooner rather than later that China would never submit if the U.S. launched a trade war," said the Global Times, a newspaper published by the ruling Communist Party.Washington granted EU, South Korea and some other exporters, but not ally Japan, exemptions to the steel and aluminum tariffs on March 22. European governments had threatened to retaliate by raising duties on American bourbon, peanut butter and other goods.Beijing has yet to say how it might respond to Trump\'s March 22 order approving possible tariff hikes in response to complaints China steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Trump ordered U.S. trade officials to bring a WTO case challenging Chinese technology licensing. It proposed 25 percent tariffs on Chinese products including aerospace, communications technology and machinery and said Washington will step up restrictions on Chinese investment in key U.S. technology sectors.Trump administration officials have identified as potential targets 1,300 product lines worth about $48 billion. That list will then be open to a 30-day comment period for businesses.Beijing reported a trade surplus of $275.8 billion with the United States last year, or two-thirds of its global total. Washington reports different figures that put the gap at a record $375.2 billion.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce announcement (in Chinese with link to list of affected products): http://gss.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/zhengcefabu/201804/t20180401_2857769.html
BEIJING   U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren says chaos in the Trump administration is harming its ability to formulate coherent policy toward North Korea\'s nuclear program and other important issues in Asia.Vacancies in the foreign service are undermining Washington\'s ability to advance U.S interests, Warren told reporters in Beijing on Saturday.U.S. allies, while still supportive, are "searching for information" about U.S. intentions in Asia, the Massachusets Democrat said."This has been a chaotic foreign policy in the region, and that makes it hard to keep the allies that we need to accomplish our objectives closely stitched-in," Warren said.Warren also visited South Korea and Japan during her trip to Asia.She said President Donald Trump\'s agreement to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was "rash," in the absence of Pyongyang\'s commitment to take "any steps at all to indicate that they were serious about denuclearization."On China, Warren said the U.S. needs to acknowledge Beijing\'s growing power and influence and continue to emphasize the importance of human rights within the relationship."I understand that our relationship with China is complex," Warren said. "There are areas where we have mutual interests and where we will work together to try to accomplish our shared goals. But there are also areas where we are vigorous competitors and do not have shared interests."Warren said the idea that China would more smoothly integrate with the rest of the world based on its economic growth and open markets "has been proven wrong.""And the United States is now trying to recalibrate that relationship," she said.China\'s massive surveillance system, including its control over information on smartphones and the internet, has helped it to "close off" the country, she said."We told ourselves a happy-faced story that never fit with the facts, and now ... the United States cannot avoid facing a very different reality with China," Warren said.Warren\'s visit to Northeast Asia follows the abrupt firing of Rex Tillerson as U.S. secretary of state and the Trump administration\'s continued failure to fill many crucial positions.Tillerson lost the support of many of the State Department\'s 75,000 workers over his moves to cut the budget, leave key leadership positions vacant and downplay human rights and democracy promotion as diplomatic priorities.Warren said "consistent efforts to take the legs out of our diplomatic corps" by understaffing the service stands to undermine America\'s foreign policy efforts."That\'s someone whose information, whose thoughts, whose analysis doesn\'t get put into the mix," she said.Warren said that there could be no military solution to the dispute with North Korea and that she has been told that "it will take strong economic and diplomatic efforts" to reduce the threat posed by Pyongyang.Warren didn\'t disclose details of her discussions with Beijing officials, including key economic adviser Liu He, but said "the Chinese have not deviated from their talking points."
SEOUL   South Korean exports grew less than expected in March, adding to worries about the outlook for global demand amid growing fears of a U.S-China trade war and a resurgence in protectionism.Booming demand for South Korean memory chips and computers across China and Europe lifted March exports, while shipments to the United States fell amid rising U.S. protectionism, resulting in a smaller trade surplus with Washington.March exports grew 6.1 percent to $51.6 billion from a year earlier, below 7.5 percent seen in a Reuters survey but outperforming a revised 3.9 percent expansion in February, government data showed on Sunday.Imports increased 5 percent to $44.7 billion, less than the 6.2 percent growth economists had expected and compared with a revised 14.9 percent in February.That resulted in a trade surplus of $6.9 billion, up from $3.2 billion in the previous month.The soft February readings were likely skewed by the long Lunar New Year holiday which fell in the middle of the month this year but in late January last year.Exports grew 10.3 percent in January-March combined from a year earlier, slower than the 14.6 percent expansion seen during the same period in 2017."Exports growth is steady, it\'s likely to continue to post single-digit expansion. But there\'s dangers of a global trade war, a downside risk to Korea exports," said Park Sang-hyun, a Seoul-based economist at HI Investment & Securities.Shipments to the United States declined 1 percent in the first 20 days of March from a year earlier even as Korean memory chips sold well, as American demand for South Korean cars were sluggish.Exports to China and the European Union jumped 16.6 percent and 24.2 percent, respectively.South Korea\'s trade surplus with the United States stood at $1.05 billion as of March this year, down by about 41.5 percent from the same time last year amid ongoing efforts by Seoul to import more from the United States in the past year.Korea\'s trade ministry data shows that a drop in car exports combined with a steady increase in imports of U.S. beef, oranges and aircraft engines have resulted in a decline in the trade surplus with the United States.The Bank of Korea expects the trade-reliant economy to expand by 3 percent this year after 3.1 percent growth in 2017, the fastest expansion since it grew 3.3 percent in 2014.However, policymakers are wary of risks to exports as the Trump administration begins rolling out a series of punitive trade measures which would hit countries such as South Korea and its biggest trading partner, China.The United States and South Korea agreed last week to revise their six-year-old free trade agreement with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and give more access for U.S. automakers and drugmakers to the South Korean market.The deal also lifted the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on imports of steel from South Korea in exchange for quotas that will effectively cut U.S. imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent. Without the agreement in place, the tariffs would take effect on May 1.But President Donald Trump said on Thursday he may hold up the trade agreement reached with South Korea until after a deal is finalised with North Korea on denuclearization, increasing uncertainties for the trade outlook.(Reporting by Cynthia Kim; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)
MEXICO CITY   The front-running candidate for Mexico\'s July 1 presidential election formally opened his campaign Sunday in Ciudad Juarez, the border city that launched some of the country\'s key resistance struggles.Leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador depicts his third run for the presidency as a historic battle against corruption and entrenched elites, on a par with the resistance to the French invasion of 1862-1867 and the 1910-1917 revolution. Ciudad Juarez served as a base in both struggles.Governing party candidate Jose Antonio Meade also launched his campaign Sunday in the colonial city of Merida, the capital of Yucatan state, one of the few governorships that his Institutional Revolutionary Party hopes to retain among the nine statehouses that will be at stake in the July elections.Meade is running third in the polls. He alluded to Lopez Obrador, saying, "Don\'t let them take away the future of our children with false promises."Still, Lopez Obrador seemed to dominate the other candidates\' attention.The third major-party candidate, Ricardo Anaya of a left-right coalition, announced that he will hold news conferences at 7 a.m. every day of the campaign  a move that echoes the morning meetings with journalists that Lopez Obrador held daily when he was mayor of Mexico City in the early 2000s. A fourth candidate, former first lady Margarita Zavala, is running as an independent.While he has been accused of being a populist and a radical, Lopez Obrador has moved to the center and gave an opening campaign speech that could have played well in the Rust Belt of the United States."Those who defend the current economic model talk about modernity, but they don\'t mention that this \'modernity\' is a synonym for the economy of the elite, one that benefits only a minority and excludes the majority," Lopez Obrador said. "They tend to put up the supposed benefits of NAFTA as an example, but the few benefits have come at an extremely high cost."Like U.S. President Donald Trump, Lopez Obrador expresses some skepticism about the North American Free Trade Agreement. The candidate vowed that "we are going to be very respectful of the U.S. government, but we are going to demand they respect us Mexicans. Neither Mexico nor its people will be treated like a piata by any foreign government.""We are not going to rule out the possibility of convincing Donald Trump that his foreign policy and, in particular, his contemptuous attitude toward Mexicans are wrong," Lopez Obrador said.He stressed that his main campaign promise is to end corruption.Echoing his favorite president, Benito Juarez, whose 1857 reform movement established secular government in Mexico, Lopez Obrador said, "Just as Juarez separated the church and state, now we are going to separate economic power from political power."He pledged to cut the country\'s value-added tax from 15 percent to 8 percent and double pensions for the elderly.Meade is trying to shake the image of corruption, low growth and high inflation and debt that saddles the PRI. His campaign logo doesn\'t even include the party symbol, and instead uses a series of three colored arrows or triangles representing the PRI and two tiny parties that are running in coalition.Meade promised equal pay for women, easier access to credit and more scholarships to study abroad.He made several other campaign promises, focusing on education, health care and public safety, and also pledged to "get corruption out of politics."Meade has said in the past that Mexico should do more to stop U.S. guns from being smuggled into Mexico. "We are going to keep the weapons and money from reaching the criminals," he said.Mexico is suffering an upsurge in violence that seems to defy most solutions so far, and none of the major candidates has submitted a detailed plan on how to handle it.Meade proposed largely technical solutions to Mexico\'s problems, depicting himself as the future and Lopez Obrador as someone obsessed with the policies of the past."This election boils down to a choice between two things: move forward together, or retreat," Meade said. "My proposal is to move forward ... that is why I am asking for the votes of people who want to build, not tear down, who want to unite, not divide, to advance, not retreat."
BEIJING   China has slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as on wine and certain fruits and nuts, in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel, China\'s finance ministry said.The tariffs, to take effect on Monday, were announced late on Sunday and match a list of potential tariffs on up to $3 billion in U.S. goods published by China on March 23.China\'s Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) said it was suspending its obligations to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to reduce tariffs on 120 U.S. goods, including fruit. The tariffs on those products will be raised by an extra 15 percent.Eight other products, including pork, will now be subject to additional tariffs of 25 percent, it said, with the measures effective from April 2."China\'s suspension of its tariff concessions is a legitimate action adopted under WTO rules to safeguard China\'s interests," the Chinese finance ministry said.China has imposed the additional tariffs amid escalating trade tensions between Beijing and Washington, sparking fears of a full-blown trade spat between the world\'s two biggest economies.U.S. President Donald Trump is preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods intended to punish Beijing over U.S. accusations that China systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations Beijing denies.China has repeatedly promised to open its economy further, but many foreign companies continue to complain of unfair treatment. China warned the United States on Thursday not to open a Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe.In a statement published on Monday morning, MOFCOM said the United States had "seriously violated" the principles of non-discrimination enshrined in World Trade Organization rules, and had also damaged China\'s interests."China\'s suspension of some of its obligations to the United States is its legitimate right as a member of the World Trade Organization," it said, adding that differences between the world\'s two largest economies should be resolved through dialogue and negotiation.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe; Additional reporting by David Stanway in SHANGHAI and Stella Qiu in BEIJING; Editing by Eric Meijer & Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt may not survive long in his job after reports that he paid below market rate to live in a condo owned by a lobbyist who deals with issues overseen by his agency, lawmakers and a former Trump official said in television interviews on Sunday.On Friday, ABC News and Bloomberg News reported that during Pruitt\'s first six months in Washington last year, he made a deal to pay about $50 a night - less than a third the price of similar properties - to rent a room in a Capitol Hill neighborhood condo building co-owned by energy industry lobbyist Steven Hart and his wife."I dont know how you survive this one, and if he has to go, its because he never should have been there in the first place, said Chris Christie, the Republican former governor of New Jersey, on Sunday on ABC News\' This Week program.Christie was for a short time the head of President Donald Trump\'s transition team and has previously raised concerns that many political appointments had not been vetted for such conflicts of interest.ABC later reported that Pruitts daughter also used the apartment in 2017 during her tenure as a White House summer intern, which Hart\'s wife said was not agreed in their lease.Pruitt declined comment on the reports. The White House referred reporters to the EPA, which said the arrangement had been cleared by the agency\'s ethics officials.Pruitt has already faced public criticism for his frequent use of first-class flights, which is under investigation by the EPA Inspector General, and installing a $43,000 secure phone booth to conduct confidential calls.He "may be on his way out" after the latest reports, said Democratic Senator Doug Jones of Alabama later on the same ABC News show."I think hes in real trouble," said Jones. "People are just frustrated with Cabinet members who seem to want to use taxpayer dollars to fund their own personal lifestyle.EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox defended the arrangement in an email on Friday.As EPA career ethics officials stated in a memo, Administrator Pruitts housing arrangement for both himself and family was not a gift and the lease was consistent with federal ethics regulations, he said.That memo by Kevin Minoli, the designated EPA ethics official, said such arrangements were not considered "gifts" if a federal official pays market value for them."Under the terms of the lease, if the space was utilized for one 30-day month, then the rental cost would be $1,500, which is a reasonable market price," the memo said.Local real estate websites show that the average market price for a similar property in the area is at least three times as much.Hart\'s firm represents companies regulated by EPA including Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co, shale producer Concho Resources Inc, ExxonMobil Corp and liquefied natural gas (LNG) company Cheniere Energy Inc.Travel records obtained through a public records request show that Pruitt spent over $17,000 in taxpayer money for a December trip to Morocco to promote U.S. exports of LNG. Marketing U.S. LNG is not the jurisdiction of the EPA administrator.(Reporting By Valerie Volcovici in Washington; Additional reporting by Steve Holland in Palm Beach, Florida; Editing by Bill Rigby)

MADISON, Wis.   Eric Holder came to town to campaign for the liberal candidate, and his group dumped $165,000 into the race. Joe Biden, Corey Booker and Gabby Giffords endorsed her, and more money came from a fundraiser in San Francisco. Meanwhile, Wisconsin Republicans poured in $400,000 to support the conservative candidate, the state\'s largest business group tripled that and the National Rifle Association publicly backed him.The race drawing so much heat isn\'t for Senate or even Congress. It\'s for Wisconsin Supreme Court  a supposedly nonpartisan office that is the latest election to be treated as a barometer of voter attitudes heading into the fall midterms."As the first statewide race in the nation, this is our chance to set the tone for 2018," read an invitation to the San Francisco fundraiser for Rebecca Dallet, the liberal-leaning Milwaukee judge. A Dallet win "is a critical first step in proving our values can prevail in swing states across the country," it added.Dallet faces Michael Screnock, a county judge who was appointed by GOP Gov. Scott Walker and has received Walker\'s endorsement, in Tuesday\'s election.Conservatives are trying to keep their 5-2 majority on a high court that has been a reliable ally for Walker and his legislative agenda. The court upheld Walker\'s signature 2011 law that effectively ended collective bargaining for most public workers and more recently stopped a secretive probe into Walker and conservative groups over alleged illegal campaign coordination.Democrats feel emboldened after a surprise win in January for a state Senate seat held by a Republican for 17 years in a district Donald Trump won by 14 points. Democrats hope to keep the momentum going with a Dallet win ahead of two special legislative elections this summer."It seems like people are looking everywhere for signs of what may happen in November," said Douglas Keith, an attorney with the Brennan Center for Justice, which tracks spending on court races nationwide. "I have no doubt whatever the outcome of this race, that\'s how people will talk about it afterward."Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court elections have been expensive and partisan battles for more than a decade. Spending on TV ads in the race likely will end up around $4.5 million, about what was spent on the 2016 race, according to the Brennan Center.While there\'s no doubt that Democrats this year are more energized than Republicans, it\'s dubious whether one election can be an accurate bellwether of what\'s to come in November, said Ryan Owens, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin who heads the Tommy G. Thompson Center on Public Leadership.The race\'s predictive ability for the November midterms could be tempered by low turnout. In seven contested elections for Supreme Court since 2000, average turnout was 21.5 percent  less than half of the 50 percent average for the past four midterm elections.Mark Graul, a Republican strategist, pointed to Supreme Court elections in 2007 and 2008 where conservative candidates won, victories that came in between huge Democratic wins in the fall 2006 and 2008 elections."These Supreme Court races always come down to the candidate. In general, the candidate with the better profile wins every time," Graul said.Dallet, 48, has run as a tough-on-crime judge, focusing on her 11 years of experience as a prosecutor followed by 10 years working as a judge in Milwaukee. She\'s argued the conservative-controlled court is "broken," and she\'s criticized the justices for not adopting a recusal rule forcing them to step down from cases involving large campaign donors.Screnock, 48, has branded Dallet a hypocrite for taking donations from attorneys arguing cases before her court in Milwaukee, something state law permits. Dallet argues those donations, which totaled about $21,000, are small in comparison to the roughly $1.3 million being spent by the Wisconsin Chamber of Commerce to help Screnock. He\'s declined to promise to step aside in cases involving the chamber.He\'s also refused to promise to step aside in abortion-related cases, although he was twice arrested for blocking access to a Madison abortion clinic during his college days in the 1980s.Screnock has said he\'s devoted to the rule of law and a strict interpretation of the Constitution. He argues that his experience overseeing the finances in Ashland and running city government in Washburn and Reedsburg, together with his nearly nine years\' experience as a private practice attorney before Walker appointed him in 2015, sets him apart from Dallet.As an attorney, Screnock defended Walker\'s collective bargaining law and political boundary maps drawn by the Republican-controlled Legislature that are now subject to a U.S. Supreme Court case alleging they amount to unconstitutional partisan gerrymandering.The winner of Tuesday\'s election will be on the state court during the next round of redistricting that follows the 2020 census.___Follow Scott Bauer on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sbauerAP . Sign up for the AP\'s weekly newsletter showcasing our best reporting from the Midwest and Texas: http://apne.ws/2u1RMfv
SEOUL, South Korea   North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un clapped his hands and said he was "deeply moved" as he, along with his wife and hundreds of other citizens, watched a rare performance by South Korean pop stars visiting Pyongyang. The concert highlights the thawing ties between the rivals after years of friction over the North\'s nuclear program.During Sunday\'s performance at the packed 1,500-seat East Pyongyang Grand Theater, North Korean concertgoers  most of the men in dark suits but some women in colorful traditional "hanbok" dresses  waved their hands from their seats when the South Korean stars joined together to sing a popular Korean song, "Our wish is unification." After the two-hour performance ended, the North Koreans gave a thundering standing ovation.A South Korean artistic group, including some pop legends and the popular girl band Red Velvet, flew to Pyongyang over the weekend for two performances in the North Korean capital, one on Sunday and the other on Tuesday. How North Koreans would react to Red Velvet was a focus of keen media attention in South Korea.Kim, wearing a dark Mao-style suit, made a surprise visit to the performance with his wife Ri Sol Ju, sister Kim Yo Jong and other senior North Korean officials, including nominal head of state Kim Yong Nam. Kim Jong Un applauded during the event and shook hands with the South Korean performers. He also took a group photo with them after their performance, according to North Korea\'s state news agency and South Korean media pool reports from Pyongyang.Kim "said that he was deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the South side," the North\'s Korean Central News Agency said.Short South Korean media pool footage showed Kim clapping from the second-floor VIP stand as South Korean Culture Minister Do Jong-hwan bowed and greeted North Korean spectators looking on from the first floor."We should hold culture and art performances frequently," Kim told South Korean performers. Mentioning the performance\'s title, "Spring comes," Kim also asked the performers to tell South Korean President Moon Jae-in that the two Koreas should hold a similar event in Seoul in the autumn, according to South Korean media pool reports.Kim also talked about Red Velvet."There had been interest in whether I would come and see Red Velvet. I had initially planned to attend a performance the day after tomorrow but I came here today after adjusting my schedule," Kim was quoted as saying. "I thank you for this kind of gift to Pyongyang\'s citizens."It was the first time for a North Korean leader to attend such a South Korean performance in the North. During a past period of detente, South Korea occasionally sent pop singers to North Korea, but that stopped in 2005.The 26-second South Korean video clip showed a quiet audience when members of Red Velvet, wearing clothes less revealing than their normal stage costumes, danced and sang their popular hit song "Red Flavor."Full video of their and other South Korean singers\' performances wasn\'t immediately available. But Red Velvet said in a post-concert interview that the North Koreans gave them a big hand.Band member Seulgi said she cried when North and South Koreans sang together the song, "Our Wish is Unification." Another member Yeri said she was "very" nervous when she exchanged handshakes with Kim Jong Un, but she said it was still "really, really an honor" to do so.        The South Korean group includes prominent singers such as Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sunhee and Cho Jin Hee, who all previously performed in Pyongyang.The ongoing cooperation steps between the rivals began after North Korea took part in February\'s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. During the games, a North Korean art troupe performed in South Korea, and Moon and his wife watched it with visiting senior North Korean officials including Kim Yo Jong, who became the first member of the North\'s ruling Kim family to visit the South since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War.Some experts suspect Kim Jong Un may be attempting to use his outreach to Seoul and Washington as a way to weaken international sanctions and buy time to further advance his nuclear bomb program.Kim is to meet Moon at a border village on April 27 and President Donald Trump in May in separate summit talks.On Tuesday, the South Korean K-pop stars plan to hold a joint performance with North Koreans. Meanwhile, a South Korean taekwondo demonstration team also held a performance in Pyongyang on Sunday.
(Reuters) - Mexico\'s presidential front-runner launches his campaign near the U.S. border on Sunday, amid tension over U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plan to put a wall between the two countries.As the July 1 election approaches, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and three other candidates will face off over issues including corruption, drug violence and trade.Here are some facts on the presidential contenders:ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADORTwo-time runner-up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration. Trump\'s pledge to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border was a main theme of his 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, Lopez Obrador, 64, has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign. His slogan is "peace and love," and he says he is not looking for revenge against the current government.But the former Mexico City mayor has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital\'s new airport, spooking investors.When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organised a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.RICARDO ANAYAThe youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over the presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39-year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country\'s governorships for the first time in its history.His main proposals include a universal minimum income and an international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta, where his wife and three children have lived, and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.Anaya denied the allegations.He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming president of the federal lower house in 2013.JOSE ANTONIO MEADEAt the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs, including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance, under PRI and PAN governments.His critics blame him for a hike in gasoline prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.MARGARITA ZAVALAZavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico\'s first-ever female president.In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN\'s executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon\'s policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.(Reporting by Mexico City Newsroom; editing by Jonathan Oatis)

SEOUL   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the North\'s capital. Kim was seen clapping in tune to some of the songs and took photographs with the performers after the show."Our dear leader comrade said his heart swelled and he was moved by the sight of his people deepen their understanding of South Korean popular culture and cheer with sincerity," the North\'s KCNA state media said.The North Korean audience clapped, cheered, sang along to some of the songs and later presented the South Korean performers with bouquets."(Kim Jong Un) showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics," Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters after the show.Sunday\'s performance coincided with the start of annual joint South Korean-U.S. military drills, which have previously been met with denunciations and missile launches by the North, and were delayed and shortened this year in order not to overshadow the Olympic detente.The recent thaw in relations, which could even lead to a summit between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump in May, follows months of increased tensions after North Korea conducted missile launches and a nuclear test last year in defiance of United Nations Security Council sanctions.Sunday\'s concert was held under the title "Spring is Coming"  at the East Pyongyang Grand Theatre, performed by an elite lineup of South Korean artists including veteran vocalists Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sun-hee, rock star Yoon Do-hyun and singer Baek Ji-young, as well as K-pop girl band Red Velvet.Like the concert title, the performance had brought a "spring of peace" to the two Koreas, Kim was also cited as saying by the North\'s central news agency, and expressed wishes for a "prosperous autumn".The North Korean leader\'s face was slightly flushed in a group photograph with the performers distributed by North Korean state media. He was seen in another directly addressing members of Red Velvet, which commands more than 4.6 million followers on Instagram.North Korean staff were spotted outside the performers\' dressing rooms using Japan-made electronic devices to serve coffee and cupcakes, including Western Lavazza and Coffee-mate products, according to a South Korean media pool report.SIGNIFICANT THAWSunday\'s two-hour concert in Pyongyang, along with a separate taekwondo performance earlier in the day, came as South Korea\'s engagement with North Korea has grown since Kim expressed his willingness for more contact between the two countries.Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in February. The significant thaw in the inter-Korean relations has led them to set a date for their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.The two Koreas are technically still at war after the 1950-1953 conflict ended with a ceasefire rather than a peace agreement.The South Korean delegation included artists, concert staff, taekwondo demonstrators, reporters and government officials. They travelled to Pyongyang on Saturday in a reciprocal cultural visit after North Korea sent performers to the South in February, the South\'s Culture Ministry said.In addition to the concert, a team of South Korean taekwondo demonstrators performed on Sunday at the Pyongyang Taekwondo Hall, drawing more than 2,300 North Koreans, including Choe Hwi, chairman of the National Sports Guidance Committee.BANNED MEDIAThe images of Kim posing and laughing with the young South Korean pop stars and applauding in the stands contrasts with reports from North Korean defectors who say he has overseen a crackdown on foreign media."North Korean refugees overwhelmingly and consistently report that it has become more dangerous to consume foreign media under Kim Jong Uns crackdowns," Sokeel Park, the South Korea country director for refugee aid organisation Liberty in North Korea, said on Twitter.A 2015 survey of North Korean refugees conducted by the U.S. government\'s Broadcasting Board of Governors found that 77 percent of respondents said it had become more dangerous to listen to foreign radio under Kim.South Korean movies were often reported to be especially taboo compared to Chinese films, according to a report by the InterMedia consultancy group, with North Koreans potentially facing prison time if caught.Seohyun, an actress and vocalist with South Korean girl group Girls\' Generation, sang a North Korean pop song called "Blue Willow Tree". She had performed with the North\'s Samjiyon Orchestra in Seoul in February.Cho Yong-pil, 68, sang a string of hits including "The Cafe in the Winter", "Short Hair" and "Let\'s Go on a Trip". Cho staged a solo concert in Pyongyang in 2005 - the last concert by a South Korean artist in the North before Sunday\'s performance.The same South Korean singers will hold a joint concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday at the Ryukyung Chung Ju Yung Gymnasium, a joint project between the North and South named after Hyundai Group billionaire founder Chung Ju-yung, who had long advocated inter-Korean cultural and economic exchanges.Kim had been planning to attend the Tuesday performance but decided to watch Sunday\'s show due to "political schedules", KCNA and South Korean officials there said.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang and Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Josh Smith; Editing by Louise Heavens, Peter Cooney and Paul Tait)

Emily Louise Cashman and Harrell Raso Kirstein were married March 29 at the Manchester City Hall in Manchester N.H. Joanne Doukeris, a member of the city clerks office, officiated. On March 31, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and a friend of the couple, led an exchange of vows at the Bedford Village Inn, a hotel in Bedford, N.H.The bride, 32, works in Washington as the senior manager of government affairs at Thorn, a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco that builds technology to defend children from sexual abuse. From 2010 to 2016, the bride worked in various positions for Senator Shaheen. She also worked as the trip director for Hillary Clintons general election campaign in New Hampshire in 2016. She graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., and received a masters degree in international relations from the Universidad Autnoma de Madrid in Spain.She is the daughter of Madeline Q. Cashman and Brian A. Cashman of Litchfield, N.H. The brides father retired as a special agent in the Andover, Mass., field office of the Defense Security Service, a federal security agency of the Defense Department based in Quantico, Va. Her mother is a teacher at the Matthew Thornton Elementary School in Londonderry, N.H.The groom, 31, is the communications director for the Trump War Room for American Bridge 21st Century, a democratic opposition research group in Washington. He served as the communications director for Ms. Shaheens re-election campaign in 2014 as well as in communication positions in Mrs. Clintons 2016 presidential campaign.He is a son of Melinda R. Kirstein and Philip L. Kirstein of Princeton, N.J. The grooms mother retired as a fixed-income portfolio manager in the Plainsboro, N.J., office of Merrill Lynch. She currently works as an independent trustee of the WisdomTree Trust board in New York. His father retired as the senior officer and independent compliance officer of the AllianceBernstein mutual funds in New York.The couple met in 2010 while both were working for the New Hampshire Democratic Party.
Ariana Elexa Angrisani and Michael Edward Wilson were married March 30 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. On April 21, Matthew Angrisani, a cousin of the bride, is to lead a second ceremony at the Steam Whistle Brewery in Toronto, where he will be commenting on the couples relationship.The couple, both 31, met at the University of Michigan, from which they graduated.Mrs. Wilson is a senior marketing manager for lifestyle brands at the Authentic Brands Group, a New York-based licensing and branding company.She is a daughter of Susan J. V. Angrisani and Angelo F. Angrisani of New York. The brides father is a sales representative at Elis Breads in New York. Her mother is a business development manager at Colavita USA, an importer of olive oil and other foods, in Edison, N.J.Mr. Wilson is a corporate vice president at New York Life Insurance in New York.He is the son of Gene E. Wilson and Donald D. Wilson of Pickering, Ontario. The grooms mother is a digital marketing specialist for Yellow Pages in Toronto. His father, who also works in Toronto, is a nuclear engineer for Candu, a Canadian pressurized heavy water reactor designed to generate electric power.
Here are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. No amount of kindness or compassion alone would have changed the person that Nikolas Cruz is and was, or the horrendous actions he perpetrated. That is a weak excuse for the failures of our school system, our government and our gun laws.Among our best-read articles this week was an Op-Ed written by Isabelle Robinson, a senior from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. She wrote the piece because she was disturbed by the notion that the shooting might have been prevented if Mr. Cruzs classmates were nicer to him. Above, a memorial outside the school after the attack.John Paul Stevens, the retired Supreme Court justice, also wrote a well-read Op-Ed on guns. He labeled the Second Amendment a relic and called for its repeal.Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. Heres the front page of our Sunday paper, and our crossword puzzles.____2. President Trumps advisers are urging tougher policies on Russia after a week of mass expulsions of diplomats. But Mr. Trump has refused to embrace a tough public posture, and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go. Above, the American Embassy in Moscow.Meanwhile, turnover continued in his administration with the departure of Hope Hicks, the communications director, and David Shulkin, the secretary for veterans affairs. Heres our running tally.And heres a roundup of the five biggest stories in politics this week, including the uproar over a citizenship question on the census.____3. In Ohio, President Trump visited a training center for union workers to promote his infrastructure plan. But he diverted to other topics, saying he might delay a trade deal with South Korea  and promising to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria. Above, American service members near Manbij.Two members of the U.S.-led coalition fighting there were killed this week  one American soldier and one British. Mr. Trump ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for stabilization and humanitarian aid, as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict.Idlib Province, the largest remaining rebel-held enclave in Syria, has been flooded with refugees from other areas. As the government wraps up a blistering military campaign in the eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus, Idlib is likely to be the next target, and civilians there are trapped.____4. The Israeli military killed 15 Palestinians in confrontations on the border with Gaza.Tens of thousands of Gazans had gathered for what was billed as a peaceful demonstration against Israels longstanding blockade and in support of their right to return to their homes in what is now Israel.Gazas economy is collapsing and residents  most of whom are refugees or their descendants  face intense restrictions on the movement of goods and people in and out of the territory.The Israelis said that some demonstrators hurled stones, firebombs and burning tires, and that two gunmen fired at them. They responded with tear gas and gunfire. Some 1,000 people were injured.____5. Stephon Clark, the unarmed man killed by the Sacramento police in his grandmothers backyard last month, was shot eight times from behind, according to a private autopsy. Above, an image from police footage of the shooting.Protesters in Californias capital have taken to the streets nearly every day since Mr. Clarks death, demanding that the citys leadership fire the two officers involved. An activist at a rally outside the city on Saturday was struck by a Sheriffs Department vehicle and was treated for minor injuries.And the police in Baton Rouge, La., fired the officer who shot Alton Sterling in 2016. The department released new footage of the killing that shows the officer shouting profanities at Mr. Sterling, slamming him into a car and threatening to shoot him in the head.____6. The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case.Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State.After our recent coverage of the bombings in Austin, Tex., some readers took issue with our reporting, asking why we didnt label him a terrorist. Some of our editors and reporters addressed those questions here.____7. We took a look at recent patent applications filed by Amazon and Google. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.)Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used and are years from even being possible.But the recent filings offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices.For example, a device could start analyzing speech when it hears love, bought or dislike and then send out targeted ads based on that information.____8. Our critic writes that the clock is ticking on the overdue International African American Museum in Charleston, S.C. Above, a rendering. But will $11 million be found to fully fund it?And the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is Wednesday. As we sorted through historical photographs for our coverage, we encountered many people, particularly women and children, who had gone unnamed.Now we want to know: Who were they? Were hoping you might be able to help us.____9. Tax Day is approaching.The deadline to file is April 17. Our personal finance experts say its also an excellent time to give yourself a financial tuneup.Theyve created a weeklong program that walks you through some of the simplest financial tasks you can do to tidy your finances, optimize your spending and make sure you are planning appropriately for the long term.____10. Why are Catholic colleges so good at basketball?While theological explanations are tempting, there is more than just something in the holy water. Our college sports reporter explains.One of those colleges is Loyola-Chicago, whose fans, above, cheered its long-shot run to the N.C.A.A. tournaments Final Four. The team lost to Michigan, which will face Villanova in the championship game Monday night.____11. Finally, competing bunnies were beaten by a cat in the race to No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list for childrens picture books.The bunnies are both named Marlon Bundo. (One was created by the vice presidents daughter, and the other by the staff of Last Week Tonight With John Oliver.) They were overtaken by Pete the Cat: Big Easter Adventure.On that note, if youre looking for last-minute Easter recipes, weve got you covered. Above, homemade Peeps, also known as saffron honey marshmallows. We also have a wide array of recipes for the Passover table.Up for some more reading? Try this collection of our best weekend reads, which includes our coverage of the Roseanne reboot, Sean Penns literary adventures and a bittersweet return to Puerto Rico.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
LOS ANGELES  Charles H. Rivkin began his Hollywood career in 1988, when Jim Henson hired him to plot a business future for Kermit the Frog.Mr. Hensons unexpected death two years later threw the Muppets into crisis. But Mr. Rivkin pushed the little puppet studio toward the booming cable and DVD businesses, ultimately engineering its sale for $680 million in 2000  $1 billion in todays dollars.A hairpin turn into politics awaited. Mr. Rivkin  polished, almost preternaturally so  became a mega-fund-raiser for the soon-to-be-president, Barack Obama, who named him ambassador to France in 2009. After a celebrated run in Paris, where he was the youngest American envoy since the Eisenhower administration, Mr. Rivkin became an assistant secretary of state.And now Mr. Rivkin, 55, finds himself trying to meld both of those lives  Hollywood insider and Washington influencer  as chairman of the musty Motion Picture Association of America, which runs the byzantine movie rating system and lobbies around the world for the six old-line Hollywood studios (20th Century Fox, Universal, Warner Bros., Disney, Sony and Paramount). He officially took over the organization on Jan. 1, replacing Christopher J. Dodd, the former longtime Democratic senator of Connecticut.Depending on your perspective  and whether or not you see opportunity in upheaval  Mr. Rivkins timing either is perfect or couldnt be worse.There is little doubt about his point of view. Over dinner with a reporter at Bouchon Beverly Hills, he was in such a good mood about returning to moviedom that he broke into song as Gonzo, rasping out a couple of lines from Im Going to Go Back There Someday, a song from The Muppet Movie. Mr. Rivkin then merrily downed an oyster, pinkie in the air, and called his new position possibly the best job in the world.But Hollywood has changed immensely in the time he has been away.Attendance at theaters in the United States and Canada dropped 6 percent in 2017, to a 22-year low. Yet studios are more reliant than ever on the box office. Squeezed by the rise of subscription streaming services like Netflix, the six major studios reported an 18 percent drop in home-video rental and sales revenue, including video-on-demand purchases, in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the 2016 period.Digital TV Research, a British media consultancy, estimated in October that piracy would cost the global movie and television business $37.4 billion in lost revenue this year, an 18 percent increase from 2017. Losses in 2022 were projected to reach $51.6 billion.To cope with these challenges and others, Hollywood is consolidating. Disney will soon absorb Fox. AT&T is fighting the Justice Department in court for the right to acquire Time Warner, which owns Warner Bros. As Amazon, Netflix and even Apple pour resources into original content, more consolidation is expected.Mergers could lead to budget cuts for the nonprofit Motion Picture Association. Under the current setup, the six member studios chip in more than $16 million apiece annually to fund the associations global operations, according to tax filings.The organization, which endured a 20 percent budget cut in 2009 as the studios dealt with the Great Recession, also faces challenges in Washington. Its influence has diminished over the past decade: Silicon Valley stars reign supreme now.I do not think we have punched our weight in terms of influence  the power that we should have, given the jobs we support, said Jeff Shell, chairman of the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, which includes Universal Pictures, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features. Mr. Shell added that the M.P.A.A. is a big, complicated organization and needs an executive to go in and rethink every part as a business  what should be invested in and grown, what should be scaled back.And Mr. Rivkin, who hails from a storied Democratic family (his godfather, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, wrote a note on a napkin to excuse him from school so that he could attend the partys 1968 national convention), inherits the M.P.A.A. during a culture war. Hollywood personalities  Meryl Streep, Jimmy Kimmel, Kathy Griffin, among others  have attacked President Trump, who has been happy to return fire.Many studio executives, while publicly silent, privately worry that Mr. Trumps position on trade, in particular his aggressive stance toward China, will hurt their profitability. China is fast eclipsing North America as the worlds No. 1 movie market, and studios have been trying to persuade the Chinese government to relax restrictions on film imports.The Office of the United States Trade Representative is leading those negotiations, but Mr. Rivkin also plays a role. As the associations chief, he is effectively Hollywoods global ambassador and its chief Washington crusader. (He does not, however, plan to register as a lobbyist; for that role, Mr. Rivkin hired Gail MacKinnon, a former Time Warner executive who started her career working for Republican lawmakers.)Mr. Rivkin acknowledged that the organization faces challenges big and small, including questions about its identity and its structure. Netflix plans to release 80 original movies this year but is not a member. Should it be? But he spoke about solutions with a confidence that felt genuine, calling the association a dust-covered diamond that can easily shine again.He then began an impassioned recitation of industry data. Did you know, for instance, that more Americans go to the movies than attend professional football, basketball, baseball and hockey games combined? Mr. Rivkin also spoke excitedly about plans, some already in motion, to increase the trade organizations profile, including improved branding, more star-studded events in Washington and livelier social media feeds.Reinvigorated at every level, he said of the association.At the same time, Mr. Rivkin aggressively disputed the notion that Mr. Trump and Hollywood are on opposite sides.President Trump probably knows this industry better than any president since Reagan, he said. I think he understands that entertainment is important both as an economic force  jobs in every single state  and as a projection of American values. Its our soft power. Its showing the world what America is capable of.The film and television industries support 2.1 million jobs in the United States, contribute $134 billion to the economy and account for $16.5 billion in exports, according to Motion Picture Association data.Hollywood has struggled to cast the right person as its cheerleader in chief since 2004, when Jack Valenti retired after 38 years. Mr. Valenti, who worked in the White House for Lyndon B. Johnson, was larger than life. He picked fights, lionized the studio chiefs and fended off lawmakers efforts to limit sex and violence on screen by devising the self-regulating film ratings system.Mr. Valenti was followed by an entertainment outsider, Dan Glickman, secretary of agriculture during the Clinton administration. Mr. Glickman, affable but low key, scored victories, including securing $400 million in government production incentives. But Hollywood never accepted him as one of its own. He left in 2010.Mr. Dodd took over the next year. While making inroads on piracy, he also struggled at times to persuade the six studios to speak with one clear voice on crucial industry matters, including the 2014 cyberattack on Sony Pictures. Michael Lynton, then Sonys chief, was so furious over the organizations lack of public support during the early days of that crisis that he almost canceled Sonys membership.Herding studio chiefs is harder than it used to be. In Mr. Valentis era, the film factories were stand-alone entities whose interests were in lock step. Today, the studios are owned by sprawling conglomerates, which employ their own lobbyists and often have competing interests.Mr. Rivkin, who has been married to the businesswoman Susan Tolson for 28 years (they have two children), has deep political relationships, some of which involve family. His father, William R. Rivkin, who was close to the Kennedys, served as ambassador to Luxembourg, Senegal and Gambia. His brother, Robert, is Chicagos deputy mayor. Mr. Rivkin worked at the State Department under John Kerry, a close friend.At the same time, unlike his two most recent predecessors, Mr. Rivkin knows Hollywood. At the Henson Company, he forged agreements with partners like Sony and Disney. After the Henson Company was sold, he led another boutique studio, WildBrain, where he oversaw production of the hit Nickelodeon series Yo Gabba Gabba!One of Mr. Rivkins cousins, the Democratic fund-raiser and education advocate Jamie Alter Lynton, is married to Mr. Lynton, the former Sony chief.Despite moving in rather grand circles, Mr. Rivkin does not wear his ego on his sleeve, say people who know him well. Charlie was always the Dudley Do-Right of the kids business, said Brown Johnson, Nickelodeons former president of animation, referring to the heroic Rocky and Bullwinkle Show character. So honest. So respectful. A listener.Brian Henson, chairman of the Henson Company and Jim Hensons son, agreed  with a twist.I think that putting his ego aside actually is part of his ego, he said. Charlie wants to be the guy who makes things happen for others.
The lawsuit brought by family members of those killed in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School has been watched closely over years of winding its way through the court system. But a new hurdle stands in the way of a much-awaited ruling.Remington, one of the nations oldest gunmakers and a defendant in the lawsuit, recently filed for bankruptcy as its sales have declined and debts have mounted. The company manufactured the AR-15-style weapon used by the gunman in the 2012 attack in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 first graders, were killed.The case is now before the Connecticut Supreme Court, where families brought an appeal with the aim of bringing the case to a jury trial. Remingtons bankruptcy does not guard the company from potential liability, but it has stalled the court from issuing a ruling on the lawsuit until the company emerges from the process. The court has been weighing the case after hearing oral arguments last year.The families lawyers contend that the bankruptcy will ultimately have little influence on the cases viability. The bankruptcy proceeding doesnt affect our claim, said Katie Mesner-Hage, one of the lawyers representing the plaintiffs, nine families who had a relative killed and a teacher who was shot and survived. The only thing the process does is delay it to some degree.The lawsuit has high stakes for both gun companies and gun-control advocates because it is testing a novel strategy to find a route around the broad protections granted by federal law that shield the companies from litigation if their product is used to commit a crime. Supporters contend that the case, if it makes it to trial, could offer a glimpse into how the gun industry operates and possibly provide a road map for the survivors and relatives of victims in other mass shootings who have otherwise been hamstrung in pursuing legal action.The case, amid recurring episodes of deadly mass violence, has drawn an intense response. When the lawsuit reached the Connecticut Supreme Court, gun control advocates, school officials and emergency doctors who treated victims of assault rifle fire submitted amicus briefs in favor of the lawsuit. Gun-rights organizations also weighed in, including the National Rifle Association, which argued that the case stood to eviscerate the gun companies legal protections.Remington will remain in business as it reorganizes and unloads hundreds of millions of dollars in debt, according to court records. The process could be expedited because the company is using a so-called prepackaged bankruptcy, which could be completed as early as May. Remingtons lawyers did not respond to messages seeking comment.The military-style rifle used in the attack was made by Bushmaster, which was bought by a New York private-equity fund in 2006. The $48 billion fund, Cerberus Capital Management, eventually folded Bushmaster into Remington along with other gun companies. Remington is also the target of another high-profile case, a federal class-action lawsuit claiming that trigger defects have caused some of its shotguns to accidentally discharge.Remington, which has about $950 million in debt, began hinting this year that it was likely to file for bankruptcy. Before the 2016 presidential election, the gun industry had maintained a robust manufacturing operation. But gun sales have plummeted since President Trump won the election; many attribute the decrease to gun buyers believing that the Trump administration and a Republican-controlled Congress would be less inclined to pursue tougher gun-control measures.Remington recently hired Lazard, a financial advisory firm, as the company devised its restructuring plans and searched for financing for its reorganization. Lazard approached more than 30 potential lenders on Remingtons behalf before finding financial companies willing to give them a loan, according to court filings. A Lazard representative wrote that many lenders indicated that they were reluctant to provide financing to firearms manufacturers. And even some of the ones who ended up lending Remington money had their names redacted from court documents.Susheel Kirpalani, a bankruptcy lawyer who has been consulting the Sandy Hook families legal team, said that he and others had been scouring Remingtons voluminous filings and disclosure documents, looking for anything in the complex financial transactions that might affect the Sandy Hook lawsuit. The companys filings indicate that creditors, including the Sandy Hook plaintiffs, would be unimpaired by the Chapter 11 process, which means that the lawsuit can resume after the reorganized Remington emerges from bankruptcy.Even so, beyond the bankruptcy, the Sandy Hook lawsuit has faced long odds of success.Congress granted gun companies industrywide immunity from blame when one of their products is used in a crime. But the law, enacted in 2005, includes exceptions for sale and marketing practices that violate state or federal laws and instances of so-called negligent entrustment, in which a gun is carelessly given or sold to a person posing a high risk of misusing it.The lawsuit argues that Remington  along with a wholesaler and dealer, which were also named in the suit  erred by entrusting an untrained civilian public with a weapon designed for maximizing fatalities on the battlefield. It also asserts that the companies relied on advertising, with messages of combat dominance and slogans like Consider your man card reissued, that appealed specifically to disturbed young men like Adam Lanza, the 20-year-old gunman.The gun companies contend that federal law shields them from the families claims, and a lower court judge agreed, dismissing the lawsuit in 2016.Still, the families believe that the companies bear a measure of responsibility. The families ultimate goal in filing the lawsuit is accountability, Ms. Mesner-Hage said.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Heres what you need to know: President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a dangerous flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations hard-line stance on immigration._____ In Afghanistan, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces using night-vision goggles and lasers that U.S. military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market.And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones.Its going to change how we operate, he said._____ For every 10 killed, 20 more will join.That was a protester in the Kashmir Valley on Sunday, after the Indian Army killed at least 12 militants. It was the largest one-day toll of insurgents in recent years, in a brutal territorial conflict between India and Pakistan that has endured for decades.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded._____ Tesla appears to be in real trouble.Concerns that Elon Musks electric-car company is burning through cash have damaged its credit rating and raised questions about whether it could run out of money by the end of the year.And its stock fell in after-hours trading last week, after Tesla disclosed that a fatal crash in California on March 23 occurred while Autopilot, its semiautonomous driving system, above, was engaged._____ Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the carnage in the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria and urged reconciliation in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for the fruits of dialogue to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray.At St. Andrews Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure  including the disgraced Australia cricket team. Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.) Eight years after Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster, bringing together the worlds largest concert promoter with the worlds leading ticket provider, U.S. regulators are looking into accusations that the company uses threats and pressure to rule ticketing. Ready Player One, Steven Spielbergs nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure, took in more than $181 million on its debut weekend. Chinese ticket buyers turned out in particular force. Facebooks latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending  growth at any cost  even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.) The list of Chinese products that will be hit with new U.S. tariffs is expected to be announced within days. Here are other headlines to watch for this week. Markets are closed in Australia, Hong Kong, London and Milan. Heres a snapshot of other global markets. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, and South Koreas culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, were in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times] Like a Dream. The Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai made an emotional return home to Pakistans Swat Valley, where the Taliban tried to kill her in 2012. [The New York Times] The U.N. announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade sanctions. [The New York Times] Israel warned that it would target groups inside Gaza if violence along the border continued. On Friday, at least 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire. [The New York Times] A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old Filipina maid, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Agence France-Presse] The Chinese space lab Tiangong-1 is expected to burn into Earths atmosphere within hours. Heres a look at the rise and fall of Chinas first space station. [The New York Times] April Fools Day on the internet: Australias public broadcaster navigated some of this years biggest joke headlines, including drop bears and chocolate burgers. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Working out is great for you. Heres how to start. For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo. Why would a 70 year old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? To feel alive, said the man who did it. A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical? And The Last Wild Men of Borneo by Carl Hoffman tells the stories of an environmental activist accepted by an indigenous tribe as one of its own, and a man who became one of the worlds most successful tribal art collectors.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive a souvenir wooden egg as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

BERRYVILLE, Va.  For more than a month now, the questions have ricocheted down this Main Street culled from a Norman Rockwell dreamscape  past the dueling barbershops and the outdoor broom sale and the mural with the horse  quietly at first, when the Florida massacre was still fresh, and then not so quietly.Why would this time be different? Why should it be?Every time something happens, everybodys hollering, Garland Ashby, 77, the owner of an estimated 75 guns, said of the recent protests over gun control, rubbing at his cigarette stub from a park bench in this town of 4,200. A couple of months its in the news, and then its gone.More than a week has passed since some 800 student-led marches pulsed through the country and abroad  more than a week for momentum to build, or stall out, or morph into something beyond anyones control. And in this tossup congressional district, a short drive from the demonstrations nexus in Washington, and in other House battlegrounds nationwide, a consensus has formed on at least this much: Both sides think they are being underestimated. Both insist their adversaries will tire eventually, punching themselves out.Itll go away, Mr. Ashby predicted, grinding the cigarette into the mud. Like all the other times.Theyre looking for us to get bored, said Rosie Banks, 17, a high school junior about 40 miles east in Sterling, Va., whose bedroom includes the Am I Next? sign she hauled across the capital last month and a fish named Malcolm X. Were not going to get bored.This has certainly not happened yet. Both before and after the march, high school students have shown themselves eager to hatch longer-term plans, with some plotting together last week through their spring breaks.In this stretch of Northern Virginia, students are trying to organize a town hall with Representative Barbara Comstock, one of the most vulnerable Republicans in Congress, recognizing that her support from the National Rifle Association could be a drag in a district that preferred Hillary Clinton in 2016.New voter registration pushes, steered by teenagers, are well underway. Students are consulting with established (and adult-run) groups like Everytown for Gun Safety, founded and financed by Michael R. Bloomberg, and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence  with plans to discuss how to host their own candidate events before November or start clubs at their schools.Even less politically active students in Virginias 10th Congressional District have learned Ms. Comstocks name. They know who she is, said Paige Thimmesch, 16, Ms. Bankss classmate in Sterling, Va., who is hoping to arrange the forum with the congresswoman. They dont know every single policy. They do know that she is pro-gun.Looking to history, fledgling activists are researching Vietnam-era student protests for context and inspiration. They are using words like intersectional. They are quoting favored lyrics from Hamilton: This is not a moment, its the movement.That movement, though, will hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout among young Americans  translating sound and fury into the long, slow work of lasting change.In the 2014 midterm elections, less than 20 percent of voters between the ages of 18 and 29 turned out to cast ballots, compared to more than 40 percent of voters between 45 and 59, according to an analysis of survey data by the United States Elections Project, which is run by Michael P. McDonald, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida. Recent polling suggests the gap could close, at least somewhat, this fall. A Quinnipiac University survey released in late February found that 54 percent of those 18 to 34 said they were more motivated than usual to vote, outpacing every other age group.While youth-driven movements in recent years, like Black Lives Matter and Occupy Wall Street, have installed themselves as forces in Democratic politics and the national discourse, their effects at the ballot box have been uncertain.Gun owners, mindful that flurries of mass activism have often dissipated on their own after past shootings, are still taking no chances. Some efforts have been unsavory: Survivors of the Parkland, Fla., massacre in February have been the subject of internet conspiracy theories and bizarre fictions. More civic-minded supporters of gun rights are discussing counter-rallies this month to demonstrate their collective might.All these calls for gun control are only making gun owners snap to attention, said Philip Van Cleave, the leader of the Virginia Citizens Defense League, a gun rights group. This is not a one-way movement by any means.Then there is the N.R.A., whose track record includes few political losses in recent memory  its power derived less from direct donations than a fine-tuned electioneering machine primed to mobilize voters with a letter-grade system for assessing candidates and tens of millions of dollars in campaign ads and voter-guide mailings. Shortly after the Parkland shooting, President Trump expressed support for gun restrictions opposed by the N.R.A., scolding fellow Republicans for kowtowing to the group. It did not take long, after an Oval Office meeting with N.R.A. officials, for the president to reverse himself.Yet even in corners of the country unaccustomed to dissent on gun issues, supporters of restrictions sense an opening. In Maines Second Congressional District, a region that includes both small cities and parcels of land so rural they are officially called unorganized territory, school walkouts and satellite March for Our Lives protests have specked the map, powered by students and Democratic activists.Though gun owners have betrayed little immediate concern  If they hang around, well still be here, and if they dont, well still be here, said Todd Tolhurst, the president of Gun Owners of Maine  students seem comfortable with their odds in any war of attrition.Well outlive them, said Sean Monteith, 17, a junior at Lewiston High School, adding that he hoped his peers would be able to outvote them, too. His cellphone includes a list of action items and reminders: connect with city council, draft legislation, do not go on assumptions.Back in Washington, a handful of Republicans seem attuned to at least two of those directives, hedging their positions in recent weeks to accommodate the post-Parkland moment. Several vulnerable members signed on to a Democratic bill authorizing federal research into gun violence. Two of them, Brian Mast and Carlos Curbelo, both Republicans from Florida, have endorsed an assault weapons ban.Activists appear determined to make others pay a professional price for declining to engage. In Colorados Sixth District, where Representative Mike Coffman is widely considered one of the most endangered Republican incumbents, organizers with Never Again Colorado, a new group advocating gun control, are planning a forum to discuss guns with or without Mr. Coffman. The district includes Aurora, where a gunman killed 12 people in a movie theater in 2012.We have a lot of momentum right now, said Ian Gaskins, 17, a high school junior who is helping to plan the event. I dont want people to stop caring about this until the next mass shooting.For Democrats, the zeal for gun control has at once presented an uncommon opportunity and an occasion to revisit plans for midterm messaging. After Mr. Trumps election, his opponents did not necessarily expect a gun reckoning to be central to their 2018 strategy.Last summer, as the party strained to communicate its own agenda in the Trumpian haze, Democrats chose Berryville as the backdrop to introduce a broad-strokes platform of economic populism. Their top leaders in Congress, Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi, and progressive stars like Senator Elizabeth Warren schlepped 65 miles outside Washington to deliver their message in the same park where Mr. Ashby, the gun owner, flicked away his cigarette on a recent afternoon.Eight months later, it is gun violence, more than any fiscal issue, that has galvanized a new generation of prospective Democrats, some not yet old enough to vote.In Virginia, the party had already long targeted Ms. Comstock, casting her as a poor fit for a district that includes some rural pockets, like Berryville, but also left-leaning Washington suburbs and vast reserves of more moderate voters repelled by Mr. Trump. Barbara Bump-Stock, said Candy Baracat-Donovan, 34, from Leesburg, Va., whose morning routine now includes a round of phone calls to the offices of representatives like Ms. Comstock.A spokesman for Ms. Comstock, Jeff Marschner, said the congresswoman was committed to a multipronged effort to prevent gun violence, citing her support for additional mental health funding and narrow, N.R.A.-backed legislation improving reporting to the national background check database, among other measures.It is not clear if she will agree to a town hall with students. They seem to understand the calculation.High school students are scary, said Jay Falk, 18, a senior in Virginia who co-founded Students Demand Action DMV, a gun control group with over 100 members. We are not cynical yet.
SEOUL, South Korea  He clapped and he smiled, even posing for a group photo with a K-pop band.The appearance by North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, on Sunday at a concert by South Korean musicians in Pyongyang was all the more unusual because his authoritarian government has been struggling to stave off what it sees as an infiltration of the Souths pop culture among his isolated people.But Mr. Kim shook the hands of members of South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, which he and his wife, Ri Sol-ju, watched from a balcony.After watching Red Velvet perform, Mr. Kim reportedly pronounced the event a gift for Pyongyang citizens.The two-hour show at the East Pyongyang Grand Theater was part of a political dtente between the neighboring countries as relations have thawed.It was the first time a North Korean leader watched a South Korean musical performance in the Norths capital.The performances by the South Korean troupe that flew in on Saturday with great fanfare to Pyongyang were done in the name of international diplomacy.The show occurred just weeks before Mr. Kim is scheduled to meet with South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, at a border village on April 27, and ahead of a planned summit meeting with President Trump in May.They were the first South Korean singers to perform in North Korea in more than a decade. Their visit reciprocated a North Korean art troupes performances in South Korea during its Winter Olympics in February. Mr. Moon watched one of the North Korean performances.Mr. Kim and Ms. Ri, a former singer, were among hundreds of North Koreans who filled the 1,500-seat theater to watch the South Korean singers, including older crooners, gelled rockers and K-pop starlets.On Sunday evening, thunderous clapping erupted when Mr. Kim and his wife entered the concert hall and seated themselves in a second-floor balcony, according to pool reports from South Korean journalists and officials.Attention was focused on how Mr. Kim would react to the pop singers, particularly Red Velvet. The five-member girl group is typical of South Korean girl groups  known for their chirpy, bubble-gum harmonies and sexy choreography.Their tunes are so infectious that the South Korean military has broadcast them across the border in a psychological war against North Korean soldiers. The North used to threaten to direct its artillery at the loudspeakers, warning of an all-out war if the South didnt turn them off.How things have changed.South Korean officials said the North did not attempt to reject any of the South Korean song lineup or change the pop stars lyrics or risqu dance moves.(But apparently, even North Korea had a limit to how far it would go in accepting K-pop. South Korean officials said the North had rejected their suggestion that the global star Psy, the singer famous for his Gangnam Style hit, be included in the visit.)Please tell President Moon how good this kind of exchange is. I know there has been attention to whether I will come and see Red Velvet, Mr. Kim was quoted as telling South Korean officials. I thank you for bringing this gift to Pyongyang citizens.Kim Yerim, a Red Velvet member who is known as Yeri, was quoted as saying, The audience clapped loudly and even sang along.The South Korean culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, told reporters in Pyongyang after the show that Mr. Kim showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics.Mr. Kims acceptance of Red Velvet and South Korean pop culture was striking because his government has stepped up a crackdown on DVDs and computer thumb drives containing South Korean pop songs, movies and TV dramas smuggled from China, calling for establishing mosquito nets to keep out decadent capitalist influence.Defectors from the North have said that those who were caught selling or watching South Korean K-pop music videos could be sent to prison camps.Mr. Kim, who studied in Switzerland as a teenager, has tried of late to present himself as more flexible, at least among the loyal elite citizens living in Pyongyang. North Koreas Moranbong Band, often said to be Mr. Kims favorite girl group, has performed in short skirts and high heels, featuring theme songs from Hollywood films.Though it was Mr. Kims first known K-pop experience, his father, Kim Jong-il, watched a South Korean female singer perform in a provincial town in North Korea in 2001.The younger Mr. Kims appearance was part of a breakthrough after a tense international standoff spurred by Mr. Kims nuclear ambitions and his missile tests, prompting the international community to slap ever more punishing economic sanctions on his isolated country.In the past week, Mr. Kim traveled by train to pay a stealth visit to President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing.Other gestures from the North to foster the dtente have included sending athletes, cheerleaders and an art troupe to the South during the Winter Games in February. Athletes from North and South Korea also marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony.The South Korean singers now in the North will hold a joint concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday at an indoor stadium in Pyongyang.South Koreans will see a recorded version of the concert later this week, according to local news media. Its unclear if, or when, ordinary North Koreans will be allowed to see it.
WASHINGTON  The organization at the center of one of the largest fraud scandals in the history of for-profit colleges is planning a comeback.The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools was stripped of its powers in December 2016 amid the collapse of two for-profit university chains, where tens of thousands of students were encouraged to take on hundreds of millions in debt based on false promises, including jobs after graduation.The ordeal left thousands of students stranded, and many have since flooded the Education Department with applications for relief from student loan debt. The Obama administration approved about 32,000 claims totaling $449 million.Now, that same accrediting council is asking to be reinstated by the Trump administration as a federal gatekeeper for hundreds of degree-granting programs and billions of dollars in federal funds.The move comes as the accrediting agency continues to be the target of criticism. Last week, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the outspoken chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, singled it out when he charged that for-profit accreditation boards were running visa mills used by foreign students to come to the United States with minimal scrutiny.Michelle Edwards, the councils president and chief executive, said that two of the schools mentioned in Mr. Grassleys letter had already had their recognition revoked for failing to meet financial requirements, but that the agencys criteria do not focus on matters relating to student visas.The councils prospective return has outraged student and consumer protection advocates, who worry that it would signal that predatory institutions will be allowed to flourish in the for-profit-friendly administration of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.Advising Ms. DeVos are several executives from the for-profit sector, one of whom reportedly helped the council navigate the application process. Ms. DeVos has halted Obama-era regulations that sought to hold for-profit institutions accountable for their poor outcomes, but were denounced by the sector as overly broad and punitive. And she has revamped the process for approving debt relief for defrauded students, granting only some partial relief.If they reverse this decision, it will tell accreditors that you can fight back and politically try to retain your eligibility, said Robert Shireman, a former deputy under secretary at the Education Department who is now a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, a liberal research organization. And more important, it will tell accreditors that there are no consequences if you do a horrible job.Higher education in the United States is largely decentralized, dependent on about 75 regional, national and specialized accrediting agencies to serve as watchdogs for postsecondary institutions that have access to federal student aid. The agencies are relied upon to regularly evaluate the quality of institutions to ensure they comply with federal education law. The accreditors are responsible for flagging and penalizing schools that do not.Most public, private and nonprofit higher education institutions are regionally accredited, while national and specialized accreditors tend to draw for-profit and trade schools. To receive federal financial aid funding, schools must be accredited by an Education Department-recognized agency. The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools was responsible for about 240 institutions that received $4.7 billion in taxpayer money when it came under scrutiny in 2015.For-profit accreditation has faced scrutiny dating back to the early years of the G.I. Bill, when the institutions were accused of preying on veterans who received large sums of federal education funding when they returned from war.But it had been decades since the for-profit sector felt as targeted as it did under the Obama administration, industry leaders say. And they contend that a reinstatement of the banished accrediting council could remedy the unfair treatment meted out by the previous White House. A federal judge recently ruled that the department had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in determining the councils fate.All we have ever asked for is due process and fairness, said Steve Gunderson, a former Republican congressman who leads the trade organization Career Education Colleges and Universities. We now hope the current secretary will recognize the need to work with A.C.I.C.S. and the schools impacted by this ruling.The independent advisory committee that vets accrediting bodies, called the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, will consider the councils application in May, just a few weeks before dozens of schools serving at least 100,000 students that are still operating under its purview will lose accreditation.The chairman of the bipartisan committee is Arthur Keiser, a political appointee who challenged the panels original recommendation to terminate the councils recognition. He also formerly ran a for-profit college, Keiser University, that settled claims of misrepresentation before he sold it to a nonprofit organization started by his family.The Obama administration revoked the agencys accrediting power after it had racked up nearly two dozen violations in federal quality and accountability standards. In a letter rendering its decision, the department said it was not confident that the agency could address all of its problems in one year.Officials at the council say it has made more than 50 improvements.Today, as a result of these changes, we are a fundamentally different agency and, I believe, a better one, Ms. Edwards, the councils president, said in a statement.Consumer protection and student advocates are unconvinced.I think its an awfully bold claim that a fundamentally flawed agency can erase years of misbehavior in a matter of months, said Ben Miller, an Obama administration official who is now the senior director of postsecondary education at the liberal Center for American Progress, and who has tracked the councils progress. It really has the feel as if someone went on a diet for a week and said, Look, Ive completely changed my lifestyle.For years, the accrediting body gave its seal of approval to institutions plagued by complaints, and oversaw for-profit schools that had some of the lowest graduation rates in the country and some of the highest rates of student loan defaults.It accredited Corinthian Colleges even as it was declaring bankruptcy in 2015, and the agency did not pull the accreditation of ITT Technical Institute until after the federal advisory panel recommended the termination of the councils recognition.Ms. Edwards said the organization had overhauled its governance structure to eliminate conflicts of interest. It established an ethics committee, created a group to monitor complaints and identify at-risk institutions, and strengthened data collection by requiring campuses to file quarterly and annual accountability reports.We are ready for the scrutiny because we believe todays A.C.I.C.S. fully meets the criteria to be recognized by the department, she said.In a letter to the Education Department, 20 state attorneys general disagreed. The officials wrote that the council had been found to be out of compliance with federal standards as recently as February 2017, and therefore does not meet the requirement that an agency demonstrate effective compliance for at least two years before seeking initial recognition.Given the gravity of A.C.I.C.S.s recent dereliction and the magnitude of the harm A.C.I.C.S. caused to students and taxpayers, any attempt by A.C.I.C.S. to become nationally recognized once again should be treated with great skepticism by the department, the letter read.The agencys application became public only after a lawsuit by the Century Foundation, and critics who have scrutinized the application said the council failed to demonstrate that it had put in place more rigorous standards. In  a letter to the department, the foundation, which combed through more than 20,000 pages of application materials, said that the bulk of the agencys letters of support had come from institutions that it accredited.But in a break for its application, Judge Reggie B. Walton of United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruled on March 23 that the Obama administration had failed to take into account 36,000 pages of relevant supplemental information as it deliberated the agencys fate in 2016. Judge Walton wrote that former Education Secretary John Kings decision-making process was flawed.The judgment did not overturn the Obama Education Departments decision, or weigh in on whether it was justified, but sent the case to Ms. DeVos to reconsider.The judges action was cheered by for-profit agencies that had long complained that the Obama administration targeted the accrediting organization unfairly.Yes, our sector has had bad schools like every sector of higher education, Mr. Gunderson said. But it is time that everyone across the political spectrum stop, step back and look for ways to work together to establish public policies that treat all sectors of higher education on a fair and equal basis. The ideological wars must end.
LOS ANGELES  Steven Spielberg aced his test.Ready Player One, a nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure that marked a high-wire attempt by Mr. Spielberg, 71, to return to his crowd-pleasing roots, arrived to $53.2 million in ticket sales over the four-day Easter weekend in North America. Overseas audiences chipped in an additional $128 million, with Chinese ticket buyers turning out in particular force.Those results, boosted by IMAX and other premium-priced, large-format screenings, easily make Ready Player One the No. 1 movie in the world. Warner Bros. and Village Roadshow spent at least $155 million to make the movie, which carried more than $100 million in global marketing costs.Going into the weekend, box office analysts had feared that Ready Player One might arrive to as little as $38 million in ticket sales in the United States and Canada. Its stars, Tye Sheridan and Olivia Cooke, are not household names. Its story line  teenagers in a dystopian future search for treasure inside a virtual-reality world called the Oasis  was exceedingly difficult to explain in marketing materials, especially without resorting to spoilers.And, as a non-sequel or remake, Ready Player One did not have a built-in fan base beyond readers of the 2011 novel by Ernest Cline from which it was adapted.That essentially left Ready Player One resting on Mr. Spielbergs shoulders, a risky proposition even for a filmmaker of his stature: The original blockbuster king had not delivered a true blockbuster in a decade, not since Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull roared into domestic theaters in the summer of 2008 with $118 million in opening-weekend ticket sales, after adjusting for inflation.Although Mr. Spielberg has found box office success in recent years with historical dramas like The Post and Bridge of Spies, his would-be crowd-pleasers, including the motion-capture fantasies The BFG and The Adventures of Tintin, have been ticket-selling disappointments. Even Kingdom of the Crystal Skull was widely viewed as a misfire; longtime fans loathed the story, leaving that whip-cracking franchise on wobbly footing.In contrast, Ready Player One drew the most positive audience response for any fantasy or science-fiction movie directed by Mr. Spielberg since Minority Report in 2005, according to Rotten Tomatoes, which boils down reviews from critics and ticket buyers into fresh or rotten scores. Critics also gave Ready Player One high marks, although some were annoyed by the source materials reliance on 1980s pop culture.Paul Dergarabedian, a senior analyst at comScore, noted that ticket-buyer surveys conducted by PostTrak, a service operated by comScore and Screen Engine, showed really, really high marks for Ready Player One from teenagers and people in their late thirties. This film has momentum, he said.Ready Player One, rated PG-13 and produced by a team that included Donald De Line, Kristie Macosko Krieger and Bruce Berman, was the first movie directed by Mr. Spielberg to arrive in the less-competitive spring since The Sugarland Express in 1974. Warner had initially scheduled Ready Player One for release in December but moved it to a safer spot after Disney unexpectedly dropped Star Wars: The Last Jedi on the same winter date.Mr. Spielbergs godlike status in Hollywood was cemented long ago. He is, perhaps, the only director (or star) whose career is no longer impacted by ticket sales  good, bad, mediocre. But the robust response to Ready Player One is meaningful for him nonetheless. If ticket sales continue to hold up in the weeks ahead  and they should, given school spring breaks  Mr. Spielberg will have given Warner Bros. what it wants most: a new franchise.Mr. Cline is notably working on a sequel to his novel.For the weekend in North America, Tyler Perrys Acrimony (Lionsgate) was second, collecting $17 million, a sturdy total for one of Mr. Perrys movies that does not feature Madea, his gunslinging granny. Acrimony, a thriller starring Taraji P. Henson, cost less than $15 million to make.Third place went to Black Panther (Disney), which took in about $11.3 million, for a seven-week domestic total of $650.7 million. Black Panther has taken in $1.27 billion worldwide.
SYDNEY   A cheating scandal that has ripped through the core of Australia\'s most venerated pastime, cricket, prompted church leaders to provide guidance over the Easter weekend on how to emerge from the moral tailspin.Addressing Sunday\'s congregation at Sydney\'s St. Andrew\'s Cathedral, Anglican Archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gives hope of forgiveness to all who face moral failure - even disgraced sportsmen.Australian cricket was shaken to the core when three national players were discovered to have conspired to scuff the ball with sandpaper during the third test match against South Africa last month.Roughing up one side of a ball can help it to swing through the air, making it more difficult for the opposing batsman to play.An investigation led to the sacking of captain Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner who were both banned from playing for 12 months. Batsman Cameron Bancroft was suspended for nine months."When we all look at our own selves, we recognise we\'ve all been there, we\'ve had our own failures," Davies said. "Perhaps not quite as public as Steve Smith\'s and the other two, but failures nonetheless. If it\'s hard enough to confront and stand up to a press gallery and admit youre wrong, what would it be like to stand before the living God and admit that you were wrong?"The inclusion of the ball-tampering in Easter sermons underscores how deep the scandal has run in a sports-loving country that prides itself on fair play. Past cricket giants such as master batsman Sir Donald Bradman are revered for their conduct as much as for their victories."None of us have been personally damaged by what Steve Smith and David Warner have done but they represent Australia so we feel it\'s personal," Everton Hills Wesleyan Methodist Church pastor Nathan Bell told Reuters. "Forgiveness is difficult as not everyone wants to give it."Bell discussed the cricketing scandal at the conclusion of his Wednesday service in the state of Queensland, leading the congregation in a prayer for Smith and the team.Smith broke down in tears and begged the nation for forgiveness during a press conference at Sydney airport on Friday after being sent home from South Africa in disgrace. [nL3N1R609K]Ashen-faced and distraught, Warner issued an abject apology for his role in the ball-tampering scandal when he arrived home on Saturday. [nL3N1RC3L6]Both Smith and Warner have admitted collusion in the plan for junior player Cameron Bancroft to use a piece of yellow tape to rough up the ball in the international test match in Cape Town.URGING FORGIVENESSThere was an immediate outpouring of anger after Bancroft\'s actions were caught on camera, with Australians flooding social media with questions on how to explain the scandal to their children.A poll by Australian cable television network Sky News found that more than 52 percent of Australians thought suspending players for a season was the most appropriate punishment for ball tampering, while nearly a third supported a lifetime ban. [nL3N1R851K] [nL3N1R706V]Major corporate sponsors, including Magellan Funds Management, tore up lucrative contracts with sporting body Cricket Australia and the individual players. Other sponsors, such as the country\'s flagship airline Qantas, gave the players and the administration a tongue lashing. [nL8N1RB2G6]Church leaders however urged forgiveness."It seemed like a natural thing to do," Reverend Dr David Reichardt from the Normanhurst Uniting Church in Sydney told Reuters. "Forgiveness means eventually full restoration. I certainly hope the cricket authorities will come to view this in a more kindly light."Uniting Church President Stuart McMillan said concerned parents could use the cricketing scandal as a teachable moment in forgiveness and the humanity of heroes."Their character is seen in owning their mistakes, and accepting their punishment," McMillan said in his Easter message on Good Friday, which was sent by video link to 2500 Uniting churches across Australia."Our character as a nation is not to be found in cricketing greatness; rather in humility, forgiveness and hope. The Easter story reminds us that a fresh start is always possible for all of us."(Reporting by Alison Bevege; Editing by Jane Wardell, Kim Coghill and Raju Gopalakrishnan)
