U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Sunday there was a risk of a trade war between the United States and China after the countries proposed imposing tariffs on billions of dollars' worth of one another's goods, but that he did not expec...
U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Sunday there was a risk of a trade war between the United States and China after the countries proposed imposing tariffs on billions of dollars' worth of one another's goods, but that he did not expec...
U.S. President Donald Trump predicted on Sunday that China would take down its trade barriers, expressing optimism despite  escalating trade tensions between the world's two largest economies that have roiled global markets in the past week.
Amid global fears of an escalating trade dispute between the U.S. and China, President Donald Trump suggested that Beijing will ease trade barriers "because it is the right thing to do" and that the economic superpowers can settle the conflict tha...
The U.N. secretary-general and the Singaporean foreign minister voiced concerns about global trade tensions and rising protectionism during back-to-back meetings in Beijing on Sunday.
U.S. President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Sunday that China would take down its trade barriers and that the two countries would reach a deal on intellectual property. 
U.S. President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Sunday that China would take down its trade barriers and that the two countries would reach a deal on intellectual property. 
Escalating tensions between the United States and China have triggered a flurry of U.S. soybean purchases by European buyers, in one of the first signs that trade tariff threats lobbed between the world's top two economies are disrupting global co...
The chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Court raised concerns Sunday that Israel and Hamas may have committed war crimes during a current flare-up of violence in the Gaza Strip.
The Latest on Israel and the Palestinian territories (all times local):
The president discovers the underside of the trade tariffs against China.
The rockiest U.S. stock market in two years will meet a major test in the coming weeks as first-quarter earnings pour in, with expectations that tax cuts will help Corporate America show its biggest quarterly profit growth in seven years. Any disa...
Chadwick Boseman hosted — a little too late for “Black Panther,” but just in time for the next “Avengers” movie.
Pope Francis on Sunday deplored the gas attack reported in Syria as an unjustifiable use of "instruments of extermination".
Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, is expected to announce his candidacy for the United States Senate in a midterm election year that could favor Democrats.
More than 26,000 people have been evacuated in the western German town of Paderborn so bomb specialists could remove a World War II-era bomb discovered during construction work.
A delayed budget forecast is released and Mark Zuckerberg appears before Congress. Also, China’s president is expected to unveil economic measures and President Trump travels to Peru.
Norway's private-sector trade unions reached a deal on Sunday with employers over wages, pensions and other compensation, averting the outbreak of major strikes, a state-appointed mediator said after five days of negotiations.
Libyan authorities have found the remains of three children abducted for ransom more than two years ago near the capital, in a case that highlighted the deterioration of security in the country since the 2011 uprising.
Vigneault helped the team make a Stanley Cup final and four consecutive playoff appearances, but the Rangers missed the postseason this year for the first time in eight years.
The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court on Sunday called for an end to violence in the Gaza Strip, adding the Palestinian territories were subject to a preliminary examination by her office and she was monitoring events there closely.
Greece and Turkey have been exchanging insults and threats in recent weeks, recalling conflicts from a shared and bloody history.
The New York Rangers fired coach Alain Vigneault hours after they missed the playoffs for the first time since 2010.
Iran's Foreign Ministry said on Sunday reports of a gas attack in Syria were not based on facts and were an "an excuse" by the United States and Western countries to take military action against Damascus, the official Iranian news agency IRNA repo...
Pope Francis closed his traditional Sunday blessing by saying "nothing can justify" the use of chemical weapons against defenseless populations and called for those responsible for a suspected attack in Syria to seek negotiations.
Mohamed "Ibn Nufal" Nufal, 24, kisses his mother goodbye in Cairo's Tahrir Square as he sets off for the World Cup in Russia - on a bicycle.
Turkey condemned the use of chemical weapons in Douma, a rebel-held town in Syria's eastern Ghouta, the foreign ministry said in a statement on Sunday.
Don Graham’s new book tells the story of how the epic starring James Dean and Elizabeth Taylor was made.
American and Afghan forces have expanded their air strikes against drug labs into western Afghanistan, aiming to choke Taliban revenue.
France's rail workers on Sunday launched the second wave of rolling strikes over government plans to reform the debt-ridden national state-owned railway company SNCF before its monopoly on domestic passenger rail expires.
The couple met in 2015 Kabul during a meeting for political staff of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
An agreement has been reached to release all prisoners held by Syrian rebels controlling the eastern Ghouta city of Douma in return for the fighters' leaving the city, Syrian state television reported on Sunday, citing an official source. 
German police raided the homes of suspected members of a far-right group in Berlin and in the states of Brandenburg and Thueringia on Sunday, searching for weapons, the chief federal prosecutor's office said.
Family members of sailors killed in the deadliest submarine disaster in U.S. history are grateful for the sense of community surrounding a 55th anniversary commemoration.
An agreement has been reached to release all prisoners held by Syrian rebels controlling the eastern Ghouta city of Douma in return for the fighters' leaving the city, Syrian state television reported on Sunday, citing an official source. 
Freed from the weight of the world of being Stanley Cup favorites, the Washington Capitals are playing like a team eager to prove something.
He's been trying his best to stay in the moment, something that hasn't always come easy for Rickie Fowler.
Alex Ovechkin heard the chants loud and clear.
Quincy Acy is often an emotional leader for the Brooklyn Nets.
Seven decades after making key portions of the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, workers at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation are being exposed to radiation as they tear down buildings that helped create the nation's nuclear arsenal.
President Donald Trump on Sunday condemned a "mindless CHEMICAL attack" in Syria that killed women and children, called Syrian President Bashar Assad an "animal" and delivered a rare personal criticism of Russian President Vladimir Putin for suppo...
The Syrian government said it would start negotiations on Sunday with the rebel group Jaish al-Islam, hours after dozens of people were reportedly killed in a suspected chemical attack on the enclave the group controls outside Damascus.
The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):
The president laid blame for the attack partly on President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, the first time since his election he has criticized the Russian leader by name on Twitter.
The crown prince of Saudi Arabia arrived in Paris on Sunday, a day ahead of his first official visit to France, which is hoping to profit from his shake-up of the conservative kingdom to forge a new kind of commercial relationship.
The 23-year-old Houston Rockets center has transformed over the past four years from the rookie who couldn’t make a basket to the most accurate shooter in the N.B.A.
Across the ruins of Raqqa, the streets are cloaked in grey, the color of bare cement and rubble left behind by the bombing campaign that finally drove out Islamic State militants. Among the people of this Syrian city, the fear, anger and desperati...
Here’s what you need to know about the week’s top stories.
In Dubai's decades-old Gold Souk, customers from around the world haggle over bangles and necklaces. Elsewhere in the emirate, the region's top center for gold trade, bullion is playing a new role in financial engineering.  
In 2013, President Bashar al-Assad agreed to dismantle Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile. Five years later, attacks using chemical weapons persist.
Opening statements start Monday in Bill Cosby's retrial on sexual assault charges stemming from allegations he drugged and molested a woman at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. The key figures to watch include:
The 48-year-old German man who drove a van into a crowd in Muenster was well-known to police, had a history of run-ins with the law and had expressed suicidal thoughts to a neighbor last month, German prosecutors said Sunday.
An alleged gas attack killed at least 40 people in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, local responders said on Sunday. Syrian state media, meanwhile, reported that rebels there have agreed to give up their last foothold in the area.
Today in History
President Trump denounced the attack that killed at least 49 people and that left hundreds with “symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent,” according to aid groups.
John Krasinski's "A Quiet Place" made a thunderous debut at the box office, opening with $50 million in ticket sales and rumbling to the year's second-best weekend after "Black Panther," according to studio estimates Sunday.
