WASHINGTON   U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Sunday there was a risk of a trade war between the United States and China after the countries proposed imposing tariffs on billions of dollars\' worth of one another\'s goods, but that he did not expect one."Our expectation is that we don\'t think there will be a trade war; our objective is to continue to have discussions with China ... I don\'t expect there will be a trade war - it could be, but I don\'t expect it at all," he told CBS\' Face The Nation.Mnuchin added that President Donald Trump and Chinese president Xi Jinping have a "very close relationship" and that the United States and China would continue to discuss trade issues.(Reporting by Michelle Price; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Sunday there was a risk of a trade war between the United States and China after the countries proposed imposing tariffs on billions of dollars\' worth of one another\'s goods, but that he did not expect one."Our expectation is that we don\'t think there will be a trade war; our objective is to continue to have discussions with China ... I don\'t expect there will be a trade war - it could be, but I don\'t expect it at all," he told CBS\' Face The Nation.Mnuchin added that President Donald Trump and Chinese president Xi Jinping have a "very close relationship" and that the United States and China would continue to discuss trade issues.(Reporting by Michelle Price; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump predicted on Sunday that China would take down its trade barriers, expressing optimism despite  escalating trade tensions between the world\'s two largest economies that have roiled global markets in the past week.The two countries have threatened each other with tens of billions of dollars\' worth of tariffs in recent days and Chinese officials have said this is not the time for negotiations.But Trump administration officials have stressed that the tariffs are not yet in place and the dispute could be resolved through talks.In a Twitter post on Sunday, Trump echoed this, saying "China will take down its trade barriers because it is the right thing to do. Taxes will become reciprocal and a deal will be made on intellectual property."He referred to his personal relationship with Chinese President Xi Jinping and said the two men would always be friends, adding, "Great future for both countries!"There has been no indication that Trump and Xi have had any conversations since the trade conflict erupted last week and no formal trade talks between the United States and China have been scheduled yet.On Tuesday, Washington unveiled some $50 billion worth of proposed tariffs on Chinese imports and on Thursday Trump upped the ante, directing U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on another $100 billion of Chinese imports. He said this was in light of Chinas unfair retaliation against the earlier U.S. trade action.China responded by saying it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" if the United States followed through on the new threat.China\'s Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, said on Friday that Trump\'s threat of another package of tariffs was "extremely mistaken" and unjustified, adding no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances.Crude oil and global equity markets tumbled on Friday on investor worries about the impact a tariff war could have on the world economy.\'FIRMLY ATTACKED\'China\'s state media has sharply criticized the United States, saying its trade protectionism actions will end in defeat. "If the U.S. says that it will pay any price, it must be firmly attacked," China\'s official Xinhua news agency said on Saturday.On Sunday, the state People\'s Daily newspaper sought to tap into concern among some U.S. business leaders over the impact of Washington\'s planned tariffs."We call on the international business community including the United States industrial and commercial circles to take prompt and effective measures and urge the U.S. government to correct its errors," it said.Trump\'s chief economic adviser, National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow, has repeatedly sought in recent days to soothe concerns about a trade war, stressing that no tariffs have yet been implemented.He reiterated that in an interview on CNN\'s State of the Union show on Sunday, saying, "This process might turn out to be very benign ... Maybe China will want to come round and talk in earnest - so far it hasn\'t, I hope it does."The United States, charging China with unfair trade practices and theft of intellectual property, proposed some $50 billion in tariffs on Tuesday - 25 percent tariffs on more than 1,300 Chinese industrial and other products from flat-panel televisions to electronic components.China shot back within hours with its own list of proposed duties on $50 billion of American imports, including soybeans, aircraft, cars, beef and chemicals.U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on the CBS programme Face The Nation there was a risk of a trade war between the United States and China but that he did not expect one.He added that Trump and Xi have a "very close relationship" and that the United States and China would continue to discuss trade issues.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Michelle Price in Washington; Additional reporting by Caren Bohan in Washington and Cate Cadell in Beijing; Editing by Frances Kerry)
WASHINGTON   Amid global fears of an escalating trade dispute between the U.S. and China, President Donald Trump suggested that Beijing will ease trade barriers "because it is the right thing to do" and that the economic superpowers can settle the conflict that has rattled financial markets, consumers and businesses.But fostering more uncertainty, the president\'s top economic advisers offered mixed messages Sunday as to the best approach with China, which has threatened to retaliate if Washington follows through with its proposed tariffs, even as Trump emphasized his bond with Chinese President Xi Jinping."President Xi and I will always be friends, no matter what happens with our dispute on trade," Trump wrote. "China will take down its Trade Barriers because it is the right thing to do. Taxes will become Reciprocal & a deal will be made on Intellectual Property. Great future for both countries!"But Trump did not explain why, amid a week of economic saber-rattling between the two countries that shook global markets, he felt confident a deal could be made.The president made fixing the trade imbalance with China a centerpiece of his presidential campaign, where he frequently used incendiary language to describe how Beijing would "rape" the U.S. economically. But even as Trump cozied up to Xi and pressed China for help with derailing North Korea\'s nuclear ambitions, he has ratcheted up the economic pressure and threatened tariffs, a move opposed by many fellow Republicans.The Trump administration has said it is taking action as a crackdown on China\'s theft of U.S. intellectual property. The U.S. bought more than $500 billion in goods from China last year and now is planning or considering penalties on some $150 billion of those imports. The U.S. sold about $130 billion in goods to China in 2017 and faces a potentially devastating hit to its market there if China responds in kind.China has pledged to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump decides to follow through on his latest threat to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods  after an earlier announcement that targeted $50 billion. Beijing also declared that the current rhetoric made negotiations impossible, even as the White House suggested that the tariff talk was a way to spur China to the bargaining table.The new White House economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said Sunday that a "coalition of the willing"  including Canada, much of Europe and Australia  was being formed to pressure China and that the U.S. would demand that the World Trade Organization, an arbiter of trade disputes, be stricter on Beijing. And he said that although the U.S. hoped to avoid taking action, Trump "was not bluffing.""This is a problem caused by China, not a problem caused by President Trump," Kudlow said on "Fox News Sunday."But he also downplayed the tariff threat as "part of the process," suggested on CNN that the impact would be "benign" and said he was hopeful that China would enter negotiations. Kudlow, who started his job a week ago after his predecessor, Gary Cohn, quit over the tariff plan, brushed aside the possibility of economic repercussions."I don\'t think there\'s any trade war in sight," Kudlow told Fox.Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on CBS\' "Face the Nation" that he didn\'t expect the tariffs to have a "meaningful impact on the economy" even as he left the door open for disruption. He allowed that there "could be" a trade war but said he didn\'t anticipate one.Another top White House economic adviser, Peter Navarro, took a tougher tack, declaring that China\'s behavior was "a wakeup call to Americans.""They are in competition with us over economic prosperity and national defense," Navarro said on NBC\'s "Meet the Press." \'\'Every day of the week China comes into our homes, our business and our government agencies. ... This country is losing its strength even as China has grown its economy."Trump\'s latest proposal intensified what was already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle in more than a half century.Trump told advisers last week that he was unhappy with China\'s decision to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods. Rather than waiting weeks for the U.S. tariffs to be implemented, Trump backed a plan by Robert Lighthizer, his trade representative, to seek the enhanced tariffs.The rising economic tensions pose a test to what has become Trump\'s frequent dual-track foreign policy strategy: to establish close personal ties with another head of state even as his administration takes a harder line. The president has long talked up his friendship with Xi, whom he has praised for consolidating power in China despite its limits on democratic reforms.Further escalation could be in the offing. The U.S. Treasury Department is working on plans to restrict Chinese technology investments in the U.S. And there is talk that the U.S. could also put limits on visas for Chinese who want to visit or study in this country.For Trump, the dispute runs the risk of blunting the economic benefits of his tax overhaul, which is at the center of congressional Republicans\' case for voters to keep them in power in the 2018 elections. China\'s retaliation so far has targeted Midwest farmers, many of whom were bedrock Trump supporters.___Associated Press writers Hope Yen and Thomas Strong contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire
BEIJING   The U.N. secretary-general and the Singaporean foreign minister voiced concerns about global trade tensions and rising protectionism during back-to-back meetings in Beijing on Sunday.Following remarks from his Chinese counterpart, Singaporean Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan vowed to "double-down" on free trade and economic liberalization in tandem with China."This is a time in the world where the temptation to embark on unilateralism and protectionism is unfortunately rising," Balakrishnan said.In a separate meeting, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called China "absolutely crucial" in the international system."You mentioned reform and opening up - it\'s so important in a moment when some others have a policy of closing up," Guterres told Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi."The solutions for these problems are not to put globalization to question, but to improve globalization. Not isolation or protectionism, but more international cooperation," Guterres said.The comments came as China and the U.S. exchanged escalating tariff threats in what is already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle for more than a half century.Beijing vowed Friday to "counterattack with great strength" if President Donald Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.Trump\'s announcement followed China\'s decision to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods.The U.S. bought more than $500 billion in goods from China last year and now is planning or considering penalties on some $150 billion of those imports. The U.S. sold about $130 billion in goods to China in 2017 and faces a potentially devastating hit to its market there if China responds in kind.In the meetings, Wang attacked what he called "protectionism and unilateralism," though he didn\'t single out the U.S. by name."China will safeguard the principles of free trade and oppose protectionism," Wang said. "We should push forward with economic globalization."Wang was welcoming both officials ahead of their planned appearances at the annual Boao Forum for Asia, a Chinese-sponsored annual gathering for political and economic elites on tropical Hainan Island.Guterres will meet President Xi Jinping later Sunday and also plans to visit the China Peacekeeping Police Training Center.Balakrishnan is traveling with Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on the first of a five-day visit to China.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Sunday that China would take down its trade barriers and that the two countries would reach a deal on intellectual property.On Thursday, Trump directed U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on another $100 billion of Chinese imports, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the worlds two largest economies.The further tariffs were being considered in light of Chinas unfair retaliation against earlier U.S. trade actions, which included a proposed $50 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods, Trump said in a White House statement on Thursday.In his tweet on Sunday, Trump said he and Chinese President Xi Jinping would always be friends despite the dispute, adding: "China will take down its trade barriers because it is the right thing to do. Taxes will become reciprocal and a deal will be made on intellectual property. Great future for both countries!"On Tuesday, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) had proposed 25 percent tariffs on more than 1,300 Chinese industrial and other products from flat-panel televisions to electronic components. China shot back 11 hours later with a list of proposed duties on $50 billion of American imports, including soybeans, aircraft, cars, beef and chemicals.The President did not provide a reason for the statement or say whether China had indicated it planned to drop its tariffs.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Michelle Price; Editing by Susan Fenton and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Sunday that China would take down its trade barriers and that the two countries would reach a deal on intellectual property.On Thursday, Trump directed U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on another $100 billion of Chinese imports, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the worlds two largest economies.The further tariffs were being considered in light of Chinas unfair retaliation against earlier U.S. trade actions, which included a proposed $50 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods, Trump said in a White House statement on Thursday.In his tweet on Sunday, Trump said he and Chinese President Xi Jinping would always be friends despite the dispute, adding: "China will take down its trade barriers because it is the right thing to do. Taxes will become reciprocal and a deal will be made on intellectual property. Great future for both countries!"On Tuesday, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) had proposed 25 percent tariffs on more than 1,300 Chinese industrial and other products from flat-panel televisions to electronic components. China shot back 11 hours later with a list of proposed duties on $50 billion of American imports, including soybeans, aircraft, cars, beef and chemicals.The President did not provide a reason for the statement or say whether China had indicated it planned to drop its tariffs.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Michelle Price; Editing by Susan Fenton and James Dalgleish)
CHICAGO   Escalating tensions between the United States and China have triggered a flurry of U.S. soybean purchases by European buyers, in one of the first signs that trade tariff threats lobbed between the world\'s top two economies are disrupting global commodity trade flows.News of the sales, confirmed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture on Friday, helped to underpin benchmark Chicago Board of Trade soybean prices <0#S:> after U.S. President Donald Trump threatened to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.The USDA said 458,000 tonnes of U.S. soybeans were sold to undisclosed destinations, which traders and grains analysts said included EU soybean processors such as the Netherlands and Germany.If the entire volume is confirmed to be going to the European Union, it would be the largest one-off sale to the bloc in more than 15 years, according to USDA data. The USDA could not immediately be reached for comment."We\'re seeing a realignment of trade," largely because the politics is driving up Brazilian soybean prices, said Jack Scoville, analyst with the Price Futures Group.Traders and analysts said the unusual trade flows were likely to continue in the near term, benefiting U.S. Gulf Coast shippers and likely hurting exporters in the U.S. Pacific Northwest, the No. 2 bulk grain outlet that relies heavily on Chinese demand.Trade tensions between Washington and Beijing have rattled markets over the past week. Soybean prices tumbled by as much as 5 percent after China threatened to levy extra duties on U.S. shipments, though the market ultimately ended the week down about 1 percent.The United States is the second-largest soybean exporter in the world after Brazil. China is by far the top buyer, importing about two-thirds of all soybeans traded globally.The big U.S. soybean sales come at a time when U.S. shipments are traditionally costlier than newly harvested soybeans shipped from Brazil, the world\'s biggest exporter.But accelerated buying of Brazilian beans by Chinese importers, weary of potentially paying steep tariffs on U.S. purchases, has sent Brazilian export premiums to historic highs.Near-term soybean shipments from Brazil peaked near 200 cents above CBOT May soybean futures <SK8> before pulling back to around 170 cents over by the end of the week, traders said. U.S. Gulf Coast shipments, by comparison, were only around 90 cents a bushel above futures."The Brazilian beans are likely going to go to China in the short run and the U.S. beans are available. With what\'s happened to the price spreads, U.S. beans are sort of on sale for these buyers," said Jim Sutter, CEO of the U.S. Soybean Export Council.Some of the sales announced by USDA on Friday were initially booked as Brazilian shipments, but were switched to cheaper U.S. beans when Brazil\'s prices spiked, traders said."U.S. prices got exceedingly cheap compared to Brazil," said a U.S. trader who asked not to be named. "Some of this is outright new business. Some of it is arbitraging away from Brazil."The current-season shipments are slated for loading from May to July, they said, typically the height of Brazil\'s export season and a low point for U.S. shipments."I think we\'ll see more (U.S.) selling to some destinations in volumes that we don\'t ordinarily see, at least in the short term until the Brazilian basis calms down," Scoville said.(Reporting by Karl Plume; Editing by Matthew Lewis)

JERUSALEM   The Latest on Israel and the Palestinian territories (all times local):9:20 p.m.The chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Court has raised concerns that Israel and Hamas may have committed war crimes during a current round of violence in Gaza.In a statement Sunday, Fatou Bensouda\'s office expressed "grave concern" over the shootings of Palestinians by Israeli troops during mass protests along Gaza\'s border with Israel.It said "violence against civilians  in a situation such as one prevailing in Gaza" may constitute war crimes. But in an apparent reference to Gaza\'s Hamas rulers, she also said "the use of civilian presence for the purpose of shielding military activities" could also be a war crime.Palestinian health officials say at least 31 people have been killed by Israeli fire. Israel says the protests are a smoke screen for attacks on its troops.___2:50 p.m.Israeli police say a Palestinian who tried to stab an Israeli in the West Bank has been shot.Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld says the Palestinian was armed with a long screwdriver and was trying to stab the Israeli near the settlement of Mishor Adumim when another Israeli civilian drew a gun and shot the would-be attacker. The wounded Palestinian was taken to hospital in serious condition.There has been a spike in violence since President Donald Trump\'s Dec. 6 recognition of Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital. Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as their future capital and view Trump\'s decision as siding with Israel. Stabbings and car-ramming have been widely used by Palestinian assailants.At least nine Palestinians were shot dead in weekend protests along the Gaza border.

NEW YORK   The rockiest U.S. stock market in two years will meet a major test in the coming weeks as first-quarter earnings pour in, with expectations that tax cuts will help Corporate America show its biggest quarterly profit growth in seven years. Any disappointments could further upset the fragile market.Hopes among stock investors are running high for corporate earnings season, which kicks off in earnest on Thursday and Friday with reports from several large financial institutions including BlackRock and JP Morgan.Investors have counted on corporate profits to provide bedrock support as the market endured sharp swings in recent weeks over concerns about a trade war with China and tougher regulations for high-flying technology companies.The S&P 500 has recovered some after swooning more than 10 percent in February from its Jan. 26 record high, confirming a market correction for the first time in just over two years. The benchmark index remains more than 7 percent off its all-time peak."There is an awful lot of pressure for corporate profits in this first quarter and especially the guidance the companies are going to give to really get this market back on its upward track," said Chuck Carlson, chief executive officer at Horizon Investment Services in Hammond, Indiana.Analysts expect S&P 500 profits to rise 18.4 percent in the first quarter, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S, the first full quarter since passage of President Donald Trump\'s tax cuts, which slashed the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent. That would be the biggest profit rise since the first quarter of 2011. (https://tmsnrt.rs/2H0PB4A)Credit Suisse analysts calculated that more than one third of that growth in the first quarter can be attributed to tax benefits.To view a graphic on Big first quarter seen for Corporate America, click: https://reut.rs/2q8lxdEGiven the tendency of companies to report results above Wall Street estimates, those numbers might be expected to come in even higher. For example, first-quarter profits should rise by 24 percent if results achieve the median out-performance of the past eight quarters, according to Thomson Reuters analyst David Aurelio.A downside risk is that everyone is hoping for the earnings to come through and that is really a main pillar for the bull case," said Keith Lerner, chief market strategist with SunTrust Advisory Services in Atlanta. "And if earnings surprise to the downside then you have to say, what is the bull case hanging onto at this point?"Expectations for first quarter profits have risen from an expectation of 12.2 percent growth on Jan. 1 to 18.4 percent now, an increase of 6.2 percentage points as analysts have factored in the new tax law.That is unusual: In general, estimates decline by about 4 percentage points from the start of a quarter to the beginning of earnings season, according to Thomson Reuters data, which strategists say tends to help companies to post earnings "beats" when they ultimately report results."The expectation bar is a little bit higher this quarter because you didnt see that cut ahead of time," Lerner said.The very early returns indicate first-quarter results show similar positive surprises to past quarters. Of 23 S&P 500 companies reported so far, 74 percent have reported profits ahead of estimates, according to Thomson Reuters data.Historically, 64 percent of companies beat estimates in a quarter. More recently, performance versus expectations has been better: over the past four quarters, 75 percent of companies beat earnings estimates.To view a graphic on sector strength in Q1, click: https://reut.rs/2uUJZ7nSeven more S&P 500 companies are expected to report next week including BlackRock, which is the world\'s largest asset manager, and three big banks: JP Morgan, Citigroup and Wells Fargo. More than 60 S&P 500 reports are due the following week.One cushion for investors is that stocks are generally trading at less expensive valuations following the market\'s slide. The S&P 500 recently traded at 16.3 times earnings estimates for the next 12 months, down from 18.6 times in January, according to Thomson Reuters Datastream.S&P 500 companies are expected to increase profits by 19.7 percent in 2018, which would be the biggest annual rise since 2010. In their quarterly reports, corporate executives will give forecasts or insight into prospects for the year. Some strategists said recent policy and market turbulence could lead companies to temper their views.Given the uncertainty that is in the market, especially regarding trade and potential tech regulation, we could see management teams be a little more cautious, said Lindsey Bell, investment strategist at CFRA Research in New York.(Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf; Editing by David Gregorio)
With every new episode of Saturday Night Live, you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the presidents flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a Saturday Night Live episode hosted by the Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B.After issuing a Fox News Alert made up solely of the word Mexicans, Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the networks female-dominated talk show Outnumbered, segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.Lets make this quick because Ive got a lot of trade wars to escalate here, O.K.? said Baldwins impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. Thats why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, I wanna say Stankonia. (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. Stankonia is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know whats new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, weve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he deflected a query about the presidents claim that he was unaware of the payout that the pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship.Borat, you wanna take that one? he asked Alex Moffat, playing President Raimonds Vejonis of Latvia.We have an expression in my country, Moffat said. And it translates roughly as, This man is lying.The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States standing in the world.Im the only one whos willing to actually say this: I dont care about America, O.K.? Baldwin replied. This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved S.N.L. sketch Black Jeopardy, which stars Kenan Thompson as the game shows host, Darnell Hayes.This might be the blackest Black Jeopardy yet, he announced.Categories included Fidna, Aw Hell Naw and White People, among others. The contestants were Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad  and Boseman as his Black Panther character, TChalla, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, TChalla experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: The policeman says theres been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.Boseman responded, What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji.Im thinking you havent spent much time in America, he said.The Weekend Update co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trumps decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.He continued, Its all part of Trumps philosophy: If it aint broke, Ill break it.A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Moffat, stopped by Weekend Update to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak.Hi there, Colin, he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to begin eye contact.Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change, Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.He concluded with a disingenuous mea culpa:What started out as a sketch about three girlfriends at Disneyland found its punch line in the R&B singer R. Kelly, who has been the subject for many years of disturbing accusations.Staring into a magic mirror that had shown her friends their personal Disney princesses, Jones was surprised to find the leather-clad musician staring back at her, then gyrating with a bag of popcorn held over his crotch.What are you up to R. Kelly? Why is R. Kelly in there? she demanded. The last place he needs to be is Disneyland!The rapper Cardi B, who released her debut album, Invasion of Privacy, on Friday, played a medley of her biggest hits to date, Bodak Yellow and Bartier Cardi, in her first performance of the night.Clad in white and black fur, sporting close-cropped green hair, and flanked by four backup dancers, she delivered a typically energetic (and heavily bleeped) performance.She showed off her softer side in a performance of a quieter Invasion of Privacy track, Be Careful, appearing in a long, high-necked dress with a retro beehive hairdo. When the camera pulled back from a close-up to show her torso, the form-fitting dress seemed to reveal that Cardi B was pregnant.Shortly after the performance, her fianc, the rapper and Migos member Offset, appeared to confirm that impression on Instagram.
VATICAN CITY   Pope Francis on Sunday deplored the gas attack reported in Syria as an unjustifiable use of "instruments of extermination"."There is no such thing as a good war and a bad war. Nothing, but nothing, can justify the use of such instruments of extermination on defenseless people and populations," he said at the end of a Mass in St. Peter\'s Square.He urged that "military and political leaders choose another path, that of negotiations, which is the only one that can bring about peace and not death and destruction".(Reporting By Philip Pullella, editing by Larry King)
CORAL SPRINGS, Fla.  By the time a town hall-style meeting on gun violence ended Tuesday night, the gathering of more than 1,400 people  bursting into repeated standing ovations and a loud chant of Vote them out! Vote them out!  had taken on the electric feeling of a political rally being held days before a big election.Floridas August primary is still more than four months away. The energized masses in Broward County, the most heavily Democratic county in the nations largest swing state, meant one thing for certain: trouble for Republicans, who have dominated Florida midterm elections for more a decade.We woke. This is a community that woke, Drew Shimkus, 52, a single father and registered Democrat, said as he left the auditorium with his son, Bruce Elkins, 15, a high school freshman.Democrats have reason for optimism, and not just because gun control has become a galvanizing issue in Florida politics after the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, an affluent Broward suburb that neighbors Coral Springs. Decision after decision by President Trump and his administration over the past year has forced Republicans campaigning across the divided state to either defend or break with the leader of their party.The Republican Partys best hope to help candidates navigate this treacherous new territory could come from an unlikely source: Gov. Rick Scott, who is expected to announce on Monday that he is running for the United States Senate against Bill Nelson, the Democratic incumbent.Mr. Scott, a multimillionaire former health care executive whose style is more suited to the boardroom than the stump, is not frequently sought to campaign for fellow Republicans. But if the governor operates as he has in the past, he will likely spend big and early on television ads that could benefit other Republicans unable to purchase much airtime in Floridas expensive broadcast markets. His campaign team, unencumbered by a serious primary challenge, will be able to focus on mobilizing voters for the November general election.In Mr. Scott, Mr. Nelson will face his toughest opponent since his election to the Senate in 2000; Democrats are expected to invest tens of millions of dollars to defend his seat. But Mr. Scott, too, will have to answer for Mr. Trump. He led a super PAC raising money for the president during the 2016 election, and has been a frequent guest at the White House and Mar-a-Lago, the presidents Palm Beach estate.In the past year, as he has prepared for the Senate race, Mr. Scott has broken with the president several times. He pressed the White House to let 32,500 Haitians, living in Florida under temporary protected status, remain in the country. He opposed the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that has protected many immigrants brought into the country illegally as children from deportation. He pushed against allowing oil drilling off Floridas shores. And he made repeated trips to Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, trying to establish a response to the catastrophic storm that was more proactive than the federal governments.Most important, perhaps, Mr. Scott signed off on new restrictions on firearm purchases after the Parkland shooting in defiance of the National Rifle Association, neutralizing some of the opposition he would have otherwise faced from vocal students and their families. That has not stopped Democrats from accusing the governor of acting only when it was politically convenient, especially given the lack of state action after a gunman killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in 2016.On this issue, you know what, he pandered, Mr. Shimkus said outside the meeting in Coral Springs. He said he plans to vote for Mr. Nelson.A few steps away, a yelling match broke out between people leaving the event and five protesters holding signs in support of gun rights. Youre indoctrinated! one of the protesters shouted at a woman at the end of a fiery discussion. You want to protect metal, I want to protect life! a female high school student screamed at the protesters moments later.As a statewide candidate, Mr. Scott will have some room to both embrace Mr. Trump on issues that are crucial to rural, conservative voters and reject him on matters important to urban liberals. That will be more difficult for Republicans running in congressional districts, especially in suburbs that have been trending lately in Democrats favor.Across the state, Republicans are trying to open narrow bits of daylight between themselves and the White House  and some have even shown a willingness to embrace moderate gun control measures. Representative Brian Mast of Palm City, on Floridas Treasure Coast, has endorsed a ban on assault weapons, for example. Representative Carlos Curbelo of Miami helped introduce legislation that would raise the minimum age for purchasing any kind of firearm from 18 to 21.On other issues, Mr. Curbelo has also warned that the tariffs Mr. Trump is imposing on steel are so broad that they might raise prices for residents of the Florida Keys who are trying to replace their metal roofs after Hurricane Irma. Representative Vern Buchanan of Sarasota has teamed up with Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the former Democratic National Committee chairwoman, to work on a moratorium on offshore oil drilling around Florida.Youre going to see more and more campaigns  even more so than normal  localize and focus on the local issues that matter, said Max Goodman, a spokesman for Mr. Buchanan.Mr. Buchanan aired the first of an eight-week, $130,000 television ad campaign last week as an election-year precaution, Mr. Goodman said. The congressmans son, James, unexpectedly lost a special election for a local, Republican-leaning state House district in February.Its an offensive move, given this current climate, Mr. Goodman said. I dont know if were nervous as much as we feel that were realists. It feels a little more like 2006 than 2010.In 2006, riding a wave of discontent over President George W. Bush and the unpopular war in Iraq, Florida Democrats picked up two congressional seats, helping their party take control of the House of Representatives. But they failed to win the governors mansion that year and lost two of three elected state cabinet positions. That has encouraged Republicans running for governor to keep the playbook that has worked for them even when the national political environment has favored Democrats.Republicans have found midterm success in nominating candidates who appeal to the conservative base, said Brad Herold, a campaign adviser for Representative Ron DeSantis of Palm Coast, in northeast Florida, who is running for governor. Weve got the presidential endorsement. Were not going to shy away from that, Mr. Herold said, referring to a December post on Twitter by Mr. Trump backing Mr. DeSantis, before the congressman had even formally entered the race. Mr. Trump is expected to appear with Mr. DeSantis at a Florida event soon.Mr. Trumps declared support for Mr. DeSantis has not stopped the congressmans Republican primary rivals from continuing to praise the president and his policies. Richard Corcoran, the speaker of the Florida House of Representatives and a still-undeclared candidate for governor, released an explosive commercial in January  on the same day Mr. DeSantis entered the race  opposing so-called sanctuary states, which Mr. Trump has railed against. Mr. Corcorans graphic ad showed a hooded man firing a gun at a young woman.Adam Putnam, the state agriculture commissioner and the first major Republican to announce his candidacy for governor, grew up in his familys citrus farming and cattle ranching business. He has touted Mr. Trumps hard line on trade, even though it may result in retributive tariffs from China on Florida citrus and other crops.Nobody has ever gone to bat for Florida farmers and fought against illegal trade practices like President Trump, Mr. Putnam said last week at a breakfast with Republican activists at a Cuban restaurant in Miami.While Republicans hope to win their primaries by sticking close to Mr. Trump, Democrats appear split on how much to make their own campaigns for governor about the president. Philip Levine, the wealthy former mayor of Miami Beach, has already spent millions of dollars on television ads, though none of them are aimed specificallyat Mr. Trumps character.I dont run against anybody, Mr. Levine told a Jacksonville television station this week. I run with my own message.His chief rival, Gwen Graham, a former congresswoman from Tallahassee, has taken the opposite approach. In her first digital ad, released this week, she mentions the president by name four times.Donald Trump is an embarrassment, she says.
BERLIN   More than 26,000 people have been evacuated in the western German town of Paderborn so bomb specialists could remove a World War II-era bomb discovered during construction work.In addition to people leaving their homes, two hospitals, a university and several nursing homes had to be evacuated.Specialists defused the 1.8 ton heavy British bomb on Sunday, more than a week after it was found by construction workers in a garden, only 80 centimeters (31 inches) under the ground.The German news agency dpa reported that more than 1,000 firefighters, police and emergency personnel were involved in the evacuation.Even more than 70 years after the end of the war, bombs and other munitions still turn up regularly during construction work in Germany  a testament to the ferocity of World War II.
Heres what to expect in the week ahead:GOVERNMENTThe Congressional Budget Office will release its annual Budget and Economic Outlook on Monday afternoon, revealing 10-year projections on a variety of economic indicators including growth rates and the national debt. The report was delayed by several months because of the tax cut legislation approved by Congress late last year. The budget office needed additional time so that it could more accurately assess the effects of the new law.The figures from the budget office will be closely watched and compared with the economic projections that have been made by the Trump administration. Most economists have concluded that Mr. Trumps projections are overly optimistic, and the report from the nonpartisan budget office will most likely underscore that point. Alan RappeportECONOMYChinas president, Xi Jinping, will address the Boao Forum in the southern Chinese island province of Hainan on Tuesday. Mr. Xi is expected to unveil new reforms, including economic measures, something he has highlighted as a priority. The forum, which has positioned itself as an Asian rival to Europes World Economic Forum in Switzerland, will include panels and discussions with business leaders like the Indian tycoon Ratan Tata, of Tata Sons, and Jack Ma, the billionaire founder of the Chinese online shopping giant Alibaba. A handful of foreign leaders will also be there, including Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, and Singapores prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong. The forum, with the theme, An Open and Innovative Asia for a World of Greater Prosperity, begins on Sunday and finishes up on Wednesday. Alexandra StevensonTECHNOLOGYFacebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, will face two days of congressional hearings over the companys mishandling of user data. Facebook said the sensitive data of an estimated 87 million of its users had been improperly harvested by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which was connected to the Trump campaign. Mr. Zuckerbergs marathon testimonies on Capitol Hill will begin on Tuesday at 2:15 p.m. with a joint hearing by the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees. An estimated 44 members of those committees will take turns asking questions of the 33-year-old executive. Then on Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg will appear before the House Energy and Commerce Committee at 10 a.m. for further questions. Cecilia KangECONOMYThe Federal Reserve last month raised interest rates for the sixth time since the financial crisis 10 years ago. On Wednesday, the Fed will provide a clearer picture of what led to that decision when it releases minutes from its March meeting, Jerome Powells first as Fed chairman. Investors will be looking for hints that policymakers have become more concerned about inflation, which could lead the Fed to raise rates faster than currently expected. The minutes could also reveal how Mr. Powell and his colleagues view recent trade tensions, although the meeting preceded the most recent round of tariff announcements. Ben CasselmanThe unusual combination of tax cuts, government spending increases and low unemployment has touched off fears in recent months that the American economy may begin to overheat. So far, those concerns have been largely theoretical  inflation has mostly stayed below the Federal Reserves 2 percent target. Data released by the Labor Department on Wednesday, however, will most likely show that consumer prices rose 2.4 percent in March from a year earlier, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That increase would result partly from a decline in prices last March. But it could nonetheless rattle investors who are already jittery after last weeks market turmoil. Ben CasselmanGOVERNMENTMick Mulvaney, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget as well as acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will testify before Congress on Wednesday and Thursday, taking questions from members of both the House and the Senate. He will be discussing his work at the consumer bureau, where he has been moonlighting since late last year. The questions from Democrats are expected to get testy, because Mr. Mulvaney is a longtime critic of the consumer bureau. He has been conducting an extensive review of all of its rules, essentially bringing much of the agencys work to a standstill, while calling on staff to enforce regulations with humility. Alan RappeportTRADEPresident Trump will travel to the Summit of the Americas, to be held on Friday and Saturday in Lima, Peru, where he was expected to meet with heads of state from Canada and Mexico. Some Trump administration trade advisers have indicated that they hope the three countries can announce a preliminary deal on the North American Free Trade Agreement at the event, though that outcome would hinge on continuing talks among the countries. Ana SwansonBANKING INDUSTRYThe first three of the countrys biggest banks will report quarterly earnings on Friday, giving the public its first look at the big banks business since President Trumps tax reforms became law. Citigroup, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo will reveal their results, which analysts think could reflect a boost from the wild swings in the prices of stocks and other assets in February and March. Emily Flitter
OSLO   Norway's private-sector trade unions reached a deal on Sunday with employers over wages, pensions and other compensation, averting the outbreak of major strikes, a state-appointed mediator said after five days of negotiations.Almost 35,000 employees had been scheduled to go on strike if no agreement was found, and a conflict could eventually have escalated to include more than 200,000 workers.A strike would immediately have idled aluminium smelters, fertiliser plants, ship yards and chemical factories, and could eventually have been extended to hit output of oil and gas, unions said ahead of the talks.The deal remains subject to a vote by labour union members, mediator Nils Dalseide told reporters.The agreement gives workers an estimated average pay rise of 2.8 percent in 2018, slightly more than the maximum 2.7 percent employers had said they were willing to pay.Some adjustments were also made to pensions for low-paid workers, although a union demand for more wide-ranging pension reform was rejected and will be subject to a future government study.A separate claim of compensation for travel-related expenses was resolved, unions said.(Reporting by Terje Solsvik, editing by Gwladys Fouche)
BENGHAZI, Libya   Libyan authorities have found the remains of three children abducted for ransom more than two years ago near the capital, in a case that highlighted the deterioration of security in the country since the 2011 uprising.The children, a girl and two boys ranging from five to 12 years old, were kidnapped by armed men on their way to school in December 2015 in the coastal town of Surman. The bodies were found south of the town, according to police affiliated with the U.N.-backed government in Tripoli on Saturday.The children were related to a prominent businessman, Reyad al-Shershari, who was quoted by local media as saying he had appealed to authorities but that they did not pursue the case.Libya's al-Wasat news website reported that preliminary findings suggest the children were killed months after their abduction. The forensic report has yet to be released.Last month, the police said they raided a hideout of the gang behind the abduction of the al-Shershari children and others, killing some members in an exchange of gunfire. They said the gang's leader was wounded and placed under arrest.Al-Wasat reported that a gang member held in custody had helped lead authorities to the remains of the children.Libya was plunged into chaos after the 2011 uprising that overthrew and killed longtime ruler Moammar Gadhafi. Today the country is ruled by rival governments in the capital, Tripoli, and in the east, each backed by a loose array of militias.Abduction has emerged as a lucrative trade amid the breakdown of authority. Gunmen kidnapped the mayor of a town south of Tripoli on Saturday, and last month the mayor of the capital itself was abducted from his home. The Tripoli mayor was later released.
The Rangers fired Coach Alain Vigneault on Saturday, hours after ending their first playoff-less season in eight years with another loss. The Rangers, who lost to the Philadelphia Flyers, 5-0, finished last in the Metropolitan Division.In early February, when the team was still above .500 and within three points of a playoff spot, General Manager Jeff Gorton did not indicate whether Vigneault would return after the season. A.V. is our coach, Gorton said at the time. Hes been a good coach for the Rangers. We have a lot of faith in A.V. Well leave it at that.Later that month, the Rangers broke up their roster before the trade deadline, shipping out Rick Nash; Nick Holden; Michael Grabner, their leading goal scorer at that point; J.T. Miller; and Ryan McDonagh, their captain.Unsurprisingly, the Rangers slid backward, winning only two of their last 10 games to finish with a 34-39-9 record. The last time the franchise had fewer wins in a non-lockout season was 2003-04.Vigneault coached the team for five seasons, making a Stanley Cup appearance in his first year. The Rangers were eliminated in Game 7 of the conference finals the next season, and followed that with first- and second-round playoff exits. The team earned the Presidents Trophy for the leagues best record in 2014-15.Vigneault went 226-147-37 with the Rangers. Before joining the team in 2013, he spent four seasons in Montreal and six in Vancouver, where he led the Canucks to the Stanley Cup finals.
AMSTERDAM   The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court on Sunday called for an end to violence in the Gaza Strip, adding the Palestinian territories were subject to a preliminary examination by her office and she was monitoring events there closely.Following the deaths of 29 Palestinians in protest clashes with Israeli forces in the past two weeks, Fatou Bensouda said in a statement "any new alleged crime committed in the context of the situation in Palestine may be subjected to my Office\'s scrutiny".The ICC prosecutor opened a preliminary investigation into alleged crimes committed in occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, in January 2015, after Palestine was officially admitted as a member of the court.Israel is not a member of the court but if Israeli citizens commit war crimes or crimes against humanity on the territory of a member state they could fall under the ICC\'s jurisdiction."Violence against civilians - in a situation such as the one prevailing in Gaza  could constitute crimes ... as could the use of civilian presence for the purpose of shielding military activities," Bensouda said.Bensouda said she would record "any instance of incitement or resort to unlawful force" by either side in the conflict.A preliminary examination is the earliest phase of a case at the ICC. In it, the prosecutor gathers information and studies whether crimes may have been committed that reach the level of gravity required to open a formal investigation, and whether the court would have jurisdiction.The ICC only has jurisdiction in cases where a country\'s government is itself unable or unwilling to prosecute war crimes or crimes against humanity.(Reporting by Toby Sterling; Editing by Andrew Roche)


DUBAI   Iran\'s Foreign Ministry said on Sunday reports of a gas attack in Syria were not based on facts and were an "an excuse" by the United States and Western countries to take military action against Damascus, the official Iranian news agency IRNA reported."Such claims and allegations by the Americans and some Western countries point to a new plot against the Syrian government and people, and are an excuse to take military action against them," IRNA reported foreign ministry spokesman Bahram Qasemi as saying.The news agency also quoted Qasemi as saying that the reports of the  gas attack "do not match facts."Iran has been Syrian President Bashar al-Assads most supportive ally against insurgents throughout the conflict. Iran-backed militias first helped his army stem rebel advances and, following Russias entry into the war in 2015, turn the tide decisively in Assads favour.In a meeting with military commanders on Sunday, Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei expressed confidence that enemies would fail in any confrontation with Iran."Despite all the conspiracies ... of the enemies, the power of the Islamic system will increase day by day," IRNA quoted Khamenei as saying.(Reporting by Dubai newsroom. Editing by Jane Merriman)
VATICAN CITY   Pope Francis closed his traditional Sunday blessing by saying "nothing can justify" the use of chemical weapons against defenseless populations and called for those responsible for a suspected attack in Syria to seek negotiations.The pope referred to news of dozens killed, including many children and women, in a suspected poison gas attack on a rebel-held town near the Syrian capital. He offered prayers for the dead and the families that are suffering."There is not a good or a bad war, and nothing can justify such instruments that exterminate defenseless people and populations," the pope said. "Let\'s pray that the responsible politicians and military leaders choose another path: that of negotiations, the only one that can bring peace."Earlier, in a Mass focused on mercy, a signature theme of his papacy, Pope Francis has urged the faithful to not give up on the sacrament of reconciliation, especially those who continue to backslide.The pontiff urged the faithful to continue to seek reconciliation, or confession, because "every time we are forgiven, we are reassured and encouraged."The divine mercy Sunday celebration was established by Pope John Paul II, and this year kicks off a four-day meeting of Francis\' Missionaries of Mercy, formed during the recent Holy Year of Mercy to promote confession.On Tuesday, the missionaries are due to have an audience with Francis, followed by a special Mass with him at St. Peter\'s Basilica.
CAIRO   Mohamed "Ibn Nufal" Nufal, 24, kisses his mother goodbye in Cairo\'s Tahrir Square as he sets off for the World Cup in Russia - on a bicycle.After about 5,000 km (3,000 miles) and 65 days on the road, Nufal hopes to reach Moscow to see Egypt make its first appearance in the World Cup for 28 years.Nufal plans to get there via Jordan, Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova and Ukraine. He will fly over Syria due to the civil war there and will also give Iraq a miss for security reasons.On his bike, Nufal has packed spare parts, an extra phone,  batteries and camping gear. In addition to his tent, Nufal will put up in hostels where he can find them, as well as relying on the kindness of strangers for a bed for the night."It is about the road more than the arrival," he told Reuters Television. "If it were just about the World Cup, I would take a plane. It is a great chance for me to see new things."A group of cyclists and friends escorted Nufal as he started  his trip on Saturday, and he hopes many more will offer him help along the way.After clinching its World Cup spot in October, Egypt will compete on football\'s ultimate stage for the first time since 1990.(Reporting by Mostafa Salem, writing by Giles Elgood, editing by Larry King)
ANKARA   Turkey condemned the use of chemical weapons in Douma, a rebel-held town in Syria\'s eastern Ghouta, the foreign ministry said in a statement on Sunday.A chemical attack on a rebel-held town in eastern Ghouta has killed dozens of people, medical services reported, and Washington said the reports - if confirmed - would demand an immediate international response."We strongly condemn the attack, which there is strong suspicion was carried out by the regime, whose record on use of chemical weapons is known by the international community," the ministry said.Turkey, which has been working with allies of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for a political resolution to the crisis in Syria, called for international action against the attacks in Douma."The Syrian regime must give account for the attacks in various regions of the country at different times," a spokesman for President Tayyip Erdogan said."The entire international community, primarily countries that have an influence on the Syrian regime, has a responsibility to take the necessary steps in order to prevent similar war crimes and crimes against humanity," Ibrahim Kalin said in a statement.(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu, editing by Larry King)
In Texas, as Giant so brilliantly points out, big is always better than small; and if the only way to be big is to lose big, then well, so be it, Larry McMurtry wrote in The New York Times in 1996. The director George Stevenss film, starring Elizabeth Taylor and James Dean, and based on Edna Ferbers 1952 novel of the same name, was released in 1956. It earned Stevens an Oscar and was nominated in several other categories, including Best Picture. (It lost to Around the World in 80 Days.) Don Grahams new book tells the story of how this epic about the ranching life, the oil business, clashing cultures and the changing fortunes of generations made it to the screen. Below, Mr. Graham, an English professor at the University of Texas at Austin, discusses how his students reaction to the movie helped inspire the book, how Stevenss experiences during World War II influenced the film and more.When did you first get the idea to write this book?I could have written it 30 years earlier. In 1986, my wife and I went to Marfa, Tex., on our way out to California. We were invited to spend three nights at the ranch right beside the decaying house where Giant was made. It was the 30th anniversary, and Marfa was going to hold this celebration. It turned out to be kind of a farce because they never got the film, so they couldnt show it. They had a rodeo, but that didnt seem to have much to do with anything. So the film was much on my mind, but I was working on another book.Ive taught a class called Life and Literature in the Southwest for many years, and I started putting films back into it. I put Giant in, in 2004 or 2005. Most of the kids had never heard of it, but it really struck a chord with them. They complained about the length, but I told them that they watch the NFL and pro baseball; its the same length. The film feels very modern to them. Theyre surprised at Elizabeth Taylors feminism. They love the scene where she denounces the men for being Neanderthals. And the question of racial prejudice is very powerful in the film. The more I talked about it and thought about it, the more I thought this is the book I need to write now.Whats the most surprising thing you learned while writing it?The degree to which World War II affected both Edna Ferber and George Stevens. Stevens was an obsessive guy, as many directors are. He was much influenced and really devastated by what he saw when he went to Dachau. He was shooting footage for Eisenhower under the generals command. When he came back, he wasnt able to work for two or three years. Ferber went to Europe in the summer of 1945 as a war correspondent. She witnessed the Buchenwald death camp and pronounced Germany to be an unadulterated horror.Stevens put motifs in the film straight from his experience in the war. I would never have picked up on that independently from just watching the film. One instance is the burial of the soldier, Angel, a young Mexican-American boy. We see his whole burial scene, for three or four minutes. A lot of people wanted Stevens to leave it out, but he thought it paid respect to all the people who died in the war and whose remains were delivered years later. He and Ferber were both progressive. They were fearful that America was hardening; that discrimination might turn into something even worse. I think that fear was emphasized by what they saw in Germany.In what way is the book you wrote different from the book you set out to write?The best film books tell a story. Others get bogged down in the technical stuff  changes in the script and things like that  and its pretty slow going. I wanted it to move along in a narrative flow.I got so interested in the people I was researching  including James Dean, who threatened to take over the film. Someone told me, It looks like hes threatening to take over your book. Hes such an interesting and complex and impossible person in many ways. I got caught up in all those lives and minor characters, like Rock Hudsons agent Henry Willson. Id never heard of him when I started the book. And I didnt know much early Dennis Hopper, and I really didnt know much about Dean. There turned out to be tons of information about him and his rocky relationship with Rock Hudson, and the fact that Elizabeth Taylor was the mediator. She listened to each ones grievances about the other.Who is a creative person (not a writer) who has influenced you and your work?My first-through-third-grade teacher, Inez Smithy. She heroically taught eight classes in one room of a schoolhouse in Lucas, Tex. This was cotton-farming country, northeast of Dallas, and there was nothing mythic about it. But she managed to give us a vision of a Texas bigger than life. She made history exciting, something to be a part of. Later on, I wrote books about Texas movies, Audie Murphy, a local boy from the next county over, the great King Ranch in South Texas, and Giant in far West Texas. It all started in those early days in that little schoolhouse on the backland prairie.Persuade someone to read Giant in 50 words or less.Its a great story. There was a lot of offscreen drama. And to talk about modern Texas, you need to know what Texans have thought of themselves over the years. Giant is one of those markers. Ferber was an outsider, and sometimes outsiders can see things more clearly.This interview has been condensed and edited.
KABUL   American and Afghan forces have expanded their air strikes against drug labs into western Afghanistan, aiming to choke Taliban revenue.Air strikes in Afghanistan, the world\'s main heroin source, also threaten civilians, however, and may not be an effective blow to the Taliban militant group, an expert on the country\'s drug industry said.The campaign targeting Afghan drug labs began as opium production jumped 87 percent last year to a record high in Afghanistan. The Taliban, which U.S. officials say controls the drug trade, has made large territorial gains since a U.S. troop reduction of recent years.American and Afghan forces responded with a dramatic increase in air power since early 2017, with the number of weapons released tripling in the first two months of 2018 compared with a year earlier.U.S. Forces-Afghanistan (USFOR-A) and Afghan forces conducted strikes on 11 Taliban drug production facilities in the western provinces of Farah and Nimroz this week, U.S. Forces said on Saturday. The strikes are the first in western Afghanistan and aim to reduce the Taliban\'s main revenue flow, the U.S. statement said."By cutting off the Talibans economic lifelines, we also reduce their ability to continue these terrorist activities," said Major-General James Hecker.Drug processing and taxation generate $200 million annually for the Taliban, U.S. Forces-Afghanistan estimates.The drug lab campaign began in November, and has now included 75 strikes, especially in Helmand, the main poppy-growing province. The poppy\'s fluid, opium, is processed into heroin.However, David Mansfield, an authority on Afghanistan\'s opium industry, says bombing labs has a negligible effect on Taliban revenues, because heroin profits and taxes are not as large as U.S. Forces estimate and the simple labs can be quickly rebuilt.Calling strikes on drug labs "the theater of counter-narcotics," Mansfield said the risk of civilian deaths may be greater than potential benefits of curbing Taliban revenues."There has been little account of the number of casualties attributed to the bombing of drugs labs," he said in an email to Reuters. "And in contrast to the narrative of USFOR-A, those that work in labs are not seen as Taliban but as civilians" by rural Afghans.No civilian casualties have resulted from the campaign, said Colonel Lisa Garcia, spokeswoman for USFOR-A, adding that it also involves targeting financiers and logistics connected to drug production."While the narco-heroin producing labs may be replaced, we can strike them as fast as they re-appear," Garcia said. "Destroying support networks have degraded the Taliban insurgency, and they are on the defensive."Taliban spokesman Qari Yousaf Ahmadi denied that the militancy depends on drug revenue, adding that when it previously formed a government it banned narcotics. He blamed U.S.-led foreign forces for Afghanistan\'s growth in poppy cultivation, alleging that U.S. commanders promoted it.(Reporting by Rod Nickel in Kabul; additional reporting by Jibran Ahmad in Peshawar, Pakistan, editing by Larry King and Adrian Croft)
PARIS   France's rail workers on Sunday launched the second wave of rolling strikes over government plans to reform the debt-ridden national state-owned railway company SNCF before its monopoly on domestic passenger rail expires.Though the reforms were not on French President Emmanuel Macron's 'to do' list when he ran for election last May, the politically charged showdown with trade unions they triggered may come to define his presidency.Why is Macron doing this?The SNCF reform plans fit in with the 40-year-old former banker's pledge to modernize the economy.Macron is pro-business, pro-liberalization and intent on tackling the deeply entrenched vested interests he believes choke growth - all of which help to explain why he chose to tackle an unwieldy, costly monopoly.The SNCF's monopoly on domestic passenger rail begins to expire during Macron's 2017-2022 term.Competitive tendering starts EU-wide in 2019, although the government and local authorities can invoke get-out clauses that will delay effective free-tender competition until 2033, or maybe even later.A safer, more reliable and perhaps cheaper train network would be popular with its 4.5 million daily users, many of whom complain it has been neglected at the expense of decades of investment in the high-speed TGV train network.How is Macron going about it?Action so far has been swift and resolute. Macron's prime minister aims to have the reform in place by summer and has said  direct government decrees could be used to deliver the plan's essential elements if met with opposition from labor unions.Any remaining points would follow the usual path of debate and approval in parliament, where Macron's party had a sizeable majority. A parliamentary committee is already discussing some details of the reform and a draft on a broad framework could be put to a preliminary vote as soon as April 17.The proposed use of direct decrees has angered unions, prompting the transport minister to signal that the government will largely avoid them.The French government used direct decrees to push through Macron's labor market reforms in 2017, which also sparked protests and gave rise to accusations that it was skirting parliament and undermining democracy.In parallel to any legislative changes, the SNCF's state-appointed chairman Guillaume Pepy is negotiating internally with the unions to settle more granular aspects of company organization.Why all the fuss about legal structure?Under the reform plans, the SNCF's legal corporate status would change from a state enterprise (known as an EPIC) to what is known in many other countries as a limited or joint-stock company.To make the SNCF more competitive, the government believes it should be a legal entity in its own right, with more independent management.It is also under pressure to shake-up the SNCF's structure after EU court rulings against the EPIC structure of La Poste, that led the French post office to become a limited company while remaining state-owned.Opponents fear that creating a limited company is the first step towards privatization and point to former state telecoms monopoly France Telecom as an example.The government insists the SNCF will remain fully state-owned.What else would change?The existing 150,000 rail workers will hold on to their generous employment rights but new recruits will not be given the job-for-life guarantees and automatic annual pay increases that SNCF employees have enjoyed for decades.Early retirement rights are also likely to vanish but as part of a separate overhaul of the French pensions system.One of the tasks facing SNCF Chairman Pepy as he conducts his parallel negotiations is to ensure operational cost savings of around 30 percent to bring the rail operator into line with  its competitors before these start vying for business on French tracks.What is driving union anger?Trade unions say their special employment status is not the cause of the SNCF's financial difficulties but blame high spending on the TGV for the SNCF's 46 billion euros ($56.5 billion) of debt.The CGT union, the most powerful rail union, objects to the entire shake-up of the SNCF. It rejects the end of the monopoly and the liberalization programed under the EU's so-called Fourth Package rail deregulation rules, agreed in 2016.The more reform-minded CFDT union is angry about the government's haste and its refusal to commit now to a write-off of the SNCF's debt, which is increasing by 3 billion euros a year.The minimum, the CFDT says, is that work conditions be dealt with in a new collective bargaining round which should conclude before anything happens to hiring status. But this could take longer than a year, according to some union officials.What do the French make of it?Most polls so far show that as many as three in four people back reform of the railways. They also show that a majority, albeit a slim one, see the rail strikes as unjustified.But Macron cannot afford to be perceived as riding roughshod over the unions. Opinions can change quickly: Two polls last week showed more than half felt the government should modify its reform plans to meet the demands of their opponents.Macron will want to keep public opinion on his side. The last time a French president and his government squared off against rail unions was in 1995, at a time of a wider protests against social welfare reforms.Widespread public anger led to the rail reform being pulled and ultimately the government's downfall. ($1 = 0.8143 euros)(Reporting By Brian Love; Editing by Richard Lough and Raissa Kasolowsky)
Delaney Simon and Graeme Smith were married April 6 in an outdoor ceremony on the beach in Malibu, Calif. Leo Sidran, a Universal Life minister and a friend of the couple, officiated.The bride, 28, is the special assistant to the United Nations special coordinator for Lebanon in Beirut. She graduated cum laude from Barnard College and received a master's degree in international security, conflict resolution and gender policy from Columbia. From 2013-15 she worked for Afghanistans permanent mission to the United Nations in New York, which included assisting negotiations on Security Council reform and small arms and light weapons agreements.She is a daughter of Emily Simon and Ralph Simon of London. The brides father is the founder of Mobilium Global Limited, a mobile technology consultant based in London that provides insight and strategy to companies worldwide in mobile and connected device strategies. From 1993-95, he served as the executive vice president of Capitol Records and Blue Note Records in Hollywood. He also was a founder of Jive Records in London. The brides mother, a former entertainment lawyer in London, founded the Womens Foundation there.The groom, 38, was until March 1 a political affairs officer for the United Nations Assistance Mission in Kabul, Afghanistan. From 2012-15, he was the Afghanistan country director for the International Crisis Group, a global think tank also based in Kabul. He is now a freelance writer and political analyst based in Beirut. He is also the author of The Dogs Are Eating Them Now: Our War in Afghanistan (Knopf and Counterpoint). He graduated from Ryerson University in Toronto.He is the son of Lynn M. Gresham of Kitchener, Ontario, and Stewart G. Smith of New Hamburg, Ontario. The grooms mother retired as an English teacher at Conestoga College Institute of Technology and Advanced Learning in Kitchener, where she lives with her wife, Wanda Manning, a retired nurse. His father is a sculptor based in New Hamburg, where he lives with his wife, Elisabeth Feryn, a freelance photographer.The couple met in 2015 Kabul during a meeting for political staff of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
MOSCOW/BEIRUT   An agreement has been reached to release all prisoners held by Syrian rebels controlling the eastern Ghouta city of Douma in return for the fighters' leaving the city, Syrian state television reported on Sunday, citing an official source.According to the agreement, Jaish al-Islam fighters will leave Douma for the northern city of Jarablus, near the borders with Turkey, within 48 hours, the source added.There was no immediate comment from Jaish al-Islam, which control the city.The rebel group has more than 3,500 prisoners and hostages in its prisons in Douma, Rami Abdulrahman, the director of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group, told Reuters. Five prisoners were released on Wednesday, after earlier departures by Jaish al-Islam fighters.Russian news agency RIA, citing a security source, said Jaish al-Islam rebels will leave Douma in two batches in the coming hours.Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has regained control of nearly all of eastern Ghouta in a Russian-backed military campaign that began in February, leaving just Douma in rebel hands. Tens of thousands of people are estimated to be sheltering in the battered city.After a lull of a few days, government forces began bombarding Douma again on Friday.On Saturday evening, Jaish al-Islam accused the Syrian government of carrying out a chemical attack on Douma that a medical relief organization and rescue workers say killed dozens of people. The government has denied carrying out any such attack.The offensive in Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the seven-year-long war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.The conquest of Douma would further strengthen Assad's political and ground position, as it recaptures the biggest rebel enclave near Damascus.The rebel groups controlling the eastern Ghouta area had shelled the capital's neighborhoods almost daily in the past few months, inflicting casualties and damages.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme in Beirut and Polina Ivanova in Moscow; Editing by Tom Perry, Larry King)
BERLIN   German police raided the homes of suspected members of a far-right group in Berlin and in the states of Brandenburg and Thueringia on Sunday, searching for weapons, the chief federal prosecutor\'s office said.The homes of eight people suspected of founding a far-right terrorist group were searched in the raids, the federal prosecutor\'s office said in a statement.Investigators, assisted in their searches by the anti-terrorism GSG 9 police unit, were looking for weapons held by the suspects, who they believe are ready to kill targeted people if necessary. They did not detain any suspects.The investigators believe the suspects are members of the Reichsbuerger (Citizens of the Reich) group, who do not recognize modern-day Germany as a legitimate state and insist the former, far larger "Deutsche Reich" is still alive despite Nazi Germany\'s defeat in World War Two.The domestic intelligence service estimates that the Reichsbuerger have several thousand members.One of them shot dead a police officer in Bavaria in October 2016 as a police team was about to enter his home to seize his hunting and sports guns, which the authorities deemed he was not fit to hold as a member of the group.Sunday\'s raids were not linked to the incident in Muenster on Saturday, when a man drove a camper van into a group of people sitting outside a restaurant, killing two of them before shooting himself dead, the prosecutor\'s office said.(Writing by Paul Carrel, editing by Larry King)
KITTERY, Maine   Family members of sailors killed in the deadliest submarine disaster in U.S. history are grateful for the sense of community surrounding a 55th anniversary commemoration.The granddaughter of Charles Wiggins, one of the sailors who died on the USS Thresher, said it\'s hard for others to understand the loss felt by those who were left behind, the Portsmouth Herald reported."We are fortunate today to be surrounded by people who understand," Victoria Sallade said. "What we do here today is the best way to honor these men and to assure they are not forgotten."Hundreds of people, including current and retired sailors, in addition to descendants, attended a somber memorial Saturday at Traip Academy in Kittery, Maine.Built at Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, in Kittery, the first-in-class Thresher was the world\'s most advanced fast attack submarine when it was commissioned. But a malfunction during a deep-sea dive off Cape Cod on April 10, 1963, claimed the lives of all 129 aboard.Mark Albert DiNola, son of Lt. Cmdr. Michael John DiNola, recalled being on the playground at Rye Elementary School in New Hampshire when he was sent home. "I was at home when the men came to my house with the official news that he was gone. My father was a man of honor, courage and commitment. He is an American hero."Capt. Oliver T. Lewis, commander of Submarine Squadron 12, based in Groton, Connecticut, talked about the loss, for the crew and the families left behind."This crew was sworn to protect and defend our country at the height of the Cold War, a critical time when the submarine force was at the forefront of the effort," he said.Lewis called Thresher "a constant symbol to safely operate and to guard against complacency, lest we be reminded by the power of the sea and loss of life."For the families, the silver lining is that subs are now safer.After the disaster, the Navy accelerated safety improvements and created a program called "SUBSAFE," an extensive series of design modifications, training and other improvements.___Information from: Portsmouth Herald, http://www.seacoastonline.com
MOSCOW/BEIRUT   An agreement has been reached to release all prisoners held by Syrian rebels controlling the eastern Ghouta city of Douma in return for the fighters' leaving the city, Syrian state television reported on Sunday, citing an official source.According to the agreement, Jaish al-Islam fighters will leave Douma for the northern city of Jarablus, near the borders with Turkey, within 48 hours, the source added.There was no immediate comment from Jaish al-Islam, which control the city.The rebel group has more than 3,500 prisoners and hostages in its prisons in Douma, Rami Abdulrahman, the director of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group, told Reuters. Five prisoners were released on Wednesday, after earlier departures by Jaish al-Islam fighters.Russian news agency RIA, citing a security source, said Jaish al-Islam rebels will leave Douma in two batches in the coming hours.Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has regained control of nearly all of eastern Ghouta in a Russian-backed military campaign that began in February, leaving just Douma in rebel hands. Tens of thousands of people are estimated to be sheltering in the battered city.After a lull of a few days, government forces began bombarding Douma again on Friday.On Saturday evening, Jaish al-Islam accused the Syrian government of carrying out a chemical attack on Douma that a medical relief organisation and rescue workers say killed dozens of people. The government has denied carrying out any such attack.The offensive in Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the seven-year-long war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.The conquest of Douma would further strengthen Assad's political and ground position, as it recaptures the biggest rebel enclave near Damascus.The rebel groups controlling the eastern Ghouta area had shelled the capital's neighbourhoods almost daily in the past few months, inflicting casualties and damages.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme in Beirut and Polina Ivanova in Moscow; Editing by Tom Perry, Larry King)
Freed from the weight of the world of being Stanley Cup favorites, the Washington Capitals are playing like a team eager to prove something.Prove doubters wrong, prove their championship window hasn\'t closed and, most notably, prove they can get over the playoff hump that has vexed them over the past decade. Led by top NHL goal scorer Alex Ovechkin, the Capitals go into their first-round series against the Columbus Blue Jackets having won 12 of their final 15 games and feeling confident about this spring despite a series of early playoff exits."I hope best hockey is going to be in the playoffs," Ovechkin said Saturday night. "I think the balance on our team right now is pretty good and pretty high. That\'s very good thing to go into the playoffs because in playoffs you never know what\'s going to happen. Maybe one shift can change the whole series. I think we\'re ready for it."Few expected the Capitals to win the Metropolitan Division again after losing Justin Williams, Marcus Johansson, Nate Schmidt, Karl Alzner, Kevin Shattenkirk and Daniel Winnik from last year\'s team that won the Presidents\' Trophy for the second consecutive season. Coach Barry Trotz and players miss no opportunity to bring up all the preseason predictions about them being a playoff bubble team.Of course, when they sat at 11-10-1 just before Thanksgiving, those lower expectations looked accurate. General manager Brian MacLellan insists he was never worried  and his team\'s 38-16-6 record the rest of the way was the fourth best in the NHL in that time behind only Boston, Nashville and Winnipeg.The Capitals don\'t have the playoff buzz of the Bruins, Predators, Jets, Tampa Bay Lightning or the expansion Vegas Golden Knights, but they have as good a chance as anyone of reaching the Eastern Conference finals for the first time in the Ovechkin era."We have a chance to go the distance," MacLellan said. "I don\'t know that we\'re as deep or as experienced as we were last year, but I think the whole league is a little less of that. There\'s probably a couple teams that are a little deeper that might have a chance, theoretically, of going farther, but I think we\'re in the mix with the high-end teams."Everyone thought the Capitals were the highest of high-end teams in 2016 and 2017, and they lost to the eventual Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins in the second round each time. Williams has implied that favorite status didn\'t suit the Capitals well, and Trotz said "the crown is quite heavy" for a team expected to win.It showed."I think there was some external pressure that creeped in the room," veteran defenseman Brooks Orpik said. "I think maybe as a veteran group, we probably don\'t want to admit that it affected us. I think at times it definitely did."Finishing in first place puts some pressure on the Capitals, but it\'s nothing like in years past. More than anything, there\'s urgency to win with Ovechkin 32 and having three years remaining on his contract."We all know what we\'re playing for is to win a championship and I\'m hoping we do it this year," owner Ted Leonsis said. "I\'m hoping we do it within his contract time."Columbus is a tough first-round matchup for the Capitals, but their play down the stretch makes a long playoff run possible if they get strong goaltending from Braden Holtby or Philipp Grubauer. From the net out, Washington looks like a contender thanks to the trade-deadline additions of defensemen Michal Kempny and Jakub Jerabek and the play of centers Evgeny Kuznetsov and Nicklas Backstrom."We\'re playing the right way a lot of the time," Holtby said. "It\'s more where you\'re at as a team and I think we\'re continuing to build and push forward in the right direction. We have a lot of guys contributing right now. It\'s a good sign."Washington\'s road to the elusive Cup could go through Pittsburgh and then Boston, Tampa Bay or Toronto. Perhaps the expectations being on those teams instead of the Capitals isn\'t such a bad thing."I think it\'s a good thing because I think last two years we were on top of the league and we win Presidents\' Trophy," Ovechkin said. "Everybody thought we were going to be unstoppable in playoffs and we didn\'t. ... We\'re going to do our thing and we\'re going to have success."______More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
AUGUSTA, Ga.   He\'s been trying his best to stay in the moment, something that hasn\'t always come easy for Rickie Fowler.His friends have won major championships, and he\'s celebrated with them, genuinely happy for their success. The sight of Fowler waiting by the 18th green to trade high-fives and hugs with players like Bubba Watson and Sergio Garcia is a familiar one to golf fans.But when he starts thinking about winning one himself, things often quickly go south.That didn\'t happen on Saturday, when Fowler didn\'t make a bogey on his way to a 7-under 65 that put him in third place in the Masters. Though he\'s five shots behind Patrick Reed, only Rory McIlroy stands between him and the leader.Close enough to start to think just a little bit ahead, if only for a moment."Obviously it\'s been everyone\'s dream to win the Masters," Fowler said. "Growing up, to be able to have that chance to walk up 18 with a chance to win or maybe you have it closed out and that\'s your walk to victory. We did a great job today of giving ourselves a chance for tomorrow. "The player everyone in golf seems to love is also the player many have trouble figuring out. Fowler drives the ball long and straight, and his touch with a putter can be magical.Oh, and he dresses well, too.But while Fowler has posted a few wins and put up numbers in his eight years as a touring pro he hasn\'t been able to pull off a win in a major even though he\'s had his chances.For that to change on Sunday, his mind can\'t wander.Not at Augusta National, where every shot involves some sort of peril. Not in this Masters, where Reed has shown no signs of folding and McIlroy is playing with the confidence of a guy trying to become just the sixth player to win the career Grand Slam."It\'s just a matter of him focusing a little better and getting his mind more set on what he wants to do instead of racing ahead and thinking of winning the tournament," his swing coach, Butch Harmon, said.Fowler will tee off a group behind the leaders Sunday afternoon, a position he\'s more than familiar with. It was in that group last year that he faded on the back nine for a disappointing final round 76, yet still hung around to congratulate Garcia on his breakthrough win.It\'s not that he doesn\'t know how to go low in a final round  he shot 61 in December to come from behind and win Tiger Woods\'s tournament  but that he hasn\'t been able to do it at the majors when it counts most."Last year, at times I may have gotten maybe too defensive or too aggressive, and, you know, you learn from that and move on," Fowler said. "I mean, it wasn\'t the finish that I wanted last year; it would have been nice to take advantage of the position we were in, making the turn and only being a few back, but we didn\'t."Fowler came to the Masters with high hopes, despite fading with a pair of 73s on the weekend to fall from contention at the Houston Open. On the range Tuesday, he worked with Harmon fine tuning a few things but was happy with both his ball striking and his putting.Both were pure Saturday on a day when Fowler desperately needed a low score to even think about winning the green jacket."If I didn\'t put together a good round of golf, then we weren\'t going to have a shot," he said.The round was helped by a par from out of the trees on the tough 11th, and another par after putting a ball into the creek on No. 13. He was first in the field with five strokes gained putting, and relishes the chance to use the flat stick to come from behind in the final round."Give me that putter," Fowler said, "and we\'ll go have some fun."Confident or not, it\'s still a tall order. But, as Fowler reminded reporters afterward, he believes the old axiom that the Masters doesn\'t really begin until the back nine on Sunday.By then, he hopes to have cut into the lead. And then, history tells us, anything can happen.The plan is solid, and the putter is hot. For Fowler, though, it still all revolves around staying in the moment.Hard not to dream about what might be.And hard not to root for a nice guy to finish first.____
WASHINGTON   Alex Ovechkin heard the chants loud and clear."We want 50! We want 50!"He didn\'t need that extra encouragement. Ovechkin scored twice to finish with an NHL-leading 49 goals and played almost the final two minutes of the Washington Capitals\' 5-3 victory over the New Jersey Devils on Saturday night in each team\'s regular-season finale trying to reach 50 for the eighth time in his career.The Russian superstar will have to settle for his seventh Maurice "Rocket" Richard Trophy as the league\'s top goal-scorer and hopes his recent run continues in the playoffs, where the Metropolitan Division-champion Capitals will open against the Columbus Blue Jackets."Effort was there, and you can see I\'m ready for playoffs in pretty good shape," Ovechkin said after a playing 6:04 of the final 8:10. "Still have a pretty good chance at the end. It is what it is. Whatever. The most important thing ahead of us, and second season right now starts in a couple days."Washington won 12 of its final 15 games, and Ovechkin strengthened his Hart Trophy case with nine goals and six assists over that time. At 32, he\'s the oldest player to lead the NHL in goals since Phil Esposito in 1974-75.Ovechkin became the 13th player and first since Mike Gartner in 1990-91 to score exactly 49 goals in a season. His teammates did their best trying to get him to 50, and Ovechkin attempted 18 shots and got eight on net in pursuit of the milestone."We look for him a little bit more than usually, but I don\'t know," said center Evgeny Kuznetsov, who assisted on Ovechkin\'s 48th goal to reach 56 for the season. "I don\'t think he\'s sad about he didn\'t get 50, but 49 is still a good number."Losing in regulation sends New Jersey to the Atlantic bracket in the Eastern Conference to face the division champion: either the Boston Bruins or Tampa Bay Lightning. It\'s the Bruins if they beat Florida on Sunday night, and the Lightning if they don\'t."We like our matchup against anybody," Devils center Brian Boyle said. "I think we match up well against anyone. We believe in what we got going on here. We earned the right to be in. It\'s been a good season. The fun starts now."The Devils didn\'t go all-out to try to move up in the standings, resting MVP front-runner Taylor Hall, first-line winger Kyle Palmieri, top-six center Travis Zajac, No. 1 defenseman Sami Vatanen and starting goaltender Keith Kinkaid with an eye toward the playoffs. Trade-deadline pickup Patrick Maroon had a goal and two assists, and rookie Nico Hischier and Miles Wood each scored for New Jersey."There\'s a reason that you got here," coach John Hynes said. "You have to have a strong identity, which we do. You have to be able to play to that."The Capitals\' identity is coming into focus as they go into the playoffs for the fourth consecutive season feeling good about their game. Nicklas Backstrom, Michal Kempny and Andre Burakovsky also scored against New Jersey, and Braden Holtby stopped 23 of the 26 shots in his final chance to show he deserves to be Washington\'s Game 1 starting goaltender over Philipp Grubauer.Holtby is 14-2-2 with a 2.62 goals-against average and .914 save percentage in his career against Columbus, which lost to Nashville in its final game while resting stars Artemi Panarin, Seth Jones and Zach Werenski and two-time Vezina Trophy-winning goalie Sergei Bobrovsky."They\'re a good young team and they have a great goaltender, but for me it doesn\'t matter against who you play," Kuznetsov said. "It\'s just like a fun time. You prepare all year for this moments."NOTES: The Capitals rested RW T.J. Oshie, who has been dealing with a lower-body injury. C Jay Beagle missed his third consecutive game with an upper-body injury. ... With the primary assist on Kempny\'s goal, Capitals F Shane Gersich picked up his first NHL point in his third game. ... Ovechkin, Capitals D Dmitry Orlov and John Carlson and Hischier played all 82 games this season.UP NEXTDevils: Open at the Bruins or Lightning in their first playoff appearance since 2012.Capitals: Host the Blue Jackets to start the first round.______More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
CHICAGO   Quincy Acy is often an emotional leader for the Brooklyn Nets.On a record night against the Bulls, he led them on the scoresheet, too.Acy helped the Nets set a franchise mark with 24 3-pointers in a 124-96 victory over the Chicago Bulls.The Nets finished one 3-pointer shy of the NBA record set last season by Cleveland. Acy had career highs with six 3-pointers and 21 points, and Allen Crabbe added five from behind the arc and 20 points."When we\'re hot, I feel like we can run with anybody in the gym," Acy said. "And tonight, we got hot."Acy\'s season has been hot and cold following offseason ankle surgery, but he looked plenty comfortable letting it fly Saturday. He took 13 of his 14 shots from deep."He\'s our bench leader, a great guy," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "I think he hasn\'t been fully healthy and he\'s played through a lot."Brooklyn got its fourth road win in its last five games. It was Brooklyn\'s second straight victory over the Bulls, something the Nets haven\'t done since February 2008. The win clinched the season series for the first time since 2009-10.The Nets had a season-high 36 assists, led by nine from Spencer Dinwiddie and eight from Caris LeVert, both off the bench."(The shooting) comes from our thrust at the rim and how we get there, and how we set the defense after that, and made good passes," Atkinson said.Sean Kilpatrick led Chicago with 20 points, and Bobby Portis had 18 points and eight rebounds."Tonight was obviously a debacle," Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg said. "We were stuck in mud from the beginning of that game."Portis scored 13 points in the first quarter to help erase an early 16-7 Nets lead.In the second quarter, baskets by Rondae Hollis-Jefferson bookended a 14-1 run for the Nets which opened a 61-47 lead with 1:11 left until halftime.Crabbe knocked down four of the Nets\' nine 3-pointers in the third as Brooklyn pushed the lead past 20 points, cruising the rest of the way."It\'s pretty tough, man," Portis said of defending Brooklyn. "It\'s like playing the Rockets. They shoot a lot of 3s. They shoot a lot of contested shots. That\'s what their coach preaches."Brooklyn made 19 3-pointers Thursday in a win against Milwaukee. Its previous season high was 21 in a Feb. 10 loss to New Orleans.Joe Harris made four 3-pointers and scored 16 points for the Nets, who were 24 for 55 from deep.TIP-INSNets: F Dante Cunningham (back spasms) returned after missing Thursday\'s win against Milwaukee. ... F DeMarre Carroll (left hip) and C Jahlil Okafor (right ankle) were held out for the second straight game, although Atkinson said Okafor was available to play.Bulls: Rookie F Lauri Markkanen was held out of the game as he has not been playing back-to-back games recently due to back and elbow injuries. Markkanen scored 20 points in 23 minutes in Friday\'s loss to Boston, his third consecutive game with at least 20 points, all of which were achieved in 25 minutes or less. ... F Noah Vonleh (calf strain) missed his second straight game and C Robin Lopez (rest) was held out of his third straight game.DRAFT DRAMAThe teams are both 27-53 with two games remaining and will meet again Monday in Brooklyn in another crucial game for draft positioning.The Nets\' first-round pick is owned by Cleveland after being moved via Boston in the Kyrie Irving trade last August.DEEP THREATSBrooklyn\'s 24 3-pointers pushed them over 1,000 for the season, ending the game with a franchise record 1,012.The previous season high was 877 last year.The Nets trail only Houston for 3-pointers made league-wide. The Rockets entered Saturday with an NBA-record 1,213.It was Brooklyn\'s 15th straight game with double-digit 3-pointers made, setting a franchise record.LOYOLA LAUDEDThe Loyola men\'s basketball team was honored at the game after their surprising recent Final Four run in the NCAA Tournament.Former Ramblers star Milton Doyle, a Nets rookie from Chicago, proudly watch his team make the run as an 11-seed."It was just like watching my family, enjoying all the success," Doyle said. "It was great seeing everything that was going on and them getting all the praises and all the shout-outs from the big stars."SEAN STREAKINGKilpatrick had at least 20 points for the third straight game, matching the longest streak of his career. He has scored double digits in six of the seven games he has played for Chicago since signing on March 26.UP NEXTNets: The teams will meet again Monday in Brooklyn, then the Nets will close the season Wednesday in Boston.Bulls: After Monday\'s rematch, the Bulls will close their season Wednesday against visiting Detroit.___More AP basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
SPOKANE, Wash.   Seven decades after making key portions of the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, workers at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation are being exposed to radiation as they tear down buildings that helped create the nation\'s nuclear arsenal.Dozens of workers demolishing a plutonium processing plant from the 1940s have inhaled or ingested radioactive particles in the past year, and even carried some of that radiation into their vehicles, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.The incidents have prompted the federal government, along with state regulators, to halt the demolition of the sprawling Plutonium Finishing Plant until a safe plan can be developed.The contamination has also shaken confidence in a massive cleanup of Hanford, the nation\'s most polluted nuclear weapons production site. The work costs the federal treasury around $2 billion a year. Hanford is near the city of Richland, about 200 miles (320 kilometers) southeast of Seattle."This is a very disturbing set of incidents," said Tom Carpenter, head of the Seattle-based watchdog group Hanford Challenge.The Energy Department, which owns Hanford, has launched an independent investigation into the spread of radiation at the plant. The investigation will be conducted by an agency office that is not connected to work at Hanford.Radioactive particles are known to have contaminated 42 workers, which led to the shutdown of demolition, the agency has said.Carpenter said widespread worker contamination has been rare at Hanford in recent decades. Plutonium production ended in the 1980s and the site in 1989 switched its focus to cleanup of nuclear wastes."It\'s one of the more serious events to happen in the age of cleanup at Hanford," Carpenter said. "There have been other incidents, but none rose to the level of plutonium contamination of this many people and private vehicles and being found miles and miles away."A union representing some Hanford workers said it was closely monitoring the situation."We\'ve got our eyes on (the Energy Department) and will do what we\'ve got to do to keep workers safe," said Paul Ruggles, vice-president of the Hanford Atomic Metal Trades Council.Workers have the ability to immediately shut a project down, and will not hesitate to do so if their safety is threatened, Ruggles said.Hanford officials issued a report in late March that said a total of 42 Hanford workers inhaled or ingested radioactive particles from demolition of the Plutonium Finishing Plant when they were exposed during contamination events in June and December of last year.Radioactive contamination was also found outside plant offices and inside two dozen vehicles, the report said.Seven workers\' homes were checked for radioactive contamination, with none found, the report said.The report concluded Hanford officials placed too much reliance on air-monitoring systems that failed to pick up the spread of radioactive particles.Managers of the private contractor performing the demolition work for the federal government were also caught between maintaining safety and trying to make progress toward project deadlines, according to the report.Risk escalated as walls of the plutonium plant were knocked down and the rubble was stored in piles. Fixatives sprayed on the rubble to keep radioactive particles from blowing away may not have been effective, the report said.In addition, the state Health Department found very small amounts of airborne radioactive contamination near Highway 240 in the past year that could have come from the plant demolition 10 miles (16 kilometers) away.The amount of radiation involved was low  even lower than naturally occurring levels of radiation people are exposed to in everyday life. But the project was not supposed to expose workers to any additional radiation. The amounts of radiation that have escaped are considered too small by state experts to pose a health risk. All the contamination was found on lands that are closed to the public.Hanford was created during the Manhattan Project in World War II and made the plutonium for the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, that effectively ended the war. The Plutonium Finishing Plant was constructed a few years later, and helped process most of the plutonium for the nation\'s nuclear arsenal. The plant took liquid plutonium and shaped it into hockey puck-sized disks for use in nuclear warheads.Demolition on the plant began in late 2016.Carpenter complained that the Energy Department did not act quickly to contain the contamination after the June incident in which radioactive particles escaped and traces were found inside 31 workers. Eleven more workers were found to be contaminated after the December incident, which prompted the government to shut down demolition.Carpenter expected there would be more incidents of radiation escaping into the environment."Hanford is a very contaminated site that has lots of old facilities that are getting older," Carpenter said. "That\'s a bad combination."The Washington Department of Ecology, which along with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates Hanford cleanup, said the two agencies will not yet allow demolition work to resume at the plant."We\'re not convinced that Energy has adequate safeguards or monitoring in place to ensure safe operations," the Ecology Department said in a press release. "This clearly is unacceptable for worker and public health and safety."The state Health Department said there is presently no threat to public health from the releases."However, we are concerned if work resumes without better controls, a risk to the public may develop," the agency said in a recent letter to Hanford managers.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump on Sunday condemned a "mindless CHEMICAL attack" in Syria that killed women and children, called Syrian President Bashar Assad an "animal" and delivered a rare personal criticism of Russian President Vladimir Putin for supporting the Damascus government.As Washington worked to verify the claim by Syrian opposition activists and rescuers that poison gas was used, Trump said there would be a "big price to pay" for resorting to outlawed weapons of mass destruction. A top White House aide, asked about the possibility of a U.S. missile strike in response, said, "I wouldn\'t take anything off the table."Just over a year ago, Trump ordered dozens of cruise missiles to be fired at a Syrian air base after declaring there was no doubt Assad had "choked out the lives of helpless" civilians in an attack that used banned gases. White House advisers said at the time that images of hurt children helped spur the president to launch that air strike, and television new shows on Sunday aired similar depictions of suffering young Syrians."Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria," Trump tweeted. "Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK!"Saturday\'s attack took place in a rebel-held town near Damascus amid a resumed offensive by Syrian government forces after the collapse of a truce. Syrian activists, rescuers and medics said a poison gas attack in Douma killed at least 40 people, with families found suffocated in their houses and shelters. The reports could not immediately be independently verified.The developments come as Trump has moved to dramatically scale back U.S. goals in Syria, pushing for a quick military withdrawal despite resistance from many of his national security advisers. Trump has given no formal order to pull out the 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria or offered a public timetable other than to say the U.S. will withdraw as soon as the remaining Islamic State fighters can be vanquished.But Trump has signaled to his advisers that, ideally, he wants all troops out within six months.Images released by the Syrian Civil Defense White Helmets, a volunteer organization, show children lying on the ground motionless and foaming at the mouth. The Assad government, in a statement posted on the state-run news agency SANA, denied responsibility.Trump was briefed about the attack by his chief of staff, John Kelly, officials said. Trump\'s homeland security adviser, Thomas Bossert, noted the timing of the suspected chemical attack  almost a year to the day of the U.S. missile strikes."This isn\'t just the United States. This is one of those issues on which every nation, all peoples, have all agreed and have agreed since World War II, it\'s an unacceptable practice," Bossert said.Asked about the potential for an American missile strike in response, Bossert said: "I wouldn\'t take anything off the table. These are horrible photos. We\'re looking into the attack at this point."Trump was to meet with his senior military leadership on Monday, the same day his new national security adviser, John Bolton, assumes his post. Bolton has previously advocated significant airstrikes against Syria.Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday deemed it a "likely chemical attack" and reiterated Trump\'s threat that consequences would be coming for those responsible."We condemn in the strongest possible terms the assault on innocent lives, including children," Pence tweeted. "The Assad regime & its backers MUST END their barbaric behavior."Trump\'s decision to single out Putin in a tweet appeared noteworthy because Trump long has been reluctant to personally criticize the Russian leader. Even as the White House, after some delay, imposed tough new sanctions on Russia in the wake of its U.S. election meddling and suspected poisoning of a former spy on British soil, Trump left it to others in his administration to deliver the rebukes to Moscow.Last month, Trump called Putin and, against the counsel of his advisers, congratulated the Russian president on his re-election and invited him to the White House. On Sunday, Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, urged Trump to "ramp up the pressure and the sanctions on the Russian government, because, without the support of Russia, I do not believe that Assad would still be in office."Trump also invoked Iran in his series of tweets, further challenging Tehran while signaling he may scuttle its nuclear deal with the West. The president has often laid some blame on his predecessor, Barack Obama, for Assad\'s continued grip on power after years of civil war.Obama said in 2012 that Syria\'s use of chemical weapons would be a "red line" that would change his decision-making on intervening in the war and have "enormous consequences." After such an attack in 2013 killed hundreds outside Damascus, American ships in the Mediterranean were poised to launch missiles. But Obama pulled back after key U.S. ally Britain, as well as Congress, balked.He opted for a Russian-backed proposal that was supposed to remove and eliminate Syria\'s chemical weapons stockpiles."If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been history!" Trump tweeted from the White House.Questions about the administration\'s possible response reverberated throughout Washington in the hours after the attack."It\'s a defining moment in his presidency" that comes as Assad sees the U.S. "determination to stay in Syria waning," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.,"If he doesn\'t follow through and live up to that tweet, he\'s going to look weak in the eyes of Russia and Iran," Graham said. "You need to follow through with that tweet. Show a resolve that Obama never did to get this right."Graham and Bossert were on ABC\'s "This Week," and Collins appeared on CNN\'s "State of the Union."___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire
BEIRUT   The Syrian government said it would start negotiations on Sunday with the rebel group Jaish al-Islam, hours after dozens of people were reportedly killed in a suspected chemical attack on the enclave the group controls outside Damascus.There was no immediate comment from Jaish al-Islam, which said the government carried out the chemical attack in the town of Douma. At least 49 people were killed, according to a medical relief organisation and Douma\'s civil defence rescue service.Damascus has denied mounting any such attack and said the rebels in Douma, who are massively outgunned and completely encircled, were collapsing and spreading false news."Jaish al-Islam terrorists have requested negotiations with the Syrian state, which will start the talks within two hours from now (local time)," state TV cited an official source as saying on Sunday morning.The U.S. State Department said reports of mass casualties from the alleged chemical weapons attack in Douma were "horrifying" and would, if confirmed, "demand an immediate response by the international community".In a joint statement, the Syrian American Medical Society, the relief organisation, and Douma\'s civil defence service said medical centres had received more than 500 cases of people suffering breathing difficulties in Douma on Saturday evening, frothing from the mouth and smelling of chlorine.One of the victims was dead on arrival, and six died later, it said. Civil defence volunteers reported more than 42 cases of people dead at their homes showing the same symptoms, it said.Reuters could not verify the reports. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 11 people had died of suffocation but could not say if chemical weapons had been used.President Bashar al-Assad has won back control of nearly all of eastern Ghouta in a Russian-backed military campaign that began in February, leaving just Douma in rebel hands. After a lull of a few days, government forces began bombarding Douma again on Friday.The offensive in Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the seven-year-long war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme; editing by Tom Perry, Larry King)
BEIRUT   The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):9:40 p.m.The Russian military says that fighting in the rebel-held city of Douma has halted and a convoy of buses has moved in to evacuate the rebels and their families.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, head of the Russian military\'s Reconciliation Center in Syria, said Sunday that the Russian military struck a deal with the Army of Islam group to withdraw some 8,000 of its fighters and about 40,000 of their family members. He said the convoy of 100 buses has entered Douma to begin the evacuation.The deal follows an outbreak of fighting in Douma, the last remaining rebel foothold in the suburbs of Damascus.Yevtushenko strongly denied the claim by local activists and first responders that Syrian government on Saturday launched a poison gas attack in Douma, calling them "yet another fake."___9:15 p.m.Turkey\'s president has condemned an attack on rebel-held Douma near the Syrian capital, where activists and rescue workers say the Syrian regime used a poison gas.Speaking Sunday, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said women and children were "martyred." He lashed out against Syrian President Bashar Assad\'s international allies as well as the "West," asking: "When will you turn round and look at these children, these women who are being killed in eastern Ghouta?"Erdogan\'s top aide Ibrahim Kalin said Saturday\'s "chemical attacks" claimed the lives of at least 70 civilians. He said such attacks violated international law and called on the international community, "particularly countries with leverage over the Syrian regime," to act.Turkey has been working with Russia and Iran_two powerful Assad allies_to bring an end to the seven-year civil war.___7:50 p.m.Iran\'s official IRNA news agency is reporting that the country\'s foreign ministry has condemned an alleged gas attack in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, saying that claims of the attack aimed to justify military action by the U.S.The spokesman for the ministry, Bahram Ghasemi, was quoted in the Sunday report as saying, "Such claims and accusations by the Americans and some western countries is an indication of a new plot and excuse for military action against the Syrian government and nation."He added that since the Syrian army now has the upper hand against "armed terrorists," the use of chemical weapons is not logical, according to the report, and that Syria has cooperated with U.N to abolish its entire chemical weapons arsenal.___7:05 p.m.The European Union says that following reports of another chemical attack in the Syrian war, evidence points toward the forces of Syrian President Bashar Assad.The EU\'s statement Sunday did not provide details of the evidence to which it referred.In the statement, the EU appealed to the allies of Assad, Russia and Iran, to "use their influence to prevent any further attack and ensure the cessation of hostilities and de-escalation of violence" as per a United Nations resolution."The protection of civilians must remain an absolute priority," the statement added.___4:55 p.m.Britain\'s foreign secretary says reports of a deadly chemical weapons attack in Syria are "deeply disturbing," and warns that Russia must not try to block an international investigation.Boris Johnson says the forces of Syrian President Bashar Assad have used poison gas in at least four attacks since 2014.He says Britain backs an investigation by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and warns that Assad-supporting "Russia must not yet again try to obstruct these investigations."He says "those responsible for the use of chemical weapons have lost all moral integrity and must be held to account."Britain and Russia are enmeshed in a diplomatic feud over the poisoning of former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter with a nerve agent. Britain blames Russia for the use of a chemical weapon on U.K. soil. Russia denies responsibility.___4:15 p.m.Syrian state media says rebels have agreed to give up their last foothold in the eastern Ghouta region outside Damascus and withdraw to north Syria.The SANA news agency says the Army of Islam group agreed Sunday to leave Douma, three days after the government resumed its assault on the besieged town. It says tens of buses have been sent to the town to pick up prisoners freed by the rebel group and to transport rebel fighters to opposition-held territory in north Syria.The development comes hours after unconfirmed reports by first responders that the government had used chemical weapons against the town, asphyxiating at least 40 people.___4:05 p.m.Turkey\'s foreign ministry has condemned an attack on the rebel-held town of Douma near the Syrian capital, which activists say has killed at least 40 people.In a statement Sunday, Turkey said there was "strong suspicion" that the Syrian regime used chemical weapons, killing civilians. The Syrian regime has denied the allegations.The Turkish statement said Syrian President Bashar Assad\'s regime has "once again ignored" international agreements banning chemical weapons. It called on the international community to prevent, stop and punish such attacks, calling them an indiscriminate "crime against humanity."Turkey has been critical of the Syrian regime since the start of the civil war, increasingly entrenched in the conflict there.___1:40 p.m.Syrian state media say rebels in Douma have asked to restart negotiations to stop the government\'s assault on the town, their last remaining stronghold in the eastern Ghouta suburbs of the capital.State-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV says the government has demanded Army of Islam rebels release prisoners and stop their shelling of Damascus as a precondition to restarting talks.Al-Ikhbariya says government forces have granted a two-hour cease-fire to allow rebels to comply. It said the government met with a delegation of rebels on Sunday.The Army of Islam was negotiating with Russia to evacuate its fighters from Douma, hand over its heavy weapons, release its prisoners, and allow the government to restore its authority over the town, amid a crippling government siege. Those talks collapsed on Friday, prompting the government to start shelling and bombing the town indiscriminately.First responders say at least 40 people in Douma were killed late Saturday in suspicious circumstances. They allege the government mounted a poison gas attack. The government denied the accusations.___1:10 p.m.Russia\'s military is rejecting claims that Syrian government forces used chemical weapons in an attack on the rebel-held town of Douma.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko was quoted by Russian news agencies on Sunday as saying Russia was prepared to "promptly send Russian specialists in radiation, chemical and biological protection to Douma after its liberation from fighters to gather data that will confirm the fabricated nature of these statements."Yevtushenko said "a number of Western countries" are trying to prevent the resumption of an operation to remove Army of Islam fighters from Douma and "to this end they are using the West\'s pet theme of the use of chemical weapons by Syrian forces."Russia is a key ally of President Bashar Assad, whose forces have been accused of using chemical weapons in past attacks that killed hundreds of people. The Syrian government has denied ever using chemical weapons.Opposition-linked Syrian medics and first responders say a chemical attack in Douma late Saturday killed at least 40 people. The reports could not be independently confirmed.___9:30 a.m.Syrian activists, rescuers and medics say a poison gas attack on a rebel-held town near the capital has killed at least 40 people.The alleged attack in the town of Douma occurred Saturday night amid a resumed offensive by Syrian government forces after the collapse of a truce.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said at least 80 people were killed in Douma Saturday, including around 40 who died from suffocation.Opposition-linked first responders, known as the White Helmets, also reported the attack, saying entire families were found suffocated in their houses and shelters. It reported a death toll from suffocation of more than 40.The Syrian American Medical Society, a relief organization, says 41 people were killed and hundreds wounded.
WASHINGTON  President Trump on Sunday promised a big price to be paid for what he said was a chemical weapons attack that choked dozens of Syrians to death the day before, and a top White House official said the administration would not rule out a missile strike to retaliate against the government of President Bashar al-Assad.In a tweet, Mr. Trump laid the blame for the attack partly on President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, the first time since his election that he has criticized the Russian leader by name on Twitter. Mr. Putins forces have been fighting for years to keep the Assad government in power amid Syrias brutal civil war.Mr. Trump also left no doubt that he believed the assessment of aid groups that Mr. Assads military had used chemical weapons to inflict the carnage on Saturday in Douma, a rebel-held suburb of Damascus. The attack left at least 42 people dead in their homes from apparent suffocation and sent many others to clinics with burning eyes and breathing problems.Thomas P. Bossert, Mr. Trumps homeland security adviser, said he and the rest of the presidents national security team had been in talks with Mr. Trump late Saturday and early Sunday about how to respond. Asked specifically about the possibility of a missile strike, Mr. Bossert did not rule it out.I wouldnt take anything off the table, Mr. Bossert said on ABCs This Week. These are horrible photos; were looking into the attack at this point.That raised the prospect of a strike along the lines of one that the president ordered almost exactly a year ago after a sarin gas attack in Khan Sheikhoun that killed more than 80 civilians. In that strike, the United States military dropped 59 Tomahawk missiles on the Al Shayrat airfield, where the chemical weapons attack had originated.Mr. Trump may be considering such a strike even as he has expressed his desire in recent days to pull American troops out of Syria, where they are seeking to eliminate the last vestiges of the Islamic State. White House officials said Mr. Trump would have a meeting and dinner on Monday at the White House with senior military leaders.The assault on Douma and the presidents response also showed how Syria has bedeviled Mr. Trump just as it did his predecessor, repeatedly presenting them with grave challenges and few good options for confronting them.It was not clear on Sunday whether his tweets reflected serious planning for a military strike, or if the suspected chemical attack had changed the presidents calculation about the necessity for a rapid wind-down of American military involvement in Syria. A White House official said he could provide no guidance beyond what the president had said on Twitter.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said Mr. Trump should make good on what the president appeared to be threatening.If the president doesnt follow through and live up to that tweet, hes going to look weak in the eyes of Russia and Iran, Mr. Graham said on This Week. This is a defining moment.You need to follow through with that tweet, he added. Show a resolve that Obama never did to get this right.In his tweets, Mr. Trump also criticized former President Barack Obama for failing to take military action against Mr. Assads government when it used chemical weapons in 2013. Mr. Obama had threatened that any use of unconventional weapons would cross a red line for the United States.At the time, though, Mr. Trump argued fiercely against American intervention in Syria. In more than a dozen messages on Twitter in 2013 and 2014, he argued that the nations civil war was not our problem and that American troops should stay out.On Sunday, Mr. Trumps tweets came not long after a report on Fox News about the massacre in Douma, in which an anchor said that all eyes would now be on the presidents response, and that the airstrikes last year had garnered praise from American allies.The timing of the tweets alarmed some progressives who warned that Mr. Trump might make military decisions based on commentary on his favorite cable news outlet.If Trump should launch missiles, it is because Fox and Friends told him to, VoteVets, a group that focuses on military issues and is aligned with Democrats, said on Twitter. We cannot possibly overstate how insane and disastrous for command of our military that would be.In a statement on Saturday night, the State Department called the situation in Douma an alleged chemical weapons attack and said the reports about it were horrifying and demand an immediate response by the international community.The statement took Moscow to task, saying it had breached international obligations and calling into question its commitment to weapons nonproliferation.The Assad regime and its backers must be held accountable and any further attacks prevented immediately, it said. Russia, with its unwavering support for the regime, ultimately bears responsibility for these brutal attacks, targeting of countless civilians and the suffocation of Syrias most vulnerable communities with chemical weapons.But while members of his administration have often been harshly critical of Mr. Putin, Mr. Trump has in general spoken warmly of his Russian counterpart.American officials said the process was underway to confirm whether the Syrian government had used chemical weapons and, if so, what kind.Since last Aprils strike on the airfield, the Pentagon has updated lists of potential Syrian military and government targets should Mr. Trump order another strike.A senior Navy officer said on Sunday morning that Navy warships capable of firing cruise missiles were in the Mediterranean on routine, long-scheduled deployments but had not received any orders to prepare to move closer to Syria or to prepare to carry out any strikes.Before last years strike, American commanders at the sprawling Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar  the United States air war command for the region  gave their Russian counterparts a warning of no more than 90 minutes before striking the Syrian airfield. The Americans did this under a deconfliction agreement with Moscow to try to prevent an unintended confrontation between the two countries.At a daily operations briefing on Sunday at the air command center, there was no indication of an imminent operation, said one official who was briefed on the meeting. Things can change pretty quickly, though, the official cautioned, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.Indeed, only 63 hours passed between last Aprils chemical attack and the American cruise missile strike.
PARIS   The crown prince of Saudi Arabia arrived in Paris on Sunday, a day ahead of his first official visit to France, which is hoping to profit from his shake-up of the conservative kingdom to forge a new kind of commercial relationship.No big weapons contracts are expected to be signed during the short visit of Mohammed bin Salman, but a "strategic partnership" is to be announced Tuesday with French President Emmanuel Macron.The 32-year-old heir to the Saudi throne, now at the center of the kingdom\'s power structure, has instigated major reforms to shed the kingdom\'s austere image. Changes include giving women the right to drive, introducing concerts and promising movie theaters.France hopes to join sectors like technology, renewable energy, health and tourism that Saudi Arabia wants to develop, an official with Macron\'s office said. That includes developing a UNESCO heritage desert site.A visit to "Station F," a huge Left Bank incubator for startups, is on the crown prince\'s agenda.French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian greeted the crown prince and his royal entourage and bevy of Cabinet ministers in a low-key arrival. The crown prince was devoting Sunday to private time ahead of the two-day official visit. The royal family owns luxurious property in France, including a mansion on the Riviera.For human rights organizations, changes being wrought by the crown prince, often referred to as MBS, are cosmetic.Demonstrators planned protests over the Saudi-led coalition\'s airstrikes in Yemen to fight Iran-backed Houthi rebels. Ten human rights organizations have asked Macron to demand that Saudi Arabia end the airstrikes and lift a blockade aggravating the humanitarian crisis in Yemen.Human Rights Watch executive director Kenneth Roth advised the French president in a tweet Sunday to "keep his distance -- from MBS\'s war crimes in Yemen and his ongoing repression of women and dissidents at home."The two leaders will discuss the wars in Yemen and Syria, Iran  Saudi Arabia\'s regional rival  and the fight against terrorism and terrorist financing, the French official said.Prince Mohammed comes to France after a nearly three-week-long trip to the United States, preceded by a three-day visit to Britain. The prince ended his U.S. travels with more than $2.3 billion in promised arms sales and $1.3 billion in artillery.France, traditionally a major arms supplier of the Saudis, dismissed questions about big arms contracts during this trip."We are absolutely not disappointed" in the absence of weapons deals, the official from Macron\'s office insisted. "We want to be part of this new dimension" being developed by the crown prince, which gives way to "new cooperation, less directed toward isolated contracts and more to investments in the future."The official was not authorized to speak publicly ahead of the visit.The Gulf dispute with Qatar  isolated by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt  is not likely to be high among topics covered, if at all, the official suggested. The four countries cut off Qatar\'s land, sea and air routes in June over its alleged support of extremists and close ties with Iran, which Qatar adamantly denies.A ranking Qatari official said during a recent visit to Paris that his country would welcome French mediation. He spoke about the sensitive topic on condition of anonymity.___Aya Batrawy in Dubai, United Arab Emirates contributed.
PORTLAND, Ore.  The most accurate shooter in the N.B.A. began his career by missing his first field-goal attempt, and his second, and his third  all of them in a span of four seconds after he collected his own rebounds against the Memphis Grizzlies.It was the start of an unfortunate trend for Clint Capela, then a first-year center for the Houston Rockets. He wound up spending most of the season with the Rio Grande Valley Vipers of the N.B.A. Development League in between sporadic appearances for the Rockets. It would be four months before he finally made his first shot in the N.B.A., capping a sad string of 11 straight misses in all.Worse, he bricked his first 15 free throws.Yeah, Capela said, that was tough.Houston General Manager Daryl Morey could sense Capelas potential, or at least had enough faith to believe in it despite his struggles. Capela, only 20 at the time, was long and strong with a sturdy work ethic. But he could not make layups, and forget the small tragedies that befell him at the foul line.It was a bumpy start, Morey said. There are only so many Hey, everythings going to be fine conversations you can have. It has to seep into someones confidence when theyre that young.All of which is meant to underscore a simple point: Look at him now.Going into the weekend, Capela, now in his fourth season, was shooting a league-best 65.2 percent from the field while averaging 14 points and 10.9 rebounds in 27 minutes a game for Houston, which has set a franchise record for wins this season. The Rockets (64-15 entering the weekend) will be the No. 1 seed when the Western Conference playoffs start in a week.Knowing where I was four years ago and where I am now, Im just embracing it, Capela said in a recent interview here before a win against the Trail Blazers.On a team led by long-range technicians like James Harden and Chris Paul, Capela, now 23, plies his trade in the immediate vicinity of the basket. Through the Rockets first 78 games, of his 655 field-goal attempts this season, only 13 had come from beyond nine feet, according to statistics compiled by the N.B.A. But the shots that he does take  a smorgasbord of layups, dunks and sweeping hooks  he tends to make.The Rockets offense, to be clear, does not run through Capela. He uses his 6-foot-10 frame to collect offensive rebounds, score on putbacks and occasionally flash a Harden-esque Euro step on drives to the basket. He also defends, blocking 1.9 shots a game. He is a complementary piece, but an essential one, on a high-octane team.Id like to say were geniuses on our picks, Morey said, but the reality is that hes even better than what we expected.Morey got his first look at Capela during a scouting trip to Europe in 2014, when Capela was playing for lan Chalon of the French league. Morey recalled that the team had a fun mascot: Scott the Moose. But he was also struck by how Capela ran the floor, set screens and rolled to the basket. He had unusual dexterity for a young man his size.Growing up in Switzerland, Capela played soccer before switching to basketball at age 13. Out on the court in France, his fancy footwork showed.Still, Morey harbored concerns. He described Capelas defensive instincts at the time as very raw and his free throws as a little bit of a question mark, which was a diplomatic way of spinning his adventures at the line. But Morey felt that Capelas room for growth outstripped the holes in his game. He cited Capelas quickness as a defender.I always think the best bigs are the ones who can jump second when they go to block shots, Morey said in a telephone interview from Spain, where he was on another scouting trip. They dont have to anticipate because they get off the ground so fast.The only problem was that the Rockets had the 25th pick in the 2014 N.B.A. Draft, and Morey doubted Capela would fall that far  at least until Capela had a nondescript performance ahead of the draft at the Nike Hoop Summit, a high-profile game for the best prospects in the world.Capela, who said he had been looking forward to the game since he learned it existed, finished with 5 points in 14 minutes. His draft stock did not soar. The Rockets took advantage.It was probably the best thing that could have happened for us, Morey said.In his first season with Houston, Capela was not exactly a polished product. He missed all those free throws. He had greater success with the Rio Grande Valley Vipers, for whom he actually made some shots. But the experience was generally overwhelming.It just took me time to get comfortable: a new country, a new team, a new system, Capela said. I was so impressed by everything  being in the N.B.A. I was just like, Wow. As if adjusting to the pace and the grand stage of the N.B.A. was not difficult enough, Capela moonlighted by studying for his drivers license test with the help of one of the teams security officers. They practiced in a parking lot near the Toyota Center. His exam was going well enough until Capela backed into a barrier when he tried to parallel park.Automatic fail, Capela said.He managed to pass on his second attempt, and that became a sort of personal theme: Momentary setbacks would not stop him.Capelas most consequential lessons began in July 2016, a few months before the start of his third season, when the Rockets hired John Lucas II, the former Houston guard, as their player development coach. One of Lucass first assignments was to recalibrate Capelas shooting technique when the Rockets were in Las Vegas for summer league.For three weeks, Capela set his alarm for 5 each morning so he could get to the gym with Lucas by 6. As a part of his new morning routine, Capela had to sink 250 free throws, which may not sound like the most arduous undertaking except that he had made only 84 of 234, or 35.9 percent, in his first two seasons.Trust me, it was tough, Capela said. Oh, my God.Capela would practice with the summer league team most afternoons before returning to the gym with Lucas each evening for another 250 makes from the foul line  and however many misses. It helped, Lucas said, that Capela was an enthusiastic student. He craved instruction. They continued their morning routine once they returned to Houston. (In an act of benevolence, Lucas moved the workouts to 8 a.m.)I told him that if he worked, he could be one of the best centers in the league, Lucas said. I believe that even more now. Hes just scratching the surface.Lucas went as far as to compare Capela to  wait for it  Hakeem Olajuwon, a former teammate who happens to be one of the greatest centers in the history of the league. Like Capela, Olajuwon played soccer when he was growing up. Like Capela, Olajuwon had nifty footwork. Like Capela, Olajuwon entered the league with massive potential.But unlike Olajuwon, Capela is not a 12-time N.B.A. All-Star  not yet, anyway. If nothing else, Lucas wants Capela to aim high.Theres so much more to his game than what you see, Lucas said.For now, Capela is comfortable working within the confines of the Rockets guard-centric offense, and for good reason: Harden is the leagues likely Most Valuable Player, and Paul is a future Hall of Famer. Capela understands his role, he said, and wants to improve everything from his ball handling to his defense to his free throws, which remain a work in progress. (Entering the weekend, he was shooting 56.5 percent this season, up from 17.4 percent as a rookie.)He even dreams of someday drifting out to the 3-point line.Sure, why not? he said. Its not impossible.Not bad for a guy who, not so long ago, just wanted to make his first shot.
RAQQA, Syria   Across the ruins of Raqqa, the streets are cloaked in grey, the color of bare cement and rubble left behind by the bombing campaign that finally drove out Islamic State militants. Among the people of this Syrian city, the fear, anger and desperation are palpable.Six months after IS\'s ouster, residents feel they have been abandoned as the world moves on. They are trying to rebuild their lives, but they say they fear everyone around them: the Kurdish-led militia that administers the majority Arab city; the Syrian government, which has forces nearby; criminal gangs who kidnap or rob whoever shows signs of having money; and IS militants who may still be hiding among the people."Daesh is still among us," said a businessman, using the Arabic acronym for IS. To give an example, he said, a man lobbed a hand grenade at a recent funeral when mourners played music, something hard-line Sunni Muslims view as sacrilegiousThe Associated Press spoke to over a dozen residents on a recent visit, most of whom spoke of their woes on condition of anonymity because they feared for their safety. The businessman asked to be identified by the diminutive of his first name, Abdu.After fleeing Raqqa during the coalition-led assault on the city last year, Abdu returned once the militants were driven out in October. He found his restaurant and his home next to it destroyed. He was angry, but practical. His life has been on hold for too long and he wanted to get on with his business. So he hired workers and started to rebuild.But local gangs had eyed him. He was kidnapped and held for $10,000 ransom, until his tribe intervened and rescued him without paying, he said.He, like many others, lamented the loss of security, which he said was one prize feature of living under IS. He faulted the Kurdish-led forces for hastily recruiting local Arabs to boost their ranks and appease the local Arab tribes."We end up with thieves or former Daesh in the force," he said.For three years, Raqqa was the de facto capital of the Islamic State group\'s "caliphate" stretching across much of Iraq and Syria. In the campaign of the U.S-led coalition and Iraqi and Syrian partners, the group has been uprooted from almost that entire territory.U.N. officials say Raqqa has been left the most devastated city in all of Syria\'s seven-year-old war, a conflict that has also seen Syrian government forces backed by Russian and Iranian forces battling rebels. All of Raqqa suffered intense airstrikes by the U.S.-led coalition and the whole population of at least 350,000 had to flee. The infrastructure was destroyed, as were 65 percent of civilian homes, said Leila Mustafa, a member of the U.S.-backed Raqqa Civil Council that now runs the city.A prominent Arab tribesman escorted the AP to see a building he owned that was gutted by airstrikes. He angrily complained that coalition bombing was indiscriminate. Like many, he said there should be compensation but didn\'t expect any would be given."I wish I even found the bone of an IS member in there! But nothing. No reason," he said. "Now, who will pay for this?" He refused to give his name, fearing his criticism would undermine his chances of ever getting money to rebuild.Nothing is unaffected by the bombardment. Mosques, schools, squares and buildings have all taken hits, some repeatedly. Trees on the street are burned. Insects and dust saturate the air.The stench of death rises from crushed buildings and remains long after the bodies are removed. Civil workers say they have pulled nearly 500 bodies from under the rubble in the past three months, working with just one bulldozer.Some streets have been cleared of wreckage, giving way to a scene even more haunting because of how organized it is. Scrap metal and debris are neatly stacked in heaps at the foot of destroyed buildings. Row after row of buildings reduced to concrete skeletons run like a pattern through the city. Large chunks of cement dangle from twisted rebar above sidewalks like cryptic decorations. At least 8,000 explosives riddle the city center.Major overpasses have been hit, as well as bridges across the Euphrates River, which cuts through the city. Residents and their cars cross on small barges.Yet the buzz of activity is startling. Nearly 100,000 residents have returned, according to U.N. accounts. Mustafa said it was likely much higher.Women in colorful scarves punctuated the grey monotone in the markets. A market for scrap metal has sprung up at one end of the city. Meat grills lined some streets, and warehouses were full of soft drinks, water, grains and other stock. Bulldozers drilled into the wreckage of buildings.Workers from nearby provinces have come looking for opportunities. The driver of a truck full of mattresses with job hunters sitting on top said they came from the northwestern city of Aleppo."They can\'t do it all alone," a construction worker from the neighboring province of Deir el-Zour said at the site of a destroyed bridge.Those with money rebuild. Painters added some color to the facade of a former car dealership. Its owner, who asked only to be identified as Ismail, said IS had used its back rooms as a prison.When he came back to Raqqa, he heard of masked gangsters who rob returnees. But it has not stopped him. He is turning his dealership into an internet cafe, much needed in a city that has no phone lines and relies heavily on personal generators for electricity.He said he paid $600 to clean the wreckage from his street. "I want to make it feel safe," he said.Mustafa, the council member, said most of the restoration work was self-financed, with some U.S. money, though she would not say how much. On Thursday, with American officials attending, she inaugurated a new pre-fab bridge to connect the city to neighboring villages. One U.S. official said installing the bridge cost $7,000.The city is getting "very limited" support  "no match to the size of the needs," she said. Infrastructure was totally destroyed, as were 65 percent of civilian buildings, and mines and rubble still need to be cleared, she said. She could not say the total cost for rebuilding since it is constantly being reevaluated.Raqqa paid a "hefty price" for the war on terrorism, she said, but "international organizations and some countries didn\'t live up to their responsibilities."U.S. officials have led operations to clear land mines and restore basic services like water and electricity in the city. But those programs would likely have to be called off if President Donald Trump goes forward with plans to withdraw American troops within five or six months. In meeting with national security aides, he has railed against the trillions the U.S. has spent in the Mideast, saying it brought no return.Instead, Trump has asked Saudi Arabia to contribute $4 billion toward reconstruction and stabilization in Syria.Despite the devastation, signs of IS remained around Raqqa.The infamous Naim Square  Arabic for "Paradise"  where Islamic State militants displayed hanged bodies or heads, was empty aside from a single chair in the street that marked a former checkpoint of the militants. On the other end were remains of an IS media center with broken chairs and a stand where the screen was once set to show IS videos to the public.A juice shop and a supermarket were the only signs of life in the square, surrounded by destroyed buildings. Seals used by IS were still visible on the metal shutters of shops, numbering them for tax collection purposes.Nahla Mustafa walked absent-mindedly nearby, pulling her seven-year old son Baseel behind.Asked how she is, she immediately said, "Everything is lost," and her eyes welled with tears. The war had impoverished her well-to-do family. Militants confiscated her husband\'s clothing store. The three homes they owned were destroyed in coalition strikes and she had multiple miscarriages, which she blamed on fear from the bombing.She now makes clothes for a living and asks around houses for odd jobs. Looking at her purse, she said, "I have 3,000 liras ($7) in here. What do I do with this?" Her husband works in a grocery store, earning the equivalent of $45 a month."I am tired and I am scared," she said. "When will we be able to save to fix our homes  when (my husband) is 100?" Her son doesn\'t go to school because she worries about land mines."What will become of his future? What is our fault in all of this?"

DUBAI/SYDNEY   In Dubai\'s decades-old Gold Souk, customers from around the world haggle over bangles and necklaces. Elsewhere in the emirate, the region\'s top center for gold trade, bullion is playing a new role in financial engineering.A local start-up company founded last year, OneGram, is issuing a gold-backed cryptocurrency -- part of efforts to convince Muslims that investing in cryptocurrencies complies with their faith.The global surge of interest in bitcoin, ethereum and other cryptocurrencies extends into the Gulf and southeast Asia, the main centers of Islamic finance.But because they are products of financial engineering and objects of speculation, cryptocurrencies sit uneasily with Islam. Sharia principles, in addition to banning interest payments, emphasize real economic activity based on physical assets and frown on pure monetary speculation.That has triggered debate among Islamic scholars over whether cryptocurrencies are religiously permissible. Cryptocurrency companies are seeking to sway the debate by launching instruments based on physical assets and certified as valid by Islamic advisors.Each OneGram cryptocurrency unit is backed by at least a gram of physical gold stored in a vault. The idea is to limit speculation."Gold was among the first forms of money in Islamic societies so this is appropriate," said Ibrahim Mohammed, the Briton who founded the firm with other investors last year."We are trying to prove rules and regulations from sharia are fully compatible with digital blockchain technology."Tens of millions of dollars worth of the currency have been issued so far. About 60 percent of the planned number of coins remains to be sold; OneGram hopes to issue them all before listing them on exchanges around end-May.OneGram obtained a ruling that its cryptocurrency conforms with Islamic principles from Dubai-based Al Maali Consulting.It is one of dozens of advisory firms around the world that offer their opinion on whether financial instruments meet sharia standards.In Malaysia, HelloGold launched an initial offer of its gold-backed cryptocurrency in October, receiving approval from Islamic scholars at Kuala Lumpur-based Amanie Advisors.Manuel Ho, HelloGold\'s chief marketing officer, said its coin was Islamic as transactions occurred within a defined period, making them less volatile and addressing the issue of ambiguity of pricing.Among other experiments, United Arab Emirates-based Halal Chain conducted an initial coin offer in December which is linked to data on Islamically permissible goods.SHARIA COMMITTEESOnly around 20 to 30 percent of banking in the Gulf and southeast Asia follows Islamic principles; many Muslims use conventional finance if it offers higher returns or more convenience.But the issue of religious permissibility is influential and could determine whether Islamic funds and institutions, which are formally committed to sharia principles, deal in cryptocurrencies."One of the biggest difficulties is that there is so much to talk about, and so little certainty in the way crypto will be playing out," said Ziyaad Mahomed of HSBC Amanah in Malaysia. He chairs its sharia committee, which oversees Islamic  transactions.National sharia authorities have not ruled on whether cryptocurrencies are permissible, and while several global bodies recommend standards for Islamic finance, none has the authority to impose them. Many governments seem ambivalent, worried about the potential for instability but unwilling to lose the chance of benefiting from new technology.The Saudi Arabian and UAE central banks warned their citizens about the risks of trading bitcoin but have not imposed outright bans.That leaves Islamic investors to choose between sometimes conflicting judgments by scholars at advisory firms, financial companies and academic institutions.One of the earliest rulings came in 2014, when California-based academic Monzer Kahf, a prominent author of Islamic finance textbooks, deemed bitcoin a legitimate medium of exchange, though vulnerable to manipulation.Since then, Islamic jurists in South Africa have ruled in favor of cryptocurrencies, arguing they have become socially acceptable and commonly used, said Mahomed.In October, however, the Durban-based Darul Ihsan Centre refrained from endorsing them, citing concern over potential pyramid schemes. Some scholars in Turkey, India and Britain have labeled them impermissible; Egypt\'s Grand Mufti declared in January they should not be traded.Complicating the debate is the fact that there are hundreds of digital coins or tokens, each with unique features related to distribution, mining and trading, said Farrukh Habib, research officer at Malaysia-based International Shariah Research Academy for Islamic Finance."They are also very different in terms of their underlying commodities, projects or businesses, so it\'s not appropriate to have a blanket sharia ruling for all," said Habib. He is involved in a project to categorize cryptocurrencies based on sharia-compliance criteria."Most of the existing sharia rulings either deal with only bitcoin, or include all types of cryptocurrencies, disregarding their peculiarities."COMPLEXITIESAnother problem is that many sharia scholars have trouble understanding the complexities of digital currencies, said Harris Irfan, managing director at Cordoba Capital in London."I would caution against accepting any fatwas from community scholars on the subject of fiqh al-mu\'amalat, the jurisprudence of transactions, which is a highly complex area of sharia."Irfan chairs the UK Islamic Fintech Panel, a think tank which is drafting guidelines for accreditation of sharia-compliant fintech products including cryptocurrencies.Mahomed said some degree of consensus had emerged globally that cryptocurrencies were a form of wealth, or maal -- one step toward acceptance.But scholars have yet to rule conclusively on whether cryptocurrencies are in fact currencies. This is important for Islamic tax payments called zakat, and for inheritances."Overall, more evidence is needed to reach a consensus, at least until higher bodies pronounce themselves on the issue, such as the Islamic Fiqh Academy," Mahomed said, referring to an influential Jeddah-based institution.Abdulqahir Qamar, director of the Fatwa Department at the Fiqh Academy, told Reuters that the academy had not issued any resolutions on cryptocurrencies but was planning to discuss the subject during one of its official sessions this year.While there is no firm timeframe, the academy will also seek to organize seminars with scholars on the matter, he said.(Editing by Anna Willard)
Nearly five years after the government of President Bashar al-Assad agreed to purge Syrias chemical weapons stockpile, the chemical warfare shows no sign of ending as Syrias bloody civil war stretches into its seventh year.Saturdays suspected chemical attack on a Syrian rebel stronghold near Damascus is the latest in a string of similar deadly assaults, including one in 2013 that killed more than 1,400 and shocked the worlds conscience. John Kerry, then secretary of state, called it a moral obscenity.Analysts have said that the use of poison gas, a war crime under international law, is integral to Mr. Assads scorched-earth drive to regain control of the last rebel-held areas near Damascus.American officials have long sought to hold the government of Mr. Assad accountable.Here is a look at some of the major episodes of suspected chemical attacks.The attacks in Syria began with blasts in the night. Some residents who heard the explosions and lived to tell about them described the sound like a water tank bursting.Then came the smell, which burned eyes and throats, like onions or chlorine, The New York Times wrote at the time.Opposition groups said rockets carrying chemical weapons hit the towns of Ain Tarma, Zamalka, Jobar and Muadamiya. Videos and photos posted online showed hundreds of bodies without visible wounds. Many victims exhibited symptoms like vomiting, intense salivating, suffocation and tremors. The chemicals were believed to be a cocktail of the toxic nerve agent sarin and other components.Opposition activists also posted photos of rockets they said were used in the attack. In the end, the death toll exceeded 1,400 people, with the deadliest toll falling on the heart of Eastern Ghouta.When the enormity of the attacks became clearer to the administration of President Barack Obama, Mr. Kerry, in some of the most aggressive language used then by the administration, accused the Syrian government of the indiscriminate slaughter of civilians and of cynical efforts to cover up its responsibility for a cowardly crime.The attack also spurred Mr. Obama to ask Congress for permission to launch a military counterattack. It also emerged as a test of Mr. Obamas willingness to hold to his stance that a chemical attack would cross a red line.In 2012, he stated at an impromptu news conference at the White House:But in 2013, as he drew criticism for not taking more decisive action on Syria after the suspected chemical attacks, Mr. Obama said while on a trip to Stockholm: I didnt set a red line. The world set a red line.In September, the United States and Russia reached an agreement that called for Syrias arsenal of chemical weapons to be removed or destroyed by the middle of 2014.The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said in a statement in September 2014 that it had collected evidence that chlorine had been used as a weapon, systematically and repeatedly, in three villages in northern Syria in April of that year. A United Nations report also said chlorine attacks had taken place in April and May.In spring of 2015, two years after Mr. Assad agreed to dismantle Syrias chemical weapons stockpile, the smell of bleach hit the Syrian town of Sarmeen, making it difficult for residents to breathe.That May, rescue workers began raising the alarm: There was growing evidence that the government was flouting international law to drop jerry-built chlorine bombs on insurgent-held areas.The chemical is typically dropped in barrel bombs that explode on impact, distributing clouds of gas. The gas injures the respiratory tract, and, in some cases, can cause victims to choke to death as the lungs fill with fluid.People are so used to it, they know from the sound, Hatem Abu Marwan, then 29, a rescue worker with the White Helmets civil defense organization, told The Times in 2015. We know the sound of a helicopter that goes to a low height and drops a barrel. Nobody has aircraft except the regime.Prodded by the United States, the United Nations Security Council discussed a draft resolution that would create a panel, reporting to the secretary general, to determine which of the warring parties was responsible for using chlorine as a weapon, according to council diplomats.But Syrian state media dismissed it all as propaganda.Later that year, in August, the Syrian American Medical Society, a humanitarian group, said it had received more than 50 patients, 23 of whom showed symptoms of chemical exposure, including some with blisters associated with mustard gas after an attack in the city of Marea. A United Nations report blamed ISIS.Another attack in 2016 killed at least two people when barrels containing chlorine gas were dropped over a rebel-held section of Aleppo in September of that year.Using chlorine as a weapon is forbidden, but it was not included in the eradication of Syrias chemical weapons because it also has many civilian uses.Almost exactly one year ago, dozens of people, including children, died on April 4, 2017, in Khan Sheikhoun, in northern Syria, and hundreds more were injured in what was described as the worst chemical attack in years.This time, the doctors and rescue workers suspected something beyond chlorine gas. Soon after, the Turkish health minister confirmed a preliminary report that the nerve agent sarin had been found in the blood and urine of victims who were evacuated to Turkey.In response, President Donald Trump ordered a military strike that fired 59 Tomahawk missiles at the Al Shayrat airfield, where the chemical weapons attack had originated.President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia expressed doubt that the attack had happened and said it wasnt the Syrian government that possessed the chemical weapons  it was the insurgents fighting Mr. Assads forces. The White House accused Russia of engaging in a cover-up.In the latest episode of violence, dozens of Syrians were killed in a suspected chemical attack in the rebel-held suburb of Douma, aid groups said on Sunday.The attack could not be independently verified because Douma is surrounded by the Syrian government and closed off to journalists and investigators, but rescue workers reported that more than 42 people had died. Video footage circulated by antigovernment activists showed the bodies of men, women and children sprawled on floors.
Opening statements start Monday in Bill Cosby\'s retrial on sexual assault charges stemming from allegations he drugged and molested a woman at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. The key figures to watch include:BILL COSBYCosby, 80, amassed a $400 million fortune as an actor and comedian best known for the family-oriented sitcom, "The Cosby Show." His reputation as "America\'s Dad" has been tattered in recent years as about 60 women came forward to accuse him of drugging and sexually assaulting them. Cosby didn\'t testify at his first trial, which ended in a hung jury last year, but the jury did hear parts of a deposition he gave in accuser Andrea Constand\'s related 2005 lawsuit. The same could happen at his retrial. Cosby was arrested on Dec. 30, 2015, days before the 12-year deadline to file the aggravated sexual assault charge. In the deposition, he said he gave Constand pills that night before putting his hand down her pants. However, he said they had a consensual, romantic relationship.___ANDREA CONSTANDAndrea Constand, 44, managed the women\'s basketball team at Cosby\'s alma mater, Temple University. She met Cosby there in 2002 and said he drugged and molested her in early 2004. She left Temple months later to move home to the Toronto area and start a career as a massage therapist. She filed a police report against Cosby in early 2005, then sued him when Pennsylvania authorities declined to press charges. The settlement they forged in 2006, after Cosby gave four days of deposition testimony, ended the case and swore both sides to secrecy. A judge recently agreed to let retrial jurors hear how much Cosby paid her. The figure didn\'t come up at the first trial. The Associated Press does not usually identify people who say they are sexual assault victims without their permission, which Constand has given.___ACCUSERS WHO\'LL TESTIFYJudge Steven O\'Neill is allowing five additional accusers to testify as prosecution witnesses about allegations dating to the early 1980s. Cosby\'s lawyers have said the women\'s memories are tainted at best and tried to get them barred from testifying. They are: Janice Dickinson, a model and reality TV star, who says Cosby knocked her out with a pill and raped her in Lake Tahoe in 1982, when she was 27 and Cosby was 45. Janice Baker-Kinney, a bartender who says she awoke naked with signs she had been sexually assaulted after Cosby insisted she take two pills in 1982, when she was 24 and he was 45. Heidi Thomas, an aspiring actress who says Cosby forced her to perform oral sex as she faded in and out of consciousness after he gave her a drink in 1984, when she was 24 and he was 46. Chelan Lasha, a model and aspiring actress who says she lay immobilized and unable to speak as Cosby pinched her nipple and humped her leg after he gave her a pill he described as an antihistamine in 1986, when she was 17 and he was 48. Lise-Lotte Lublin, an aspiring actress who alleges Cosby sexually assaulted her after prodding her to take two drinks to relax in 1989, when she was 23 and he was about 52.___DEFENSE LAWYER TOM MESEREAUTom Mesereau is a high-profile Hollywood lawyer best known for winning an acquittal in Michael Jackson\'s 2005 child molestation trial. Mesereau has also represented boxer Mike Tyson, rap mogul Marion "Suge" Knight and a Playboy bunny. Last year, he won an acquittal for a black teen accused of killing an Iraq War veteran in Alabama. Mesereau is joined at the defense table by Los Angeles appellate lawyer Becky James, former federal prosecutor Kathleen Bliss and Philadelphia litigator Lane Vines, who has specialized in securities and investor fraud cases.___DISTRICT ATTORNEY KEVIN STEELEMontgomery County District Attorney Kevin Steele was the top deputy in the office in July 2015 when a judge unsealed Cosby\'s deposition and then-boss Risa Vetri Ferman decided to reopen Constand\'s 2005 police complaint. Steele, a Democrat, was running to succeed her while she ran for judge. His opponent was Bruce Castor, the prosecutor who had decided not to charge Cosby in 2005. Steele attacked Castor over the decision in campaign ads and went on to win the November election. He announced Cosby\'s arrest the following month.___JUDGE STEVEN O\'NEILLSteven O\'Neill, the administrative judge of Montgomery County\'s criminal court, presided over the first Cosby trial and is continuing to handle the retrial after rejecting defense pressure to step aside. He ruled he\'s "not biased or prejudiced" by his wife\'s work as a social worker who counsels sexual assault victims. O\'Neill was appointed in 2002 and elected to 10-year terms in 2004 and 2014. He worked for five years as a prosecutor and 18 years as a criminal defense lawyer.___For more on the Cosby trial, go to apnews.com/tag/CosbyonTrial
MUENSTER, Germany   The 48-year-old German man who drove a van into a crowd in Muenster was well-known to police, had a history of run-ins with the law and had expressed suicidal thoughts to a neighbor last month, German prosecutors said Sunday.The man, whose name was not released, killed two people and injured 20 others Saturday afternoon by crashing into those drinking outside a popular bar in the western German city\'s Old Town. He then shot himself to death inside the van.The impact of the crash was so violent that the van did not stop until it hit the pub\'s stone wall.Police said Sunday that they believed he acted alone, but did not explain why they thought that.The picture painted by police showed the suspect as a Muenster resident who was apparently financially well off but was frequently at odds with authorities and in court often. Local media reported that he is an industrial designer who once threatened his father with an ax.Muenster Police President Hajo Kuhlisch said the man\'s four apartments  two in Muenster and two in Saxony  and several cars had been searched thoroughly.Prosecutors said he had expressed suicidal plans by email to a neighbor. Police were told about the email and went to the man\'s Muenster home but he was not there. They then told local authorities at the man\'s other homes in Dresden and Pirna in eastern Germany about the note, but he could not be found there either.In a joint statement Sunday, police and prosecutors said the suspect didn\'t mention any intention to harm other people in his email. The city\'s health services had also been in touch with the man, but authorities didn\'t say why. Germany has very strict privacy laws on medical issues.Authorities still appeared stumped about the man\'s motive for the attack."We have no indications that there is a political background or that others were involved" in Saturday\'s deadly crash, prosecutor Elke Adomeit told reporters. "But he was well known to the police."She said the man had three previous court procedures in Muenster and two in nearby Arnsberg in 2015 and 2016. His run-ins with the law regarded threats, property damage, fraud, a hit-and-run and domestic conflicts with his family, but Adomeit said that all charges were dismissed.Authorities have identified the two victims killed by the van crash as a 51-year-old woman from Lueneburg county, 300 kilometers (186 miles) to the northeast, and a 65-year-old man from nearby Borken county. Their names were not released, as is customary in Germany.Early Sunday, all three bodies were taken from the crash scene in front of the well-known Kiepenkerl pub. The silver-grey van that crashed into the crowd was hauled away hours later, after explosives experts had thoroughly checked it.Inside the van, police found illegal firecrackers that were disguised as a fake bomb, a fake pistol and the real gun that the driver used to kill himself with.Inside the apartment where the man was living, which was near the crash scene, police found more firecrackers and a "no-longer usable AK-47 machine gun." Police also found several gas bottles and canisters containing gasoline and bio-ethanol, but did not know yet why they were stored there."We are now focusing our investigations on getting a comprehensive picture of the perpetrator\'s behavior in the weeks (before the crash) to find out his motivation for this horrible act," Kuhlisch said in the statement.Officials said some of the 20 injured were still in life-threatening condition Sunday. They have not identified them, but Armin Laschet, the governor of North Rhine-Westphalia state  said they included Dutch citizens."This was a horrible and sad day for the people of Muenster, all of Germany ... and also the people of The Netherlands, who were sitting here and became victims," he said as he toured the scene Sunday.At a hastily announced memorial put together by Catholics and Lutherans Sunday night, Muenster\'s Roman Catholic bishop urged mourners to try to understand the crash, with God\'s help.Bishop Felix Genn preached Sunday night at the city\'s famous Paulus Cathedral, where the 700 seats were packed. Rescue personnel, emergency doctors and firefighters were among those attending the service.Muenster is a popular tourist destination known for its medieval old town, which was rebuilt after massive destruction during World War II. The city was buzzing on Saturday  one of the first warm spring days of the year  and scores of people were sitting in the square outside the famous Kiepenkerl pub when the van driver struck."This cowardly and brutal crime has shocked all of us," said German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, who placed flowers at the crash site Sunday.___Grieshaber reported from Berlin.
BEIRUT   An alleged gas attack killed at least 40 people in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, local responders said on Sunday. Syrian state media, meanwhile, reported that rebels there have agreed to give up their last foothold in the area.First responders and a relief organization said they found families suffocated in their homes and shelters in the besieged town of Douma, with foam on their mouths.They did not identify the substance used, but the Syrian Civil Defense and the Syrian American Medical Society said survivors treated at clinics smelled strongly of chlorine.The reports, which started circulating late Saturday, could not be independently verified, and the government denied allegations it had used chemical weapon in its assault on the town.Meanwhile, state news agency SANA said the Army of Islam group agreed to leave Douma on Sunday, after three days of intensive government shelling and bombardment.SANA said buses had been sent to the town to pick up prisoners released by the militants and to transport rebel fighters to opposition-held territory in north Syria.The Army of Islam could not be immediately reached for comment.Talks to surrender Douma collapsed on Friday, leading to the government to restart its campaign to take the town after ten days of calm.Late Saturday, first responders reported they were treating residents for poison gas exposure.The Syrian Civil Defense first responder group documented 42 fatalities but was impeded from searching further by strong odors that gave their rescuers difficulties breathing, said Siraj Mahmoud, a spokesman for the group, which is known as the White Helmets.Douma has been devastated by close to five years of siege at the hands of government forces. It was once one of the hubs of the 2011 Arab Spring-styled uprising against President Bashar Assad\'s government.In recent weeks, government forces have recaptured villages and towns in the eastern Ghouta suburbs of the capital. Douma is the only town left holding out.A joint statement by the Civil Defense and the Syrian American Medical Society, a relief organization, said that more than 500 people, mostly women and children, were brought to medical centers with difficulty breathing, foaming at the mouth, and burning sensations in the eyes. It said patients gave off a chlorine-like smell. Some had bluish skin, a sign of oxygen deprivation.It said the symptoms were consistent with chemical exposure. One patient, a woman, had convulsions and pinpoint pupils, suggesting exposure to a nerve agent.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said at least 80 people were killed in Douma on Saturday, including around 40 who died from suffocation. But it said the suffocations were the result of shelters collapsing on people inside them."Until this minute, no one has been able to find out the kind of agent that was used," said Mahmoud, the White Helmets\' spokesman, in a video statement from Syria.He said the government was also targeting homes, clinics, and first responder facilities with conventional explosives and barrel bombs. Most of the medical points and ambulances of the town have been put out of service.Videos posted online by the White Helmets showed victims, including toddlers in diapers, breathing through oxygen masks at makeshift hospitals.The Syrian government, in a statement posted on the state-run news agency SANA, strongly denied the allegations. It said the claims were "fabrications" by the Army of Islam, calling it a "failed attempt" to impede government advances."The army, which is advancing rapidly and with determination, does not need to use any kind of chemical agents," the statement said.The Army of Islam was negotiating with Russia, an ally of Damascus, to withdraw its fighters and allow government institutions back into the town, according to the Observatory. An agreement was said to have Russia deploy its military police to take guardianship of the town as Army of Islam fighters handed over their heavy weapons, the group added, but those talks collapsed on Friday, prompting the government to start shelling and bombing Douma indiscriminately.Hundreds of fighters and their relatives had already left Douma for rebel-held areas in northern Syria.The alleged gas attack in Douma comes almost exactly a year after a chemical attack in the northern Syrian town of Khan Sheikhoun killed dozens of people. That attack prompted the U.S. to launch several dozen Tomahawk cruise missiles at a Syrian air base. President Donald Trump said the attack was meant to deter further Syrian use of illegal weapons.U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said that Washington was closely following "disturbing reports" of the alleged chemical weapons attack in Douma."These reports, if confirmed, are horrifying and demand an immediate response by the international community," she said in a statement late Saturday.The Syrian government and its ally, Russia, denied any involvement in the alleged gas attack.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko was quoted by Russian news agencies on Sunday as saying Russia was prepared to send specialists to Douma to "confirm the fabricated nature" of the reports.A chemical attack in eastern Ghouta in 2013 that was widely blamed on government forces killed hundreds of people, prompting the U.S. to threaten military action before later backing down.Syria denies ever using chemical weapons during the seven-year civil war, and says it eliminated its chemical arsenal under a 2013 agreement brokered by the U.S. and Russia after the attack in eastern Ghouta.___Associated Press writer James Heintz in Moscow contributed to this report.
Today in HistoryToday is Sunday, April 8, the 98th day of 2018. There are 267 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 8, 1974, Hank Aaron of the Atlanta Braves hit his 715th career home run in a game against the Los Angeles Dodgers, breaking Babe Ruth\'s record.On this date:In 1820, the Venus de Milo statue was discovered by a farmer on the Greek island of Milos.In 1864, the United States Senate passed, 38-6, the 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution abolishing slavery. (The House of Representatives passed it in January 1865; the amendment was ratified and adopted in December 1865.)In 1913, the 17th Amendment to the Constitution, providing for popular election of U.S. senators (as opposed to appointment by state legislatures), was ratified. President Woodrow Wilson became the first chief executive since John Adams to address Congress in person as he asked lawmakers to enact tariff reform.In 1935, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Emergency Relief Appropriations Act, which provided money for programs such as the Works Progress Administration.In 1946, the League of Nations assembled in Geneva for its final session.In 1952, President Harry S. Truman seized the American steel industry to avert a nationwide strike. (The Supreme Court later ruled that Truman had overstepped his authority, opening the way for a seven-week strike by steelworkers.)In 1961, a suspected bomb exploded aboard the passenger liner MV Dara in the Persian Gulf, causing it to sink; 238 of the 819 people aboard were killed.In 1973, artist Pablo Picasso died in Mougins (MOO\'-zhun), France, at age 91.In 1988, TV evangelist Jimmy Swaggart resigned from the Assemblies of God after he was defrocked for rejecting an order from the church\'s national leaders to stop preaching for a year amid reports he had consorted with a prostitute.In 1993, singer Marian Anderson died in Portland, Oregon, at age 96.In 1994, Kurt Cobain, singer and guitarist for the grunge band Nirvana, was found dead in Seattle from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound; he was 27.In 2003, kidnapper-rapist John Jamelske, who had imprisoned five women and girls, one after another, as sex slaves inside a makeshift dungeon in his DeWitt, New York, home, was arrested. (Jamelske, who pleaded guilty to five counts of first-degree kidnapping, is serving an 18 years-to-life sentence in a maximum security prison.)Ten years ago: The top U.S. commander in Iraq, Army Gen. David Petraeus, told Congress that hard-won gains in the war zone were too fragile to promise any troop pullouts beyond the summer as he held his ground against impatient Democrats and refused to commit to more withdrawals before President George W. Bush left office in January 2009. American Airlines grounded all 300 of its MD-80 jetliners amid safety concerns about wiring bundles; the carrier ended up canceling more than 3,000 flights over the next four days. Tennessee captured its eighth women\'s NCAA championship with a 64-48 victory over Stanford.Five years ago: President Barack Obama warned Congress not to use delaying tactics against tighter gun regulations and told families of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting victims during a visit to Hartford, Connecticut, that he was "determined as ever" to honor their children with tougher laws. Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, 87, died in London. Actress and former Disney "Mouseketeer" Annette Funicello, 70, died in Bakersfield, California. Rick Pitino, who coached Louisville in the NCAA championship game, was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame along with former NBA stars Bernard King and Gary Payton, former UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian, North Carolina women\'s coach Sylvia Hatchell, former University of Houston coach Guy Lewis and former University of Virginia star Dawn Staley.One year ago: Immigrant workers at the famed Tom Cat Bakery in New York who were threatened with being fired if they didn\'t produce legal work papers defied the government by rallying outside President Donald Trump\'s Manhattan home.Today\'s Birthdays: Comedian Shecky Greene is 92. Author and Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter Seymour Hersh is 81. Former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan is 80. Basketball Hall of Famer John Havlicek is 78. "Mouseketeer" Darlene Gillespie is 77. Singer Peggy Lennon (The Lennon Sisters) is 77. Songwriter-producer Leon Huff is 76. Actor Stuart Pankin is 72. Rock musician Steve Howe is 71. Former House Republican Leader Tom DeLay is 71. Movie director John Madden is 69. Rock musician Mel Schacher (Grand Funk Railroad) is 67. Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., is 63. Actor John Schneider is 58. "Survivor" winner Richard Hatch is 57. Rock musician Izzy Stradlin is 56. Singer Julian Lennon is 55. Actor Dean Norris is 55. Rock singer-musician Donita Sparks is 55. Rapper Biz Markie is 54. Actress Robin Wright is 52. Actress Patricia Arquette is 50. Actor JR Bourne is 48. Rock singer Craig Honeycutt (Everything) is 48. Rock musician Darren Jessee is 47. Actress Emma Caulfield is 45. Actress Katee Sackhoff is 38. Actor Taylor Kitsch is 37. Rock singer-musician Ezra Koenig (Vampire Weekend) is 34. Actor Taran Noah Smith is 34. Actress Kirsten Storms is 34. Rock musician Jamie Sierota is 25. Actress Sadie Calvano is 21.Thought for Today: "The truth is always something that is told, not something that is known. If there were no speaking or writing, there would be no truth about anything."  Susan Sontag, American author and critic (1933-2004).
BEIRUT, Lebanon  Dozens of Syrians choked to death after a suspected chemical attack struck the rebel-held suburb of Douma, east of Damascus, and aid groups on Sunday blamed President Bashar al-Assads government for the assault.The attack after dusk on Saturday sent a stream of patients with burning eyes and breathing problems to clinics, medical and rescue groups said. Western governments expressed alarm at the attack, with the British Foreign Office calling for an urgent investigation and saying that if the use of chemical weapons proved to be true, it is further proof of Assads brutality.The United States government said it was working to verify that chemical weapons had been used. A new, confirmed chemical attack in Syria would pose a dilemma for President Trump, who ordered military strikes on a Syrian air base after a chemical attack last year to punish Mr. Assad but has more recently said he wants to get the United States out of Syria.In posts on Twitter on Sunday, Mr. Trump condemned what he called a mindless CHEMICAL attack on women and children, blaming Iran and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia for supporting the Syrian government.Big Price, Mr. Trump wrote, without expanding further. But the White Houses Homeland Security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, said on ABCs This Week program that nothing should be taken off the table.Mr. Trump also took a jab at former President Barack Obama, who declined to respond militarily to evidence that the Syrian government had gassed its own people.If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been history! Mr. Trump tweeted.After the latest attack, rescue workers in Syria reported finding at least 42 people dead in their homes from apparent suffocation. Antigovernment activists circulated videos of lifeless men, women and children sprawled out on floors and in stairwells, many with white foam coming from their mouths and nostrils.State news media in Syria denied that government forces had used chemical weapons and accused the Islamist rebel group that controls Douma, the Army of Islam, of fabricating the videos to solicit international support as defeat loomed.The Russian Foreign and Defense Ministries also denied that chemical weapons had been used.It was not possible to independently verify the reports because Douma is surrounded by Syrian government forces, which prevent access by journalists, aid workers and investigators.The attack occurred near the end of a monthslong push by the Syrian government to retake a group of towns east of Damascus known as Eastern Ghouta. The towns have been held by rebels seeking to topple Mr. Assad since the early years of the Syrian civil war, and the rebels have often shelled Damascus, killing civilians.The Syrian government and its allies  the Russian military and militias backed by Iran  have surrounded and bombarded the area, killing more than 1,600 people and forcing tens of thousands to flee, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the conflict from Britain through contacts in Syria.Douma is the last remaining town still controlled by rebels in the area, and the Syrian government has vowed to retake it.A day earlier, after the government began a new offensive against the area, Hussein Mortada, a Lebanese reporter who supports the Syrian government, released a video of himself on a hill near Douma as columns of smoke from government attacks rose in the background.These are appetizers, he said. The story is bigger than a ground invasion. There is something they will see today if the story continues. They will feel something very strong.The intensity of the shelling and airstrikes caused many residents to seek safety in basements, which could have made them more vulnerable to poisonous gases.On Saturday afternoon, 15 people, including women and children, reported breathing problems after an airstrike in their area, Mahmoud Aadam a spokesman for the Syrian Civil Defense, the so-called White Helmets, who rescue people in the wake of airstrikes, said via Facebook Live on Sunday.Then, after dark, a government helicopter dropped exploding barrels that dispersed an unknown chemical substance that affected many more people, Mr. Aadam said. The continued assaults made it hard for rescue workers to look for victims, he said, meaning that it was difficult to establish a comprehensive death toll.As of Sunday morning, rescue workers were going into homes and finding people dead, he said.In a joint statement, the Syrian Civil Defense and the Syrian American Medical Society, which supports clinics in opposition areas of Syria, said that more than 500 people had gone to medical centers after the assault with symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent. Those symptoms included including trouble breathing, foaming at the mouth, burning eyes and the emission of a chlorine-like odor.One person was dead on arrival at a clinic, six others died after they got there, and rescue workers reported finding more than 42 dead in their homes, the statement said. The bodies could not be evacuated because of strong odors and a lack of protective equipment.The reported symptoms indicate that the victims suffocated from the exposure to toxic chemicals, the statement said.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which did not confirm the use of chemical agents, said that 56 people, including women and children, had been killed in the past 24 hours, including 21 who suffocated in the basements of buildings that had collapsed on them. About 500 others were wounded in the bombardment, and 70 had breathing troubles, the group said.The Assad regime and its backers must be held accountable, and any further attacks prevented immediately, a State Department spokeswoman, Heather Nauert, said in a statement. Ms. Nauert noted a sarin gas attack in April 2017 in northwestern Syria that the United States and the United Nations blamed on the Syrian government.The United States calls on Russia to end this unmitigated support immediately and work with the international community to prevent further, barbaric chemical weapons attacks, Ms. Nauert said.Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian of France on Sunday said reports of the chemical attack were extremely worrying and called for the United Nations Security Council to meet quickly to examine the situation.The Russian Foreign Ministry dismissed the reports as fake.The spread of bogus stories about the use of chlorine and other poisonous substances by government forces continues, the ministry said in a statement. The aim of such deceitful speculation, lacking any kind of grounding, is to shield terrorists, it added, and to attempt to justify possible external uses of force.Bahram Qasemi, the spokesman for Irans Foreign Ministry, said on Sunday reports of the gas attack were not based on facts and were an an excuse by the United States and Western countries to take military action against Damascus, the official Iranian news agency IRNA reported.Mr. Obama struggled with how to respond to such attacks in Syria. After declaring the use of chemical weapons a red line, he declined to respond militarily when a chemical attack by the Syrian government in 2013 killed more than 1,400 people near Damascus, according to a United States assessment.Instead, the United States and Russia reached an agreement to have Syria surrender its chemical weapons stockpiles and dismantle its capabilities to make new ones.The agreement was celebrated at the time, but multiple chemical attacks since then have been blamed on the Syrian government, raising questions about how effective the agreement was.
NEW YORK   John Krasinski\'s "A Quiet Place" made a thunderous debut at the box office, opening with $50 million in ticket sales and rumbling to the year\'s second-best weekend after "Black Panther," according to studio estimates Sunday.The Paramount Pictures thriller far exceeded expectations to land one of the top opening weekends for a horror release. It marks an unlikely breakthrough for Krasinski, the former "Office" star many associate more with inter-office romance and deadpan expressions than silent cinematic frights. Krasinski\'s third directing effort, which stars himself and wife Emily Blunt is about a family in a future dystopia populated by violent creatures with extremely acute hearing.But it was far from the only success story on the weekend, which also saw Universal\'s R-rated comedy "Blockers" open solidly with $21.4 million, Steven Spielberg\'s virtual-reality adventure "Ready Player One" dip only 40 percent with $25.1 million in its second weekend and the period docudrama "Chappaquiddick" beat expectations with a debut of $6.2 million. In limited release, Wes Anderson\'s "Isle of Dogs," Lynne Ramsay\'s "You Were Never Really Here" and Andrew Haigh\'s "Lean on Pete" all did well, too.For one weekend, at least, just about everything Hollywood could throw at moviegoers worked. The weekend was up 35.3 percent from last year.But nothing approached the runaway success of "A Quiet Place." Hollywood had forecast closer to $30 million for the film, which cost just $17 million to make. Yet "A Quiet Place" rode strong buzz from its SXSW premiere in March, good reviews (97 percent fresh on Rotten Tomatoes) and moviegoers\' continuing thirst for horror."We always knew we had something special from the first screenings. But you don\'t get to a number like this without breaking free of the genre. I think this is about great storytelling," said Kyle Davies, head of domestic distribution for Paramount, who heaped praise on Krasinski. "We\'re looking forward to what else he has up his sleeve.""A Quiet Place" is also a badly needed hit for Paramount, which has struggled mightily at the box office in recent years while its ownership has sometimes been in limbo. Earlier this week, CBS Corp. submitted a bid to acquire Viacom Inc., Paramount\'s parent company.Though greenlit under the previous leadership, "A Quiet Place" is the first major success under Jim Gianopulos, who took over as studio head a year ago. The opening is Paramount\'s biggest since 2016\'s "Star Trek Beyond" and its best non-franchise opening since 2013\'s "World War Z.""Blockers" also heralds a filmmaking breakthrough aided by an enthusiastic response from SXSW audiences. The film, which cost about $21 million to make, is the directorial debut of Kay Cannon, a writer whose credits include "30 Rock" and "Pitch Perfect." \'\'Blockers," starring Leslie Mann, John Cena and Ike Barinholtz as parents trying to prevent their daughters from losing their virginity, shrugged off a recent slump for comedies in theaters."Kay Cannon knocked it out of the park," said Jim Orr, distribution head for Universal, who credited Cannon with inverting the "double standards" of the teen sex comedy. "We could not be more pleased."Despite the competition, Warner Bros.\' "Ready Player One" held well, bringing its domestic total to $96.9 million. But it\'s fared even better overseas, where Spielberg\'s latest has already grossed $294.4 million. It\'s done especially well in China, where the film has made $161.3 million in two weeks.Continuing ticket sales also pushed Ryan Coogler\'s "Black Panther" further into the record books. The Marvel blockbuster now ranks third all-time domestically with $665.4 million, trailing only "Avatar" and "Star Wars: The Force Awakens." Over the weekend, "Black Panther" passed 1997\'s "Titanic," which grossed $659.4 million, though accounting for inflation would put it above $1 billion.John Curran\'s "Chappaquiddick," about the 1969 Ted Kennedy scandal, opened with $6.2 million in 1,560 theaters. The film, starring Jason Clarke as Kennedy, was acquired by Byron Allen\'s Entertainment Studios at last fall\'s Toronto International Film Festival. Originally planned for an awards season release, the move to spring seemed to give "Chappaquiddick" a better chance to stand out.In its third weekend, Fox Searchlight\'s "Isle of Dogs" grossed $4.6 million in 554 theaters. LD Entertainment\'s "The Miracle Season," about an inspirational season for a girls\' high-school volleyball team, opened with $4.1 million.With one of the best per-theater performances of the year, Amazon\'s "You Were Never Really Here," starring Joaquin Phoenix, opened with $129,911 in three theaters. A24\'s "Lean on Pete," with Charlie Plummer, debuted with $50,118 on four screens."Everyone kind of won this weekend," said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for comScore. "This is the kind of weekend that Hollywood should try to recreate over and over again. The diversity of the lineup and the originality of the films drove huge numbers of moviegoers to the multiplex."Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to comScore. Where available, the latest international numbers also are included. Final three-day domestic figures will be released Monday.1. "A Quiet Place," $50 million ($21 million international).2. "Ready Player One," $25.1 million ($81.7 million international).3. "Blockers," $21.4 million ($3.2 million international).4. "Black Panther," $8.4 million ($4.5 million international).5. "I Can Only Imagine," $8.4 million.6. "Tyler Perry\'s Acrimony," $8.1 million.7. "Chappaquiddick," $6.2 million.8. "Sherlock Gnomes," $5.6 million ($2.7 million international).9. "Pacific Rim Uprising," $4.9 million ($12.4 million international).10. "Isle of Dogs," $4.6 million ($1.1 million international).___Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and Canada), according to comScore:1. "Ready Player One," $81.7 million.2. "A Quiet Place," $21 million.3. "Peter Rabbit," $19.2 million.4. "Pacific Rim Uprising," $12.4 million.5. "Hindi Medium," $11.7 million.6. "Tomb Raider," $4.9 million.7. "Gonjiam: Haunted Asylum," $4.9 million.8. "What a Man Wants," $4.7 million.9. "Baaghi 2," $4.6 million.10. "Black Panther," $4.5 million.___This story has been updated to correct the spelling of John Krasinski\'s last name in three references.___
