
MONTPELIER, Vt.   Two separate bills design to further help prevent gun violence in Vermont were unanimously approved by the Vermont Legislature on Thursday and Gov. Phil Scott said he will sign them along with another more controversial piece of legislation.On Thursday, the Senate voted 30-0 for a law designed to make it easier for police to take firearms from people in dangerous situations, such as when a person is deemed suicidal. The House voted 133-0 in favor of a separate bill that makes it easier for police to remove firearms from people suspected in cases of domestic violence.Neither piece of legislation drew the ire of gun rights supporters in the way as the legislation passed last week that would raise the legal age for gun purchases, expand background checks for private gun sales and ban high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks.Scott, speaking Thursday at a Statehouse news conference, said he planned to sign the three bills into law in a single ceremony. Timing is uncertain. But he said more needed to be done to prevent gun violence."This is an issue that we are all facing and it\'s going to take a lot of additional steps," said Scott.An assessment he ordered on school safety has been completed and he is expecting recommendations soon.Vermont traditionally has some of the least restrictive gun laws in the country. But Scott, a gun-owner and long-time opponent of guns restrictions, changed his mind after a Poultney teenager was arrested on charges he planned to kill as many people as possible at a high school he once attended. The teen\'s arrest came a day after the Parkland, Florida, shooting that killed 17.Scott then urged the Legislature to pass gun restrictions as part of a broader package of ideas to reduce school violence.The two pieces of legislation that were given final approval Thursday even won the support of many gun-rights advocates.But the bill that would raise the age to buy firearms and impose other restrictions is fiercely opposed by gun rights groups. Many gun supporters have become a presence at the Statehouse.On Thursday, Bert Saldi, of Barre, a regular gun supporter at the Statehouse, said he didn\'t think the bill passed last week would do anything to reduce violence."It\'s crazy because none of it is going to work," Saldi said.
BlackRock may have found a simple solution to its gun dilemma. The fund manager, led by Laurence D. Fink, will offer new products allowing individuals and institutions to invest in market indexes without putting money into manufacturers and retailers of firearms. Coupled with a plan to engage public gunmakers and sellers directly, the decision moves Mr. Fink closer to fulfilling a promise that BlackRocks business benefit society alongside the bottom line.Because it has over $6 trillion of client money to invest, much of it in products that follow stock and bond market indexes, BlackRock is among the top owners of nearly every public company. That includes American Outdoor Brands, maker of the AR-15-style rifle used to murder 17 high school students and their teachers in Parkland, Fla., in February. And that put Mr. Fink, who has urged companies to serve a social purpose, in an uncomfortable position at a time of mass demonstrations and consumer boycotts over gun violence.On Thursday, his firm unveiled a range of index products that will enable investors to withhold their support for gunmakers and sellers. They include an exchange-traded fund that will track the performance of the MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index, composed of small stocks with favorable environmental, social and governance standards, while specifically excluding producers and large retailers of civilian firearms. It will also offer a similar credit-focused E.T.F. that eschews the debt of gunmakers and distributors.Perhaps more significant, BlackRock will offer an option to take the guns out of institutional strategies tracking major market indexes, including the Standard & Poors 500, the Russell 2000 and three others. The reason: Amid the debate over gun safety that the Parkland tragedy has unleashed, many pension funds and company 401(k) plans have been looking to disarm, largely in response to the demand of their own members.BlackRocks moves may spark criticism from gun-rights supporters, who lashed out at companies, like Delta Air Lines, that severed ties with the National Rifle Association. But its hard to see how offering customers more choice is ever a bad idea. Moreover, by getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws  who it hopes will be customers for decades to come  that it has something for them. Far from virtue signaling, its simply good business.
SAN FRANCISCO   Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.Tech companies have largely avoided the topic of gun control in the United States, but they have previously pushed for progressive stances on other hot-topic issues, ranging from climate change to same-sex marriage and comprehensive immigration reform. At least three major chief executives took up gun control after the shooting.We cant keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it wont happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots, tweeted Twitter Inc and Square Inc CEO Jack Dorsey. Its beyond time to evolve our policies.Joining Dorsey were Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] CEO Dara Khosrowshahi and Box Inc CEO Aaron Levie, who respectively sent tweets on Tuesday saying #EndGunViolence and #NeverAgain, two Twitter hashtags commonly used by proponents of gun control.On behalf of the team at @Uber, sending support to everyone @YouTube and @Google, and gratitude to the heroic first responders, Khosrowshahi tweeted. Another tragedy that should push us again to #EndGunViolenceEmergency calls reporting gunfire in San Bruno, California, at the headquarters of Alphabet Incs YouTube began to pour in early Tuesday afternoon, according to the city of San Bruno. Authorities have not released the identities of the suspected shooter or the victims.The tweets on Thursday could be an indication that Silicon Valley may soon weigh in on the epidemic of mass killings by firearms in the United States.Incredibly sad to see the YouTube shooting today, Levie tweeted. Our thoughts are with our Google friends and their families. #NeverAgainSundar Pichai and Susan Wojcicki, the CEOs of Google and YouTube respectively, also issued statements on Tuesday while avoiding the topic of gun control."There are no words to describe how horrible it was to have an active shooter @YouTube today," Wojcicki said. "Our deepest gratitude to law enforcement & first responders for their rapid response. Our hearts go out to all those injured & impacted today. We will come together to heal as a family."Other tech leaders expressed sympathy for the employees of YouTube on social media on Tuesday without referencing gun control. Those included Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook, Amazon.com Inc CEO Jeff Bezos, Salesforce.com Inc CEO Marc Benioff and Facebook Inc Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg.From everyone at Apple, we send our sympathy and support to the team at YouTube and Google, especially the victims and their families, Cook said in a tweet.(Reporting by Salvador Rodriguez, editing by Peter Henderson and Lisa Shumaker)
NEW YORK   Police officers responding to reports of a man threatening people with a gun on Wednesday fatally shot a man carrying a metal pipe, mistaking it for a firearm, police said.It happened just before 5 p.m. in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn after three 911 callers said a "man was pointing a silver firearm at people on the street," according to NYPD Chief of Department Terence Monahan.Five officers, three in plainclothes and two in uniform, responded and encountered a man matching the description in the 911 calls."The suspect took a two-handed shooting stance and pointed an object at the approaching officers, two of whom were in uniform, said Monahan.Four of the officers then fired a total of 10 rounds, striking the man, who was later found to be holding a "pipe with some sort of knob at the end," he said.The unidentified man was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Four officers were treated for minor injuries.Dozens of police cars converged on the area, and a crowd of about 200 people gathered around the cordoned-off intersection, said 33-year-old resident Shaya Tenenbaum, who added that a few people in the crowd shouted at police.Andre Wilson, 38, told the Daily News that he has known the victim for 20 years, describing him as a quirky neighborhood character."All he did was just walk around the neighborhood," he said. "He speaks to himself, usually he has an orange Bible or a rosary in his hand. He never had a problem with anyone."Wilson said he was shocked that it would come to this."The officers from the neighborhood, they know him. He has no issue with violence. Everybody just knows he\'s just mentally challenged. This shouldn\'t have happened at all."The shooting comes after the police killing of an unarmed black man on March 18 in Sacramento, California, sparked two weeks of protests and calls for police reform.Stephon Clark, 22, was shot by officers responding to a report of someone breaking car windows. Police said they thought he had a gun, but he was carrying only a cellphone.In a private autopsy commissioned by Clark\'s family, prominent pathologist Dr. Bennet Omalu announced that Clark was hit by eight bullets  six in the back, one in the neck and one in the thigh  and took three to 10 minutes to die. Police waited about five minutes before rendering medical aid.
Paul Le Roux, one of the worlds least known but most prodigious criminals, emerged from the shadows this week and testified for the first time about the myriad illegal schemes he committed in his 20-year career on the wrong side of the law.In a spellbinding two-day turn as a prosecution witness, Mr. Le Roux confessed to an astonishing array of crimes. He said he had once sold missile technology to Iran, shipped guns from Indonesia, and trafficked methamphetamines out of North Korea. He calmly told a jury in New York that he had taken part in at least five murders. With a businesslike demeanor, he admitted not only to arming a 200-man militia in Somalia but also to hatching plans to use mercenaries to overthrow the government of the Seychelles.When a prosecutor asked what he had smuggled over the years, Mr. Le Roux responded without affect: Cash, chemicals, drugs and gold. He said that he had also smuggled weapons and when asked to whom, he answered: Rebels, warlords, criminals  essentially anyone who had money.A South African businessman with illicit interests that spanned four continents, Mr. Le Roux recounted all of this at the murder conspiracy trial of three soldiers-of-fortune  on his payroll who stand accused of killing a Filipino real-estate agent in 2012. The agent, Catherine Lee, was shot in the face while taking two of the defendants, Adam Samia and Carl D. Stillwell, on a tour of properties near Manila, prosecutors say, after which her body was dumped on a pile of garbage. Joseph Hunter, the third defendant at the trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan, was charged with overseeing the assassination.Silver-haired and hulking in his prison-issue shirt, Mr. Le Roux spoke about Ms. Lee in his first few moments on the stand, saying he had ordered her murder because he believed she had stolen from him. I had her killed, he said matter-of-factly, adding that Mr. Hunter handled the details and that Mr. Samia and a partner did the actual work.The chilling testimony was part of Mr. Le Rouxs cooperation with the government. In late 2012, he was arrested by the Drug Enforcement Administration after being lured to Liberia. Ever since, Mr. Le Roux, 45, has been assisting the authorities in rounding up the members of his sprawling organization in an effort to reduce a possible life sentence.In 2013, he helped the D.E.A. launch a sting operation in Thailand that led to Mr. Hunters first arrest and eventual sentence of 20 years in prison. In that case, the drug agency caught Mr. Hunter and three others agreeing to murder one of its agents and an informant. Because the charges included a plot to bring cocaine to New York, the case was handled by prosecutors in Manhattan. They are also handling Ms. Lees murder, claiming it evolved from the same investigation.The trial so far has focused on the car bombs, arsons and assassinations that Mr. Le Roux employed to protect his smuggling routes  violence that was previewed so unnervingly in opening arguments on Tuesday that a juror told the judge she feared for her safety and was excused the following day.The trial has also pulled back the veil on the covert world of mercenary work. Mr. Le Roux testified that he paid his guns-for-hire $5,000 to $10,000 a month, plus expenses. He said he paid an extra $25,000 for bonus work, which he described as acts of killing and any other acts of violence.The word mercenary, he explained, means a trained person with military experience and an aggressive posture who will beat, shoot, intimidate or kill anyone on instruction.On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Le Roux said that for two years his chief mercenary was a man named David Smith who in 2008 formed a company called Echelon Associates to recruit what amounted to a private Praetorian guard. Its members traveled the globe  from Mozambique to Papua New Guinea  often using false passports and code names like Daddy Mac and Rambo to scout locations for Mr. Le Roux, watch his assets and maim or murder on his behalf.Among those murdered was Mr. Smith, Mr. Le Roux admitted. He said he had his henchman killed in 2010 after finding out that Mr. Smith was cheating him. Mr. Le Roux subsequently named Mr. Hunter his security chief.A former Army sergeant with Special Forces training, Mr. Hunter, 52, had served in the military and with two private security firms in Iraq. During the sting in Thailand, he was caught on camera boasting of the vicious acts he committed for Mr. Le Roux: how he waterboarded one man, shot a second in the hand and pitched a third  another suspected thief  overboard at sea.On Thursday, Mr. Le Roux testified that after two men on his hit team  a gunman from New Zealand and a former member of the French Foreign Legion  quit their jobs, he instructed Mr. Hunter to replace them. Mr. Hunter, emails show, reached out to Mr. Samia, a onetime Army sniper, who lived near Mr. Stillwell, a firearms instructor, in the small town of Roxboro, N.C.Flight records indicate that Mr. Samia, 43, and Mr. Stillwell, 50, flew to Manila in January 2011, where, Mr. Le Roux recalled, he supplied the men with a rifle (for long shots), a pistol (for close-range shots) and an MP5 submachine gun from a weapons warehouse he maintained. He also gave them Ms. Lees address.One month later, Mr. Le Roux said, the two men followed the plan he had concocted: posing as real-estate buyers, they lured Ms. Lee in a Toyota van into the countryside near Las Pias. Mr. Stillwell later told the D.E.A. that he was driving the van as Mr. Samia fired the pistol into Ms. Lees face.In early March, Mr. Hunter drove both men to the airport and put them on a plane, Mr. Le Roux said. Three years later, the D.E.A. tracked them down in Roxboro  with arrest warrants.
LONDON   Friends say Israel Ogunsola was a bubbly young man with a knack for making people laugh.This week the 18-year-old was stabbed to death, becoming London\'s 53rd murder victim of 2018. The British capital is being shaken by a spike in deadly violence, much of it involving young people with knives caught up in gang feuds.The causes are disputed and so are the solutions. But the pain is raw."I\'m still in disbelief, because I don\'t understand why," said 19-year-old Nella Panda, standing beside a police cordon in the east London borough of Hackney, yards (meters) from where Ogunsola collapsed on Wednesday evening. Police and an off-duty paramedic battled to save him, but he was pronounced dead 25 minutes later."He was just a nice bubbly person," Panda said Thursday. "He made friends with everybody ... it was always a good time when you was with him."Ogunsola was the 12th teenager to die violently in London since January. Many of those arrested for the killings are also in their teens and 20s.Most of the city\'s murder victims were stabbed to death. Guns are tightly restricted in Britain and shootings are relatively rare.If the bloody trend continues, London will far surpass the 130 murders in 2017 and reach a number not seen since the early 2000s.In February and March, London hit the unwanted milestone of recording more homicides than New York. The cities are roughly the same size, with more than 8 million people, and have similar extremes of poverty and wealth, but London has never recorded more murders in a year than the U.S. metropolis. New York had 290 homicides in 2017, the lowest number in decades.Police and community workers say London\'s surge in violence is partly driven by battles over control of the illegal drug trade and a "postcode war" between street gangs. Some victims were targeted, while others may have been in the wrong place at the wrong time  such as 17-year-old Tanesha Melbourne, killed in a drive-by shooting on Monday as she hung out with friends.As well as multiple causes, there are multiple candidates to blame for the city\'s rising homicide rate.Some have criticized London Mayor Sadiq Khan, who oversees London\'s Metropolitan Police. But most of the police budget comes from the British government, which has cut funding to police forces by more than 20 percent since 2010.Khan said Thursday that rising crime is a national problem and "I can\'t solve it by myself.""Since I first became mayor, I have been saying to the government that it\'s not sustainable to make the level of cuts they have been making to London," he said.The deficit-cutting Conservative government has also slashed funding to local councils, which run many social services, leading to the closure of youth clubs, libraries and programs for young people.Money is not the only concern. Some argue that crime-fighting has been hampered by curbs to police stop-and-search powers  a decision made by then-Home Secretary Theresa May, who is now prime minister.Metropolitan Police Chief Cressida Dick has blamed social media for allowing disputes to escalate rapidly, taking young people "from slightly angry with each other to \'fight\' very quickly."Labour Party lawmaker David Lammy, whose Tottenham constituency in north London has seen four murders this year, blamed international gangs supplying the multi-billion dollar cocaine trade that he said made Britain "the drugs market of Europe.""Drugs are prolific," Lammy told the BBC. "It\'s like (food-delivery service) Deliveroo. They\'re as prolific as ordering a pizza. You can get them on Snapchat, WhatsApp. That in the end is driving the turf war and it\'s driving the culture of violence."Former police officer John Carnochan has seen a city in the grip of violence, and thinks he knows how it can be turned around.In the early 2000s, the Scottish city of Glasgow was known as the murder capital of Britain. In 2005, Carnochan co-founded the Violence Reduction Unit, which decided to treat violence as a public health issue, rather than simply as a law-and-order problem."It gave us a new language. We could start to speak about prevention," said Carnochan. "Because law and order, criminal justice, didn\'t think about prevention. Our idea of prevention was an alarm, or bars on your windows."In Glasgow, prevention meant police working alongside teachers, social workers and others to "share the problem out" and find solutions. It also meant going to the young men involved in violence and offering alternatives  something many eagerly seized."When you say it out loud it seems so obvious," Carnochan said. "If you are a young man leaving home every night and you feel you have to put a knife down the waistband of your trousers to go out, that can\'t be a good thing."Between 2005 and 2015, the number of murders in Glasgow fell by half. Carnochan thinks a similar approach would work in London.But solutions seem a long way off in Hackney, an area of poverty and gentrification, where public-housing blocks stand alongside million-pound ($1.4 million) Victorian houses and fashionable boutiques. Police have arrested two 17-year-olds in Ogunsola\'s death, but young people worry that more tit-for-tat violence will follow."People are just angry with life, and with this it\'s just going to make more people angry and it\'s just a continuous cycle of anger," said Panda, the victim\'s friend.She is mourning a friend she ran into just a few hours before he died and asking unanswerable questions. What if he had not been on that spot at that time? What if medical help had come sooner?"His mum and his dad could have been holding their son today in the hospital, instead of getting ready to bury him six feet under," she said.___Follow Jill Lawless on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/JillLawless
PARIS   French and Malian troops killed about 30 Islamist insurgents during a gunbattle in a region near the border with Niger, where Islamic State are known to be active, the French army said on Thursday.West Africa's arid Sahel region has seen a rise in violence by militant groups, some with links to al Qaeda and Islamic State, that is drawing an increasingly aggressive response from countries including France and the United States.It was a Mali-based al Qaeda affiliate, Jama'a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM), that claimed responsibility for a March 2 assault on the French Embassy and army headquarters in Burkina Faso's capital that killed eight people.Colonel Patrik Steiger said soldiers from France's Barkhane force and Malian troops were on a reconnaissance mission 90 km (56 miles) south of Menaka on Sunday when they encountered several dozen Islamist fighters, some on motorcycles.A number of Malian soldiers died in the ensuing gunbattle, Steiger said, without giving more details. No French troops were hurt.Five countries - Burkina Faso, Niger, Chad, Mali and Mauritania - backed by France, launched a new taskforce last year to tackle Islamist militants in the region, to which international donors have committed half a billion dollars.(Reporting by Sophie Louet; Writing by Richard Lough; Editing by Richard Balmforth)
MIAMI   Someone gunned down businessman Derrick Moo Young and his adult son in room 1215 of the Dupont Plaza Hotel in October 1986 during the height of Miami\'s cocaine wars.But the man convicted of those slayings, 79-year-old British businessman Krishna Maharaj, has maintained his innocence throughout his three decades in prison. In a matter of months, Maharaj may get one last shot at convincing a federal judge he is innocent. And he will try to clear his name by pinning the crime on Pablo Escobar\'s Medellin cartel.Maharaj, who made a fortune in Britain with a fruit and vegetable import business, had relocated to South Florida in the early 1980s to invest in real estate. Young, who had met Maharaj in London, had offered to oversee the investments when Maharaj was out of town.At Maharaj\'s trial, prosecutors sought to show that Maharaj killed the Moo Youngs, who were Jamaican-Chinese associates, because of a vendetta involving a business dispute. They had testimony from a man who said he witnessed the killings and was kidnapped, as well as evidence that included the murder weapon, a 9mm Smith & Wesson, with a serial number somewhat consistent with a gun Maharaj had owned.However, an appeals court found that the serial number could apply to thousands of similar guns, "which was not strong evidence of guilt."Maharaj had no history of violence, and he has alibi witnesses who placed him miles away at the time of the slayings. He also has fresh evidence that he was set up to take the fall for the shootings, his lawyers said."This guy is patently, patently innocent," said Clive Stafford Smith, a London-based attorney with the human rights group Reprieve. "I don\'t know how long the justice system can put up with that."The office of Attorney General Pam Bondi has pointed out that seven courts have previously concluded that Maharaj\'s conviction should stand."Mr. Maharaj\'s evidence consists of vague allegations that invite inferences, and none of it comes together coherently without additional inferences. Only his conclusions fill the gap, but this court is not required to accept such conclusions," Assistant Attorney General Jeffrey Geldens wrote.The innocence claim by Maharaj, who was born in Trinidad and is a British citizen, has been championed by British media and politicians for years. In 2001, some 300 British politicians, church leaders and judges told former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush in a letter they found the conviction rife with flaws and demanded a new trial.Maharaj never got a new trial, but he did get his original death sentence reduced to life behind bars in 2002. He lost other appeals in the years to follow.More recently, his lawyers discovered that a purported Medellin cartel member was in the hotel room directly across the hall from the room in which the slayings occurred, according to court documents. That led to what the lawyers call a slew of new evidence about Escobar\'s involvement, even claims that the drug kingpin personally ordered the killings because the Moo Youngs were stealing from him.The evidence included statements from five people with connections to Escobar who recalled him saying the cartel was responsible for the Moo Young killings.One witness, Jorge Maya, a purported enforcer for the cartel, said it was well known that Escobar had a big problem with the Moo Youngs."Pablo Escobar was very angry with them. In fact, various people from Medellin were talking about the fact the Moo Youngs owed money," Maya said.In court papers, Maharaj\'s attorneys acknowledge he was in the room the day of the killings  but they say he was there several hours earlier for a meeting with someone that never materialized. Their theory is that he was lured to the phantom meeting as a setup to take the fall by the drug cartel.The man who set up that meeting, Neville Butler, told police that he saw Maharaj commit the crime in a supposed dispute over money. He said Maharaj also kidnapped him and has testified for the prosecution in several proceedings. Maharaj\'s lawyers claim Butler was part of the conspiracy to kill the Moo Youngs, failed a polygraph test and committed perjury multiple times.In addition, Maharaj has an alibi: He said he was 25 miles away in the Fort Lauderdale area before the Moo Young meeting and was seen by several people there that day.Maharaj was arrested that day having dinner at a Denny\'s restaurant with his wife and friends. He has been in prison ever since.The Maharaj lawyers took their new evidence to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which ruled in March 2017 that it was compelling enough that Maharaj deserved a chance to air his innocence claims before a judge. The case is now before Miami U.S. District Judge Jose Martinez. A final decision on Maharaj\'s fate is likely months away.Maharaj\'s Miami lawyer, Ben Kuehne, said Maharaj is in poor health and wants a decision as quickly as possible."We are pressing to have this done in as short of an order as possible," he said. "He cannot survive an intractable delay."___
URBANA, Ill.   A federal grand jury in central Illinois has indicted three men suspected of bombing a Minnesota mosque on a charge of possessing a machine gun. A fourth man not linked to the bombing was also indicted.Forty-seven-year-old Michael Hari, 29-year-old Michael McWhorter, 22-year-old Joe Morris and 18-year-old Ellis Mack were arrested on March 13 on the weapons charge. On the same day, Hari, McWorter and Morris, all of Clarence, Illinois, were charged in Minnesota with bombing the Dar al Farooq Islamic Center in Bloomington last August. The explosion caused fire damage, but no injuries.Wednesday's indictment alleges the four men possessed a machine gun from October 2017 through Feb. 27, 2018.U.S. attorney spokeswoman Sharon Paul says the dates of their initial appearances on the indictment have yet to be determined. It wasn't immediately known if the four have attorneys to comment on their behalf.
(Reuters) - New York police officers on Wednesday shot to death a black man who pointed a metal pipe at them, after responding to emergency callers who said the man was aiming a firearm at pedestrians, a police official said.The man took a two-handed shooting stance and pointed an object at police in the city\'s Brooklyn borough, and three plainclothes officers and one uniformed officer shot 10 times, Chief of Department Terence Monahan told a news conference."This was a call of a man pointing what 911 callers and people felt was a gun at people on the street," Monahan said. "When we encounter him, he turns with what appears to be a gun at officers."Video posted to social media showed a crowd gathered on the street after the shooting. Some yelled "oppressors" as they faced off against several officers standing on the other side of police tape.The shooting follows a number of killings of unarmed black men by police that triggered street protests and fueled a national debate about bias in the U.S. criminal justice system.Police were investigating, Monahan said, adding that surveillance video obtained from stores nearby showed the man brandishing an object that looked like a firearm.The man, whose name and age were not immediately released, was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead.A police shooting of an unarmed black man in Sacramento, California, has sparked several days of protests.In that incident, officers responding to a report of someone breaking windows shot to death 22-year-old Stephon Clark in his grandmother\'s backyard on March 18. The officers feared he had a gun, but he was found to have been holding a cellphone, Sacramento police have said.(Reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles; Editing by Ian Simpson in Washington)
NEW YORK   The New York State attorney general\'s office said on Thursday it would investigate the fatal shooting by police of an unarmed black man in Brooklyn after he pointed a metal pipe at officers that they believed was a gun."We\'re committed to conducting an independent, comprehensive and fair investigation," Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, said in a statement.The death of Saheed Vassell on Wednesday was the latest  fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by police, fueling more protests and heightening a nationwide debate over the use of excessive force by police and accusations of racial bias in the criminal justice system.More than 200 demonstrators and activists took to the streets of the Crown Heights neighborhood in which Vassell was shot, chanting Justice for Saheed."They murdered my son and I want justice for him," Lorna Vassell, his mother, said at the protest.The family has demanded a coroner\'s inquest.Police said Vassell was killed by officers responding to reports of a man aiming a gun at pedestrians. When the officers arrived, police said, Vassell took a two-handed shooting stance and pointed an object at them.The officers believed the suspect was holding a firearm, a senior police official told a news conference on Wednesday, and three plainclothes officers and one uniformed officer fired 10 shots. Vassell died in a hospital.Police on Thursday released security camera footage that showed Vassell approaching people on the street and pointing the pipe at them as if it were a pistol. They also released partial transcripts of three 911 emergency calls."There\'s a guy walking around the street, he looks like he\'s crazy but he\'s pointing something at people that looks like a gun and he\'s pulling the trigger," one of the callers said.Local media reported that Vassell was 34 years old, suffered from mental illness, and was well known in parts of Crown Heights.His killing followed the fatal shooting by police of an unarmed black man, Stephon Clark, 22, in Sacramento, California, that has sparked more than two weeks of demonstrations.Officers responding to a report of someone breaking windows killed Clark on March 18 in his grandmother\'s backyard. The officers feared he had a gun, but it turned out he was holding a cellphone, Sacramento police said.(Reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York; Additional reporting by Bernie Woodall in Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Editing by Daniel Wallis, Bill Trott, Tom Brown)
NEW YORK   The Latest on the fatal New York City police shooting of a man who was brandishing a metal pipe (all times local):9:45 p.m.Hundreds of New Yorkers have rallied in protest of the police shooting of a man who was brandishing an object that officers thought was a gun.The protesters lit candles and left flowers at the Thursday night vigil in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn where Saheed Vassell was shot seven to nine times after police say he crouched and pointed a metal pipe at responding officers.The victim\'s mother, Lorna Vassell, thanked the crowd and said her son came from a good home.The protesters then marched to a nearby police precinct, shouting "no justice, no peace!"Wednesday night\'s shooting happened as officers were responding to 911 callers reporting a man pointing a gun at people.Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio (dih BLAH\'-zee-oh) called the shooting a "tragedy" and said Vassell had "a profound mental health problem."___1:45 p.m.The New York Police Department says security video backs up claims a man killed by officers threatened people with what appeared at the time to be a gun.The video released Thursday shows Saheed Vassell aggressively pointing an object at pedestrians that turned out to be an L-shaped piece of pipe.Five officers responded to three 911 calls from a Brooklyn neighborhood on Wednesday about a man with a silver handgun. Police say four officers fired 10 rounds at Vassell after he crouched and pointed the object at them.A tense crowd gathered after the shooting, with some people shouting at officers.Mayor Bill de Blasio said in a news conference that the shooting was "a tragedy by any measure." He said Vassell had "a profound mental health problem."___12:30 p.m.New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio says the police shooting of a man who was brandishing a metal pipe was "a tragedy by any measure."De Blasio said Thursday that Saheed Vassell had "a profound mental health problem." But, he didn\'t lay blame on the officers.The Democratic mayor says people in the community thought Vassell had a weapon and was aiming it at residents.He and police officials said officers had to make a quick decision and were unaware of Vassell\'s history of mental illness.The mayor said police would disclose the contents of 911 calls and any video of the incident.New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman\'s (SHNEYE\'-dur-muhnz) office is investigating.Schneiderman spokeswoman Amy Spitalnick says in a statement that the office is committed to "an independent, comprehensive and fair investigation."___11 a.m.New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman (SHNEYE\'-dur-muhn) is investigating the death of a Brooklyn man shot by officers who mistook a metal pipe for a gun.Schneiderman said Thursday that his office is committed to "an independent, comprehensive and fair investigation."The office has the power to investigate police-involved deaths of unarmed people.A tense crowd gathered after Saheed Vassell was killed around 5 p.m. Wednesday in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn.The New York Times reports that police had encountered the man before and classified him as emotionally disturbed.Chief of Department Terence Monahan says Vassell "took a two-handed shooting stance" and "pointed an object at the approaching officers" who\'d been summoned by 911 calls about a man with a gun.___8:50 a.m.The New York Police Department says officers responding to reports of a man threatening people with a gun fatally shot a man carrying a metal pipe, mistaking it for a firearm.Police say 34-year-old Saheed Vassell was killed around 5 p.m. Wednesday in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn.The New York Times says a tense crowd gathered as police investigated the shooting.It says police had encountered the man before and classified him as emotionally disturbed.Chief of Department Terence Monahan says five officers responded after three 911 callers reported a man "pointing a silver firearm at people on the street."Monahan says Vassell "took a two-handed shooting stance" and "pointed an object at the approaching officers."Four of the officers then fired a total of 10 rounds.
IRMO, S.C.   South Carolina authorities say three teens have died after crashing a stolen car during a police chase.Six teens were in the speeding car around 9:30 p.m. Wednesday when they were spotted by officers who tried to stop them, according to a news release from Irmo Police Capt. Courtney Dennis. The driver lost control during the chase and hit a tree in the town of Irmo northwest of Columbia.Authorities say none of the teens, who were between the ages of 13 and 18, were wearing seatbelts.The three teens who survived were injured. Their names have not been released.Dennis said one of the teens had a gun. The car had been stolen from Columbia.
FLOWOOD, Miss.   A Mississippi man shot by a police officer last month has filed a federal lawsuit.WLBT-TV reports the suit was filed Wednesday against the city of Flowood and others, including the police chief and the state of Mississippi. In it, Kenara Vonzell McDavid says the officer used excessive force.McDavid says he was in his car in a supermarket parking lot when an officer summoned by a store employee approached. McDavid says the officer pointed a gun when he started his car and shot him before he drove away, crashing in a ditch.His attorney, Dow Yoder, says at least nine rounds were fired, six striking McDavid.Flowood Police Chief Richie McCluskey told WLBT-TV it was "premature to respond." He previously said McDavid was trying to run over the officer.___Information from: WLBT-TV, http://www.wlbt.com
MOLENA, Ga.   Authorities say an armed 70-year-old man who was shot by a sheriff's deputy in Georgia has died.Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman Bahan Rich tells news outlets that deputies in Pike County, central Georgia, responded to an emergency call Wednesday and found Grady Parks armed with a shotgun and handgun, and chasing the 911 caller.Rich says a deputy used a stun gun when Parks didn't comply with commands to drop his weapons, but that was ineffective. Rich says Parks raised his shotgun toward another deputy and fired, as the deputy simultaneously fired his weapon.Parks was struck twice. His shot missed the deputy.Parks died later at a hospital.An autopsy is planned.
BATON ROUGE, La.   A Baton Rouge police officer returned to work Thursday for the first time since his partner\'s fatal shooting of Alton Sterling, a 37-year-old black man whose death was caught on video and set off widespread protests nearly two years ago.Officer Howie Lake II returned to work "with no restrictions," said Sgt. Don Coppola, a spokesman for the Baton Rouge Police Department. Police Chief Murphy Paul announced last Friday that he was suspending Lake for three days and firing Officer Blane Salamoni, who shot and killed Sterling during a struggle outside a convenience store in July 2016Lake helped wrestle Sterling to the ground but did not fire his weapon that night. The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling\'s pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.Sterling\'s shooting death on July 5, 2016, came amid increased scrutiny of fatal encounters between police and black men. The day after Sterling\'s shooting, Philando Castile was killed in Minnesota by a police officer and the aftermath streamed on Facebook by his girlfriend. Then as demonstrators in Dallas protested those police shootings, a gunman killed five police officers. And on July 17, a black military veteran shot and killed three Baton Rouge law enforcement officers.Paul said he fired Salamoni for violating department policies on use of force and "command of temper." He suspended Lake for violating only the latter policy.State and federal authorities ruled out criminal charges against the two white officers, who had remained on paid administrative leave since the shooting.Last Friday, the police department released graphic footage from the officers\' body cameras and the store\'s surveillance camera.In the body camera footage, an officer can be heard profanely shouting and insulting Sterling and at one point points a gun at his head and threatens to shoot him. Authorities have said Salamoni made that threat as he pointed his gun at Sterling.Salamoni\'s attorney, John McLindon, has said he intends to appeal the officer\'s firing to a civil service board. Lake\'s attorney, Kyle Kershaw, said he doesn\'t know if his client will challenge the suspension he has been served, but he has less than two weeks to decide."I\'m waiting to hear back from him on that. I put the ball in his court," Kershaw said of Lake.Salamoni shot Sterling six times during the struggle outside the Triple S Food Mart, where Sterling was selling homemade CDs.Salamoni told an internal affairs investigator in September 2016 that he saw Sterling reach for and hold a gun in his pants pocket right before he shot him during their struggle on the ground.Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry announced last Tuesday that his office isn\'t charging either officer with state crimes. The Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges in May 2017.Police arrested nearly 200 people at protests in 2016 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana\'s capital city, after two cellphone videos of Sterling\'s shooting quickly spread on social media.
NEW YORK   Police seeking to quell simmering anger over their shooting of a mentally disturbed black man on a New York City street released a montage of security videos Thursday that showed him minutes earlier thrusting a metal object that looked like a gun into the faces of several people  including a woman holding the hand of her child.A final video snippet showed the man raising the object in a two-handed shooting stance as police arrived, the edited video frozen just before officers unleashed 10 shots that left 34-year-old Saheed Vassell dead. His weapon turned out to be nothing more than an L-shaped section of pipe.The shooting in Brooklyn on Wednesday evening prompted two nights of protests among many who felt police should have known that Vassell, a fixture in the Crown Heights neighborhood, had emotional problems.But Mayor Bill De Blasio didn\'t lay blame on the officers, who were not from the local precinct and were passing through at the time. He said they had no information that the person they were confronting was mentally ill."It\'s a tragedy because a man with a profound mental health problem ... was doing something that people perceived to be a threat to the safety of others," de Blasio said at a news conference shortly before the images and a partial transcript of 911 calls were released."What we have seen from the images that are publicly available, people in the community thought he had a weapon and was aiming it at residents," the mayor said. "That\'s the kind of calls, multiple calls, that NYPD received.According to the transcripts, one caller to 911 reported that Vassell "looks like he\'s crazy but he\'s pointing something at people that looks like a gun.""Where is the gun?" a dispatcher asked one caller. "His hand," the caller replied.In police radio traffic posted online, dispatchers directing officers to the scene said 911 callers were reporting only that a person was pointing a gun at people. After the shooting, the officers can be heard frantically calling for dispatchers to send an ambulance.The release of the edited material on the New York Police Department\'s Twitter account  the full videos and transcripts weren\'t immediately provided  was meant to back up claims by the police department that the four plainclothes and two uniformed officers who responded had a legitimate reason to believe they needed to move swiftly to stop a deadly threat.The material released by the department didn\'t answer questions about whether the officers had identified themselves or ordered the victim to drop the object before they opened fire. The city\'s medical examiner found he was hit seven to nine times, including one shot to the head.At a vigil Thursday night, Vassell\'s mother, Lorna, said her son "came from a good home" and that he was not homeless.Vassell\'s father, Eric, told reporters that his son had been hospitalized several times for psychiatric problems, some involving encounters with the police, but that he was polite and kind."Police had a choice. They always have a choice. They should not train them to kill. They should train them to protect life, to save life," Eric Vassell said in an interview with WABC-TV.A tense crowd gathered after the shooting, with some people shouting at officers and decrying the killing as another example of an unarmed black man dying at the hands of police officers who overreacted.On Thursday, Ruta Deshong, who owns a reggae record shop on the same block where Vassell lived, said she had known him since he was a young boy and that the police who normally patrol the neighborhood knew him well."If they had said, \'Drop your weapon,\' he would have," Deshong said. "The officers in the neighborhood know him. He\'s all around the place. They know he\'s not trouble."A family friend, Berrest Biggs, said he learned of the shooting through social media."I said, \'Is that Saheed?\'" Biggs said. "He was like a child. ... This kid didn\'t bother nobody."New York\'s attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, announced that he would investigate the shooting.Under an executive order issued by the governor in 2015, the attorney general has the power to act as a special prosecutor in cases involving police killings of unarmed people.Schneiderman\'s spokeswoman, Amy Spitalnick, promised "an independent, comprehensive and fair investigation."The shooting comes after the police killing of an unarmed black man on March 18 in Sacramento, California, sparked two weeks of protests and calls for police reform. Stephon Clark, 22, was shot by officers responding to a report of someone breaking car windows. Police said they thought he had a gun, but he was carrying only a cellphone.___Associated Press writer David Jeans contributed to this report.

MOSCOW   U.S. diplomats expelled by Russia over the poisoning of a former spy in Britain were seen leaving the U.S. embassy in Moscow on Thursday morning to make their way to the airport, the TASS news agency reported.Russia expelled 60 U.S. diplomats one week ago and ordered the closure of the U.S. consulate in St Petersburg in retaliation for Washington's expulsion of the same number of Russian diplomats and closure of Russia's consulate in Seattle.The U.S. move was part of a much wider Western response to the nerve agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in an English city, a crime Britain blamed on Russia, which denies wrongdoing.TASS reported that three coaches believed to be carrying departing diplomats were seen leaving the U.S. embassy in central Moscow on Thursday morning to head for the airport.Russia expelled 58 diplomats from the U.S. embassy in Moscow and two from the U.S. consulate in the city of Yekaterinburg.(Reporting by Andrew Osborn; Editing by Andrey Ostroukh)
BOSTON   A justice on Massachusetts\' top court on Thursday ordered the dismissal of 7,690 drug cases because of their link to a former forensic chemist who authorities said for eight years stole drug evidence and worked in a state lab under the influence.Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Justice Frank Gaziano issued an order dismissing thousands of convictions tainted by Sonja Farak, a chemist at the Massachusetts State Crime Laboratory in Amherst who pleaded guilty in 2014.The dismissal came after various district attorneys\' offices in November notified the top court in Massachusetts that an estimated 6,000 drug cases were subject to dismissal because of their connection to Farak."Today is avictory for justice and fairness," Carol Rose, executive director of theAmerican Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, said in a statement.The dismissals came after prosecutors in April agreed to dismiss around 21,000 criminal drug cases because of a scandal involving a different state chemist, Annie Dookhan, who admitted faking tests.Farak, a chemist at the Massachusetts State Crime Laboratory in Amherst, was arrested in 2013. She later pleaded guilty to stealing drugs from the lab and was sentenced in 2014 to serve 18 months in prison.Thursday\'s order came after the American Civil Liberties Union and Massachusetts\' public defender agency in September asked the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court to toss any cases tied to Farak.The ACLU have since then asked the court to dismiss not just cases directly linked to Farak but all drug convictions arising from the Amherst lab during her tenure. The court is scheduled to hear arguments in the case in May.(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Sandra Maler)
TORONTO   An online story falsely claims Canadians now can be jailed simply for using an incorrect gender pronoun.The article posted to The Daily Signal website said a law enacted last year would lead to hate crime charges against people who use an incorrect pronoun to describe a transgender person.In addition to race, religion and sexual orientation, bill C-16 added gender identity and gender expression as areas that can be grounds for discrimination under Canada\'s Human Rights Act. It also amended the country\'s criminal code to add protections for transgender people against hate speech.But experts say just using an incorrect pronoun isn\'t enough to qualify as criminal hate speech. "Absolutely not a chance," says University of Toronto law professor Brenda Cossman. "There is no criminalization of the misuse of pronouns."Richard Moon, a University of Windsor professor who studies freedom of speech issues, says only speech that is "extreme in character" would qualify as criminal. He says the person uttering the words must be found to have "willfully promoted hatred."___This is part of The Associated Press\' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.___Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck___
The class was supposed to be temporary, a quick dive into the link between literature and anthropology. The professors had no idea if students would even come. It wasnt mandatory, they wouldnt get credit and it was taking place at night. Friday night.So no one was more surprised than Kara Wittman and Joanne Nucho when 24 people showed up for their Essay as Resistance class, which had its debut at Pomona College in March 2017 and ran for three 90-minute sessions. We were shocked that it was so popular, said Ms. Wittman, an assistant professor of English at Pomona, in Claremont, Calif., who taught the class with Ms. Nucho, an assistant professor of anthropology there.But thats exactly the appeal of the so-called pop-up class, an experiential, interdisciplinary, extracurricular workshop that appears briefly and usually vanishes.Pop-up classes have grown in popularity over the last few years, with a number of colleges and universities offering them. Theyre often related to current events. Bennington Colleges Am I Charlie?, held in 2015, was a response to the attacks on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in France. White Privilege was offered last year at St. Michaels College in Colchester, Vt., when Black Lives Matter gained traction on campus.It was a time when our community on campus and nationally was divided around issues of race, and we wanted to give our students the opportunity to discuss some of these challenging topics, said Kimoi Seale, assistant dean of students, who taught the White Privilege class.Pop-ups have appeared in various incarnations for a while, but are often traced to Stanford Universitys Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, commonly called the D.school, for seasoned instructors to try out new course content.More recently, the D.schools University Innovation Fellows program began to use pop-ups as tools for students to be more engaged in their own learning environments. The D.schools pop-ups have since become Pop Outs, which have a narrower focus.Timothy Moore, 25, was a University Innovation fellow in 2015. After being introduced to the idea of pop-ups, he brought the concept back to James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va., from which he graduated that year. The universitys X-Lab has since held pop-ups in everything from building ukuleles to ice-cream making using liquid nitrogen.A lot of teachers dont realize that the pop-up will make their curriculum stronger, said Mr. Moore, who now works at Claremont Colleges Hive, a program at the school that brings students together across disciplines to practice human-centered approached to real-world problems. Theyre a low-risk way to try out a class.The beauty of the pop-up is that anything goes. Some classes last a few weeks; others run for a day or weekend. Some are faculty led; others are taught by students, administrators or even local businesspeople. Some are for credit; others are strictly for fun  or, at least, personal enlightenment. And sometimes the classes are so popular that they return as full-fledged, for-credit courses, which is what happened with the Essay as Resistance class.Our goal here is to enhance the creative capacity of our students and teach them to navigate ambiguity, and to foster experimental learning, said Fred Leichter, founding director of the Hive, officially the Rick and Susan Sontag Center for Collaborative Creativity. The pop-ups are designed as a way to offer things that are often mash-ups between different disciplines. To me its one of the purest forms of learning. Both parties are there to create something together.Here is a look at some pop-ups at schools around country.When fires ravaged Southern California last summer and major flooding followed soon after, Char Miller took notice. Mr. Miller, director of environmental analysis at Pomona College, has been teaching about fire for over two decades. But the particular dynamic between fires and flood, which was so horrifying this winter  we have this incredible opportunity to show students on the ground what that actually means, he said. Its a way for students to understand that they live in a particular place and that the natural systems here function differently than from wherever they come. To be taught this fall by Mr. Miller and Jeff Groves, an English professor at Harvey Mudd College.Last year, Margaret Hagan, director of the Legal Design Lab at Stanford and a lecturer at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, taught Design for Justice: Traffic, which focused on navigating the traffic court system.The next subject, in a class running this month and next: eviction. Most of the people who get evicted dont take any steps to fight their notices in court. That means theres more eviction notices because its easier for landlords to use the court system without opposition, she said. If we can inform people of their rights in responding to an eviction notice, we might get more protection to them. To use the process. So the class is a lab  where my students, legal aid and the court  help them think through what interventions they can send out to encourage people to take action.Antonia Messuri, the assistant dean for academics at St. Michaels in Colchester, Vt., regularly counsels students who are stuck in their lives. Often our students are coming from a place of being told what to do, how to do it and when its due their whole lives, she said. This class, which runs through April, is an opportunity for them to say, This is my life, my education.  Students will read articles on self-determination and Buddhist writings, with a focus on meditation, resilience and grit.The bulk of the pop-ups at James Madison are designed to be a mix of science and technology. In this class, on April 20, students learn the basic rules for safe flying, practice flight controls and then test their skills by flying through something they can relate to: a Quidditch course. Its designed to expose them to lightweight drones and the opportunity to take the full drone class where they learn how to use drones to solve real-world problems, said Nick Swayne, founding director of the universitys X-Lab. We will also have small model rockets available for students to try. These rockets are used extensively by our geology department to increase student interest in atmospheric studies.Since the spring of 2015, Bennington College in Bennington, Vt., has been offering pop-up courses. In this course, taught by State Senator Brian Campion, who is also the director of public policy programs in the Center for the Advancement of Public Action, students will explore gun culture, gun policy, the continuing work of policymakers at the states Capitol, and whether or not such actions are likely to be the most effective to keep citizens safe. The course, which runs through April, will bring in guests with different perspectives.
UNITED NATIONS   Russia told Britain at the United Nations Security Council on Thursday that "you\'re playing with fire and you\'ll be sorry" over its accusations that Moscow was to blame for poisoning a former Russian spy and his daughter.It was the second showdown between Russia and Britain at the world body since the March 4 nerve agent attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in an English town. Russia, which requested Thursday\'s council meeting, denies any involvement.The attack has had major diplomatic ramifications, with mass expulsions of Russian and Western diplomats. The 15-member Security Council first met over the issue on March 14 at Britain\'s request."We have told our British colleagues that \'you\'re playing with fire and you\'ll be sorry\'," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said during a more than 30-minute speech that attempted to poke holes in Britain\'s allegations against Moscow.He suggested that anyone who watched television crime shows like Britain\'s \'Midsomer Murders\' would know "hundreds of clever ways to kill someone" to illustrate the "risky and dangerous" nature of the method Britain says was used to target Skripal.British police believe a nerve agent was left on the front door of the Salisbury home where Skripal lived after he was freed in a spy swap. He was a military intelligence colonel who betrayed dozens of Russian agents to Britain\'s MI6 spy service."We believe that the UK\'s actions stand up to any scrutiny," British U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce told the Security Council. "We have nothing to hide ... but I do fear that Russia might have something to fear."At the global chemical weapons watchdog Wednesday, Russia called for a joint inquiry into the poisoning of the Skripals, but lost a vote on the measure."Allowing Russian scientists into an investigation where they are the most likely perpetrators of the crime in Salisbury would be like Scotland Yard inviting in Professor Moriarty," Pierce told reporters earlier on Thursday, citing a character from "Sherlock Holmes."At the end of the council meeting, Nebenzia read a passage from the novel "Alice in Wonderland" about a trial where the Queen demands the sentence first and the verdict afterward. "Does that remind you of anything?" he added.Pierce responded: "There is another very good quote from Alice in Wonderland which is: \'sometimes I\'ve believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast\' so I think that\'s the quote the suits my Russian colleague best."(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. Justice Department presented evidence on Thursday to show that AT&T, owner of DirecTV, viewed buying Time Warner as a way to make viewers stick with their pay TV service instead of moving to cheaper online providers.The department has sued to block AT&T\'s $85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner, saying the deal could raise prices for pay-TV rivals and subscribers while hampering the development of online video.In a hearing before U.S. Judge Richard Leon, Justice Department attorney Julie Elmer cited an email and report in which Gregory Manty, a director of corporate strategy for AT&T, indicated that buying Time Warner\'s content would allow AT&T to slow the decline of pay TV, which was described as a "cash cow."Elmer pushed Manty to agree that the report had been "sanitized," noting that some phrases were removed by AT&T executives or outside counsel."I wouldn\'t use the word \'sanitized,\'" Manty said, noting that the powerpoint deck had been used in discussions with Time Warner about potential integration.Companies are limited by law in what they can discuss publicly before closing a merger. Breaking those rules can cause companies to face accusations of "gun jumping.""It\'s highly regulated," Manty said under cross examination. "That\'s why it\'s overseen by lawyers."The trial, which began in mid-March in the U.S. District Court in Washington, is expected to wrap up this month.(Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Richard Chang)
The young filmmaking team of Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead made a critical splash with their 2015 horror picture Spring, an inventive mutant romance. With their new film, The Endless, they take a few unusual risks. The Endless revisits the setting and some of the situations from Resolution, their 2013 feature debut. In that movie Mr. Benson and Mr. Moorhead appeared in small roles as members of a U.F.O. cult. Here, they are the leads, telling a continued story of those characters.As the movie opens, Justin and Aaron (the filmmakers play characters named after themselves) are out of the cult but stuck in dead-end existences. Justin has fond memories of the meals at what he calls the commune in the California hills. Aaron has to remind him that all the men there endure ritual castrations. Nevertheless, Aaron agrees to drive Justin there for a one-day visit.This idea may at first seem both dumb and highly implausible, but viewers eager to poke holes in the scenario should give it time. The Endless rewards patience with mind-bending twists and turns. The movie is shot in a realistic, grounded style that makes the unusual characterizations credible and the insane events convincing. How insane? Aaron finds a shed with a hanged man in it. He is then confronted by that same man, alive, who instructs Aaron to retrieve a gun for him, so he might properly kill himself. It all does make a kind of sense, and if you enjoyed the recent Annihilation, this movie provides a similar cosmic horror trip.
TUCSON, Ariz.   New photos and video released by the FBI show the behavior of a lone gunman just minutes before he carried out the 2011 Tucson shooting that left six people dead and 13 others injured, including former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords.Hundreds of images as well as surveillance video from the day of the deadly massacre were released to the public Wednesday, including photos of Pima County Sheriff's deputies restraining gunman Jared Lee Loughner on the ground following the shooting.In the photos, the deputies' faces are blacked out and Loughner is on his stomach with his hands cuffed behind him. A pair of glasses and a notebook are on the ground next to him.Giffords was holding a meet-and-greet outside a Safeway supermarket the morning of Jan. 8. According to authorities, Loughner, carrying a pistol, knife and ammunition, took a cab to the event.Surveillance videos show Loughner  wearing pants, a gray sweatshirt, glasses and a black, knitted hat  walking into the store about six minutes before the meeting was slated to start. In the videos, Loughner goes to the customer service counter before going to buy a bottle of water.The remaining videos show Loughner spending the next few minutes drinking water while walking up and down the store aisles.Using a semi-automatic Glock 19, Loughner went on to fire a barrage of bullets at the crowd waiting to meet Giffords before he was tackled by bystanders.Among those killed were 9-year-old Christina-Taylor Green, U.S. District Court Judge John Roll, 63, and Giffords' aide Gabe Zimmerman, 30. Also slain were Dorwan Stoddard and Dorothy Morris, both 76, and Phyllis Schneck, 79.The shooting left Giffords, who was shot in the head, partially paralyzed. It also spurred her and husband Mark Kelly to form a gun safety advocacy group.Loughner was sentenced to life in prison in 2012. He is incarcerated at the Rochester Federal Medical Center, a prison in Minnesota that specializes in care for physically ailing or mentally ill inmates.
Here is the March edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.As we did last month, weve listed the entries about the activism that has emerged after the Feb. 14 attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla, as a category of their own.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________March for Our Lives, Gun Reform, School Safety and Activism at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High SchoolBeyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend ElectionsWith hundreds of March for Our Lives demonstrations planned, high school students say this is a moment of political awakening for their generation.We Are the Change: Teenagers From Chicagos South Side Stand With Parkland SurvivorsThis video features footage from the event.March for Our Lives Highlights: Students Protesting Guns Say Enough Is Enough\'Hundreds of thousands of protesters, outraged by a recent school shooting, took to the streets in Washington and around the world, calling for action against gun violence.March for Our Lives: Maps of the More Than 800 Protests Around the WorldJust over a month after the Parkland mass school shooting, organizers have planned hundreds of demonstrations calling for stricter gun laws.In Gun Control Marches, Students Led but Adults Provided Key ResourcesThe March for Our Lives demonstrations were triumphs of organic, youthful grass-roots energy, and of sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.Something About Parkland Has Been Different: Survivors From 20 Years of Mass Shootings SpeakWe spoke to survivors of mass shootings and others affected by them about the demonstrations planned for Saturday, March 24.20 Years After the Shooting on the PlaygroundThe writer of this Opinion essay, a survivor of the 1998 attack at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Ark., in which four students and a teacher were fatally shot, says, It was jarring to find a group of survivors  my former classmates  as divided as our country.Advertisers Drop Laura Ingraham After She Taunts Parkland Survivor David HoggMs. Ingraham had apologized for mocking Mr. Hogg over his college rejections. She only apologized after we went after her advertisers, he said. It kind of speaks for itself.Support for Gun Control Seems Strong. But It May Be Softer Than It LooksThe new activists are hoping the old patterns of weak support will change.What the Dreamers Can Teach the Parkland KidsFrom one activist to another: Trust your instincts, study your history and dont read the comments, says this Opinion essay writer.Thank a TeenagerThis Opinion writer states, At times yesterday, the protesting students seemed to be everywhere  on social media, on television, in communities. And they offered a needed jolt of inspiration in a dark political time.National School Walkout: Thousands Protest Against Gun Violence Across the U.S.In a coordinated action, students left their classrooms and sometimes marched in the streets a month after 17 people were killed in a Florida high school.We Stand With the StudentsThe nations adults must listen to the students walking out of their schools Wednesday to protest gun violence, states this editorial.Letting Teenagers LiveThis Opinion essay writer says, Motor vehicle crashes kill more young people than shootings, and the issue is less affected by politics.Mr. Trump, Heres a Teenage Hero; Its Your Turn!A 15-year-old stood up to the Parkland gunman, yet the president wont stand up to the N.R.A., states this Opinion essay.Parkland Students Find Themselves Targets of Lies and Personal AttacksDavid Hogg is not an actor. He was indeed at school that day. Emma Gonzlez did not tear up a copy of the Constitution.Why I Didnt Join My Schools WalkoutThe writer of this Opinion essay states, I am a high school junior, and I shoot guns and hunt. Many of the kids protesting guns right now dont seem to know that much about them.I Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My FriendsThe notion that the Parkland shootings wouldnt have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous, writes a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who as an eighth grader had been assigned to tutor Mr. Cruz through the schools peer counseling program.Brother of Nikolas Cruz Arrested on Trespassing Charge at Stoneman Douglas High SchoolSheriffs deputies stopped Zachary Cruz on Monday afternoon after he rode a skateboard onto the schools property, the authorities said. School officials had told him to stay away.After Parkland, Turning Trauma Into ChangeStudents who survived the attacks at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School discuss the psychological aftermath.7 Times in History When Students Turned to ActivismThe survivors of the Parkland, Fla., high school shooting have surprised many with their public activism. But they are hardly the first students to push the adult world for political change.Arming TeachersIn as many as a dozen states, schools have already taken advantage of laws that allow employees to carry guns. Ohio is one of them.Who Should Be Armed in Florida Schools? Not Teachers, Lawmakers Say. But Maybe Librarians.After a debate on the State Senate floor on Monday, Republican legislative leaders backed off on arming most teachers, but voted to allow others in schools to carry guns.Why We Should Lower the Voting Age to 16Young people ought to have a say in how school shootings are best prevented, states this Opinion essay writer.Power to the ParentsGive kids the franchise  but let their parents exercise it, says the writer of this Opinion essay.School Officer: A Job With Many Roles and One Big ResponsibilitySchool resource officers like the one under scrutiny following the Florida shooting are expected to act as counselors and instructors as well as the first line of defense.Dear National Rifle Association: We Wont Let You Win. From, Teenagers.Our parents did not succeed in ensuring our safety at school. So we must do it ourselves, write the New Jersey high school students who penned this Opinion essay.Art Show Inspired by Parkland Shooting Victims Is ExtendedI had a lot of feelings Ive never had before while painting, Manuel Oliver, the father of a slain student, said.How the Parkland Students Got So Good at Social MediaThe activist students of Stoneman Douglas, where 17 people were killed last month, are social media naturals. But its not entirely true that theyve been tweeting all their lives.How Young Is Too Young for Protest? A National Gun-Violence Walkout Tests SchoolsA coordinated protest on Wednesday at schools across the U.S. has administrators making special plans for students who may not be old enough to handle the subject.With Gun Control Nearing a Dead End, G.O.P. Turns to School SafetyThe House plans to vote on legislation to beef up security at the nations schools, but Democrats accused Republicans of diverting attention from guns.Maryland School Gunman Confronted by Officer Shot Himself, Authorities SayThe St. Marys County Sheriffs Office said Austin Wyatt Rollins fatally shot himself in the head at the same time an officer fired at him.Girl Shot at Maryland School Dies After Being Taken Off Life SupportJaelynn Willey, 16, was shot at Great Mills High School on Tuesday. She died, surrounded by her family._________EducationWhat College Students Really Think About Free SpeechA new study finds that the vast majority of students strongly support free speech but struggle to balance it with their desire for inclusivity.The Ivy League Students Least Likely to Get MarriedAt Princeton, and in the American higher education system as a whole, there remains a strong correlation between marriage and economic class.The Growing College Graduation GapAccording to this Opinion essay writer, More poor students are going to college than in the past. And yet the number who graduate is falling even further behind.Yale Rape Verdict Shows How Yes Means Yes Can Be Murkier in CourtThe acquittal in the case of Saifullah Khan showed how the consent standards that have been adopted at colleges may differ from those that prevail off campus.At Columbia, Revisiting the Revolutionary Students of 1968As the 50th anniversary of the 1968 student takeover approaches, the neglected story of African-American protesters is moving to the center of the story.Its Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakAccording to this Opinion essay as they admit more poor students, colleges need to do a better job of serving them.Stop Asking About My Kids College PlansHave you guys made your list yet? everyone asks. I hate this question. We arent going to college; my daughter is, states this Opinion essay writer.A Problem for High Schools: More Cars, and Nowhere to Park ThemIn wealthy Long Island communities, luxury cars have become a standard gift for teenagers. But most schools do not have the space to accommodate them.Understanding Student MobbistsYounger generations have a different understanding of whats wrong with society and how to fix it, states this Opinion essay writer.Black Kids Dont Want to Read About Harriet Tubman All the TimeThis Opinion essay writer says, They need to see themselves reflected in stories that celebrate everyday beauty.College Republicans Propose an Unusual Idea From the Right: A Carbon TaxGOP strategists said the budding movement reflected a broader shift on social issues that, if it spread, could split the party along generational lines._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessPatriotic Youth Army Takes Russian Kids Back to the FutureThe Youth Army, a recent Kremlin creation, is designed to imprint nationalist fervor, but critics doubt Russia needs a militaristic league for the young.Malala Yousafzai Returns to Pakistan for First Time Since AttackMs. Yousafzai, a Nobel laureate studying at Oxford, met with the prime minister and will visit a school she helped build near her native Swat Valley.Boko Haram Returns Dozens of Schoolgirls Kidnapped in NigeriaThe unexpected return of the girls may turn out to be a major propaganda coup for Boko Haram, although some girls are still missing, and the group warned the girls to never go back to school again.Boko Harams Seizure of 110 Girls Taunts Nigeria, and Its LeaderThe president has often declared the Islamist group defeated, so its latest mass abduction threatens to become a major issue in next years election.Trapped in Russian Mall Fire, Children Said Farewell by PhoneBlocked exits prevented people from escaping the blaze at a mall in Siberia, officials said. At least 64 people were killed, many of them children.Never Again: Fighting Hate in a Changing Germany With Tours of Nazi CampsFerdous is from Afghanistan, Florentina from Kosovo and Damian from Berlin. A German high school class visited Sachsenhausen, where 50,000 are believed to have died during World War II.The Toys They Carried: Syrian Children Under SiegeChildren in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta are finding ways to pass the time in cramped basement shelters. But they are not insulated from the war.The Orphans of Chinas Economic MiracleThis Opinion essay states, Millions of migrants have left their children behind in the villages  sometimes to live with family members, sometimes to fend for themselves.A Young Monk Finds Her CallingIn Japan, a girl turns to her Buddhist faith to help rebuild her village temple destroyed in the tsunami seven years ago.Income Mobility Charts for Girls, Asian-Americans and Other Groups. Or Make Your OwnWatch men and women of any race grow up in the United States.New York Forgets Its Juvenile LifersAccording to this Opinion essay, A new lawsuit challenges the parole boards routine denials, even to those who have served decades and pose little or no safety risk.Why Are Black Students Punished So Often? Minnesota Confronts a National QuandaryThe Trump administration is highlighting the struggles that Minneapolis and St. Paul face with disparities in school discipline, and putting a thumb on the scale.Americans Might No Longer Prefer Sons Over DaughtersNew evidence suggests a shift, possibly because of a subtle fear of boys and the trouble they might bring._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsKarlie Kloss Teaches Teenage Girls How to CodeWhen shes not jet-setting or hanging with Taylor Swift, the 25-year-old model runs a coding boot camp for young women.Are iPhones Bad for Kids?Two new books  Anya Kamenetzs The Art of Screen Time and Naomi Schaefer Rileys Be the Parent, Please  offer advice to anxious parents.Your Kids Phone Is Not Like a CigaretteThis Opinion writer states, We cant fight technology the way we fought Big Tobacco.Take Your Daughter to the Movies, Not to Weight WatchersYour 13-year-old does not need to count points is one point raised in this Opinion essay.Are Todays Teenagers Smarter and Better Than We Think?Childhood health experts have worried about kids raised on cellphones and social media. Student protests gave us a glimpse of the potential of Gen Z.In Swedens Preschools, Boys Learn to Dance and Girls Learn to YellThe state curriculum urges teachers to counteract traditional gender roles, and at one school, girls are encouraged to shout No! and boys run the play kitchen.Finding the Poetry in March MadnessThis Opinion essay writer says, At Loyola, our poetry workshop was energized by our teams win, not overshadowed by it.At 15, Juggling Freshman Year and an International Squash CareerMarina Stefanoni of Darien, Conn., was the youngest player ever to compete in the Tournament of Champions. Having conquered junior events, shes eyeing success in pro events while still in high school.Clarkson, a Tiny Hockey Hotbed, Aims for Two N.C.A.A. TitlesThe womens team won its second national championship in a row and third in five years. Now, the men take their turn.After Historic Victory, U.M.B.C. Students Look Forward to the Next  LabIt wasnt exactly mass hysteria Saturday on the campus that wins chess championships the way Duke collects basketball ones. The model U.N. team is tough, too.I Go to Duke. Do I Have to Care About Basketball?This Opinion essay writer, a senior at Duke University, describes what happened before a basketball game started: I am handed a tip sheet with instructions: Yell "Woo" every time you jump,\' and shout strategically mean things at the correct moments.When College Basketball Teams Invade New York, an Empty Gym Is Hard to FindThe 25 mens college basketball teams competing this week in the Big East and Atlantic Coast Conference tournaments all need places to practice.Suicides, Drug Addiction and High School FootballThe dire existence of young athletes in Madison, Ind.: You just cant believe this is all happening in one small community._________Arts, Media and CultureThe Prom-Like Intensity of High School FolklricoIn the Central Valley in California, students gathered for an event celebrating a storied dance tradition steeped in Mexican culture.On Netflix, a Growing Wave of Shows for and About TeenagersAlexa & Katie and On My Block join a roster that includes 13 Reasons Why, Stranger Things and Everything Sucks.With Rise, a Friday Night Lights for Theater KidsNBCs Rise, isnt Glee and it isnt Fame. The mantra is to always keep it as realistic and honest as possible, said its showrunner, Jason Katims.Does Gay Hollywood Have Room for Queer Kids?This Opinion essay writer states, The unspoken rule of gay cinema and television: Masculine leads only.Finding New Meaning in Mean GirlsThe movie is beloved. But it also pits girls against girls. How, then, do you make a stage musical that satisfies fans and meets our cultural moment?Opening Young Minds With the Arts When Schools Are ClosedHeres a roundup of activities, from Muppet movies to zombie tag, at New York museums during the public school spring break._________
TIRANA, Albania   Albania\'s opposition on Thursday blocked the country\'s main highway junctions in an anti-government protest, accusing officials of links to organized crime and of increasing both taxes and poverty.The conservative Democratic Party-led opposition boycotted Thursday\'s parliamentary session to launch a "civil disobedience" campaign, blocking traffic and calling on people not to pay increased taxes.Hundreds of opposition supporters gathered at four junctions across the country, blocking traffic and calling for Prime Minister Edi Rama\'s resignation.Miles of vehicles were seen at a standstill on the Tirana to Durres highway and at the other three junctions. Only emergency vehicles were allowed through until the roads reopened some two hours later.Democrat leader Lulzim Basha said Cabinet should remove a road toll and value-added tax on small businesses, and reinstate economic assistance to 30,000 families."The government should give to Albanians the prospect of a government that serves them and not a group of oligarchs, putting behind bars the people and releasing the criminals," he said.Police said they didn\'t receive any protest requests and considered the gatherings illegal.The opposition has the support of angry residents of the northeastern district of Kukes, who last weekend burned down toll booths and scuffled with police to protest against high tariffs for the country\'s first toll road.The prime minister was determined that the toll road should begin operating soon, adding that the country was paying $42 million (34 million) every year for the credit used to build that road segment.The Democrats suffered a landslide loss in last year\'s vote, securing only 43 seats in the 140-seat parliament.Albania, a NATO member since 2009, was granted EU candidate status in 2014 and hopes to launch negotiations this year.Knut Fleckenstein, a European Parliament lawmaker who was on a two-day visit to the country, said the European Parliament expected from Brussels "a clear not conditional proposal for opening the negotiations with Albania now."___

MENDOCINO, Calif.   Searchers looking for three missing children whose family\'s SUV plunged off a Northern California cliff have found a cellphone that could have belonged to a member of the large brood.There was no sign of the siblings who were missing but presumed dead in the crash that killed Sarah and Jennifer Hart and three of their other adopted children. Five bodies were found March 26 near Mendocino, a few days after Washington state authorities began investigating the Harts for possible child neglect.Dozens of people combed miles (kilometers) of coastline Wednesday. The Mendocino County sheriff\'s office told Portland, Oregon, TV station KOIN that a searcher found a cellphone that was being analyzed.Authorities have said that data from the vehicle\'s software suggested the crash was deliberate. They said the SUV had stopped at a coastal highway overlook before speeding straight off the cliff and plummeting 100 feet (31 meters) into the rocky Pacific Ocean below.Mendocino County Sheriff Tom Allman told HLN : "I\'m calling it a crime."Sarah Hart pleaded guilty in 2011 to a domestic assault charge in Minnesota over what she said was a spanking given to one of her children.Bruce and Dana DeKalb, the family\'s next-door neighbors in Woodland, Washington, called child welfare officials two weeks ago because the couple\'s 15-year-old son, Devonte, had been coming over to their house almost every day for a week, asking for food.Dana DeKalb said Devonte told her his parents were "punishing them by withholding food." The boy asked her to leave food in a box by the fence for him, she said.Devonte, a black boy who is still missing, drew national attention after he was photographed in tears while hugging a white police officer during a 2014 protest.
SAN BRUNO, Calif.   The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):3 p.m.A California police department whose officers interacted with a woman hours before she shot three people at YouTube\'s headquarters is refusing to provide reports and body-camera video from the encounter.The Mountain View Police Department denied a public records request from The Associated Press on Thursday involving Nasim Aghdam.Senior Deputy City Attorney Leslie Jensen cited an exception for records of ongoing law enforcement investigations but provided no explanation.Aghdam\'s father reported his daughter missing Monday and her name was entered into a national missing person\'s database.Officers in Mountain View found her sleeping in her car early Tuesday.Police said they spoke to her for about 20 minutes but she didn\'t appear to be a threat to herself or others. She opened fire later that day and then killed herself.___1:10 p.m.San Bruno police say the woman who shot three people at YouTube\'s headquarters before turning the gun on herself legally purchased a pistol from a dealer in San Diego in January.Commander Geoff Caldwell said he didn\'t know the total number of shots fired but said that Nasim Aghdam had swapped out a magazine and shot from the second magazine when she killed herself.He said police found two magazines at the scene and found no other weapons.He said the 9mm Smith & Wesson handgun was legally purchased Jan. 16 and registered in her name.Police declined to name the firearm retailer or the local gun range where Aghdam practiced shooting before driving to YouTube Tuesday, citing the ongoing investigation.___12:10 p.m.Authorities say relatives of a woman who shot three people at YouTube\'s headquarters never indicated she was a risk to herself or others when they reported her missing a day before the attack.San Diego sheriff\'s Lt. Karen Stubkjaer says Thursday that Nasim Aghdam\'s father never told deputies that she was in any danger when they took a report from him Monday.She says Aghdam was entered into a national missing person\'s database. A deputy contacted the family several hours after the report was taken but they provided no additional information.Sheriff\'s officials declined to provide further details about what was reported.Aghdam\'s name was removed from the database after officers in Mountain View near San Francisco found her sleeping in her car early Tuesday.She opened fire later that day and then killed herself.___8:55 a.m.Authorities say the victim most seriously wounded in a shooting at YouTube headquarters is improving.Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital said Thursday that a 36-year-old man remains hospitalized but has been upgraded to fair condition.Three people were taken to the hospital with gunshot wounds. A 32-year-old woman and a 27-year-old woman were both released.Authorities say that Nasim Aghdam was angry about the policies and practices of the company and carried out an attack Tuesday at YouTube headquarters in San Bruno, south of San Francisco.She then fatally shot herself.___7:10 a.m.The woman who wounded three in a shooting at YouTube headquarters had a tiny social media presence in her native Iran, where her death was reported briefly by state television.Nasim Aghdam (na-SEEM AG-dahm) ran a Farsi-language channel on the messaging app Telegram, with content unlikely to be popular with the state or public.The channel has about 6,000 followers, which is small in a country where some 40 million people are believed to use the service.People in Iran expressed pity and shock that Aghdam, who was upset at what she called restrictive YouTube policies, would resort to shooting others.___12:05 a.m.Police say the videos posted by the woman who wounded three people in a shooting at YouTube headquarters are central to the motive.Police and relatives say Nasim Aghdam (na-SEEM AG-dahm) was angry with YouTube\'s policies.Aghdam used the name "Nasime Sabz" online, and a website in that name decried YouTube\'s policies and said the company was trying to "suppress" content creators.YouTube had no comment about any actions related to Aghdam\'s videos.Aghdam was prolific at producing videos and posting them online.Many of them were bizarre such as a clip in which she removes a revealing purple dress to expose fake breasts with the message, "Don\'t Trust Your Eyes."In others, she exercises, promotes animal rights and explains the vegan diet, often in elaborate costumes or carrying a rabbit.
STOCKHOLM   Sweden\'s government proposed on Thursday that the state gambling monopoly largely be replaced by a licensing system as it looks to rein in overseas-based online gambling that has surged in recent years.The rise of online betting has gradually eroded the monopoly, established in 1934, with other companies able to operate easily inside Sweden from abroad with online betting.With the new legislation, the centre-left government aims to bring foreign-based online gambling companies such as Kindred Group and Betsson, which operate from outside Sweden, under its regulatory sway.Online gambling firms will pay an 18 percent tax on gross gaming revenue if the proposal passes parliament, the government said in a statement. The proposal was largely in line with a government study unveiled last year."The now proposed gambling legislation means that anyone active in the Swedish gambling market should do so with a valid license and that actors without licenses will be shut out," the statement said.Several of the larger online betting firms have previously said they are largely positive to the regulatory changes.Swedish Public Administration Minister Ardalan Shekarabi told a news conference the legislation would make it a crime to promote unlicensed gambling, for instance by advertising, while payments between unlicensed firms and gamblers could be blocked.Some types of gambling, such as the handful of state-run casinos operating in Sweden, would remain monopolies. The legislation is proposed to come into force from the turn of the year if approved by parliament.(Reporting by Daniel Dickson and Niklas Pollard; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
Since the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and the March for Our Lives, the emergence of Emma Gonzlez, a senior at the school, as a national face of gun control activism has drawn much attention for her role as a founder of #NeverAgain and for her views on social media strategy  and for her now famously shaven head.To many outside eyes, her hair (or lack of it) has become the symbol of her refusal to accept the status quo, her refusal to simply sit back and leave change to the establishment. So much so that The New Yorker recently published an article comparing her to Joan of Arc, as depicted in the 1928 film by Carl Theodor Dreyer: another young woman with a genius for inspiring leadership, a deeply felt belief system and brutally close-cropped hair.No matter that, as the essays author acknowledges, a few weeks before the shooting Ms. Gonzlez had declared, on her schools Instagram account, that I decided to cut my hair because it was a pain in the neck, if youll forgive the pun. It was really hot all the time; it was very cumbersome and very heavy, leading to a lot of headaches. It was expensive to keep it up, and as prom time came around, I figured it would be cheaper to not have to worry about doing my hair.Her original motivation has become shrouded in her advocacy, and in the eyes of the watching world, her head has taken on its own meaning, representative of our failure, of her renunciation. If, a few years ago, it seemed possible that with the advent of models like Ruth Bell and Kris Gottschalk, buzz cuts on women could be viewed as representations of quirky beauty and celebrated all over the East Village and beyond, the reaction to Ms. Gonzlezs hair has made it clear that we were deluded.I dont think you can ever just shrug it off as a matter of personal expression, said Erin K. Vearncombe, a lecturer at Princeton University who specializes in the cultural anthropology of dress. Hair is intrinsically linked to assumptions about gender and power relations. It has always been, from the myth of Medusa (whose hair was made of snakes, and whose glance could turn men to stone) through the travails of Hillary Clinton as first lady, when her many hairdos came to represent what her opponents saw as her slippery opportunism  and the new buzz cuts.Hair, in the eyes of the beholders  partly because it is so much in the eyes of the beholders  is, as it ever was, a political issue. It is, as the anthropologist Grant McCracken wrote in his book Big Hair, our court of deliberation, the place where we contemplate who and what we are. And while such contemplation ebbs and flows, it is, like everything else in this heightened political climate, once again central to the conversation. At least the visual one.Earlier this year, Rose McGowans shaven pate was displayed in high definition on the cover of Brave, her account in part of her experience with sexual harassment. Last month, Asia Kate Dillon and the shaved head returned to small screens (and promotional billboards) everywhere in Billions, and the first nonbinary gender character on American series television.Since the release of Black Panther in February, the bald heads of the Dora Milaje soldiers, led by Okoye (Danai Gurira), have become clarion calls of black female strength and beauty. And Adwoa Aboah, the Model of the Year at the British Fashion Awards in December, is known for not only her stubbled head but also her Gurls Talk platform and her advocacy on the part of young womens mental health.In all cases, it is almost impossible to separate the image from the activism.Especially because those images exist in stark contrast to those of certain other women in the public eye, in particular the women associated with the Trump family, including the first lady, Melania Trump, and the former communications director Hope Hicks, whose long, lush locks represent what Mr. McCracken call voluptuous hair  hair in the Rita Hayworth-Cindy Crawford mode. It could be a coincidence, though it is also notable that some of the things the women who have shaved their heads stand for represent a group of values and cultural beliefs that the administration does not share: gun control, L.G.B.T.Q. rights.Hair is not solely a female issue, of course; mens hair is also fraught (hello, Samson; hello, skinheads). Though as Dr. Vearncombe said, because we focus so much attention on the head, especially on the female head, and because this attention is gendered, and because, more than anything, this attention is visible, absent hair on a womans head can be read as disruptive to the politics of the male gaze. Looking at a womans face, at her hair, has conventionally been an exercise of desire, and of an assertion of male power. Disrupting this convention, disrupting this gaze, allows us to see a different set of possibilities for the female head. The shaved head speaks in a different way.And what is says is multitudes. It can sometimes speak of punishment: After World War II, women in France who were accused of being collaborators had their heads shaved in public; Natalie Portmans character in V for Vendetta had her head shaved during a torture scene. It can reflect discipline and toughness: See Demi Moore in G.I. Jane and Charlize Theron in Mad Max: Fury Road. It can represent instability: When Britney Spears had her breakdown in 2007, she shaved her head in an act that has practically become a synonym in the pop lexicon for unstable. And it can be a direct riposte to a certain set of social and cultural values and expectations.In an excerpt from her book published in i-D, Ms. McGowan wrote of shaving her head: I broke up with you. The collective you, the societal you. I broke up with the Hollywood ideal, the one that I had a part in playing. It was a way of rejecting, she wrote. The ideal version of a woman that is sold to you by every actress in every hair commercial telling you, this the secret to being beguiling, the secret to getting a man to want you.This is hair as seen through the Freudian lens, wherein the whole head becomes a stand-in for sexuality. Ms. McGowan later went on to say that her hair made her feel like a blowup sex doll. And yet, by rejecting it, by shaving it, she did not escape it (none of us do); she simply transformed its messaging.As Geraldine Biddle-Perry, an Associate Lecturer at Central Saint Martins and the co-editor of Hair: Styling, Culture and Fashion, wrote in an email exchange, For women who voluntarily cut/shave their hair, volition alters the symbolic grammar and so the act functions in terms of female agency and empowerment.Which in turn raises the question of whether we are in for more head shaving, and whether that may ultimately lead to a time when, Dr. Vearncombe said, we will not care about what a woman puts on or removes from her head.Its possible. Though given the history, gun control may have a better chance.
ALBANY, N.Y.   The scheduled prison release of a former member of a violent 1970s radical group who killed two New York City police officers in 1971 has been put on hold by a state court.State Supreme Court in Albany issued a temporary restraining order halting Herman Bell\'s release after the Patrolman\'s Benevolent Association of the City of New York requested the order in a lawsuit filed Wednesday on behalf of Diane Piagentini, widow of one of the slain officers.The state parole board last month approved Bell\'s release from a maximum-security prison in upstate New York. The 70-year-old former Black Liberation Army member has served 44 years for fatally shooting officers Waverly Jones and Joseph Piagentini at a Harlem housing development.Bell was scheduled to be released April 17. The court order puts his release on hold pending an April 13 hearing on the lawsuit.The PBA\'s lawsuit against the parole board contends board members failed to consider the comments of the sentencing judge and prosecutors, who indicated Bell should never be released from prison.  Parole was granted after Bell\'s eighth parole hearing.PBA President Patrick Lynch said the parole board "blew the call" by approving Bell\'s release. He called Bell a "cold-blooded assassin" whose parole must be rescinded."Parole may be appropriate for some who have committed crime, but it is not for cold-blooded cop-killers," Diane Piagentini said in a statement released by the PBA.Bell\'s Manhattan attorney, Robert Boyle, called the lawsuit frivolous and said it shouldn\'t impede Bell\'s release from Shawangunk Correctional Facility in Ulster County."The parole board considered everything they were required under the law to consider," Boyle told The Associated Press. "Their decision was in accordance with the law."State correction officials say the agency is complying with the court\'s order. The parole board is being represented in the lawsuit by state attorney general\'s office, which didn\'t respond to a request for commentBell and two other members of the BLA, a violent offshoot of the Black Panther Party, were convicted of killing the officers after luring them with a bogus 911 call. Co-defendant Anthony Bottom is serving 25 years to life but is scheduled for a parole hearing in June. The third accomplice has since died in prison.During his last parole interview, Bell called the slayings "horribly wrong" and said he had remorse for killing the officers. Bell has earned bachelor\'s and master\'s degrees while in prison and counseled other inmates, factors that were considered as part of the parole board\'s decision that his "debt has been paid to society."
HANOI, Vietnam   Six human rights activists were sentenced to harsh prison terms in Vietnam after being convicted of attempting to overthrow the government by advocating a multiparty democracy.Prominent human rights lawyer Nguyen Van Dai received the most severe penalty of 15 years in prison and five years of house arrest at the one-day trial Thursday, said his lawyer Nguyen Van Mieng. The others received sentences from seven to 12 years.They were charged with affiliating with a group called Brotherhood for Democracy, whose purpose was to change the leadership of the Communist Party and build a multiparty system."The sentences are too harsh to the defendants," Mieng said. "They fought for human rights, they fought for the rights of multi-party system ... which are recognized achievements of mankind, but the court sees it as serious (threat) to the regime."Five of the defendants including Dai maintained they were innocent because what they did was right, Mieng said. One defendant confessed to the crime and got the most lenient sentence, he added."The purpose of the group is to change the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, build a multi-party system," the official Vietnam News Agency quoted the verdict as saying. "The defendants\' act is not fight for democracy, but acts that aim at overthrowing the people\'s administration.""The defendants\' act is especially serious because it directly impacts the survival of the people\'s administration," it said.State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said the United States was deeply troubled by the harsh sentences under a "vague charge" and called for the release of all "prisoners of conscience" immediately."Individuals have the right to the fundamental freedoms of expression, association, and peaceful assembly, both online and offline," she said in a statement. "The United States is deeply concerned by the Vietnamese government\'s efforts to restrict these rights, through a disturbing trend of increased arrests, convictions, and harsh sentences of peaceful activists."Speaking to reporters at a regular briefing Thursday, Vietnamese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Le Thi Thu Hang said there are no "prisoners of conscience" in Vietnam and no one has been arrested for freedom of expression."In Vietnam, like other countries in the world, all acts that violate the laws are seriously dealt with in accordance with law," she said.Amnesty International says 97 people are serving jail sentences for violating national security laws in Vietnam, while Human Rights Watch counts 119.
DETROIT   Michigan lawmakers said Thursday that they will introduce more proposals stemming from the fallout of the Larry Nassar sexual abuse scandal that they say has highlighted failures by his former employer, Michigan State University.House members, who announced that they finished their investigation into the Nassar case, say bipartisan legislation will be introduced in the coming days that will build on measures already passed by the state Senate. They say more changes are needed to protect other sexual abuse victims and "prevent such a tragedy from happening again.""After reviewing the evidence, there is absolutely no doubt that Michigan State University failed to adequately protect students and patients on campus," Rep. Klint Kesto, Law and Justice Committee chairman, said in a statement. "That is a failure to every survivor of sexual assault. As the report outlines, we will be actively pursuing a broad range of legislative reforms to protect people across Michigan from sexual assault."Nassar, a former sports doctor who also worked for USA Gymnastics, the Indiana-based organization responsible for training Olympians, was sentenced this year to decades in prison. He has admitted molesting women and girls with his ungloved hand under the guise of medical treatment.The House members who investigated are recommending that the state place limits on any medical treatments that involve penetrating minors. One recommendation calls for the state to create a standard consent form for such treatment and include statements regarding the use of gloves and the presence of another health care professional.Lawmakers also recommend giving the governor authority to remove officials from the State Board of Education and university governing bodies. And they want to make it a crime for someone to use a position of authority over another to prevent that person from reporting sex crimes."Though not all of us necessarily agree with each and every proposal, we all agree that a broad review of potential solutions is necessary to protect our children from predators like Larry Nassar and fix the problems revealed by his horrific crimes," lawmakers whose committees were asked to launch inquiries said in a letter to House Speaker Tom Leonard.The announcement from lawmakers came the same day that a state disciplinary board permanently stripped Nassar of his medical license. The move is a formality that would keep him from practicing if he ever got out of prison. In addition to permanently revoking his license, the state Board of Osteopathic Medicine and Surgery also fined Nassar $1 million, though it\'s doubtful he\'d be able to pay it.
MOSCOW   A Russian historian whose exposure of Soviet leader Josef Stalin\'s crimes angered state officials was cleared of child pornography charges on Thursday after a long campaign by human rights activists to free him.State prosecutors had accused Yuri Dmitriev of involving his adopted daughter, then 11, in child pornography, of illegally possessing components of a firearm, and of depravity involving a minor.But some of Russia\'s leading cultural figures had said Dmitriev was framed because his focus on Stalin\'s crimes jarred with the Kremlin narrative that Russia must not be ashamed of its past.His real crime, they said, was dedicating himself to documenting Stalin\'s 1937-38 Great Terror, in which nearly 700,000 people were executed, according to conservative official estimates. Dmitriev found a mass grave with up to 9,000 bodies dating from the period.Dmitriev\'s lawyer, Viktor Anufriev, told Reuters on Thursday that a court in Petrozavodsk in northwest Russia had cleared Dmitriev of the child pornography and depravity charges."We got 90 percent of what we wanted," said Anufriev. "He was cleared of all the dirty charges."However, he said the same court had found his client guilty of illegally possessing "the main elements of" a firearm, something Dmitriev denied.Anufriev had previously said that Dmitriev owned parts of a sawn-off shotgun, but that it was an old hunting rifle that did not fire, and that no bullets had been found.State prosecutors had demanded Dmitriev be jailed for nine years. Anufriev said that his client would now face certain restrictions on his freedom of movement for the next three months as a result of the fire arms conviction.Dmitriev, head of the local branch of Memorial, a rights group which documents Russia\'s Soviet past, was arrested on Dec. 13, 2016. by police acting on an anonymous tip-off, days after someone had broken into his home and accessed his computer.State prosecutors then accused him of taking pornographic photographs of his adopted daughter. Dmitriev said the photographs were not pornographic, but did involve nudity because he took them to document her health for social services.The Novaya Gazeta daily said Thursday\'s verdict was a rare piece of good news for those who believed in justice."The decision was unprecedented for Russian justice where the percentage of acquittals does not exceed the statistical margin of error," it wrote."We take pleasure in simple things, in an ordinary fair court verdict of which there should be tens and hundreds of thousands in the country."(Editing by Alison Williams)
LOS ANGELES   U.S. television networks have scrapped two planned series about former President Bill Clinton\'s affair with Monica Lewinsky and his 1998 impeachment.History Channel said on Wednesday it had decided not to move forward with a six-episode scripted drama series that it announced last September."The Breach: Inside the Impeachment of Bill Clinton," was billed as "an intimate, riveting depiction of how one of the nation\'s biggest political scandals unfolded.""A decision was made a few months ago not to move forward on the series for creative reasons. Production had not commenced," History Channel said in a statement. The network did not give details.In a separate development, producer Ryan Murphy told The Hollywood Reporter that he was no longer developing the best-selling book "A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Sex Scandal that Nearly Brought Down a President" for FX television as planned.Murphy, producer of the "American Crime" FX series that recently dramatized the O.J. Simpson double-murder trial, and the murder of fashion designer Gianni Versace, had optioned the 2000 book more than a year ago.He told the magazine in an interview for its April 4 edition that he had second thoughts about doing the series, and had informed Lewinsky."I told her, \'Nobody should tell your story but you, and it\'s kind of gross if they do,\'" Murphy was quoted as saying.   "\'If you want to produce it with me, I would love that; but you should be the producer and you should make all the goddamn money.\'"Clinton was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction during his second term as president but was acquitted by the Senate.Lewinsky, whose affair with Clinton occurred while she was an intern at the White House, has been the subject of numerous books and has recently campaigned against bullying.Clinton, however, remains a hot property for television. Cable channel Showtime has said it will adapt his debut novel for a series.Co-authored with thriller writer James Paterson, "The President is Missing" is due to be published in June and will tell of the sudden disappearance of a sitting U.S. president.Showtime has not said when the series will air, or given details of casting.History Channel is a joint venture between Hearst Communications and Walt Disney Co. FX is a unit of 21st Century Fox, while Showtime is a unit of CBS Corp.(Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Peter Cooney)
Our guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.APPLYING IT LIBERALLY at Abrons Arts Center, Underground Theater (April 8, 4:45 p.m.). Keisha Zollar and Andrew Kimler are an interracial married couple who both skew liberal when it comes to their politics, but that doesnt mean their viewpoints always gel cohesively  their banter on the podcast they produce together can attest to that. As part of this years NYC PodFest, theyre hosting a live taping, and Abbi Crutchfield and Allison Kilkenny are joining them, for what they describe in part as a candid autopsy of a modern American marriage.212-598-0400, abronsartscenter.orgFRANK CONNIFFS OPEN RIFF NIGHT at Q.E.D. (April 11, 7:30 p.m.). The host of this event hails from one of the O.G. riff-track shows, Mystery Science Theater 3000, so you know his ability to provide colorful commentary to terrible television and film alike is top-notch. Is yours? Heres an opportunity to find out: Audience members sign up as they would at an open mike to offer riffs of their own as they watch clips from bad movies. Mr. Conniff and his guest judges will chose the best riffer, who will try to hold his or her own against Mr. Conniff at the end of the night.347-451-3873, qedastoria.comDESUS AND MERO at Williamson Theater, Center for the Arts at the College of Staten Island (April 10, 8 p.m.). This comedy duo hosts a regular late-night talk show on Viceland, and theyve had everyone from Rosie Perez to Al Sharpton to The Timess own Sam Sifton as guests. Now theyre bringing their usually televised act to the stage in a five-stop tour across New Yorks boroughs. Thats the good news. The bad news is this is the only tour stop that hasnt sold out.718-982-2504, cfashows.comHOW TO AMERICAN at the Bell House (April 7, 7:30 p.m.). Perhaps best known for his role on the HBO show Silicon Valley as the infuriatingly stoic Jian-Yang, Jimmy O. Yang recently published a book about his experiences coming of age as an immigrant in California. His family moved to the United States from Hong Kong when Mr. Yang was 13. Much to the chagrin of his father, who apparently wishes his son became a scientist, Mr. Yang instead pursued stand-up and acting. On Saturday night, he will share these stories and more.718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.comTHOUGHTS AND PRAYERS: A MANDATORY ASSEMBLY at the Bell House (April 10, 8 p.m.). Some of New Yorks best comedians have gathered for this event, which will be hosted by Kristen Buckels and Lacey Jeka and benefit Everytown for Gun Safety. The talented Aparna Nancherla, Jo Firestone and Ilana Glazer, of Broad City fame, will be joined by other performers for this night of laughs.718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.comTHE WHOLE STORY at Union Hall (April 8, 7 p.m.). Unsurprisingly, the comedian Mike Birbiglia spends a lot of time around other comedians, whether its backstage before shows or afterward at the bar. One thing he came to realize about comedians as a result is that while his comedy counterparts obviously bring the jokes while onstage, offstage they tell longer real-life tales that are just as entertaining. For this event, Mr. Birbiglia welcomes the effortlessly hilarious comedians Chris Laker and Jacqueline Novak to tell, as it were, their whole stories.718-638-4400, unionhallny.com
Paige Jennings has seen her mother with blood on her hands before. But this week The Americans took it to a new level: a horrified Paige seeing her mothers face covered in the blood, not to mention the brains, of an American general shed just killed. This is going to be a hard one to explain.That gruesome scene was the close of the episode, titled Tchaikovsky (and directed by Matthew Rhys, doing double duty). But it had already been a challenging hour for the furiously multitasking Elizabeth.After the bleak ending last week, when she angrily rejected Philips concern and marched upstairs alone, this week opened with her coming back down the stairs, still silent and defiantly smoking a morning cigarette. (Philip had made an indelicate and tactically flawed reference to her smelling like cigarettes all the time.)Her plate was more than full. She was pulling her shifts as a home health aide at the Haskard house, spying on the husband (an American arms negotiator) and putting up with his wife, whom she has to help keep alive through the coming Reagan-Gorbachev summit. This meant sitting still for an impromptu drawing lesson from Erica Haskard, perhaps the only person this side of Claudia who can order Elizabeth around.It was fun to see the unstoppable Elizabeth shutting up, sitting down and picking up a pencil for the immovable Erica. The whole notion of Elizabeths being possibly awakened by her exposure to Ericas art hasnt been my favorite thing about this season  its more of a stretch than the show usually makes  but there was a zing to their exchange, with Elizabeths demurral, Trust me, I cant draw, met by Ericas retort, No, thats not your problem. Erica told her not to focus on the object but, rather, just to see light and shade  exactly the opposite of what Elizabeth has trained herself to do in order to carry out her duties.When she wasnt bedside with Erica or photographing documents on Glenns desk, Elizabeth made time for lunch with another source, Patrick McCleesh (Reed Birney) at the State Department. (He appears to be her fake work husband  sort of like her own Martha, but without the sex and the mock wedding.) It was a relatively uneventful scene, except for Elizabeths nearly being caught by security guards. McCleesh told her that Ronald Reagan was starting to show signs of dementia. Claudia responded to that nugget with a huh  as far as the K.G.B. is concerned, American presidents come and go.Elizabeth had to be nimble with her lies on the home front, too. Again turning down Philips offer to talk, she neglected to mention that she had killed a Navy security guard whod had a run-in with Paige, finessing the whole situation by saying that Paige got somebodys name wrong.But the real challenge to her composure came when Paige asked, Do our people ever use sex to get information? Elizabeths eyes-averted What? was about as flustered as she gets, although she immediately recovered and denied that such a thing could ever happen. (She later backtracked, saying, Well, maybe some people, in some circumstances, might bend the rules a little.)Presumably Paige will learn the truth about these things even if she lands the comfortable State Department or C.I.A. job that Elizabeth is angling for her to get. But maybe shell never have to know what her own mother has been getting up to all these years. (Nice moment: Paiges wearily dismissive Obviously when Elizabeth lectured her about not checking out books about espionage from the library.)And then there was the general. Wed met him before, as Colonel Lyle Rennhull, back in Season 1. (The final episode of that season, The Colonel, was named after him.) Back then, he was meeting Philip to tell him that Americas Star Wars missile-defense system was a pipe dream, a meeting that initiated a sequence of events that ended with Elizabeths being shot. He resurfaced because Moscow wanted Elizabeth to shake him down for a piece of American tech, a lithium-based radiation sensor. If he didnt obtain one, his past treason would be exposed.Rennhull (still played by Victor Slezak) has not been the most admirable character  in Season 2 he killed the informant Sanford Prince in order to protect himself  but this time he decided to stand on principle, declaring that all he ever wanted to do was avoid war and that he wouldnt sell out his country now. So, an idealist, like Elizabeth. When they met in a park in Virginia, he pulled a gun, and she fell to her knees and played the Im-a-mother card, pretending to beg for her life. This was a distraction, of course, before she lunged, tackled him, wrestled for the gun and then slowly, purposefully forced it under his chin and pulled the trigger.Paige ran from her post in the parking lot to her moms aid, but this being The Americans, there was no hugging or crying. The emotion was packed into the moment when their eyes locked, as Elizabeth yelled at Paige to get back to the car. Paige, the good soldier, hesitated only briefly before turning and running back without a word. Then the credits rolled, the fallout put off until next week.Elsewhere in the episode, Philip had further setbacks in his new capitalist existence. His employee Stavos (Anthony Arkin) lost one of the travel agencys valuable clients, and when Philip told the story to Henry, the son gently reprimanded the father: Maybe Stavos was right and Philip should have kept the client himself. The American-born Henry probably has better business instincts than his wannabe-bourgeois dad.Henrys brief appearance, by phone from New Hampshire, was one of two heartwarming cameos. The other: a walk-on by the mail robot, gliding through the back of a scene at F.B.I. headquarters. In a related subplot, we were given both some comic relief and some spy-story tension via the Gennadi-and-Sofia story. Tired of her once glamorous husband, Sofia let it slip to Stan that she had found a sympathetic ear at the Tass office, a co-worker named Bogdan.The episode was time-stamped by the baseball game on Glenn Haskards radio: Oct. 4, the last day of the 1987 season. Glenn listened as Chili Davis of the San Francisco Giants tied the game, 4-4, with a home run off the Atlanta Braves Chuck Cary. (The Giants went on to win, 5-4, on Bob Brenlys walk-off homer in the 10th inning. They won the National League West that year but lost to the St. Louis Cardinals in the league championship series.)Finally, the episodes title referred to Claudias favorite composer. She played a Tchaikovsky recording for Paige  Im sure one of you can tell us which piece it was  and the melancholy strains continued on the soundtrack as Paige and Elizabeth had their uncomfortable conversation about sex. Let us know in the comments what you thought about Tchaikovsky and the latest stages in Paiges education.
 Good Thursday. Heres what were watching: Jamie Dimon chafes under liquidity rules. Mark Zuckerberg has disclosed more on how much Facebook user data may have been accessed. The White House is still talking tough on trade with China. Blackstones infrastructure fund isnt doing so well.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.On Wall Street, theres been a running parlor game about whether Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chases chief executive, would try to run for president in 2020. His annual letters, filled with commentary on U.S. policy, have only increased the chatter, and this years letter, released Thursday, is no different. It touches on everything from trade to immigration. While Mr. Dimon, who once called himself barely a Democrat, says he plans to stay at the bank for the next five years, the question among political prognosticators is whether Mr. Dimons policy views could ever find a home among voters in this politically polarized environment.Mr. Dimons sensible letter was seemingly supportive of some of President Trumps policies, while taking the opposing side on others. Mr. Dimon particularly applauded the corporate tax cut and deregulation efforts. On China trade, Mr. Dimon writes: It is not unreasonable for the United States to press ahead for more equivalency, and that one of the administrations best arguments is that negotiation alone has not worked. However, he said he would like to see more cooperation with U.S. allies on talks with China and added that the U.S. should revisit the Trans-Pacific Partnership.On immigration, he called for tougher border control, writing, American citizens have the right to complain that we have not successfully protected our borders since the last immigration reform in 1986. He also said, People immigrating to this country should be taught American history, our language and our principles. At the same time, he also advocated for a path to legal status and citizenship for Dreamers and improving merit-based immigration programs so that immigrants educated here can stay.Mr. Dimon made a point of saying that part of the problems facing the country is that too many people are talking past each other.When people argue as if there are binary solutions, the argument is almost always wrong, he wrote, advocating that people try to look at all sides of a situation. I tell my liberal friends to read columnists like Arthur Brooks and George Will. And I tell my conservative friends to read writers like Tom Friedman.If Mr. Dimon were to run, he would likely have to do so as an independent. It is hard to see how liberal Democrats would embrace much of his deregulatory positions. And yet many of his positions  and especially some of his social positions not enunciated in his letter  may not be far right enough to capture the interest of Republicans.Maybe the country needs someone in the middle, but history has not been kind to third-party candidates. Andrew Ross SorkinJamie Dimon, in his annual letter to JPMorgan Chases shareholders, had much to say about political issues like trade and immigration.But he also addressed a policy area much closer to home  bank regulation. Mr. Dimon often has expressed skepticism about aspects of the banking overhaul that took place in the wake of the financial crisis. But his remarks on regulation arguably carry more weight now. Congress is closer to modifying the post-crisis rules than at any point since Dodd-Frank was signed into law in 2010. An important regulatory requirement Mr. Dimon criticized, therefore, might become a focus for those wanting to roll back the rules.Mr. Dimon in this years letter zeroed in on regulations that require banks to have a certain amount of liquidity, the financial term for access to cash or low-risk assets that can be easily sold for cash.In 2008, some large financial firms were crippled when customers, depositors and creditors withdrew their money. The Federal Reserve and taxpayers had to step in to support the banks. To help prevent a repeat of this, post-crisis rules require that banks hold a certain amount of liquid assets to cover a theoretical level of outflows. Mr. Dimon is in favor of banks having more liquidity than before the crisis, but in the letter, released Thursday, he wrote:Notably, legislation currently in Congress would tweak liquidity rules. If it passes, bankers may press for more loosening. And, as they have before, bank lobbyists may deploy Mr. Dimons main argument here  that regulation can lead to less lending. But there are flaws in this line of attack, especially when it comes to liquidity rules.First, a bank that lacks liquidity is in no position to lend. When a banks creditors and customers fear it doesnt have enough cash in reserve, they will most likely withdraw their money. This not only deprives the bank of the money it needs to lend, it also sharply reduces its chance of survival. Or as Gregg Gelzinis of the left-leaning Center for American Progress puts it, You wont be able to take this action if you fail.Perhaps more importantly, Mr. Dimon leaves out some crucial context. Congress designed the whole post-crisis overhaul to ensure that banks have the funds on hand to lend during a downturn. Dodd-Franks architects saw that when banks stop lending, it makes a recession far worse. And that is one reason why banks now have much higher levels of capital. Regulators expect that they will use up some of that capital to keep lending through the economic tumult. This is why the Federal Reserve said after its last bank stress tests:Andrew Gray, a JPMorgan spokesman, followed up with more material on Mr. Dimons thinking on liquidity.He re-emphasized Mr. Dimons point about having to tie up funds that could be used to make loans. Mr. Gray noted that a bank facing outflows would be expected to keep refilling its pool of liquid assets to be in compliance with a liquidity regulation. This would leave fewer funds for lending and making markets, Mr. Gray asserted.He also addressed the argument that higher capital levels, not liquidity, will largely determine the extent to which banks will lend through a downturn. Mr. Gray asserted that liquidity rules play an important role in ensuring banks have the resources to participate in wider financial markets. Rules forcing the hoarding of liquidity may, thus, crimp that activity. Peter EavisMick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has complained that the regulator engages in wasteful spending. He even submitted a quarterly budget request recently of $0.That attitude apparently didnt apply to two of his recent hires.Mr. Mulvaney appointed two senior staff members who are paid salaries far above what they had been earning in their previous government jobs in Washington, according to agency documents obtained by The New York Times through a public records request. Kirsten Sutton was hired in January to be the agencys chief of staff. Mr. Mulvaney agreed to pay her $259,500 a year. Her salary is the highest allowed under the consumer bureaus pay scale and represents a raise of more than 50 percent working for one of the C.F.P.B.s fiercest critics, Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. It is also 22 percent more than her predecessor. Brian Johnson is another new deputy. In late December, Mr. Mulvaney signed paperwork that awarded Mr. Johnson a salary of $239,595. Mr. Johnson previously worked on the House Financial Services Committee. In his most recent job there, as policy director, he earned about $170,000 a year, according to LegiStorm. Of the 20 people at the bureau with the title of senior adviser, Mr. Johnson is the second-highest paid. (Another adviser, whose name wasnt disclosed in the public records reviewed by The Times, is paid $240,000.)ContextThe consumer bureau, as well as fellow financial regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is allowed under federal law to pay employees significantly more than other government agencies can pay. The rationale is that the higher salaries are necessary to recruit skilled employees who otherwise might land jobs on Wall Street.As a result, the C.F.P.B. is stocked with employees who earn more than the average Washington bureaucrat. Of the agencys 1,600 employees, 219 make more than $200,000, according to the records reviewed by The Times. Stacy CowleyBlackRock, the worlds largest money manager, plans to offer a series of new products allowing individuals and institutions to invest in market indexes without putting money into manufacturers and retailers of firearms.They include: a new exchange-traded fund that will track the performance of the MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index, composed of small stocks with favorable environmental, social and governance standards, while specifically excluding producers and large retailers of civilian firearms. a similar credit-focused ETF that eschews the debt of gunmakers and distributors. an option to take the guns out of institutional strategies tracking major market indexes, including the S&P 500, the Russell 2000 and three others.Critics cornerRob Cox of Breakigviews writes:What emerged from Facebook yesterday  in Mark Zuckerbergs conference call with reporters and in a company blog post  were revelations that users public data was more compromised than previously thought. Facebook said Cambridge Analytica harvested the data of 87 million users, not 50 million. A vulnerability in search and account recovery functions may have exposed most of Facebooks 2 billion users to unauthorized harvesting of their public profile information.Mr. Zuckerberg, ahead of his testimony to Congress, struck a conciliatory tone. But regulators in Australia, the U.S. and elsewhere are investigating whether the company broke privacy rules.Facebook also outlined steps to prevent misuse of its platform. Among the most significant: restriction of access to so-called A.P.I.s that let developers plug into its network. The Verges take: Effectively, Facebook has put a nail in the coffin of its app platform.The most immediate effect: Tinder users couldnt log in.A brighter note for Facebook: Its shares are up in premarket trading today, after Mr. Zuckerberg said that #DeleteFacebook didnt appear to be having much effect.The Facebook calendar April 9: Alerts should start popping up for users whose information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica. April 10: Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees. April 11: He will testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Elsewhere in tech and regulation: A closer look at Margrethe Vestager, the public face of Europes tech clampdown. And the privacy advocate Max Schrems says the fight over user data has just begun.President Trump and the White House insist that the U.S. isnt in a trade war with China. But it hasnt backed off from its tariff threats, and the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said the U.S. may feel a little bit of short-term pain.More from behind the scenes, by Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT:Calming the markets has mostly fallen to Larry Kudlow, the White Houses national economic adviser of less than a week.Peter Eaviss take: We can take lessons on the U.S.-China trade skirmish from Brexit. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to that seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system.And Greg Ip of the WSJ, who says China started the trade fight, had an informative tweetstorm about each sides vulnerabilities:But Neil Irwin of the Upshot warns that China has other ways of retaliating.The United States trade deficit rose 1.6 percent to $57.6 billion, its highest level since October 2008. The deficit has now risen for six straight months, the longest such streak since 2000.The merchandise-trade gap with China narrowed to $34.7 billion in February from $35.5 billion. The Trump administration wants to cut $100 billion, or about 25 percent, from the annual deficit with China, Bloomberg points out. During President Trumps first year in office, the United States trade deficit with China rose to $375.2 billion in 2017, a record high.Last May, Blackstone announced with great fanfare that it planned a $40 billion fund with Saudi Arabia to invest in U.S. infrastructure: up to $20 billion from the Saudis, who would match commitments by other outside partners. But as of now, Blackstone has secured just $575 million in such commitments  and missed two fund-raising deadlines.Whats happened, per Kate Kelly and Andrew: The Saudis wanted the fund overseen by an investment committee, with a seat for them. Blackstone refused. Many potential investors balked at committing money until an investment team was in place, a process that took some time.In other infrastructure news: D.J. Gribbin, the Trump administrations infrastructure point person, is leaving the White House, which looks to have delayed its investment plan until after the midterms. The E.P.A. chief Scott Pruitt, the subject of some unhappy rumblings from the White House, has begun a media pushback against claims about his spending. (Politico) George Nader, the U.A.E.-connected businessman cooperating with Robert Muellers investigation, has links to Russia, too. (NYT) President Trump plans to deploy National Guard troops to help guard the U.S.s southwestern border. Hed previously said it would be our military. (NYT) John Kasich is eating at diners in New Hampshire, for some reason. (NYT) Amalgamated Bank became the latest restrict gun sales by its business customers, following guidelines published by the Mike Bloomberg-backed Everytown for Gun Safety. (Amalgamated)More than 3,100 Googlers have signed a petition protesting the tech colossuss A.I. work with the Defense Department.More from Scott Shane and Dai Wakabayashi of the NYT:The company line: Were actively engaged across the company in a comprehensive discussion of this important topic.In other defense tech news: Oracles Safra Catz reportedly argued to Mr. Trump over dinner Tuesday night that the Pentagons process for choosing a cloud services contractor was tilted toward Amazon. (Oracle is also bidding.)The tech flyaround On balance, the U.S. Postal Service probably does pretty well out of Amazon. Its real problem, Barry Ritholtz argues, is Congress. Spotify shares ended down yesterday at $144.22, but still up on private stock trades earlier this year. One big winner was Sony, which sold 17.2 percent of its stake. Meet Fin7 (or Carbanak or Cobalt Spider), the criminal group suspected of many prominent data thefts. And a cyberattack on a natural gas pipeline servicer raised questions about the U.S.s energy system. Apple is reportedly working on touchless gestures and a curved screen for iPhones. (Bloomberg)The woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself had become angry with the companys policies. Police did not say which ones, but she had posted about YouTube pulling ads from videos that it said did not meet its standards.The woman, Nasim Najafi Aghdam, was a social media video star in Iran and had called YouTube a dictatorship because she was making less money from her posts.Also of note: The attack highlighted the tension between Silicon Valley giants love of big, open campuses and their security needs.As the two corporate siblings jostle over a potential union  Viacom has reportedly rejected CBS's offer and is preparing a counter bid  who would run the combined company remains a sticking point. Rich Greenfield of BTIG offered a contrarian case against it being Mr. Moonves of CBS, one of the best-regarded media executives around.The future of a combined Viacom and CBS is going to be driven by an increasing focus on international and scaling up, he wrote  an agenda better suited to Viacoms C.E.O., Bob Bakish. Investor withdrawals at Bill Ackmans Pershing Square Capital Management are huge. (WSJ) Starboard Value plans to continue pressing its proxy fight at Newell Brands. Carl Icahn, who has settled on that one, is off trying to replace the board at SandRidge Energy. The judge overseeing the Justice Departments lawsuit to block AT&Ts takeover of Time Warner asked about settling it through arbitration. (WSJ) Broadcom is officially a U.S. company now. It still cant go after Qualcomm. (Broadcom) Some big drug makers are regretting their deals of 2015 and 2016. (FT) J.M. Smucker will pay $1.9 billion for Ainsworth Pet Nutrition, which makes Rachael Rays dog food brand, and will consider selling its U.S. baking brands like Pillsbury. (Reuters) SS&C of the U.S. is reportedly trying to top Temenoss 1.4 billion bid for the British trading software maker Fidessa. (FT) Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan, in his firms latest annual letter, where he also talks taxes, deficits and public policy. Michael Doppelt has rejoined Irving Place Capital as the investment firms head of fund-raising and limited partner relations. (Reuters) Britains requirement that companies with at least 250 staff disclose measures of gender pay gaps is forcing a reckoning at many companies. (NYT) David Smith, chairman of Sinclair Broadcast Group, says the media is getting his company all wrong. (NYT) Settlement agreements between Bill OReilly and two of his accusers were made public for the first time, offering details about his tactics against sexual harassment allegations. (NYT) Nikes top human resources executive told employees the company had failed to gain traction in hiring and promoting women and minorities. (WSJ) Why bond kings love Southern California. (Bloomberg) A guide to the long war between Bumble and Tinder. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
The laid-back companies of Silicon Valley are known for corporate headquarters that resemble universities, where employees mingle with tourists taking selfies and collaborations take shape out on the quad.At the Google campus in Mountain View, Calif., employees say the co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin stroll between meetings without an obvious security detail, and locals make off with the free bicycles for employees.But those generous green spaces and relaxed atmospheres come with a trade-off: Theyre difficult to secure.Many Google employees love the headquarters open nature but some worry about it, according to one current and one former Google employee who declined to be named because of a company policy barring workers from speaking to the news media. There is often no barrier between employees and the public, they said. People  most likely other employees  sometimes slip into buildings behind workers with badges, they said, and neither had ever seen an armed guard on campus. Google declined to comment.The shooting this week at the headquarters of YouTube, a Google-owned company about 25 miles north in San Bruno, has highlighted the security risks of Silicon Valleys relatively open corporate campuses  particularly as tech companies expanding influence angers more people online.But the risk is not confined to the tech sector. Many companies across the country are similarly exposed, reflecting an open-door policy that for generations has pervaded corporate America, where safety training has long focused on fire drills, earthquake-sheltering procedures and accident cleanup.Some of that trust has eroded over the years. After the World Trade Center attacks in 2001, companies fearing terrorist bombings and biochemical attacks taught employees how to handle suspicious packages. But a sharp increase in mass shootings over the past two decades has made companies increasingly nervous about gun violence from disgruntled workers and customers.Last year, an employee fatally shot three people at the United Parcel Service complex in San Francisco. In 2016, an employee fatally shot three colleagues and injured 14 more at a lawn care equipment factory in Kansas. In 2012, a man shot seven people and himself at a Minneapolis sign company hours after he was fired.I just dont know how we got here, said James D. Smith, president of the American Society of Safety Engineers. We would never be thinking 10, 15 years ago that this would be an issue.On Tuesday, Nasim Najafi Aghdam, a YouTube user upset about the companys policies, shot three people at the companys headquarters before killing herself, police said.Ms. Aghdam shot the people in an enclosed courtyard where employees dined. YouTube said she had entered the courtyard through a parking garage. The gate between the parking garage and the courtyard was unlocked, according to Zach Vorhies, an engineer at YouTube. A former YouTube employee who used to handle threats from disgruntled video creators, but was not allowed to speak about it publicly, said his team repeatedly warned YouTube security about the risk of the parking garage and unlocked gate, but it was never fixed.YouTube said in a statement on Wednesday that Ms. Aghdam never entered the building itself thanks to other security protections. The company said it was revisiting this incident in detail and would be increasing security at all of its offices around the world.The F.B.I. identified 160 so-called active-shooter incidents in the United States between 2000 and 2013, which left 486 people dead and 557 wounded. Nearly 46 percent of the attacks took place in commercial locations. Dozens of other attacks have occurred since 2013.Workplace shootings have fueled a cottage industry of security consultants who show employees how to manage panic, when to run or hide, and how to fight as a last resort. Lesson plans identify which filing cabinets or pieces of furniture offer the best protection, and which office tools can become improvised weapons. A full day of training can cost companies thousands of dollars.Companies are sending their employees to self-defense classes and their security personnel to gun ranges to test active-shooter threats in virtual reality. Architects are designing offices with designated safe rooms. Insurance providers are offering lower premiums for corporate clients with stronger security.If you cant protect the work force, youre putting your entire operation at risk, said Arnette Heintze, a former Secret Service agent who runs the security consulting firm Hillard Heintze, which posted record revenue in the most recent quarter.At Apples new campus in Cupertino, Calif., visitors are required to enter through a single, guarded entrance. The headquarters have a large courtyard, but reaching it requires someone to pass through the building.One former Facebook employee who worked on the companys security protocols, who declined to be named because of Facebooks prohibition on discussing internal company matters, said the company received dozens of threats a week.In recent years, Facebook has increased security at the entrances to its headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., but its parking lots and surrounding areas remain accessible. The safety of our employees is paramount, and we work hard every day to maintain a safe and secure environment for our community, Jamil Walker, a Facebook spokesman, said in an email.Facebook could soon find security trickier. It has proposed expanding into a nearby neighborhood, with housing and public space for local residents alongside its offices.Some security experts instruct clients to shift their parking lots farther away from the main facility, giving more time for potential attackers to have second thoughts and for guards to act on a threat. Consultants recommend that executive offices remain unlabeled to make them less of a target.Companies of all kinds have stepped up security. General Mills said it made physical changes to its building in Minneapolis to better prepare for an active shooter situation, but did not provide specifics. Wendys said it had installed upgraded security cameras throughout its headquarters in Dublin, Ohio; set up advanced access control systems that can lock down different parts of the facility; and upgraded its phone systems with emergency messaging capabilities.Hallmark and Hershey said they show employees a training video from the Center for Personal Protection and Safety that covers active shooter protocol. Some companies use a softer term  hostile intruder  to describe the training, while others add customized introductions to the footage.Employees are being asked to download internal apps loaded with safety plans, maps and emergency alerts. Some are told that their bonuses will be withheld if they do not attend mandatory drills.And preventive tactics are gaining traction. Employers are hiring social media trackers and data analysts to search for warning signs in employee behavior. Accenture said it has a behavioral threat assessment team made up of human resources representatives, lawyers, on-call psychologists and others.But security remains a matter of balance.You dont want a security program so restrictive that it hinders the company from doing the business its in, Mr. Heintze said.And vulnerabilities remain common, security consultants said. So-called penetration tests frequently show how easily an outsider can slip into an office through the employee smoking area, past an unmonitored camera, into a door held open by a polite employee, or through a metal detector being overseen by an underpaid and overworked security contractor.Employees looking for convenience tend to prop open automatically locking doors. Some will pass a badge over a turnstile to a friend who forgot his or hers.One corporate client described its facility to John M. White, the chief executive of the Protection Management security consulting firm, as being fully secure. Within three hours, Mr. White found that he could waltz through most of the buildings doors without being screened and that some were so old they would not lock.Another customer spent several hundred thousand dollars installing security cameras, only to find that their views were obstructed. Mr. White said he has spoken to employees who, in a theoretical attack, said they would be unwilling to break a window to escape out of fear of being fired later.You cant just throw a million dollars at security and say that now the problems gone, he said. In some ways, it can be a facade  you could have the most secure facility in the world, and there will still be some risks youre going to have to accept and manage.
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   Impoverished Central American migrants travelling in a "caravan" through Mexico that angered U.S. President Donald Trump said they would stick together for safety even though the group will end its journey in Mexico City rather than at the U.S. border.Since peaking at around 1,500 people, the caravan has dwindled under pressure from Trump and Mexican migration authorities, which vowed to separate those migrants with a right to stay in Mexico from those who did not.By issuing permits to the migrants, authorities shielded them from imminent deportation from Mexico.By Thursday morning, migrants were boarding buses to leave the town of Matias Romero in the southern state of Oaxaca, where their journey was held up by authorities at the weekend.Salvadoran Andres Rodriguez, 51, waited with a small backpack and a gallon of water in a field sprawling with men, women and children, mulling over a document that gave him 20 days to reach any border out of the country.Despite knowing the permit protected him, and that travelling alone would be faster, he feared if he left the caravan he would be exposed to the robbery and assault that befall many migrants on the long slog to the U.S. border."It\'s much safer," he said. "Everyone is supporting us. One person alone is much more vulnerable. Much more dangerous."Rodriguez, a builder, said he fled his home in El Salvador in the middle of the night with only the clothes on his back, a few dollars, a nephew, and his son, a student who had received a written death threat from a gang he had refused to join or pay."To be young, in my country, is a crime," Rodriguez said. "I\'m old - they\'ll do nothing to me. But to my son, if we go back ... they\'ll kill him."Plagued by gang violence and poverty, El Salvador and neighbouring Honduras have murder rates that are among the world\'s highest.Trump\'s tweets criticizing the caravan have showered it in far more publicity than its organizers, U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, ever expected. But his proposal to militarize the border has sparked a diplomatic row with Mexico.Mexico\'s President Enrique Pena Nieto rebuked Trump on Thursday over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, urging Trump not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico. [L2N1RI1PN]Stranded in Matias Romero since Sunday, a handful of women and children boarded a bus before dawn on Thursday, headed for the central city of Puebla, where the caravan was due to make another stop before concluding its journey in Mexico City.By mid-morning, others packed bags in a field strewn with discarded clothes and trash as two more buses waited, but only for those who could afford a ticket.The caravan, which set off from Mexico\'s southern border on March 25, aims to raise awareness about the plight of migrants, and has been running annually since 2010, the government said.Once in Puebla, organizers plan to hold a three-day conference with U.S. and Mexican immigration attorneys.On a street just outside the park, 30-year-old Guatemalan Manuel Flores brandished a temporary Mexican visa, but said he would stay with the caravan regardless."I don\'t even need to be here, but I\'m staying for them - for my family. Because they need this. They can\'t go home," he said, pointing to a group of seven new friends from Honduras and El Salvador, with whom he had cooked a great vat of seafood soup.Bonded by the travails of their odyssey, they were already discussing setting up a restaurant together in Texas.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Editing by Dave Graham,  Rosalba O\'Brien, Toni Reinhold)
MEXICO CITY   Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday sharply rebuked Donald Trump over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, joining with opponents to tell the U.S. leader not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico.Trump has been unable to get the U.S. Congress or Mexico to fully fund his planned border wall, and Trump said Thursday he will probably keep National Guard troops along the Mexican border until it is built.In an unusually combative address, a stern-looking Pena Nieto urged Trump to stop sowing discord between the two nations and demanded a more respectful tone in bilateral relations."If your recent declarations are due to frustration over issues to do with internal policy, your laws, or your Congress, direct yourself to them, not to Mexicans," Pena Nieto said.For months Mexico has been locked in tortuous negotiations with the United States and Canada to rework the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), but hopes have risen recently that some kind of preliminary deal could be within reach."President Trump: if you want to reach agreements with Mexico, we stand ready," Pena Nieto said, before adding: "We will not allow negative rhetoric to define our actions."Pena Nieto and Trump have had a strained relationship ever since the New Yorker launched his campaign in 2015 with the claim that some Mexican migrants are criminals and rapists.The White House says mobilizing the National Guard was part of Trump\'s strategy to stop illegal immigrants from entering the country, whom he blames for serious crime.Pena Nieto has faced criticism for failing to take a tough line against Trump in the past. Trump\'s comments have thrust the countries\' relationship into the center of Mexico\'s presidential campaign, where Pena Nieto\'s party is trailing.All the country\'s presidential candidates on Thursday criticized Trump\'s plan to militarize the border.The front-runner in the race, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, said Trump\'s scheme was political "propaganda" based on misinformation that aimed to stir up "xenophobia" and "racism.""This great threat on the southern border of the United States that he says is there, does not exist," said the leftist Lopez Obrador, who has a double-digit lead in most polls."This anti-Mexican policy has worked politically because unfortunately there are conservative sectors in the United States with little information and he knows how to awaken an anti-Mexican sentiment," he added during a campaign event in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo.Ricardo Anaya, the second-place contender who heads a right-left coalition, echoed a Senate motion on Wednesday calling on the government to end cooperation with the United States on migration and security if Trump did not back down."You cannot negotiate or cooperate with threats," he said.Jose Antonio Meade, candidate of Pena Nieto\'s Institutional Revolutionary Party, also attacked the border plan, and independent Margarita Zavala called it a "historic error" and a "hostile act" in a letter addressed to Trump.Barring Meade, all of the candidates are trenchant critics of the president, but Pena Nieto namechecked all four of them and the Senate motion in his scolding of Trump."As president of all Mexicans, I agree with (their) remarks," he said. "No one stands above the dignity of Mexico."(Reporting by Michael O\'Boyle and Daina Beth Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Chris Reese)
The cast of the Jersey Shore returns, older but maybe not wiser, to hit up the Miami club scene. And watch two gory Brian De Palma films that recently arrived on streaming services.MOM 9 p.m. on CBS. In days past, an actor might have had to choose between work in television and movies. Yet heres Allison Janney, in award-winning roles in films (she just won an Oscar for I, Tonya) while holding down a day job at one of televisions most reliably funny sitcoms, Mom. Her character, Bonnie, a recovering alcoholic and drug addict, struggles to be the stable one in her relationship after her fianc, Adam, experiences a devastating loss.WRESTLEMANIAS GREATEST MOMENTS 8 p.m. on USA. The 34th WrestleMania arrives on Sunday, with Ronda Rousey making her WWE debut and the Undertaker returning. This special reflects on the events most surprising, dramatic and bone-crushing moments over the years.JERSEY SHORE: FAMILY VACATION 8 p.m. on MTV. If G.T.L. doesnt mean anything to you, then you can probably skip to the next item. If youre still here, well, Mike (the Situation) Sorrentino pretty much sums it up in this shows trailer: Let the fist pumping begin. After six years of being off the air, having kids and even facing jail time, the rowdy, tanned gang that includes Snooki, Ronnie and Pauly D returns for another bender  this time not in Jersey, but in South Beach, Miami.IMPOSTERS 10 p.m. on Bravo. In its first season, this comedy earned raves for its soapy and breakneck tale about a con artist, Maddie, being pursued by three of her victims (two of whom are played by Marianne Rendn and Rob Heaps). As the second season starts, allegiances have shifted, and Maddie (Inbar Lavi) faces a far more dangerous adversary. Uma Thurman is back as a lethal fixer.SCARFACE (1983) on Netflix. This classic crime film from Brian De Palma arrives on Netflix in all of its pent-up rage and fury. Al Pacino is unforgettable as Tony Montana, a Cuban refugee who arrives in 1980s Miami with nothing and becomes a formidable drug kingpin. In his New York Times review, Vincent Canby wrote that Mr. Pacino acts with such mounting intensity that one half expects him to self-destruct before the films finale. And the creative team, including Mr. Pacino and his co-star Michelle Pfeiffer, will reconvene for a screening and panel discussion at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 16.CARRIE (1976) on Amazon Prime. If you havent exhausted your appetite for extremely bloody De Palma films, his adaptation of Stephen Kings 1974 novel also just arrived on streaming. The gruesome tale follows the 16-year-old Carrie White, tormented by her classmates and fanatically religious mother until she reaches a breaking point. The film received two Oscar nominations, including for Sissy Spacek in the title role. And look for John Travolta (pre-Saturday Night Fever) as one of Carries bullies.
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia   Forty-three Cambodians arrived in Phnom Penh, Cambodia\'s capital, on Thursday after being deported from the United States under a law allowing the repatriation of immigrants who have committed felony crimes and have not become U.S. citizens.The group is the largest to be sent to Cambodia under a 2002 bilateral agreement. More than 500 other Cambodians have already been repatriated.The program is controversial because it breaks up families, and in some cases the returnees have never lived in Cambodia, having been the children of refugees who fled to camps in Thailand to escape the genocidal Khmer Rouge regime that ruled Cambodia in 1975-79.Critics of the deportation policy say many of those convicted fell into crime as a result of social dislocation. The returnees are seen as having difficulty reintegrating into Cambodian society because many have spent most of their lives in the United States.Two Cambodians ex-convicts on March 30 received pardons from California Gov. Jerry Brown, at least temporarily removing the risk they might be deported.Gen. Dim Ra, a senior immigration police officer overseeing the returnees, said the group that arrived Thursday included three women.He said any returnees who still have family members in Cambodia will live with their relatives, and those who do not will receive vocational training by a private group funded by the U.S. government before being integrated into Cambodian society.The deportation policy has hurt already cool relations between Cambodia and the United States.Prime Minister Hun Sen said in April last year that he wanted to amend the 2002 pact with Washington that allowed the implementation of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, meant to combat illegal immigration and terrorism.Hun Sen, who has led Cambodia for more than three decades, said the agreement should be reviewed on "humanitarian" grounds because it splits up families settled in the United States. Calls to review the act were first raised in 2016 by Cambodian officials, who asked that it be renegotiated or suspended to ease the reintegration problem.Cambodia then slowed or stopped accepting the return of Cambodian deportees.In response, the U.S. Embassy in Cambodia stopped issuing visas in September last year to senior Cambodian foreign ministry officials and their families, an action initiated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It said the suspension was implemented under U.S. immigration law in response to Cambodia\'s refusal to accept back its nationals whom the U.S. wants to repatriate. Similar actions were taken for the same reason against Eritrea, Sierra Leone and Guinea.Cambodia in retaliation suspended missions by U.S. military-led teams searching for the remains of Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War. The U.S. government lists 48 Americans still unaccounted for in Cambodia.In February this year, a U.S. State Department official said the visa sanctions on top Cambodian foreign affairs officials could be lifted "in the near future" if the Cambodian government follows through on promises to begin accepting deportees again.U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Carl Risch said during a visit to Cambodia that Cambodian officials had been "very supportive in trying to improve the process."___This story has been corrected to show that the year of the repatriation agreement was 2002 instead of 2001.


SO PAULO, Brazil  A federal judge on Thursday ordered former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva of Brazil to surrender to the authorities by Friday afternoon to start serving a 12-year prison sentence on a corruption conviction.The warrant was issued hours after the countrys top court rejected Mr. da Silvas bid to remain free while appeals of the conviction were considered.A federal judge, Srgio Moro, wrote in the arrest warrant that Mr. da Silva would be held in a special cell, outside of the general prison population, in consideration of the dignity of the office he held. Mr. da Silva will be allowed to surrender to the federal police in the southern city of Curitiba, where his trial was held, Judge Moro said. He set Friday at 5 p.m. as the deadline.Mr. da Silvas Workers Party remained defiant on Thursday, vowing that he would still run for a third term in October, despite the Supreme Federal Courts 6-to-5 ruling early Thursday that he could not remain free pending further appeals.The president of the Workers Party, Senator Gleisi Hoffmann, told journalists that Mr. da Silva had not given up on his quest to return to the presidency. Lula remains our candidate, first of all because he is innocent, she said. If he is jailed, we will consider him a political prisoner and we will be by his side.Mr. da Silva, 72, kept a low profile on Thursday, receiving a string of visitors in his office at the Lula Institute in So Paulo, including party leaders and his handpicked successor, former President Dilma Rousseff.While Mr. da Silva is not the first Brazilian leader engulfed in scandal  former President Fernando Collor de Mello stepped down to avoid being impeached in 1992 and Ms. Rousseff was impeached on charges of manipulating the budget to hide economic problems  his fall is striking nonetheless. He left office eight years ago with a record approval rating of 87 percent, and he has held an ample lead in polls for Octobers presidential election.Mr. da Silvas imminent imprisonment also sends a chilling message to other prominent political figures caught up in corruption investigations. The threat of jail time has been one of the most important tools in the large-scale investigation known as Lava Jato, or Car Wash, which has ensnared not only Mr. da Silva, but also dozens of business and political leaders, including President Michel Temer.Last July, Mr. da Silva was convicted on corruption and money laundering charges and sentenced to almost 10 years in prison. In January, an appeals court unanimously upheld the conviction and increased the sentence to 12 years. Mr. da Silva maintains that the prosecution was an underhanded ploy masterminded by rivals to keep him off the ballot.The Supreme Federal Court, in denying Mr. da Silvas request to remain free, upheld a 2016 ruling that allows trial judges to jail defendants after an initial appeal has been rejected.Ms. Hoffmann, who also faces corruption charges, said her partys first course of action will be to pressure the court to revisit a constitutional question: whether defendants may be imprisoned before they have exhausted all appeals.Brazils Constitution says that no one will be considered guilty until all of the appeals of the criminal conviction have been exhausted. Until 2016, when the courts reconsidered the issue, defendants with money and influence could drag out their prosecution for years without going to jail.During the court hearing, which began on Wednesday and stretched into early Thursday, some of the justices suggested that they were open to revisiting the issue outside Mr. da Silvas case, which subjected them to tremendous pressure from supporters and critics of the former leader.In a statement, Mr. da Silvas defense team declared that the courts decision contravenes the presumption of innocence guaranteed in the Constitution, violating the dignity of the human person and other fundamental guarantees.Thursdays ruling had no direct bearing on Mr. da Silvas eligibility as a candidate. The Supreme Electoral Tribunal will determine the eligibility of candidates starting in August, and it is widely expected to reject Mr. da Silvas bid under the clean slate law, which deems candidates unfit to run if they have been convicted of a crime and lost an appeal.Mr. da Silva could appeal the electoral courts decision. Experts say his chances of making it onto the ballot are slim to none  but some think that could work in his partys favor.They have the victim card on their side, theyre going to play that, said Monica de Bolle, a Brazil expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.According to Lincoln Secco, a historian at the University of So Paulo who has studied the evolution of the Workers Party, Mr. da Silva will ultimately select and support a replacement candidate, and can rally support by presenting himself as a political prisoner.He will connect his arrest to a condemnation of the ideas he supports, of his social policies, Mr. Secco said.

LONDON  Russian television broadcast a telephone recording on Thursday said to be of Yulia Skripal, who was poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent a month ago and is at the center of an escalating confrontation between Russia and Britain.In the recording, which the Rossiya 24 news announcer emphasized could not be verified, Ms. Skripal tells her cousin Viktoria that both she and her father, Sergei V. Skripal, are healthy, and that neither of them has suffered long-term health damage from the poisoning. The recording contradicted public statements by the British authorities, who have described Mr. Skripals condition as critical but stable and said that only Ms. Skripal was conscious.Within hours of the programs broadcast, the British police released a statement on Ms. Skripals behalf, in which she said that she woke up over a week ago now and that her strength is growing daily.The two accounts underline a challenge Britain is facing as it endeavors to build and maintain an international coalition around the poisoning while keeping much of its evidence secret.The authorities have released little information about the attack on Mr. Skripal and his daughter, but they have expressed certainty that it was carried out on behalf of the Russian government. Officials have said Mr. Skripal, a former Russian spy turned double agent who was living peacefully in southwestern England, was very likely targeted as an example to future defectors. Moscow has denied the accusations and has seized on the ambiguities surrounding the investigation in an aggressive campaign to discredit the British authorities.At the United Nations on Thursday, the Russian ambassador, Vasily A. Nebenzya, called an emergency session of the Security Council where he accused the British authorities of everything from planting false stories in the media to neglecting Mr. Skripals pet cats and guinea pigs. He gave an impromptu lecture about Dostoyevskys Crime and Punishment and quoted at length from Alice in Wonderland.This is some kind of theater of the absurd, he said. What, you were unable to find a more believable fake?Britains public case against Russia has so far rested largely on the nerve agent, an unusual chemical weapon developed in the last years of the Soviet Union. But this week, the chief executive of the Defense Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down, Britains premier chemical weapons laboratory, said its scientists could not identify the precise source of the chemical, though it was almost certainly created by a state actor.That conclusion undercut statements by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson that Porton Down scientists had categorically traced the agent to Russia. Mr. Johnson swiftly came under criticism from Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, who said the foreign secretary had exceeded the information he had been given and had egg on his face.Diane Abbott, another Labour leader, took aim at Mr. Johnson in an interview with the BBC, saying, so many people were willing to rush to the media and say it was unequivocally Putin.We will, I hope, get some credit for taking a more thoughtful approach and asking the right questions, she said.At the Security Council, Britains closest allies reiterated their support for the conclusion that Russia was behind the poisoning.We share the U.K.s assessment, namely that there is no other plausible explanation other than Russias responsibility, said Frances ambassador, Franois Delattre. His sentiments were echoed by the representatives from the United States, Sweden, the Netherlands and others.In her remarks to the Security Council, Britains ambassador, Karen Pierce, responded calmly to the barrage of Russian accusations, providing what she described as intellectual clarity.About 250 police detectives are involved in the investigation, she said. They are reviewing 5,000 hours of surveillance video, examining 1,300 exhibits and interviewing 500 witnesses. The U.K. has launched one of the most comprehensive and complex investigations into the use of a chemical weapon ever, Ms. Pierce said.She also brought some of her own literary references. Responding to Mr. Nebenzya, who a few weeks ago compared British investigators on the case to the hapless Inspector Lestrade from the Sherlock Holmes stories, Ms. Pierce compared Russia to Holmess nemesis, Professor Moriarty.A new challenge could come within a few days if Viktoria Skripal, Mr. Skripals niece, follows through on plans to travel to Britain. Alexander Yakovenko, the Russian ambassador in London, said at a news conference on Thursday that he had offered Ms. Skripal assistance with transport, accommodation and Russian-English translation during her visit.Viktoria Skripal has repeatedly expressed doubts about the British accusations, suggesting that her relatives could have been sickened by bad fish or attacked by the mother of Yulia Skripals boyfriend. She has made several appearances on Russias state-controlled television in recent days, in one case appearing alongside the two men accused of having poisoned Alexander Litvinenko, another former Russian spy, in London in 2006.In the conversation broadcast Thursday on Russian television, Yulia Skripal tells her cousin that she will probably not get a British visa and they probably would be unable to see each other.
The last of three major lawsuits over the surveillance of Muslims by the New York Police Department was settled on Thursday, ending years of litigation over a broad, decade-long spying program in which Intelligence Division detectives eavesdropped on conversations in cafes, asked people about their views on drone strikes and designated mosques as potential terrorist organizations.As part of the settlement of Hassan v. City of New York, the police will use reasonable and diligent efforts to expunge certain information pertaining to Muslim communities in New Jersey that the Intelligence Division gathered. The Department will also give plaintiffs a chance to propose revisions to a policy guide on compliance with the Handschu Guidelines, which govern how the police may investigate political and religious activity.Senior police officials will attend a public meeting with the plaintiffs, and the city will pay 10 businesses, mosques, student groups and individuals amounts ranging from $1,250 to $22,500 to satisfy their claims for damages. The settlement confirms that New York Police Department investigations involving political activity in New Jersey are subject to the Handschu Guidelines.Neither the city nor the police admitted any misconduct or violation of the law.Todays settlement marks a monumental victory for American-Muslim communities far and wide who have demanded fair and equal treatment by law enforcement, said Farhana Khera, executive director of Muslim Advocates, which filed the suit and was later joined by the Center for Constitutional Rights and the law firm Gibbons P.C.The resolution of this case affirms and enhances the N.Y.P.D.s commitment to conducting effective investigations to prevent crime and terrorism, said the police commissioner, James P. ONeill. This has occurred while also protecting the constitutional rights and freedoms that every N.Y.P.D. employee takes a sworn oath to uphold.The Hassan case was filed in 2012 on behalf of individuals, businesses, student associations and mosques in New Jersey who said that New York detectives had violated the Constitution by conducting surveillance of at least 20 mosques, 14 restaurants, 11 retail stores, two grade schools and two Muslim student organizations and creating more than 20 maps of Newark noting the location of mosques and the ethnic composition of Muslim neighborhoods.The police also took photographs and video at mosques, collecting license plates, the lawsuit said. The suit added that the program was founded and operated upon a false and constitutionally impermissible premise: that Muslim religious identity is a legitimate criterion for selection of law enforcement surveillance targets, or that it is a legitimate proxy for criminality.The covert program, carried out by the demographics unit during the Bloomberg administration, became a lightning rod for criticism. Initially, the Police Department would not confirm that the unit existed. A series of articles by The Associated Press first detailed the surveillance. As a mayoral candidate, Bill de Blasio criticized it, and in 2014 the then-police commissioner, William J. Bratton, disbanded the unit, which the department had acknowledged had not generated a terrorism investigation in six years of monitoring communities.While New York City moved to settle two lawsuits making similar claims filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan and Brooklyn, it fought the suit in New Jersey. The Law Department argued that the New Jersey surveillance was constitutional and that the plaintiffs lacked standing because any harm they suffered came not from the police actions but from the disclosure of unredacted documents by The Associated Press.In 2014, Judge William Martini, of Federal District Court in Newark, agreed, dismissing the case and saying that the plaintiffs had not alleged facts from which it could be plausibly inferred that they had been targeted solely because of their religion. He suggested instead that the surveillance was probably meant to locate budding terrorist conspiracies.But the next year the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia restored the case, writing that it had plausibly alleged that the city engaged in intentional discrimination, adding: We have been down similar roads before. Jewish-Americans during the Red Scare, African-Americans during the civil rights movement and Japanese-Americans during World War II are examples that readily spring to mind.Lawyers who brought the Hassan case said its settlement builds upon one last year that resolved the lawsuits filed in New York City. And Omar Farah, a senior staff attorney with the Center for Constitutional Rights, said the settlement would help repair relations between the Police Department and Muslims who had been subject to invasive surveillance.The document itself says explicitly that the NYPD has to change its training approach from avoiding litigation risk to positively emphasizing protecting the equal rights of all Americans, he said. Thats going to create lasting improvements to the way the NYPD interacts with this community.
BRASILIA   A Brazilian judge on Thursday ordered former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to turn himself in to police within 24 hours to serve a 12-year sentence for a graft conviction, likely ending the presidential front-runner\'s hopes of returning to power.Lula was convicted last year for taking bribes from an engineering firm in return for help landing contracts with state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA.Earlier on Thursday, Brazil\'s Supreme Court rejected Lula\'s plea to remain free until he exhausts all his appeals, in a case he calls a political witch hunt.The ruling likely ends his political career and blows October\'s election wide open.Technically, Lula could still run. Under Brazilian electoral law, a candidate is forbidden from running for office for eight years after being found guilty of a crime. But some exemptions have been made in the past, and the ultimate decision would be made by the top electoral court if and when Lula officially files to be a candidate.But that is considered unlikely and Brazilian financial markets rallied on Thursday after the Supreme Court decision, which increased the chances a market-friendly candidate will win the election, according to analysts and political foes.A defiant Workers Party, founded by Lula, said its supporters would take to the streets to defend his right to run. The party called for a Thursday night rally near Lula\'s home."Lula continues to be our candidate, because he is innocent, and because he is the leading candidate to become the next president of Brazil," said Workers Party leader, Senator Gleisi Hoffmann.Federal Judge Sergio Moro, who has handled the bulk of cases in Brazil\'s biggest anti-corruption effort, ordered Lula to turn himself in by late Friday afternoon. In a court document, he wrote that Lula should not be handcuffed and would have a special cell in the southern city of Curitiba.PLAN BLula led Brazil in two four-year terms as president, from 2003 to January 2011, years of prosperity that were fueled by a commodity boom. He left office with an approval rating higher than 80 percent.His endorsement was enough to get his hand-picked successor Dilma Rousseff elected twice. She was impeached and removed from office amid corruption scandals and economic crisis in mid-2016.Now, his backing for a candidate would not be enough, analysts said, adding that voters will likely abandon his party in droves when they see that its charismatic leader was no longer in the game."The Workers Party will have to move quickly to Plan B, which is former Sao Paulo mayor Fernando Haddad, or even Plan C to back a leftist from another party like former Ceara state governor Ciro Gomes," said Lucas de Aragao, a political analyst with Arko Advice in Brasilia.Opinion polls show that Gomes and environmentalist Marina Silva would gain the most from Lula not running in October. Extreme-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro, who is polling in second place, has largely focused on anti-left rhetoric and may need to find a new line of attack.Disarray on the left could improve the chances for a centrist such as Geraldo Alckmin, governor of Sao Paulo, Brazil\'s richest state, and candidate for the powerful Brazilian Social Democracy Party.Center-right President Michel Temer is mulling a bid but has record unpopularity in opinion polls after his austerity program aimed at putting Brazil\'s overdrawn fiscal accounts in order."Lula leaves no political heir and much of his electoral capital cannot be transferred," said Leonardo Barreto, with the Brasilia-based political risk consultancy Factual. "This can only help candidates who advocate continuing the reforms."Alckmin lamented the prison order against a former president but added in a Twitter message: "I believe this reflects an important change underway in Brazil: the end of impunity. The law is the same for everyone."Some observers fear that putting Lula in jail will turn him into a martyr and keep him in the public eye."The prison order against Lula will scramble the electoral process even more by putting him in the spotlight," said Fitch Ratings director for Brazil, Rafael Guedes.(Reporting by Anthony Boadle; additional reporting by Eduardo Simoes, Brad Brooks and Aluisio Alves; editing by Brad Haynes and Rosalba O\'Brien)
GRAPEVINE, Texas   After years of poor pay, supply shortages and overcrowded classes, former Oklahoma teacher Chelsea Price decided the best way to pursue the profession she loves was to leave her home state and head south to Texas.The harsh economic realities of teaching in Oklahoma, where school salaries are some of the lowest in the United States, have created an exodus to neighboring states where wages are higher.As a consequence, Oklahoma is grappling with a teacher shortage that has forced school districts to cut curricula and deploy nearly 2,000 emergency-certified instructors as a stop-gap measure.It just got to the point where it was really defeating, said Price, 34, who last year moved to the Dallas suburb of Grapevine with her husband and 10-year-old daughter to start a job as a second-grade teacher.Crossing the Red River that separates Oklahoma and Texas meant a salary increase of about 40 percent for Price, who has a master\'s degree. She saw few prospects of improving the lot of her family by staying put.Price earned around $30,000 a year when she began teaching in Oklahoma. When she left 11 years later, she was earning just under $40,000. At her new position, Price earns about $55,000.The benefits transcend salary. There is a cap on class sizes and every student has an iPad, which Price said makes her job easier.In Oklahoma, where educators statewide walked off the job this week to protest years of low pay and budget cuts to the school system, teacher complaints range from decaying infrastructure, students\' having to share worn-out textbooks and teachers\' having to dip into their own pockets to buy supplies for underfunded classes.In contrast, the northern Dallas suburbs, an hour or less south of the Oklahoma border, enjoy increased spending on schools as population growth in recent years, which has outpaced nearly every area of the United States, has driven up local tax revenues.Grapevine, with about 50,000 people, has a refurbished main street, a major resort hotel and easy commutes to major employers in Dallas and Fort Worth. Like many of the northern Dallas-area suburbs, new parks, schools and businesses are springing up in a region seen as a place of relatively low crime, good employment prospects and affordable housing.Oklahoma City and Tulsa also have relatively low unemployment rates and spectacularly refurbished urban areas, but median household income and wages are far lower than in the northern Dallas suburbs.Price and other teachers from Oklahoma have followed the money.If I can find a better situation for all of us, then why wouldnt I?" she said.Since 2010, Texas has seen about 3,500 teachers from Oklahoma apply for teaching certificates, the most of any state, according to the Texas Education Agency."LOSING OUR BEST, BRIGHTEST"About 11 percent of Oklahoma teachers overall leave the state or profession every year, according to data from the Oklahoma State School Boards Association, an umbrella group.More than 80 percent leave over low pay, according to the data. In constant dollar terms, the pay for Oklahoma teachers has dropped by about 15 percent over the last 25 years, federal data showed."Oklahomas teacher shortage has been devastating for children. When schools cant find qualified teachers, they either must increase class sizes or hire under-qualified, under-prepared teachers," said Shawn Hime, executive director of the association.Every state bordering Oklahoma offers higher wages for teachers, with mean wages in the neighboring states about $8,600 to $16,000 higher, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Striking teachers in Oklahoma are seeking a $10,000 raise.Those leaving are often teachers who have several years of experience and generally hold a master\'s degree or higher, according to a survey from Theresa Cullen, an associate professor of educational psychology at the University of Oklahoma. The average salary increase for those who fled to other states was about $19,000, the survey showed."We are losing our best, brightest and most prepared," Cullen said.Of neighboring states, Texas offers the highest mean wages. Ginny Duncan, 24, decided to relocate there two years after starting her teaching career at an elementary school in Tulsa."Im moving to Texas this summer because I cant afford to live here," she said in a telephone interview.Duncan, who holds degrees in both special education and regular education, earns about $32,000 a year as a teacher and needs to work three summer jobs to make ends meet. If she can land a similar teaching job in the Dallas area, she could earn about $20,000 a year more."I love teaching so much," Duncan said. "I wanted to be a teacher my entire life. I have a special passion for special needs kids." But her Oklahoma salary "makes it so hard to actually do it."(Additional reporting by Jon Herskovitz in Austin, Texas, and Barbara Goldberg in New York; Writing by Jon Herskovitz; Editing by Frank McGurty and Leslie Adler)
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz.   Stephen C. has been taught only math and English at a U.S.-run elementary school for Native American children deep in a gorge off the Grand Canyon. Teachers have left midyear, and he repeatedly faces suspension and arrest for behavior his attorneys say is linked to a disability stemming from traumatic experiences.The 12-year-old is among children from Arizona\'s remote and impoverished Havasupai reservation who are a step closer to their push for systematic reform of the U.S. agency that oversees tribal education, alleging in a lawsuit it ignored complaints about an understaffed school, a lack of special education and a deficient curriculum.The students\' attorneys say they won a major legal victory recently when a federal court agreed that childhood adversity and trauma can be learning disabilities, a tactic the same law firm used in crime-ridden Compton, California. They say the case could have widespread effects for Native children in more than 180 schools nationwide overseen by the U.S. Bureau of Indian Education and in schools with large Native populations."Education is our lifeline and our future for our kids  and all students, not just down here, but nationally," Havasupai Chairwoman Muriel Coochwytewa said. The Bureau of Indian Education has "an obligation to teach our children. And if that\'s not going on, then our children will become failures, and we don\'t want that."Havasupai students face adversity and generational trauma from repeated broken promises from the U.S. government, efforts to eradicate Native culture and tradition, discrimination and the school\'s tendency to call police to deal with behavioral problems, attorneys say.U.S. District Judge Steven Logan wrote in a late March ruling that the students\' lawyers adequately alleged "complex trauma" and adversity can result in physiological effects leading to a physical impairment. He moved the case forward, denying Justice Department requests to dismiss some of the allegations but agreeing to drop plaintiffs from the lawsuit who no longer attend Havasupai Elementary School.Noshene Ranjbar, an assistant professor of psychiatry at the University of Arizona, said medical literature has expanded in the past 20 years to include trauma that isn\'t linked only to singular events.In Native communities she\'s worked with in the Dakotas and Arizona, "they agree the root of everything they suffer with is this unresolved grief, loss, trauma, anger, decades of disappointment on a huge scale," she said.When students act out, schools too often turn to suspension, expulsion or arrest instead of finding what\'s driving the bad behavior, she said. Usually, it\'s "a hurt human being that is using the wrong means to cope," Ranjbar said.The Public Counsel law firm pressing the Havasupai case also sued the Compton Unified School District  which is majority black and Latino  in 2015 over disability services for students with complex trauma. A judge said students with violent and traumatic pasts could be eligible for such services but didn\'t apply the ruling to all who experience trauma.The U.S. Justice Department did not respond to a request for comment on the Havasupai ruling.Government attorney Cesar Lopez-Morales said at a hearing last year that while trauma could result in a disability, federal agencies cannot assume every Native student with shared experiences is disabled. They would need specifics of individuals\' impairments and how those affect their lives.He said attorneys also failed to show the students were denied benefits solely because of disabilities.Havasupai Elementary School has three teachers for kindergarten through eighth grade on a remote reservation home to about 650 people and world-renowned for its blue-green waterfalls.The village of Supai can be reached only by mule, foot or helicopter, making it the most isolated of the Bureau of Indian Education\'s schools in the Lower 48 states. The reservation doesn\'t have a high school.The students\' attorneys say the area is beset with high levels of poverty, unemployment, substance abuse, family violence and low literacy levels. All 70 elementary school students qualify for free or reduced lunch and most are limited in English and math proficiency, and have special education needs."What we know from the science is that, particularly unaddressed, the impact of trauma can impact the ability to learn, read, think, concentrate and communicate," Public Counsel attorney Kathryn Eidmann said.The lawsuit seeks to force the government to provide services for special needs, a thorough curriculum, culturally relevant education and staff training to respond to trauma.Stephen C., whose full name is not listed in court documents, enrolled as a kindergartner but can hardly read or write now that he\'s in seventh grade. His attorneys say he has an attention deficit disorder and experiences trauma from witnessing alcohol abuse at school and from his relatives being forced into boarding schools.At one point, he pulled a plug out of a computer monitor and faced a federal indictment, the lawsuit says.Some Havasupai parents have sent their children to boarding schools off the reservation rather than deal with inadequate educational services.Stephen\'s guardian has considered it, too. But he said in a statement that tribal members want children with them in the canyon, to watch them grow and be a part of the community.
BERLIN  A German court ruled on Thursday that Carles Puigdemont, the former Catalan leader wanted for prosecution in Spain, may not be extradited on a charge of rebellion and can be released on bail, pending a ruling on whether he can still be handed over on a lesser charge.The regional court in the state of Schleswig-Holstein ruled that the charge of rebellion could not be honored in Germany because evidence of violence is not present, potentially dealing a blow to Spanish efforts to extradite and prosecute other Catalan separatist leaders.Prosecutors in Germany must still decide whether Mr. Puigdemont should be extradited for the other charge on which he is wanted, corruption related to the misuse of public money. While that decision is pending, Mr. Puigdemont can be freed on bail of 75,000 euros, or nearly $92,000.Wolfgang Schomburg, the senior German lawyer on Mr. Puigdemonts defense team, said that bail would be posted by supporters of Mr. Puigdemont on Friday morning. Mr. Puigdemonts Twitter account, which is administered by an aide, on Thursday posted the message: See you tomorrow. Many thanks to everyone!The courts decision is likely to reignite a debate in Spain over the attorney generals decision last year to bring rebellion charges against Catalan separatist leaders, although Spains legal code had been revised to emphasize violence as a component of the charge. The crime carries a maximum prison sentence of 30 years.It also puts into question Spains chances of extraditing several other Catalan politicians who have avoided prosecution by traveling to Belgium, Scotland and Switzerland.The German government had refused to get involved in Mr. Puigdemonts case, insisting that it belonged in the hands of the justice system. After the courts decision was announced, the German Foreign Ministry declined to comment.Rafael Catal, the Spanish justice minister, said the decision demonstrates the functioning of an independent judiciary, here in Spain, in Germany and in all the countries of the E.U.Mr. Puigdemont was arrested on March 25 as he crossed Germany from Scandinavia on the way to Belgium, where he had fled in October after a failed effort by separatist lawmakers in his northeastern region to declare independence from Spain.The Spanish Supreme Court is seeking his arrest on charges of rebellion and embezzlement of public funds linked to Catalonias  Oct. 1 referendum on whether to secede.Prosecutors in Germany had asked the regional court to place Mr. Puigdemont in custody after having examined a Spanish arrest warrant and finding it to have an equivalent in German law  one of several requirements before extradition can take place.Although the term rebellion does not have a direct equivalent in German law, the prosecutors said that it contains at its core the allegation of carrying out an unconstitutional referendum despite expectations of violent disturbances.But the court rejected that view, finding that the conduct with which he is charged would not be prosecutable in Germany under German law. The threat of violence would have had to pose a more direct threat to the government, the judges said.In an interview with opposition German lawmakers given on April 2 from the prison in Neumnster where he was detained, Mr. Puigdemont denied that he had promoted violence and insisted that all of the money used to pay for the October referendum was generated through donations.He also said in the interview that he had been overwhelmed by offers of support from Germans, many of whom offered him a place to stay if he remained in the country.Mr. Puigdemont will not be allowed to leave Germany under conditions of the bail and must check in once a week with both the police and prosecutors, the court said.Several politicians and officials from Catalonias pro-independence movement welcomed the ruling as a clear victory.Josep Costa, a lawmaker from Mr. Puigdemonts party who recently visited him in prison, said it showed that theres justice in Germany, and he called for freedom for political prisoners.Antoni Castell, another Catalan politician, called it an astronomic slap in the face for the Spanish state.Catalonia remains in a political deadlock over five months after Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy used emergency constitutional powers to oust Mr. Puigdemonts administration and place the region under direct rule from Madrid. Separatist lawmakers have struggled to form a new administration after retaining their narrow parliamentary majority in a snap election in December called by Mr. Rajoy.Hours before the German court ruling, Mr. Puigdemonts party announced that it would make another effort to elect Jordi Snchez as Catalonias leader. He is among the separatist leaders who have been held in prison in Madrid, after being denied bail, ahead of their trial.
WASHINGTON   Special counsel Robert Mueller\'s team currently considers President Donald Trump to be a subject  not a criminal target in the wide-ranging investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with Trump associates.The designation, first reported by The Washington Post and confirmed by The Associated Press , has raised questions about what legal threat Trump personally faces from the special counsel and whether it has any impact on his decision to sit for an interview with prosecutors.A few of the main issues at play:__Q: WHAT IS A \'SUBJECT\' OF AN INVESTIGATION?A: The answer is complicated.  The Justice Department typically places people involved in investigations in three categories: witnesses, subjects or targets.Witnesses are people who have observed events of interest to an investigation but are not suspected of a crime. Targets are people the government is gathering evidence against to support a criminal prosecution.Subjects fall in between. In Trump\'s case, being a subject might suggest Mueller\'s team believes he is more pivotal than a mere witness might be."A subject means we\'re still looking at you," former federal prosecutor Sharon McCarthy said. "You\'re a person of interest in this investigation."And even within the category of subject, there is ambiguity, she said, noting the government can say "you\'re a subject trending to witness or you\'re a subject trending toward target."__Q: IS TRUMP IN THE CLEAR?A: The short answer is no.The subject designation suggests Mueller is still probing Trump\'s actions. And designations can change. Plenty of people who have begun as subjects in federal investigations end up facing charges.Still, it\'s unclear that Mueller is interested in pursuing charges against Trump  or would even be able to if he wanted.It is not known if Mueller\'s office has concluded that there is insufficient evidence to consider Trump a target. It\'s also possible that prosecutors agree they\'re bound by a Justice Department legal opinion that contends that a sitting president cannot be indicted.__Q: IS MUELLER ABLE TO INDICT TRUMP?A: In the past, the Justice Department has said no. But only Mueller and his team know whether they\'ll test that opinion, and they\'re not talking.Mueller has been presenting evidence before a grand jury in Washington but so far, witnesses with the most direct information about Trump\'s actions in the White House have spoken privately with prosecutors . That could be an indication that their statements are being used to support a report rather than criminal charges.The Washington Post reported that Mueller is compiling a report addressing whether Trump obstructed justice. Mueller is required to compile a report explaining his prosecution or declination decision at the conclusion of his investigation. The report would go to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who could decide to make it public or turn it over to Congress for possible impeachment proceedings.__Q: WHY DOES MUELLER WANT TO INTERVIEW TRUMP?A: Mueller\'s team has said it wants to hear from the president to understand his intent and his thinking during several key episodes during the early part of his administration.Those include the firings of former FBI Director James Comey and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn as well as conversations Trump had with Comey in which, the former FBI director has said , the president encouraged him to end an active investigation into Flynn.All of the topics currently known appear to be aimed at determining whether the president obstructed justice. The Post also reported that Mueller has indicated that interviewing Trump was necessary to complete his report on possible obstruction of justice.__Q: WHAT ARE THE ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF TRUMP BEING QUESTIONED?A: The president has proclaimed his innocence and says he has nothing to hide, so submitting to an interview might be the easiest way to prove that to the American public.It could also be a major step toward concluding the investigation, since any refusal to speak could set off a long legal fight that might theoretically involve courts and grand jury subpoenas.Trump might enjoy the experience, too. After months of headlines about what witnesses have told Mueller\'s team, Trump would have an opportunity to tell his own side of the story and try to correct others\' recollections.It\'s hard to imagine a sitting president refusing an interview with investigators. It might make sense from a criminal defense perspective, but the appearance of ducking questions wouldn\'t be pretty.And he wouldn\'t be the first to speak either. Bill Clinton, for instance, appeared in 1998 via closed-circuit television before a grand jury to discuss his relationship with Monica Lewinsky.__Q: HOW ABOUT THE ARGUMENTS AGAINST TRUMP GIVING AN INTERVIEW?A: There are many. For one thing, he doesn\'t have to. Absent a grand jury subpoena, there\'s almost certainly no way to compel Trump to talk if he doesn\'t want to or if his lawyers won\'t let him.Besides, the prosecutions so far in Mueller\'s case make clear that he takes false statements seriously and treats them as criminal offenses. Trump\'s statements as president have often stretched the truth, and the last thing his lawyers want is for him to be in a situation where he might make a misstatement or find his words contradicted by documents.Even if a misstatement weren\'t intentional, there likely would be questions about specific dates and memories that the president might not recall or might answer incorrectly. But the president has spent considerable time testifying under oath in civil cases for years and has shown deftness in deflecting tough questions and explaining away apparent inconsistencies.Defense lawyers also could argue there\'s no basis for a president to be questioned about constitutionally protected activities, such as his decision to fire Comey.___
A shift in the cultural winds is palpable in New Jerseys state capital. Since the year began, a new governor, Philip D. Murphy, a Democrat, has been sworn in, and a vibrant arts scene has continued to expand downtown.On the banks of the Delaware River, Trenton is a postindustrial city thats been buffeted by bad news for decades. Factories closed, crime escalated and restaurants moved to the suburbs, making it almost impossible to find a decent tomato pie, a local specialty.Reconstruction on the golden-domed State House and restoration of the citys reputation are underway, offering compelling reasons for a day trip, about a 90-minute train ride from Midtown. Blocks of rowhouses and Italianate Victorians, some beautifully restored, some begging for attention, look like historic parts of Philadelphia. In February, a handsome and long-empty bank, at 143 East State Street, was reborn as the soaring BSB Gallery, a platform for local artists and music performances.The fact is, were more than a negative headline, said Joseph Kuzemka, 43, who founded the Trenton Punk Rock Flea Market in 2013. On April 7 and 8, the event will feature live punk bands, vendors of vinyl records and vintage goods, a tented beer garden and food trucks. Mr. Kuzemka is particularly thrilled that two of his heroes  Greg Hetson of the Circle Jerks and Marky Ramone, the Ramones drummer  will be on hand to sign autographs.The setting for the flea market is the bygone Roebling Wire Works factory, at 675 South Clinton Avenue, which once supplied the wire cables for the Brooklyn Bridge and the Golden Gate Bridge, among other celebrated structures. Admission is $5 for the entire weekend.A century-old former Sears warehouse is the home of Artworks, a pioneering gallery at 19 Everett Alley, featuring local, national and international artists. Addison Vincent, the exhibits coordinator, said there was a large and growing artists community in Trenton since it was a cheap place to live and find studio space.The counterculture scene brought in a lot of graffiti artists, but as we all got older, we transitioned more to fine arts  from tagging buildings to tagging canvases, said Mr. Vincent, 40, adding that he knew of two or three other downtown galleries on the horizon.A 10-minute walk west from Artworks is 1911 Smokehouse Bar-B-Que, which opened near the State House in 2015, at 11 West Front Street. You wont find tomato pie, but there is another surviving Trenton tradition: pork roll. The processed, bologna-ham hybrid (Cases brand in this case, although other Trentonians swear by its rival, Taylor ham) turns up in various guises, including a slice atop a hamburger or blended with sausage in sensational meatballs, a frequent special.The executive chef Reggie Hallett and his brother-partner Maurice Hallett have created a welcoming barbecue joint and bar, one of the few places open way past commuting hours for state workers. Their tender pork and mighty good brisket are smoked over hickory wood for 14 hours, meaty ribs for six. Three-hour smoked chicken wings are grilled or fried and amped up with sauces, from lemon pepper to Sriracha bourbon.Downtown Trenton is compact so theres also time to tour the Old Barracks Museum, at 101 Barrack Street. From 1758, British troops were quartered there during the French and Indian War, sleeping at least two to a bed. During the Revolutionary War, the stone-walled barracks served as a military hospital specializing in smallpox inoculations. While leading a tour recently, a guide dressed in period costume explained the diseases festering progress in graphic detail.The museum also provides an overview of the pivotal and successful Battles of Trenton, the second of which George Washingtons troops fought in 1777 near downtowns Mill Hill Park. Summer will see an evening concert series there, a further sign that Trenton isnt so much rolling up the carpets at night anymore as rolling them out.
WASHINGTON   George Papadopoulos, taken by surprise by FBI agents at an airport last summer, now tweets smiling beach selfies with a hashtag for the Greek resort island of Mykonos.Rick Gates, for weeks on home confinement, gets rapid approval for a family vacation and shaves down his potential prison time.Michael Flynn, once targeted in a grand jury investigation, travels cross-country to campaign for a California congressional candidate and books a New York speaking event.It pays to cooperate with the government.That\'s true in any criminal investigation. It\'s especially notable in a case as high profile as special counsel Robert Mueller\'s Russia inquiry, where deals for cooperators have raised speculation about incriminating information they\'re providing.The perks of cooperation include freer travel, lenient punishment prospects and even public comments by defendants that might have been unthinkable months ago.Compare that with the experiences of Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman who has refused to cooperate and faces decades in prison. And it sends the message that others could receive favorable treatment if they agree to work with investigators."There\'s no question that it\'s in the government\'s interest to take what steps they can to show that cooperating is in the interest of the defendant," said Daniel Petalas, a former federal prosecutor. "A basic principle of plea bargaining is that you have to make it worth it to the defendant to admit liability in a criminal matter."The latest example came Tuesday when Dutch lawyer Alex van der Zwaan was sentenced to 30 days in prison for lying to the FBI. Though his deal didn\'t explicitly require cooperation, the charge he pleaded guilty to carries a maximum five-year sentence and it\'s almost certain that he risked a longer punishment if convicted at trial. U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson said some incarceration was necessary to deter others from lying to investigators.Defendants who admit guilt are stained with criminal convictions, may forfeit liberties including the right to vote and put their jobs and reputation at risk. And they can still wind up with tough sentences.Given that uncertainty and stress, it\'s common for prosecutors looking to induce cooperation to make concessions, such as dismissing charges or agreeing to recommend a lighter sentence, especially for someone they think can help them build a case against a higher-value target."There is a societal interest, frankly, in having people cooperate with prosecutors because often the government only can know what\'s happened based on documentary evidence and witnesses that it speaks with," said Sharon McCarthy, a former federal prosecutor in New York. "But insiders who can give insight into conversations and planning and things like that are crucial to being able to make cases."There\'s nothing new about cutting deals, including for violent mobsters, but the tactics have drawn renewed scrutiny especially in conservative legal circles.Former Manhattan federal prosecutor Andrew McCarthy wrote last month in the National Review that Mueller was shirking Justice Department protocols by offering Gates, Manafort\'s co-defendant and a onetime Trump campaign aide, a "penny-ante plea" instead of requiring him to plead to the most serious charges he faced.Gates was initially charged in October in a 12-count indictment and faced well over a decade in prison. He pleaded guilty in February to just two charges. Under sentencing guidelines, he now faces fewer than six years or less, depending on the extent of his cooperation.He spent weeks on home confinement as a potential flight risk, repeatedly requesting, and generally receiving, permission to attend children\'s sporting games and holiday events in the region.The home confinement condition was lifted in January. Days after his plea, he filed a motion with the government\'s blessing asking to be able to ditch his GPS monitoring, but the judge said she was not ready to grant the motion at that time. He did, however, receive approval for a family trip to Boston for spring break, though that plan was aborted after he said threatening comments were posted online.Papadopoulos\'s carefree tweets, including smiling snapshots of his wife on his lap and beside him at the beach, are a far cry from the frowning mug shot taken after his arrest at Dulles International Airport last summer.Accused of lying to the FBI and facing the possibility of a lengthy sentence, he pleaded guilty in a secret court hearing and agreed to cooperate. Since then, he\'s resurfaced with a Twitter profile of more than 7,400 followers.Mueller\'s team includes lawyers with deep experience in organized crime and financial fraud cases, which frequently require flipping witnesses and sometimes involve aggressive maneuvering.Andrew Weissmann, one of the Gates prosecutors, indicted the wife of Enron\'s chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow, in 2003. The move was interpreted by some as a way to encourage Fastow himself to plead guilty and cooperate, which he ultimately did by testifying against high-level colleagues.Still, prosecutors understand that juries may look askance at sweetheart plea deals, especially with those who\'ve been publicly demonized, and that defense lawyers may subject cooperators to bruising cross-examinations."Prosecutors are going to be cognizant that there are always going to be credibility issues with cooperators," said former prosecutor Peter Zeidenberg, "but these are very experienced prosecutors and they\'re making a decision that, on balance, they\'re getting something in return."______This story has been corrected to say that judge didn\'t lift GPS monitoring for Gates.
CENTRAL ISLIP, N.Y.  When a New York restaurateur who had donated to Mayor Bill de Blasios campaign grew increasingly desperate to get a lease renewed, he sent an email directly to one of the citys most powerful people: Emma Wolfe, a top aide to the mayor.Hope you had a great holiday season, the restaurateur, Harendra Singh, wrote in January 2015. I would love to speak with you at your convenience.Ms. Wolfe took just nine minutes to respond: Absolutely, she wrote, lets talk on Monday.A meeting was soon arranged  part of a longstanding effort that federal prosecutors say Mr. de Blasio and his aides undertook to help Mr. Singh in return for campaign contributions.The emails were among a raft of evidence related to the alleged scheme that was revealed in Federal District Court here on Wednesday, as part of a case that has revived discussions of possible impropriety by Mr. de Blasio, despite his not actually being involved in the trial.Ed Mangano, the former Nassau County executive; his wife, Linda; and John Venditto, the Oyster Bay town supervisor, are the defendants in the case, all charged with corruption concerning matters unrelated to Mr. de Blasio.The mayor has vehemently denied wrongdoing, saying his office treated Mr. Singh like any other constituent. He has not been charged with any crime, in part because he received only campaign contributions, not personal gifts.Nevertheless, Mr. Singh, testifying as a cooperative witness in the corruption trial, was asked about Mr. de Blasio for the fourth time in the last month. This time, the questions came from Mr. Vendittos lawyer, and Mr. Singh responded by providing new details about how the mayor personally intervened to help with the lease.Mr. Vendittos lawyer showed emails in which Mr. Singh stressed how he was a very loyal and early friend of Bill. Ms. Wolfe and another member of Mr. de Blasios staff, Javon Coney, responded by helping to set up meetings with the city officials involved in negotiations regarding the restaurant, Waters Edge, which was on city property in Queens.The lease negotiations were never finalized, although Mr. Singh has said that he had gotten the city to agree to pay for at least part of the replacement of a nearby pier before he was arrested in 2015 on charges that he gave Mr. Mangano and Mr. Venditto thousands of dollars in gifts in return for help obtaining guaranteed loans and county contracts.Mr. Singh has pleaded guilty to bribing Mr. de Blasio and the defendants in the Long Island case.On Wednesday, Mr. Singh also testified that he had many conversations with Mr. de Blasio, and that in each, the two discussed both the lease and political donations.He was always looking for money for himself, Mr. Singh said.A mayoral spokesman said in a statement: This administration acted appropriately at all times. We make decisions on the merits. Period.The mayor has also suggested that Mr. Singh made up the allegations to appease prosecutors and avoid jail time for his own crimes  the same argument being made by lawyers for Mr. Mangano and Mr. Venditto. The argument got a boost last week, when defense lawyers played audio recordings in which Mr. Singh said prosecutors wanted him to tell a story about some politicians  but it would all be lies. (Mr. Singh testified in court that that statement itself was a lie.)Unexpectedly, Mr. de Blasio has become part of the trial in part because of his vigorous defense. The lawyers for Mr. Mangano and Mr. Venditto have said that Mr. Singhs testimony about the mayor discredits him, and that the evidence against the mayor is in some ways stronger than the evidence against their clients.Mr. Vendittos lawyer, Marc Agnifilo, has spoken about the importance of Mr. Singhs story about Mr. de Blasio, and has mused about asking the mayor to testify.Wednesday was Mr. Singhs 11th day on the stand. His testimony is expected to end as soon as Thursday.
The Atlantic magazine on Thursday terminated its relationship with Kevin D. Williamson, the conservative writer whose hiring last month angered liberals and sparked an online debate about what views are considered acceptable in mainstream publications.It was Mr. Williamsons hard-line stance on abortion  namely, that it should be treated as premeditated homicide and punished accordingly, perhaps by hanging  that generated the initial controversy over his hiring.It was that same viewpoint that led to his abrupt departure.Mr. Williamson expressed it during a Twitter exchange in September 2014. After hiring him in late March, Jeffrey Goldberg, the magazines editor in chief, defended Mr. Williamson, saying that he did not want to judge people for their worst tweets, or assertions, in isolation.But on Thursday, Mr. Goldberg wrote in a memo to his staff that he had come to see the writers remarks on Twitter as something more than merely trollish. The editor cited a podcast episode from the same month in which Mr. Williamson elaborated on his anti-abortion views  which seemed in keeping with how he had described them on Twitter.The tweet was not merely an impulsive, decontextualized, heat-of-the-moment post, as Kevin had explained it, Mr. Goldberg wrote. Furthermore, the language used in the podcast was callous and violent. This runs contrary to The Atlantics tradition of respectful, well-reasoned debate, and to the values of our workplace.I have come to the conclusion, Mr. Goldberg added, that The Atlantic is not the best fit for his talents, and so we are parting ways.The podcast in question was a National Review show called Mad Dogs and Englishmen, which is hosted by Mr. Williamson and the NationalReview.com editor, Charles C. W. Cooke. The episode that dealt with abortion received renewed attention after it was turned up this week by the liberal media watchdog group Media Matters. At one point during the episode, Mr. Williamson said of abortion, I would totally go with treating it like any other crime up to and including hanging.Mr. Williamson, in an email exchange on Thursday, declined to respond to questions about his termination.The outrage over the writer, who spent many years as a correspondent for National Review, fell squarely into a burgeoning culture war over free speech, gender issues and questions about which views deserve a megaphone as prominent as The Atlantic, a magazine that relies on a heavily liberal readership.In announcing Mr. Williamsons new role last month, Mr. Goldberg acknowledged that he had disagreed with him more than I have agreed with him. But he praised Mr. Williamsons writing as stylish, witty and ideologically interesting, and said he envisioned The Atlantic as a big tent for ideas and argument.Liberals cried foul. Besides pointing out Mr. Williamsons tweet about abortion, his critics noted an essay in which he rejected the gender identity of the transgender actress Laverne Cox, referring to her with male pronouns. Another Williamson essay described an African-American child as adopting the universal gesture of primate territorial challenge.The abortion rights group Naral Pro-Choice America started a #FireKevin campaign on Twitter. On Thursday, Naral issued a formal statement that praised Mr. Williamsons firing and called the writer an extremist bigot.While The Atlantic should have never allowed him to occupy space in its pages, were relieved that Jeffrey Goldberg heard the concerns and outrage of so many and removed Williamson from his post, wrote Ilyse Hogue, Narals president.Some conservatives pushed back, arguing that liberals were trying to stifle speech and that Mr. Williamson was being unfairly defined by a tiny fraction of his published work.After learning that The Atlantic had fired Mr. Williamson, Erick Erickson, a prominent conservative writer, deemed the decision another reminder that much of American conservatism finds itself ghettoized not by choice, but by the lefts active demands that the right be silenced.During his brief time at The Atlantic, Mr. Williamson published one column, an examination of current conservative politics headlined The Passing of the Libertarian Moment.Mr. Goldberg, in his Thursday memo, said he remained committed to maintaining ideological diversity among his stable of opinion writers.We are striving here to be a big-tent journalism organization at a time of national fracturing, Mr. Goldberg wrote. We will continue to build a newsroom that is, as The Atlantics founding manifesto states, of no party or clique. We are also an organization that values a spirit of generosity and collegiality. We must strive to uphold that standard as well.

NEW YORK   For a moment while sitting next to the Scottish filmmaker Lynne Ramsay, Joaquin Phoenix slips into a low, Liam Neeson register.He\'s describing how his tormented vigilante  a broken, brooding soul of fragility and brutality  in Ramsay\'s "You Were Never Really Here" bears few of the traditional thriller protagonist qualities."It\'s not like: \'You kidnapped my wife! Now I know my mission and I\'m not going to stop,\'" Phoenix says with an exaggerated growl while Ramsay chuckles. "There are several moments where you wonder: He\'s just going to say, \'F--- this. I can\'t do it.\'""You Were Never Really Here," which opens Friday, is Ramsay\'s fourth and most frenetic feature film. While it has some of the broad outlines of pulp  when a job goes wrong Phoenix\'s avenger-for-hire is plunged into an underworld of child sex trafficking  it\'s far more fractured, poetic and existential than the story line suggests."I wasn\'t quite sure what it was," Ramsay said in a recent joint interview alongside Phoenix. "I wasn\'t saying: I\'m deconstructing the genre. I wasn\'t doing anything so lofty. But it\'s just turned out that every film I\'ve made has ended up a character study even if I thought I was making an action movie."As she showed in the acclaimed trio of "Ratcatcher," \'\'Morvern Callar" and "We Need to Talk About Kevin," a character study for Ramsay is never a straightforward undertaking. Her films  intimate and volatile  reflect splintered psychologies beset by trauma: at-sea people grasping for a foothold. A young boy reconciling the death of his friend. A woman who wakes on Christmas to find her boyfriend has killed himself. A mother whose son shoots up a school.In "You Were Never Really Here," Phoenix\'s Joe is haunted by shards of violent memories: his father\'s abuse of his mother, a death in Iraq, a shipping container of dead migrants. In a way that might resonate for anyone who keeps up with the news, Joe, in his own warped way, is consumed by a sense of helplessness to life\'s tragedies."The world\'s really overwhelming at the moment," says Ramsay. "To me, there was a kind of catharsis in making it."Much of the film\'s propulsive, deconstructionist spirit is a result of how "You Were Never Really Here" was made. After Phoenix\'s schedule changed, he called up Ramsay and asked if they could start shooting not in the fall of 2016, but in the summer."I said, \'Can you do this in like six weeks?\'" said Phoenix. "And she said, \'Yeah.\' And then she said, \'I\'m still working on the script.\' And I thought that was amazing to be willing to jump in on it without feeling like it\'s there."The shoot over 29 days in New York was filled with rewriting, improvising and shape-shifting. Ramsay and Phoenix met on the first day of production. Some roles were cast just days before their scenes were shot. Ramsay estimates she shot enough footage for three films."I\'ve never gotten to the end of a film shoot and thought: Let\'s go make another movie right now. Normally, you\'re exhausted," said Ramsay. "This was maybe the most exciting film shoot I\'ve ever worked on. I just felt invigorated every day. It was always alive. It was grimy and sweaty and crazy and noisy and I never slept."Ramsay and Phoenix, both cliche-adverse to the extreme and strong believers in following their instincts, found they were kindred spirits."It\'s really fun to sit around a table and go through things and analyze it and intellectualize moments. But the truth is: When it\'s really great is when you\'re actually holding the hammer and you\'re walking down the hall. That\'s when things come alive," Phoenix said.Post-production was just as accelerated. Ramsay rushed the editing to ready the movie for last year\'s Cannes Film Festival, where it was purposefully scheduled last in the Palme d\'Or competition. It won best screenplay for Ramsay and best actor for Phoenix. Almost two years later, they still marvel at the unpredictable, whirlwind production, one further destabilized by Phoenix\'s unpredictable performance."I first started getting into the idea of toxic stress and having repeated trauma in your life from a very young age, and what that does to somebody developmentally, to their brain. Literally neural pathways that aren\'t formed and go dormant," says Phoenix. "I became really interested in the idea of this guy whose physicality and his brain aren\'t matching up right. There\'s this goodness to him but he can\'t really figure out a long-term way of solving a problem. He\'s forced to just do things in this immediate way."For a filmmaker so at home at a breakneck pace, "You Were Never Really Here" is Ramsay\'s first feature in seven years and her second in more than 15 years. She extensively prepared to write and direct "The Lovely Bones" before being dropped for Peter Jackson. And she walked away from the Western "Jane Got a Gun," starring Natalie Portman, just as production was starting in a dispute over creative control with producers that ultimately led to lawsuits. Gavin O\'Connor later directed the film."She\'s had a rough go of it as a director because she is so true to her vision," said "Kevin" star Ezra Miller. "She\'s unyielding. She\'s the punk-rock, Iggy Pop of this game. And, hmm, surprisingly, she\'s had trouble with some controlling, generally male producers. And she\'s overcome that to make some incredible films.""Let\'s please do everything we can, collectively as an industry, to make sure Lynne Ramsay\'s next film is not in as many years as the distance from the last film, and the distance prior to that," added Miller.Making "You Were Never Really Here," the 48-year-old Ramsay says, made her feel "like a kid again." On a recent spring day in New York, she and Phoenix looked almost tempted to step outside and start shooting something, maybe even a comedy."I think Lynne has that inherent goodness that Joe has," says Phoenix. "There\'s this way of seeing the world. No matter how trying or challenging it can be, there is some optimism there, some hope."___
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Gavin Newsom is the lieutenant governor, a former San Francisco mayor and a leading Democrat to replace Gov. Jerry Brown. California Today has been doing occasional question-and-answer sessions with candidates for office. Todays interview with Mr. Newsom, edited and condensed for clarity, was conducted for our article on the race.Q. Were there things Jerry Brown did you would continue?A. Oh, the one that gets me in trouble question. Browns perfect. (Laughs) Look  hes done an extraordinary job. Its important to remind folks where we were seven years ago: 12.4 percent unemployment, $27 billion budget deficit. Now we are having a raging debate about the size of the surplus. This state has turned a corner.Q. What has not gone right?A. Were not all rowing in the same direction. We are the richest and the poorest state. Eight million living below the poverty line, 40 percent of our kids at or near the poverty line. Inequality is the issue that is going to define a good part of my tenure. To say it happened on our watch is accurate.Q. Has the governor paid enough attention to homelessness?A. He has on the margins. But have we designed a framework to regionalize solutions and to have the state drive the effort? No. And I intend to do that. We have never had a governor particularly animated by homelessness.Q. Do you support the proposal by Senator Scott Wiener to override local zoning and permit construction of eight-story housing near transit lines?A. I told him point blank, I would not sign this bill, but I love what you are doing. How can I help? No sooner than did we have that conversation than hes already made substantive amendments, on rent control protection. He realizes one size does not fit all. The spirit of what he is doing is right.Q. I get the spirit. But what about the concept?A. Its a crisis. We cant live on intentions. At the end of the day, if you want to move the mouse, youve got to move the cheese. The middle class of the state is leaving in droves. This is a Code Red in California.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before, according to the police, she went to YouTube headquarters and shot three people before killing herself. (The New York Times) The move by the Trump White House to roll back air-emission standards isnt going over well with editorial boards. If Trumps E.P.A. wants a war over California fuel economy standards, war it is, The San Diego Union Tribune said. The Trump administration seems just as determined to drag America backward to more dependence on dirty fossil fuels, The Fresno Bee said. If youve got it, why not? Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the Saudi ruler, has rented out all 285 rooms in the Four Seasons Hotel for his visit to Los Angeles. (Hollywood Patch) A Republican candidate for governor, Travis Allen, has a proposal for dealing with Californias homeless crisis: Build state institutions and force homeless people to live there, if necessary. California citizens have a right to clean streets, to clean cities. (Sacramento Bee) The Motion Picture Association of America has a new chairman, who has a background in diplomacy and the Muppets. (The New York Times) The Bay Area is looking at a month of rain in two days. Looks like the rainy season isnt over yet. (The San Francisco Chronicle) A major coup for Apple as it seeks to catch up with its rivals on artificial intelligence: It snagged Googles chief of search and artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea. (The New York Times) San Franciscos latest subway project looks as if its coming to fruition. The final station for Munis Central Subway is rising to the street. Still, the all aboard moment wont happen until December 2019. (San Francisco Chronicle) The parents of two people killed by immigrants are pushing for a state initiative to nullify the sanctuary city laws passed by the state. You already have no right to be here, one of the parents said. (Sacramento Bee) Can President Trump station troops along Californias border with Mexico? Maybe not. (Los Angeles Times) Its getting awfully expensive to drive in San Diego. Gas prices rose to $4 a gallon the other day. (San Diego Union-Tribune). Oh, and the average rent in San Diego hit a new high last month. (San Diego Union-Tribune) Bonnie Reiss, a former state secretary of education and longtime confidante of Arnold Schwarzenegger, died this week at 62. Mr. Schwarzenegger wrote a tribute, calling her a true treasure to California. (Fox & Hounds)Frank Gehry, 89, the architect, and Wolfgang Puck, 68, the restaurateur, are Los Angeles institutions.The city brims with testimonials to both mens work. Mr. Pucks flagship restaurant, Spago, is in Beverly Hills. Mr. Gehry is involved in all kinds of projects, including a revitalization of the Los Angeles River and an expansion of the Colburn School near the Walt Disney Concert Hall, which he also designed.And now, they are teaming up on a project: A Gehry-designed restaurant by Mr. Puck on the beach in the Pacific Palisades.The project would replace Gladstones Restaurant, along Will Rogers State Beach. The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, which runs the concession, has agreed to negotiations with Mr. Puck and Mr. Gehry to rebuild it.The sketch above suggests what Mr. Gehry has in mind for the design. But what kind of food? (Please dont say farm to table.) We will work together to deliver approachable, high-quality cuisine in a distinct architectural setting, Mr. Puck said.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The Islamic States paper trail, Beijings Bible ban and sexism at the sumo ring. Heres what you need to know: Five trips to Iraq. More than 15,000 documents. One collapsed caliphate.We published the results of a yearlong investigation, in which Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State that were abandoned by the militants.It shows that ISIS fighters, known for their brutality, were also effective administrators.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which followed our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covered the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here.The U.S. military, meanwhile, is spending about $1 million on makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners in Syria, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid._____ China is not afraid of a trade war. That was a senior Chinese finance official who also said that the new China would never succumb to external pressure.Some of that is believable: Beijing has a strong grip on banks, the news media and politics. It also seems willing to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the U.S. political system. (China also has some unconventional weapons to make life harder for American companies.)Even so, our veteran correspondent writes that in the cold-eyed calculus of economics, China is more vulnerable to a trade war than officials admit. Heres blow-by-blow account of what has transpired so far.And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers worry about the effect on U.S. agriculture._____ Beijings strong grip is also evident in the religious sphere.The government has banned online retailers from selling the Bible, a move in step with recent efforts to limit the influence of Christianity.The recent reorganization of Chinas governmental agencies put a hard-line faction in charge of the Communist Partys religious policy, and there are concerns that a broader crackdown may be looming._____ Its not quite twilight for fossil fuels.The world added more power from solar than any other energy source last year, and the price is dropping. But solar still accounts for a tiny fraction of total electricity  coal is still the king.The same country that leads the world in renewable-energy investment  in solar, wind, biomass and geothermal  also leads the coal consumption. Yes, China (by far)._____ Sumo wrestling, which does not allow women in the ring, is under scrutiny in Japan after a nurse doing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and others were shooed away from a mayor who collapsed while giving a speech.In a country that consistently ranks low among developed countries on gender equality in health, education, the economy and politics, the episode was seen as a metaphor for how Japan regards women  even if theyre trying to save a life. Plaintiffs in a lawsuit against Harvard are demanding that the university publicly release admissions data, saying that the records show a pattern of discrimination against Asian-Americans going back decades. Myanmar slammed Mark Zuckerberg. Civil society groups said the Facebook chief mischaracterized his companys effectiveness at quashing hate speech in the country. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. A judge has made the settlements public. Bumble and Tinder, two of the worlds most popular dating apps, are not compatible. U.S. stocks were up. The Shanghai stock exchange is closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before she went to YouTubes headquarters, shot three people and killed herself. [The New York Times] India is finalizing the $6 billion purchase of a Russian missile defense system, a deal that would force the Trump administration to choose between punishing India for violating U.S. sanctions on Russia  or granting an exemption to preserve their relationship. [The New York Times] A South Korean university is seeking to end a boycott by some of the worlds top artificial intelligence experts, insisting that its partnership with an arms company would stop short of making autonomous lethal weapons. [BBC] The Bollywood star Salman Khan was sentenced to five years in prison and fined for killing rare antelopes. Mr. Khans lawyers said they would appeal, extending a 20-year legal battle. [The New York Times] Vietnam sentenced Nguyen Van Dai, a human rights lawyer, to 15 years, along with five other activists who were given prison terms between seven and 12 years. [Reuters] Spain is aghast after footage of what appeared to be a public spat between Queen Sofa of Spain and her daughter-in-law, Queen Letizia, spread on social media. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: This weekend, plan to make a batch of one-pot meatballs and sauce. Can coffee  rev up your workout? Distracted by  Facebook Messenger, or just worried about its intrusions into your phone? Heres how to uninstall. The question at the Masters: Will Tiger Woods be the golf champion of old? We have live scores, updates and analysis. Inseparable is Yunte Huangs history of the original Siamese twins, from their childhood in Asia to their servitude in America to their eventual life of Southern comfort. (They fathered at least 21 children.) And  the pairing of astronomers algorithms for star-hunting with drones equipped with infrared cameras offers a new way to aid conservation and fight poaching.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Admiral Robert Peary, above, claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.Mr. Peary would go down in the history books as the first man to set foot at the North Pole.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it was his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Correction:  Thursdays briefing misstated Arthur Murrays birthday. It was April 4, 1895, not April 5._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Following the paper trail of ISIS, railing against Emmanuel Macron and relaxing with monkeys. Heres the latest: The ISIS files.On five trips to battle-scarred Iraq, New York Times journalists scoured old Islamic State offices in 11 cities and towns, gathering thousands of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Following a paper trail that led through booby-trapped streets near the front lines of battle, they found suicide bomber forms, birth certificates, tax records, school books teaching English words like gun and martyr, and papers from the Ministry of War Spoils. (Heres a closer look at the documents.)The records reveal how the terrorist group combined brutality and paperwork to wield power over territory that at one point was the size of Britain, with a population estimated at 12 million people.Above, papers littered a room in the bombed-out remnants of the Directorate of Agriculture in Mosul, Iraq, last September._____ Nearly 10 months after the deadly fire in Grenfell Tower, above, in London, many of the survivors left homeless are still living in limbo.While local officials have spent about $280 million on new housing, almost 100 displaced families remain in hotels and other temporary accommodations.The delays are adding to public fury over the disaster, which killed at least 71 people, and traumatized residents have accused the authorities of ignoring their needs._____ Millions of frustrated travelers.A rail strike in France is testing the limits of public anger as union workers face off against President Emmanuel Macron and his efforts to overhaul Europes second-largest economy  starting with cuts to their cherished job benefits.But whether French commuters, including those above in Paris on Tuesday, blame the union or Mr. Macron is the big question._____ Last month, we visited a charity food bank in the German city of Essen that had decided to turn away migrants, a move that set off a national debate about refugees and poverty.But now, non-Germans will be welcome once again, after the pantry agreed to give priority to older people and families with young children, regardless of nationality._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad sectors of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced._____ Anger that YouTube was censoring her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, above, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ Japans famed snow monkeys have long been the picture of hot-springs bliss.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.)_____ On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a U.S. military program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes. Facebook said the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm connected  to President Trump and the Brexit campaign, far higher than previously cited estimates. (Heres how we covered the revelations that spurred an uproar on both sides of the Atlantic.) Name and shame: Britain is hoping to narrow the pay gap by forcing companies to publicly air salary discrepancies between men and women. The governments role model? Other Western countries, like Germany, Iceland and Australia. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to immediately bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home. [The New York Times] The Victoria and Albert Museum in London offered to return to Ethiopia treasures taken by British troops 150 years ago, but only as a loan. [The New York Times] In The Hague, a jihadist fighter from Mali was brought before the International Criminal Court to face charges of rape, torture and sexual slavery. [The New York Times] Austrias new right-wing government has proposed a ban on head scarves in schools for girls under 10 years old. [BBC] Skripal poisoning: Emboldened by a series of blunders by the British government, Russia will convene a special meeting of the U.N. Security Council in an attempt to undermine allegations that Moscow was behind the nerve agent attack against a former Russian spy. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. The British comedian and transgender activist Eddie Izzard has acted in Hollywood movies, run 43 marathons in 51 days (for charity) and campaigned against Brexit. Now for his next challenge: Hes joined the governing body of Britains Labour Party, just as its struggling to tackle an internal crisis over anti-Semitism. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. Scottish dinosaurs? Aye, say paleontologists who discovered dozens of giant-size footprints on the Isle of Skye. But dont get too excited; the prints were left about 170 million years ago.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party. Now, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
Before the Fall: German and Austrian Art of the 1930s, at the Neue Galerie, is an exhibition that steadily tightens its chokehold. You know where the show will lead, and yet you walk through its galleries bewildered, helpless. Anodyne still lifes and depopulated landscapes curdle into premonitions of disaster. Graffiti in street scenes appears as ominous as the writing on the wall in the Book of Daniel. Acts that once seemed implausible, absurd  media pronouncements full of hatred and lies; young men marching with flags and torches  become everyday occurrences. The worst, the very worst, is coming. But getting there will take years, and life must be lived every day.This is only the latest of many exhibitions over the last 18 months that have plumbed European art of the 1930s and the resistance, complicity or indifference of artists as democracy collapsed, and the continent tumbled into atrocity. The notorious Gurlitt collection, assembled by one of Hitlers art dealers and poached partly from Jewish collectors, went on view last autumn in Bonn and Bern and reopens in Berlin in September. The Fondazione Prada in Milan is now presenting a titanic exhibition of Italian Fascist art; the gallery Modern Art Oxford has displayed the anti-Fascist tapestries of the Norwegian artist Hannah Ryggen; the National Gallery of Ireland is showing the Nazi painter Emil Nolde; and the Picasso Museum in Paris and the Museo Reina Sofa in Madrid have partnered on a new show exploring Guernica, Picassos cry of rage against Franco and the Luftwaffe.A few weeks ago, some 500 leading figures in the Polish art world published an open letter that called on that countrys national museum to stage an urgent exhibition on the history of art and Fascism. And American institutions, too, have turned their gaze on the Nazi catastrophe: The New-York Historical Society recently presented an archival show on the rise of German anti-Semitism, while the Harvard Art Museums are displaying a survey of German art in the wake of the Holocaust.The nearly 150 works in Before the Fall include paintings by Otto Dix, Oskar Kokoschka, Max Beckmann and other artists deemed degenerate by the Nazis. But there are also quieter works by far less familiar names. The show is the third in a series of Neue exhibitions on art and German politics that have been curated by Olaf Peters, an art history professor at the Martin-Luther-Universitt in Halle, Germany. (Preceding it were Degenerate Art, a surprise blockbuster on Nazi art policy, and Berlin Metropolis, a multimedia extravaganza on the doomed burlesque of the Weimar capital.) Like those shows, this one is somewhat hamstrung by the Neue Galeries limited space  and yet the claustrophobia of Before the Fall has its own advantages. Its crowdedness seems to amplify the collective anxiety of the artists witnessing, resisting and, at times, celebrating their road to perdition.Mr. Peters has organized the show by medium and genre, rather than by chronology or political orientation. On the museums second floor, for example, a black curtain drapes the entrance to a gallery of still lifes, some by artists deemed degenerate, others by avowed Nazis (like the painter Franz Sedlacek). Among the most disquieting works here is a small painting on panel from 1934 by Rudolf Wacker, an Austrian painter largely unknown in the United States. It depicts an undressed doll, its limbs bent in unnatural directions, with the alienated precision common to artists of the Neue Sachlichkeit, or New Objectivity. Wacker was a committed anti-fascist and spoke out against Germanys annexation of Austria 80 years ago last month. Shortly after the Anschluss, he was arrested by the Gestapo; by 1939 he was dead. Wackers Autumn Bouquet With Butterfly, a morose, macabre still life from 1938, could serve as his epitaph.A showcase of portraits also mingles paintings by artists deemed degenerate with those by artists in line with the new regime. Stylistically, the two can be hard to distinguish. A 1929 portrait of a printer by Dix, whose art would be purged from German museums, sits uncomfortably close to a society portrait by Herbert von Reyl-Hanisch, who would go on to paint idealized Aryans to promote the 1936 Olympics. Photographic portraits by August Sander from his epochal series People of the Twentieth Century include both Nazis in uniform and Jewish men and woman preparing to leave the country. (Also on view are Sanders images of those he called the last people: disabled men and children whom the Nazis would soon deem unfit to live.)Such was the reality of German and Austrian art, and German and Austrian society, in the initial years of Nazi rule: the awkward coexistence of fascists, democrats and Communists, who heard the rhetoric, who witnessed the hatred, but who still could not see how much horror lay ahead. One of the high points of Before the Fall is a suite of woodcuts by Wilhelm Traeger, whose street scenes of Vienna in 1932 seem like an X-ray of a society on the edge. In these thickly inked, brashly contoured prints, made when Traeger was just 25, a hunchback shuffles past a brick wall plastered with a call to Vote Red, while a skeletal veteran on crutches begs for change as women in furs strut past. Newspaper salesmen, taxi drivers, chain smokers in the coffee house: All are living on the brink.Was it even possible for painters who opposed the Nazis, but who did not follow Beckmann and other degenerate artists into exile or dissidence, to make meaningful art in Germany in the late 1930s? Before the Fall answers this question equivocally  but it comes closest with the art of a Jewish painter who, it goes without saying, could not treat that question academically. That artist, Felix Nussbaum, was in Rome in 1933, having been awarded Germanys most prestigious art scholarship to study there, when Hitler took power in Berlin. His scholarship was quickly withdrawn, and he lived and painted in exile  in Italy, Paris, Ostend, Brussels  before the Nazis arrested him and sent him to an internment camp in southern France in 1940.Nussbaum escaped, and later that year, he painted Self-Portrait in the Camp: a harsh, indelible artwork that puts all the other portraits in this show in their full, brutal context. Nussbaum appears in three-quarter profile, his left eye in shadow, his right eye sunken but locked upon us. He has grown a goatee, and his drab brown uniform has a frayed collar and a hasty patch on its right shoulder. Behind him, past scavenging and defecating prisoners, is a fence of barbed wire, and beyond it, a sky of ferrous gray. Nussbaum appears wearied. But his gaze is defiant, asserting an individuality that serves as proof of a continuing, unspeakable crime.Nussbaum, hiding in Brussels, continued to paint for several years after completing Self-Portrait in the Camp, but soon the Nazis came again. This time his destination was Auschwitz, where he was murdered in 1944. There were six million more.We know that history cant be fathomed while its still being lived. We know that not all art made in the first years of the Reich can be easily classified into approved and degenerate. We want, therefore, to face these paintings and photographs as things that are never free of their circumstances, but still more than mere evidence of barbarity. We want to be reassured, we comfortable museumgoing types, that people who compromise, people who lack absolute moral courage, are not wholly lost to humanity.But in the face of Nussbaums Self-Portrait in the Camp, that stance rings hollow. That is the central lesson of Before the Fall and the other recent 1930s shows: There are no individual pardons for collective guilt.
MOSCOW   The Latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter (all times local):12:00 a.m.Britain\'s U.N. ambassador says Russia has come up with 24 theories on who bears responsibility for the poisoning of an ex-spy and his daughter in England, but the United Kingdom has only one  that it\'s highly likely Russia was responsible.Karen Pierce told a U.N. Security Council meeting called by Russia on Thursday: "We believe that the U.K.\'s actions stand up to any scrutiny. ... We have nothing to hide, but I do fear that Russia might have something to fear."Pierce strongly criticized Russia for insisting on having its own experts participate in the examination of the nerve agent used in the attack on Sergei and Yulia Skripal. Samples of what is believed to have sickened them are being analyzed by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Pierce also told reporters later that she finds it "grotesque" that Russia is blocking the investigation into responsibility for chemical weapons use in Syria while demanding that it be part of the investigation into the March 4 poisonings of the Skripals in the city of Salisbury.___11:25 p.m.Russia\'s U.N. ambassador says Moscow assumes "with a high degree of probability" that the intelligence services of other countries are behind the likely the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.Vassily Nebenzia told the U.N. Security Council at a Thursday meeting called by Russia that "everything confirms this is a coordinated, very well-planned campaign" intended "to discredit and even delegitimize Russia."He did not name the intelligence services that Russia suspects, but said their goal is to accuse Moscow of using "a horrible, inhumane weapon, of concealing the arsenal of this substance," of violating the Chemical Weapons Convention, and putting in question Russia\'s "role not only in finding a solution in Syria, but anywhere else."Nebenzia said Britain is required to allow Russia to participate in the investigation of the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia.He also questioned the British government\'s claims of Russian responsibility by asking what antidotes for exposure to the Novichok nerve agent the Skripals were given and where they were for four hours without cellphones on the day of the attack.___11:00 p.m.Russia\'s ambassador to the United Nations has given a blistering indictment of the British government\'s allegations that Moscow was behind the nerve-agent poisoning in England of an ex-spy and his daughter.U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia opened a meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Thursday with a lengthy statement in which he claimed that Russia was the victim of a hasty, sloppy and ill-intentioned defamation campaign by Britain and its allies.Nebenzia said: "Great Britain refuses to cooperate with us on the pretext that the victim does not cooperate with the criminal....A crime was committed on British territory, possibly a terrorist act, and it is our citizens who are the victims."Russia called the Security Council session at U.N. headquarters in New York to appeal to other nations for support in pursuing another explanation for the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal, a former Russian military intelligence agent who was convicted of spying for Britain.Nebenzia challenged Britain to take his statement as "a litmus test" of the country\'s integrity and respect for international norms.___This item has been corrected to show the current U.N. ambassador from Russia is Vassily Nebenzia, not Vitaly Churkin.___9:15 p.m.Britain\'s ambassador to the United Nations says she fears Russia called a meeting of the U.N. Security Council to discuss the poisoning of an ex-spy in England to show "contempt" for international institutions such as the U.N.Ambassador Karen Pierce said she also has "a bit of a fear" that Moscow is trying "to build a narrative" for why it won\'t accept the forthcoming findings from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on the nerve agent that sickened Sergei Skripal and his daughter.Piece told reporters ahead of Thursday afternoon\'s Security Council meeting that Britain looks forward to the chemical weapons watchdog\'s report and has "nothing to hide."She said: "We ask, what have the Russians got to fear?"Pierce said a number of factors led the British government to conclude that "this was a Russian state attack." She says they include a Russian declaration that its ex-agents are fair game, knowledge that Russia has made military-grade nerve agents and "other information that I am not able to disclose."___7:50 p.m.Russia\'s Ambassador to Britain, Alexander Yakovenko, has rejected the notion that the embassy is "trolling" Britain with its Twitter account.The London Embassy\'s account, which has sometimes mirrored the wry humor of the ambassador, has been vocal in demanding evidence backing Britain\'s insistence that Russia was behind the March 4 nerve agent attack on former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, in the city of Salisbury.One March post featured a picture of actor David Suchet as Hercule Poirot, the intrepid sleuth of Agatha Christie novels.On March 18 the Russian Embassy tweeted: "In absence of evidence, we definitely need Poirot in Salisbury!"Pressed on the tweets, Yakovenko said Thursday that "We are using in this situation a sense of human humor because some statements are really not friendly."___4:30 p.m.Russia\'s top diplomat says Moscow must participate in a probe into the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain and see evidence if it is to accept the probe\'s results.Britain blamed Russia for the March 4 poisoning of former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, accusations Russia has denied.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Britain stonewalled Moscow\'s request for evidence and refused to let Russia join the probe.Asked Thursday if Russia would accept the conclusions of the international chemical weapons watchdog, Lavrov said Moscow can\'t give an advance approval to a verdict coming after a secret investigation to which it had no access.Lavrov said that the expulsions of over 150 Russian diplomats by two dozen Western nations threatened global stability. Moscow expelled the same number of Western diplomats.___4:15 p.m.The poisoned daughter of Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal says in a statement released by police that her strength is growing daily and that she is grateful for the interest shown in her case.Yulia Skripal said Thursday that she woke up over a week ago after being poisoned along with her father in the southwestern city of Salisbury on March 4. The 33-year-old expressed gratitude to the people who came to their aid.She says that "I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you\'ll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence."Britain has blamed Russia for the poisoning using a military grade nerve agent. In response, more than two dozen Western allies including Britain, the U.S. and NATO have ordered out over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity.___3:45 p.m.Russian state television has released a recording of what it says is a phone call between the daughter of an ex-spy poisoned in Britain and her cousin in Russia.In it, Yulia Skripal says she and her father, former double agent Sergei Skripal, are both recovering and in normal health. She says her father is sleeping and his health has not been irreparably damaged.Rossiya TV says Skripal\'s niece, Viktoria, who lives in Moscow, provided it with the recording of her conversation with Yulia. The broadcaster says it can\'t verify the recording\'s authenticity.Britain has blamed Russia for the March 4 nerve agent attack that sickened the Skripals. The British hospital treating them said Yulia\'s condition has improved, while her father has remained in critical condition. Russia has vehemently denied involvement in the poisoning.___11 a.m.Russia\'s top diplomat has dismissed the recent expulsions of Russian diplomats as a mockery of international law.Two dozen countries have kicked out a total of more than 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain, which blames Russia for last month\'s poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Thursday the nerve agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal was "staged" to justify the expulsions from many countries "whose arms were twisted."The international chemical weapons watchdog on Wednesday rejected Russia\'s calls for a joint investigation with Britain. Russia said the number of countries that abstained from the vote suggested many have doubts about Britain\'s allegations that Moscow was behind the attack.
LONDON   The daughter of a former Russian spy poisoned by a nerve agent said Thursday in her first public comment that she\'s recovering even as the international furor over the attack intensified, with Russia warning Britain it is "playing with fire."At the United Nations, Russia claimed that intelligence services of other countries were probably behind the attack. But Britain\'s U.N. Ambassador Karen Piece shot back that Russia has come up with 24 theories on who bears responsibility for the poisoning, but the United Kingdom has only one  that it\'s highly likely Russia was responsible.Yulia Skripal, 33, said in a statement released by British police that her "strength is growing daily" and she expressed gratitude to those who came to her aid when she and her father, Sergei, were found unconscious on a bench a month ago."I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you\'ll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence," she said.The hospital in the English city of Salisbury confirmed that Yulia\'s health has improved, while her 66-year-old father, Sergei Skripal, remains in critical condition.At the U.N., the confrontation between Russia and Britain and more than two dozen Western allies who have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity intensified.Russia\'s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia claimed that Russia that was the victim of a hasty, sloppy and ill-intentioned defamation campaign by Britain and its allies.Moscow assumes "with a high degree of probability" that the intelligence services of other countries are likely responsible for the incident, Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said."Since the British authorities dare to state that behind the incident in Salisbury is Russia\'s responsibility with a high degree of probability, well we also with a high degree of probability are assuming that the intelligence services of certain countries are behind the mega-provocation," he said.Nebenzia said "everything confirms this is a coordinated, very well-planned campaign" intended "to discredit and even delegitimize Russia."He refused to name the intelligence services that Russia suspects, but said their goal is to accuse Moscow of using "a horrible, inhumane weapon, of concealing the arsenal of this substance," of violating the Chemical Weapons Convention, and putting in question Russia\'s "role not only in finding a solution in Syria, but anywhere else."He also warned: "We have told our British colleagues that you are playing with fire and you will be sorry."Britain\'s Pierce said Russia\'s 24 theories for the attack include blaming it on terrorists and saying Britain wanted to distract from Brexit, its departure from the European Union.After trading barbs about Sherlock Holmes, Nebenzia and Pierce resorted to nonsensical fantasy with the Russian ambassador reading a passage from Alice in Wonderland and the British ambassador responding with a witty passage from the book that says: "I believe in as many as six impossible things before breakfast."Adding to the intrigue was a recording aired Thursday by Russian state Rossiya TV of a purported phone call between Yulia Skripal and her cousin in Russia. In the call, Yulia Skripal allegedly said she and her father were both recovering and in normal health, and that her father\'s health was not irreparably damaged.Rossiya TV said Skripal\'s niece, Viktoria, who lives in Moscow, gave it the purported recording, although the broadcaster said it could not verify its authenticity.Moscow has steadfastly hammered away at Britain\'s account of what befell the Skripals on March 4, especially the claim that their exposure to a Novichok nerve agent developed by the Soviet Union meant the attack was carried out by Russia.During the Security Council meeting, Nebenzia questioned the British government\'s claims of Russian responsibility by posing a series of questions.He asked why the British policeman was affected by the nerve agent immediately when it took four hours for Skirpal and his daughter to be affected. He asked what antidotes for exposure to Novichok the Skripals were given, where the Skirpals were for four hours without cellphones on the day of the attack, and what happened to two cats and two guinea pigs in the Skirpal\'s house.Russia has said it never produced Novichok and completed the destruction of its chemical arsenals under international control last year. Nebenzia insisted that Britain is required to allow Russia to cooperate in the investigation."Great Britain refuses to cooperate with us on the pretext that the victim does not cooperate with the criminal," he said. "A crime was committed on British territory, possibly a terrorist act, and it is our citizens who are the victims."He said both Skripal and Yulia are Russian citizens, and Moscow must be granted access to them.Pierce said the U.K. has left it to Yulia to decide whether to give Russia consular access to her.Moscow has sent home an equal number of envoys  more than 150  in an all-out diplomatic war unseen even at the height of the Cold War.As part of the diplomatic row, Russia last week ordered 60 U.S. diplomats to leave the country by Thursday in retaliation for Washington\'s expulsion of the same number of Russians.Three buses believed to be carrying expelled American diplomats left the U.S. Embassy in Moscow early Thursday after loading their luggage on trucks. Some toted pet carriers.Ahead of the U.N. meeting, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov described the British accusations against Moscow as a mockery of international law. He sarcastically likened the British accusations to the queen from Alice in Wonderland urging "sentence first  verdict afterward.""The so-called Skripal case has been used as a fictitious, orchestrated pretext for the unfounded massive expulsions of Russian diplomats not only from the U.S. and Britain, but also from a number of other countries who simply had their arms twisted," Lavrov said in Moscow.The British government says it relied on a combination of scientific analysis and other intelligence to conclude that the nerve agent came from Russia. But the Foreign Office on Wednesday deleted a tweet from last month that said scientists at Britain\'s defense research facility, the Porton Down laboratory, had identified the substance as "made in Russia."President Vladimir Putin\'s envoy for cybersecurity, Alexander Krutskikh, mocked the contradictory statements, saying that "the latest developments around the Skripal case indicate the days of this British Cabinet are numbered."___Lederer reported from the United Nations. Associated Press writers Vladimir Isachenkov, Jim Heintz and Nataliya Vasilyeva in Moscow also contributed.
Every day, the tiny elevator in Building 11 of the Boulevard Houses in Brooklyn does what it was built to do.It ferries tenants to the lobby as they start their morning commutes. It carries retirees down to run midday errands. And it brings residents back to their apartments after a twilight chat or an evening cigarette.To enter the elevator, residents swing open the leaden door and as they board, perhaps they glance up at the convex mirror that reflects anyone behind them. Inside, it is easy to feel encased in the dim confines of the metal box.The ride is quiet, even serene. It is a stark contrast from the cacophony of police sirens tenants have heard for years outside their home, the oldest housing project in East New York, long one of the citys more violent neighborhoods.But the ride up or down the six-story building is slow and it gives some passengers enough time to remember why the elevator will forever be tainted by what happened inside nearly four years ago.On June 1, 2014, the elevator was the scene of a killing that defied explanation. After following two children into the elevator, an assailant stabbed a 6-year-old boy, Prince Joshua Avitto, to death and slashed a 7-year-old girl, Mikayla Capers, to within an inch of her life. It was a gruesome crime that pained many in the city, and focused public attention, however briefly, on the security problems that plague many of the developments operated by the New York City Housing Authority.The vicious attack still haunts the people who day after day set foot in the elevator, if they take the elevator at all. And over the last few weeks, Building 11 has had to relive the killing, as Daniel St. Hubert, the man charged in the attack, stood trial in State Supreme Court, about seven miles away in Downtown Brooklyn.Mikayla, now 11, testified in the case, facing the man who prosecutors say killed her best friend, known to everyone as P.J., and nearly killed her. Last week the jurors heard closing arguments and after an unusual one-week break, the panel is expected to begin deliberating on Monday. Mr. St. Hubert, 30, is charged with second-degree murder and attempted murder. He has a history of mental illness, and the trial did little to illuminate a motive for the killing.But it resurrected gruesome memories of the attack and of the four-day search for the killer. The manhunt was stymied by the lack of a security camera in the elevator, and that, in turn, fueled an uproar and crystallized the neglect public housing tenants had felt for years.After the killing, a security camera was placed in the elevator of Building 11 and it watches over the tenants. To many of them, though, it is a reminder of the horror that unfolded when no one was watching.The whole neighborhood really remembers, said Chris, a fourth-floor resident who declined to give his last name. Were mortified about it.Some families moved out after the attack, spooked by P.J.s killing. Those who remain still talk about where they were and what they saw.Mike Worsley, a first-floor tenant, saw P.J. and Mikayla outside the building lobby, on their way to grab Icees from P.J.s apartment on the sixth floor. About 10 minutes later, Mr. Worsley heard the screams: P.J.! P.J.! On the fourth floor, Chriss two nieces, then 10 and 13, found P.J. in the elevator car in a pool of blood from what the medical examiner would determine were 11 stab wounds. Mikayla crawled out from the elevator with 16 wounds and a collapsed lung, and was hospitalized for nine days. The assailant had fled, dropping a bloody eight-inch knife on the way out.Id never seen a police officer break down and cry, Chris said of an officer at the scene. He just bawled.Since the attack, residents have found some measure of comfort in the self-locking lobby door and the improved exterior lighting and cameras placed outside. They say the police patrol the area more often.Even with the 5,600 cameras housing officials say have been installed in public housing developments since 2014, about 40 percent of elevators in the citys 325 projects do not have surveillance cameras.And the camera in the 15-square-foot elevator has become a daily reminder for parents to not leave their children unsupervised, even inside the building.Theyre never by themselves, Evita Worley, 55, said of her three grandchildren. I think neighbors are now more secure with their children.On a recent visit to the building, a few tenants trickled in and out of the elevator with grocery bags from the mini-market on Stanley Avenue. In the lobby, the frame around the elevator door was plastered with fliers: safety guidelines, city youth employment programs, an outdated winter storm warning.Opposite the elevator, above the 38 mailboxes, hung a flyer with a picture of P.J. wearing a graduation cap and gown. Coming Soon, it read. Prince Joshua Avitto Community Center. The two-story building, with a gymnasium and a dance studio named after Mikayla, is scheduled to open across the street in May.That stretch of Schenk Avenue was renamed Prince Joshua Avitto Way in 2015. Next to the street sign bearing P.J.s name, a community garden known as the Garden of Peace was built in his honor. And all around the neighborhood, shops and restaurants have pictures of P.J. on their walls.This building is his memorial, said Ms. Worley, who has lived 10 years in the Boulevard Houses. His spirit will always be here.P.J.s family moved out a month after the attack. But on Palm Sunday, while the trial in her sons killing was underway, Aricka McClinton paid a visit to the neighborhood for Mass. Outside Building 11, she was joined by P.J.s godmother, Anabelle Alston, and aunt, Sherri Avitto.No matter what, everything comes back to this building, said Ms. Avitto, 52, who lives down the street.Ms. Alston, 55, showed dozens of pictures of P.J. on her phone: the time he dressed as Barack Obama for school, the time he hit a home run at a baseball game.Ms. McClinton reminisced about P.J. and Mikaylas friendship: Mikayla had taught P.J. to walk when he was 1 and they would make plans by shouting from their bedroom windows.Then, Ms. McClinton pulled out her necklace with a charm of a boys head that read: My Little Superman.P.J.s mother now lives in the Chelsea Houses, a public housing complex in Manhattan, but she occasionally makes the trek to East New York to visit family and friends in Building 11.I take the stairs, not the elevator.
PHOENIX   The Latest on President Donald Trump\'s order for the National Guard to deploy to the U.S.-Mexico border (all times local):5:15 p.m.Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds is prepared to send National Guard troops from the Midwest state to the U.S.-Mexico border if President Donald Trump\'s administration requests the help.Reynolds\' press secretary Brenna Smith confirmed the Republican governor\'s support Thursday.She says Reynonds "supports a safe, secure border and supports the rule of law."Smith adds the Iowa National Guard had not been asked to deploy as of Thursday evening.The remarks came after Trump said he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the border with Mexico to combat illegal immigration and drug smuggling.___5:05 p.m.A fifth-generation Arizona rancher who is an outspoken supporter of President Donald Trump\'s border wall is "absolutely elated" by the president\'s plans to deploy the National Guard at the border.Jim Chilton\'s 50,000-acre (20,200-hectare) ranch in Arivaca, Arizona stretches 14 miles (23 kilometers) along the border and is separated from Mexico by a four-strand barbed wire cattle fence.Chilton says he often sees people sneak from Mexico into the United States across his property but they usually get away because the closest Border Patrol station is 80 miles (129 kilometers) away.He says he saw none from 2006 to 2008 when former President George W. Bush sent National Guard members to the border.___4:05 p.m.Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson said his state is willing to send National Guard troops to assist President Donald Trump\'s plans to send up to 4,000 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border.Hutchinson said he spoke Thursday with Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about the border plans.Hutchinson told The Associated Press that Arkansas Guard members "who are experienced and who have done that before" could be sent.Hutchinson is a Republican and a former undersecretary of the Homeland Security Department.Hutchinson tweeted that the effort would "add to our nation\'s security at an important time."___3:55 p.m.New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez was among those on a call with other border governors and federal officials to discuss efforts to bolster border security.The Republican governor on Thursday reiterated her support for National Guard troops assisting the Border Patrol in New Mexico to combat illegal crossings and drug smuggling.Her spokesman Mike Lonergan says officials "cannot allow criminal activity to come across the border where it will only increase crime in New Mexico\'s communities."During the call, Martinez also talked about the need to keep law enforcement officers who are members of the National Guard on the job in New Mexico\'s cities and counties.It\'s unclear whether the troops would be mobilized from volunteers.Martinez\'s office says New Mexico officials with the federal government in coming weeks to determine how many troops might be deployed and their specific tasks.___3:50 p.m.Montana Gov. Steve Bullock says he\'ll never deploy National Guard troops "based simply on the whim of the President\'s morning Twitter habit."Bullock, a Democrat, said in a statement Thursday that the responsibility of sending Guard soldiers anywhere is one of the most difficult things he faces.Trump signed a memorandum on Wednesday that would allow the use of National Guard troops to help fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking on the U.S.-Mexico border.That morning, the president wrote in a tweet that the nation\'s border laws are weak and "we will be taking strong action today."Bullock administration officials say the request for troops would have to come directly from the governor of a border state, and Montana had received no such requests as of Thursday.___2:09 p.m.President Donald Trump has said that he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the US-Mexico border.Speaking on Air Force One Thursday, Trump gave his first estimate on guard levels.Asked about the cost, he said the administration was looking at it.Trump says he plans to keep the guard members there until a "large portion of the wall is built."Former President George W. Bush sent 6,400 National Guard members to the border between 2006 and 2008.They performed support duties aimed at freeing up federal agents to focus on border security. T___1:55 p.m.A U.S. official says the National Guard\'s arrival on the Mexican border would put more Border Patrol agents on the "front lines."Ronald Vitiello (vi-TEL-oh), U.S. Customs and Border Protection\'s acting deputy commissioner, tells Fox News that the guard would replace agents who are not doing "enforcement work."He wasn\'t more specific, but Border Patrol agents are often assigned to process arrests, manage short-term detention facilities and perform other administrative and support work.Vitiello says guard members will be in jobs that do not require law enforcement work, an apparent reference to being on patrol and making arrests.He cautions against immediate deployment. He said the Pentagon has work to do with state governments, and Customs and Border Protection needs to deliver a complete list of what it wants.___12:15 p.m.Oregon Gov. Kate Brown says she won\'t let National Guard troops from her state be stationed at the Mexican border if President Donald Trump requests them.Brown is a Democrat and in a Tweet Wednesday said she was "deeply troubled by Trump\'s plan to militarize our border."Trump this week said the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border had reached "a point of crisis" in his proclamation directing National Guard deployment to the southern border.Brown is a frequent Trump critic. She says Oregon hasn\'t been contacted by federal officials about border troop deployment.___11:55 a.m.California Gov. Jerry Brown\'s administration says it needs answers from President Trump\'s administration before deciding whether to commit National Guard troops to help protect the border with Mexico.That includes where money for the deployment would come from, how long it would last, and if there are clearly definable objectives.The Democratic governor\'s decision is a big unknown after other border state Republican governors welcomed the Guard\'s deployment.California has opposed most of Trump\'s policies and Trump\'s administration is suing over three state immigration laws.Brown\'s administration pointed Thursday to a California National Guard statement saying it\'s promptly reviewing the request, as it did similar federal requests for staffing in 2006 and 2010.The California National Guard already has 55 members helping fight drug trafficking on the southern border.___11:45 a.m.U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has said it\'s unclear how many National Guard troops will be deployed to the border with Mexico following President Donald Trump\'s proclamation ordering the deployment.She said Thursday that determination won\'t happen until specific missions are set at specific locations and U.S. officials discuss deployment with the governors of the four U.S. states that share the border with Mexico.Trump issued the proclamation Wednesday and said the deployment will fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.___11:00 a.m.U.S. officials say they have not determined yet whether National Guard troops sent to the border with Mexico to fight illegal immigration will be armed.Marine Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie told reporters at the Pentagon Thursday that it has not yet been determined how many, if any, of the National Guard troops participating in the border security operation will be armed.President Donald Trump on Wednesday said the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border had reached "a point of crisis" in his proclamation directing National Guard deployment to the border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has said she had been working with governors of the southwest border states to develop agreements on where and how many Guardsmen will be deployed.___10:45 a.m.National guard contingents in U.S. states that border Mexico say they are waiting for guidance from Washington to determine what they will do following President Donald Trump\'s proclamation directing deployment to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.The National Guard in Texas said in a statement Thursday said the deployment is in "very early planning stages."With troops in all states, the National Guard has been called on by past presidents and governors to help secure U.S. borders.The Texas Guard says it has "firsthand knowledge of the mission and operating area" that will allow it to move seamlessly into the new role.Governors of the border states of Arizona and New Mexico have welcomed deployment of the Guard along the southwest border as a matter of public safety.___9:00 a.m.Mexican senators and presidential candidates put aside differences to condemn U.S. President Donald Trump\'s decision to deploy National Guard troops to the border.The country\'s Senate passed a resolution Wednesday calling for the suspension of cooperation on illegal immigration and drug trafficking in retaliation for Trump\'s move.Presidential candidate Ricardo Anaya went further, saying Mexico should limit anti-terrorism cooperation until the National Guard is withdrawn. Anaya is the candidate of a left-right coalition in the country\'s July 1 presidential election.Ruling-party candidate Jose Antonio Meade said that "independently of our political differences, it is time for all the presidential candidates to unite in defense of the sovereignty and dignity of the nation ... to reject and repudiate thus kind of measure."The Mexican government said guard members "will not carry weapons or have immigration or customs duties."
SOUTHERN JILIN PROVINCE, China   To the North Koreans gathered beneath a crucifix in an apartment in this northeastern Chinese border region, she is known as "mom." She feeds them, gives them a place to stay and, on occasion, money.In return, the 69-year-old Korean-Chinese woman asks them to study the Bible, pray and sing hymns. She also has a more ambitious, and potentially dangerous, goal: She wants the most trusted of her converts to return to North Korea and spread Christianity there.Along the North Korean border, dozens of such missionaries are engaged in work that puts them and their North Korean converts in danger. Most are South Koreans, but others, like the woman, are ethnic Koreans whose families have lived in China for generations. In recent years, 10 such front-line missionaries and pastors have died mysteriously, according to the Rev. Kim Kyou Ho, head of the Seoul-based Chosen People Network, a Christian group that runs a memorial hall in the South Korean capital for the victims. North Korea is suspected in all those deaths.Hundreds of other missionaries have been imprisoned or expelled by China, which bans foreigners from proselytizing.It is perilous work. Li Baiguang, a Chinese human rights lawyer whose work defending Christian pastors and farmers had prompted repeated death threats, died on Feb. 26, hours after being admitted to a Chinese military hospital for what his relatives described as a minor stomach ailment.The case has prompted calls for an independent investigation from Amnesty International and the Washington-based National Endowment for Democracy, which noted Li had been "detained and physically attacked many times" for his work and cited reports he had recently appeared to be in good health.The Korean-Chinese woman said she is monitored by both North Korean and Chinese authorities, yet, despite the risks, has carried out 20 years of missionary work with North Koreans, mostly women who are in China legally after being granted visas to visit relatives living there."I always pray and I\'m with God, so I\'m not worried," said the woman, who despite that assertion asked that her name not be published because of safety concerns for herself, her family and the North Koreans to whom she ministers.She lives so close to North Korea that it is common to see women doing laundry on the other side of the Yalu River or workers riding bicycles past rundown North Korean buildings just a stone\'s throw away.The border missionaries provide their North Korean visitors with room and board, and those escaping with places to hide. In return, they ask them to memorize the Lord\'s Prayer, the Apostles\' Creed and other prayers. Some of the most trusted converts return home to North Korea and covertly share what they\'ve learned, sometimes carrying Bibles.It\'s almost impossible to determine what happens when those North Koreans return home to evangelize. From the outside, there is no indication that Christianity has grown in any serious manner in the North in recent years, let alone that it\'s helping shake North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s power.The North accuses South Korea\'s spy agency of using missionaries to gather information about North Korea\'s secretive nuclear program and other sensitive topics, as well as to smuggle propaganda materials via leaflets, CDs and USB sticks, and to build underground churches to undermine Kim\'s leadership  allegations the Seoul government strongly denies.At least two South Korean pastors are detained in the North on such charges.Officially, North Korea says it guarantees freedom of religion to its 24 million people. But in reality, people involved in Bible distribution, secret prayer services and underground church networks are imprisoned or executed, according to activists and defectors. The North has five government-sanctioned churches in Pyongyang, but critics say they are showpiece facilities opened only for foreign visitors.Among the missionaries and pastors killed under mysterious circumstances in recent years is the Rev. Han Chung-ryeol, a Chinese pastor of Korean descent who headed a front-line church in the Chinese border town of Changbai before he was found dead of multiple stab wounds and a punctured skull in April 2016, raising suspicions that North Korea was involved.Chinese police recently told his family that surveillance video had captured images of three men and a woman suspected of being North Korean agents crossing the border before and after the 49-year-old pastor\'s slaying, Han\'s sister, Han Songshi, told The Associated Press.  She said Chinese authorities told the family the North didn\'t respond to Chinese requests to extradite the suspects.North Korea instead sent a letter to the state religious affairs bureau in Changbai saying it had arrested one of Han\'s church deacons, Zhang Wenshi, and sentenced him to 15 years hard labor, according to two people with direct knowledge of the case who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing retribution from North Korea and China.In a copy of the letter seen by the AP, North Korea accused Zhang of conspiring with Han in a plot to evangelize North Koreans, smuggle them out of the country and subvert the North\'s government. But the letter stopped short of acknowledging that North Korean agents killed Han.A spokeswoman for the Changbai police department would not confirm the family\'s account, saying only: "We have no obligation to release the details of the investigation to the media." A state-run North Korean website denied any involvement in Han\'s slaying, accusing South Korea\'s then-conservative government of being behind a scheme to foster anti-Pyongyang sentiment.Though Han was little known to international media before his death, he was an important figure in the risky, covert work to promote Christianity in the North, which views such efforts as a Western-led plot to topple its government. At the Chinese government-registered church in Changbai where he had worked since the early 1990s, he fed and sheltered thousands of North Koreans over the years  many of whom had fled their famine-stricken country in search of food and jobs  while also converting hundreds of them to Christianity.Eric Foley, the American co-founder of Voice of the Martyrs Korea, a Seoul-based Christian nonprofit group that provided funding, Bibles and other resources for Han\'s work, said he believed the Chinese authorities looked the other way about Han\'s proselytizing because they considered his charitable work to be a "social service" that helped allay potential problems like crime, unemployment and homelessness among the North Koreans in Changbai."That allowed him to do that work in a level of volume that was unparalleled up and down the border," Foley said. He insisted, however, that Han did not facilitate defections of North Koreans to South Korea, which is banned by China.However, seven other defectors and activists interviewed by the AP said Han did sometimes help North Korean defectors flee to South Korea, though he was reluctant to do so for fear of angering the Chinese authorities and imperiling the work of his church. Choi Sung-ryong, a Seoul-based activist, said he resettled 10 North Koreans in South Korea at the request of one of Han\'s deacons.When one of his converts volunteered to return to North Korea to share the "love of God" with her countrymen in 2011, the woman said Han smiled at her, asked her to memorize as many Bible phrases as possible and gave her 5,000 yuan ($800) to buy a house in the North that she could use as a gathering place for underground Christians."He told me that house would be a church or a place for God," said the North Korean woman, who has since defected to South Korea and spoke on condition of anonymity because of concerns for the safety of her relatives in the North.As a result of his risky work, North Korean defectors, including the woman, had long warned Han that the Pyongyang authorities had him on the country\'s most-wanted list. Han knew he was "at the top of a blacklist by the North\'s Ministry of State Security," the North Korean woman said.The Rev. John Kim, a defector who is now a pastor in Seoul, said he was questioned about Han as far back as 2003 when he slipped back into North Korea to try to spread the Gospel. Soldiers approached him as he was doing laundry at a river and "they asked me whether I knew a bastard named Han Chung-ryeol," said Kim. "So I asked them who he was, and they said they had to arrest him."As for the congregants Han left behind, their sentiments are reflected in the message on a banner they hung on the front gate of their red-brick church in Changbai: "Martyr and pastor, Han Chung-ryeol is our pride!"___Shih reported from Beijing.___
Our guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.DANIEL AVERY at Good Room (April 6, 10 p.m.). Consider a disco nap  or, more appropriately, a techno nap  before heading out to this D.J. set from the British electronic producer Daniel Avery. Hes scheduled to keep spinning records through last call until 5 a.m. the next morning. With a new album, Song for Alpha, arriving the day of the show, Mr. Avery should have no shortage of material.718-349-2373, goodroombk.comBRANDI CARLILE at the Beacon Theater (April 6-7, 8 p.m.). This singer-songwriter has carved out an enviable niche over the past decade-plus on the higher levels of contemporary folk-rock and country music. Her most recent album, By the Way, I Forgive You, features grand orchestral arrangements by the late Paul Buckmaster and songs that exemplify the frank, deeply felt storytelling that has won Ms. Carlile many devoted fans (including, but not limited to, at least one former president).800-745-3000, beacontheatre.comHELADO NEGRO AND SNEAKS at Elsewhere (April 9, 8 p.m.). Roberto Carlos Lange, the Floridian musician who performs as Helado Negro, makes invitingly smudged synth-pop. The best songs from his 2016 album, Private Energy  Lengua Larga, Young, Latin and Proud  sound like they might contain vast worlds, even when Mr. Lange is the only musician present. His opening act at this show uses similar instrumentation but couldnt be more different in tone: Eva Moolchan, a.k.a. Sneaks, practices a rigorously minimal form of post-punk that borders on ascetic.elsewherebrooklyn.comKRALLICE at Mercury Lounge (April 6, 7:30 p.m.). This well-regarded New York progressive metal group released two full-length albums last year: Lom, a highly concentrated collaboration with Dave Edwardson of Neurosis, and Go Be Forgotten, an inventive, restless set that seemed to sum up the advances Krallice has made over a decade on the creative vanguard of their genre. Enjoy the artful noise at this club show.877-987-6487, mercuryeastpresents.com/mercuryloungeOUGHT at Music Hall of Williamsburg (April 6, 9 p.m.). On their first two albums, released in 2014 and 2015, this Montreal-based band played tightly coiled punk rock, full of unpredictable riffs and even weirder poetry. They saved their biggest surprise to date for their third album, Room Inside the World, on which they swerve without warning into warm, expansive balladry with shades of Roxy Music and other New Romantics. The funny thing is, it works.888-929-7849, musichallofwilliamsburg.comTAMMY FAYE STARLITE at Joes Pub (April 11, 9:30 p.m.). The 1978 album Some Girls might represent the last time the Rolling Stones were truly dangerous. Its risqu blend of shimmying disco, insinuating R&B, appalling stereotypes and outright nonsense has endured through 40 years. The singer and performance artist Tammy Faye Starlite  known for her inimitable impersonations of Nico and Marianne Faithfull  will sink her teeth into this rich material when she performs the classic LP in full on Wednesday night.212-967-7555, joespub.publictheater.orgYO LA TENGO at Brooklyn Steel (April 6, 8 p.m.). This long-running trio from New Jersey brought a soft touch to the recording of Theres a Riot Going On, the album they released last month. As the New York Times critic Jon Pareles observed in his review, The music drones and burbles, tinkles and undulates, taking its time and lingering over instrumental stretches. Yo La Tengos shows this year have often shared that subtle, meditative quality, but fans of their louder side shouldnt worry  recent set lists have made room for plenty of all-out psychedelic conflagrations, too.888-929-7849, bowerypresents.com/brooklyn-steelSIMON VOZICK-LEVINSONDAYM AROCENA at Pioneer Works (April 7, 8 p.m.). The melding of Havana street tradition and religious practice with conservatory training now seems to be commonplace among the youngish Cuban instrumentalists making waves on the international jazz scene. But its rarer among vocalists, and this is where Ms. Arocena starts to make things interesting. Her 2017 release, Cubafona, shows her to be a forceful singer and a restless wanderer. Ms. Arocena appears at Pioneer Works in a concert presented with the World Music Institute.pioneerworks.orgRAFIQ BHATIA at National Sawdust (April 9, 8 p.m.). Mr. Bhatias sophomore album, Breaking English, is about more than just subverting one kind of language. Musicians can easily understand cadence and harmony  even the decision to use a certain instrument  as forms of linguistic choice. And these are all things that Mr. Bhatia, a guitarist and producer, erases or contravenes in some way on Breaking English. If language is a kind of performance, can musicians renegotiate the expectations placed upon them as performers by upsetting their own musical linguistics? Go, and see what you think: Mr. Bhatia celebrates the remarkable albums release with this concert, where hell be backed by the drummer Ian Chang and the bassist Jackson Hill, plus a fleet of pedals and effects.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.orgELIANE ELIAS at Birdland (April 10-14, 8:30 and 11 p.m.). A Brazilian pianist of richly shaded harmonies, Ms. Elias is equally influenced by Bill Evans and bossa nova. She is about to release Music From Man of La Mancha, which finds her immersed in the songs of an old American Broadway production based on the story of Don Quixote. Recorded in the 1990s but never released until now, the album is full of frothy repartee between Ms. Elias and two rhythm sections: On some tracks, its a trio with the drummer Jack DeJohnette and the bassist Eddie Gomez, and elsewhere a quartet with Marc Johnson on bass, Satoshi Takeishi on drums and Manolo Badrena on percussion. At this concert, shes joined by Mr. Johnson, Mr. Badrena and the young drummer Tiago Michelin.212-581-3080, birdlandjazz.comERIK FRIEDLANDER at Dixon Place (April 11, 7:30 p.m.). As a cellist, Erik Friedlander is immediately well positioned to stretch and blur the sounds of a typical jazz ensemble. (Not that he plays much with those kinds of bands exactly.) So hes well suited to the task at hand on Artemisia, his new album, which was inspired at first by Pablo Picassos Glass of Absinthe sculptures, and then by the history of absinthe, a hallucinatory intoxicant. With the help of Uri Caine on piano, Mark Helias on bass and Ches Smith on drums, Mr. Friedlander craftily conjures something like intoxication and euphoria, without any crude parroting. He and the band from the album will perform at Dixon Places intimate theater.dixonplace.orgA TRIPLE BILL OF ADVENTUROUS NEW MUSIC at the Cell (April 7, 7 p.m.). The tenor saxophonist James Brandon Lewis and the drummer Chad Taylor both improvise in a way that runs rampant and discursive, but their music stays firmly centered in their bodies. Things never go adrift or become overtly theoretical; this is lived music, physical and direct. The duo just released Radiant Imprints, an excellent album documenting their interchange, studded with some personal reworkings of John Coltrane themes. Mr. Lewis and Mr. Taylor appear here on a three-part bill that includes another noteworthy duo  Pheeroan akLaff on drums and Mikan Nitta on the shakuhachi, a Japanese flute  and the Rob Reddy Ensemble, which will play the bandleaders harmonically adventurous compositions.646-861-2253, thecelltheatre.orgRANDY WESTON at Jazz Standard (through April 8, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Mr. Weston, a pianist and National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master, turns 92 on Friday, when he brings his accomplished African Rhythms Quintet to Jazz Standard, along with the Chinese pipa lute player Min Xiao-Fen and a band of master Gnawa musicians from Morocco. On Saturday, he heads a 10-piece ensemble in a tribute to the military bandleader and African-American musical pioneer James Reese Europe. The run ends on Sunday, with the African Rhythms band joined by special guests Salieu Suso on kora and Cynthia Scott on vocals.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comJOHN ZORNS MASADA at Symphony Space (April 12, 8 p.m.). Mr. Zorn, a saxophonist and avant-garde pioneer, is celebrating the release of The Book Beriah, the third and final volume of his 613-song epic, Masada, based on the Torahs commandments. The Book Beriah is divided among 11 discs, each performed by a different ensemble. This concert features three bands from the new release: Zion80, playing a series of compositions titled Hod; Secret Chiefs 3, performing Malkhut; and Banquet of the Spirits, led by the percussionist Cyro Baptista, doing Yesod.212-864-5400, symphonyspace.orgGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOPOP. 1280 AND THE ART GRAY NOIZZ QUINTET at Elsewhere (April 10, 8 p.m.). Since Pop. 1280s debut album in 2012, The Horror, their brand of noise has ripened from full-frontal scum-rock mash-ups to spare synth-pop-tinged dystopian dirges that are no less intense. Speaking of noise, thats kind of Stu Spasms thing  from Lubricated Goat in the late 1980s and Crime Wave in the early aughts to his current project, the Art Gray Noizz Quintet. This elder statesman of clamor hasnt lost his touch with devilishly groovy tunes like Wont Say It and what should be everyones new favorite anthem Killed by an Idiot. This fine bill, which also includes Buck Gooter and Decor, should prove to be a potent sonic tonic for any rockers ills.elsewherebrooklyn.comDANIELLE DOWLING
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.Its bloody combat, Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. This isnt a cold war. Its a scorching hot war. And thats politically expedient for both sides.The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.Government by litigation isnt what the American people voted for, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, and attempting to thwart an administrations elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often, he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues, Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the states attorney general was simple: I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.Xavier Becerra, Californias attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. We dont wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration, he said. But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about ideological judging.The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trumps criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administrations perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitutions allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right, Professor Somin said. On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the states natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder, he said in a statement.The administrations legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said it isnt clear why the federal government claims its not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.He added, Isnt there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administrations complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. Immigration law is the province of the federal government, Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers  to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood, Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: Were not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal governments job of enforcing federal immigration law. Were in the business of public safety, not deportation.A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administrations suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that California ought to prevail on all three issues.Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.Resistance to unpopular federal laws  whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict  is permissible, they wrote, only within the bounds of federalism.The administrations lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the states laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an actual enumeration of the nations residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections, Mr. Sessions said on Monday.Californias lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally  including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The states lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws, Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said the issues in this case will benefit from further development.Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities, he wrote. But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a common core curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administrations efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administrations justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congresss role in passing immigration laws.The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the states chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.California is not the arbiter of these issues, he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.On Monday, the agency took steps to challenge Californias waiver. Though the process may take some time, it is likely to produce another clash between the Trump administration and the state that has emerged as its most determined foe.California, Mr. Becerra said, is ready to file suit.
On a recent Monday in a crowded Newark courthouse, the former Rutgers philosophy professor Anna Stubblefield admitted she touched the penis of a man with cerebral palsy who could not legally consent. In an earlier trial, which I wrote about for The Times Magazine in October 2015, Anna was convicted on two counts of raping the same victim; last summer, that verdict was overturned on appeal. Her guilty plea has now forestalled a second trial, and barring some surprise at the sentencing in early May, she will receive no further time in prison beyond the nearly 22 months she has already served. It seems that this long, complicated story has come to a demoralizing end.At the prompting of her lawyer, Anna told the judge that she had intentionally touched the victims intimate parts for the purposes of mutual sexual gratification. Her guilty plea acknowledged little that was substantive about the case: It did not stipulate, for example, that Annas adulterous affair with D.J., a nonverbal man who has been diagnosed with profound physical and mental disabilities, might have been founded on a suspect premise: that he was able to communicate by using a keyboard with her help. It did not concede that D.J. lacks the mental powers of a normal, 37-year-old adult, or that Anna could have been the unwitting author of his typed-out messages, through a sort of Ouija-board effect. It did not walk back the implication that D.J. had in some way played the part of the seducer. Rather, Anna copped only to a narrow, legalistic proposition: that she should have known that the victim had been determined to be mentally defective to the point of being incapable of providing consent.In other words, she found a way to cut her losses in the courtroom without denying D.J.s competence or admitting any doubts about the realness of their love. This was to be expected, I suppose. From my position in the gallery, reporting on the trial, it always seemed to me that Anna was entrapped by the grandiosity of her good intentions. As an academic, she devoted much of her career to social-justice activism and the philosophy of race and disability, warning in her published work that men like D.J. (who is black) were like the canarys canary in the coal mine  the most vulnerable of the vulnerable  and subject to both white supremacist and ableist oppression. In teaching D.J. how to type, using a widely disavowed method known as facilitated communication, she believed she was restoring his right of self-determination: empowering him to take college classes, present papers at conferences and eventually express his longing for the older, married, white woman who had been his savior.I sensed there was no escaping from this narrative. Spending all those hours next to D.J. at the keyboard, Anna had written both of them into a romance: the activist professor who sacrificed her family, career and eventually her freedom; and her lover, who now would be remanded to a prison cell of silence as a result of their affair, his inner life discounted and ignored. With each step she took in their relationship, it was as if she sank a little deeper into a quicksand of delusion, a kind of erotomania. If she reneged on any claims she had made about D.J.s intellect, and his capacity to give consent, she would be admitting not only to what might be criminal behavior but also to the idea that she had become a vector of white, able-bodied supremacy  that she was the boogeyman she had sworn to fight.Which is why Annas guilty plea left me discombobulated. It made sense strategically, of course, yet I had still imagined she would go to trial for a second time and renew the fight to prove that D.J. has a voice. I figured that shed never walk away, however rational it might be to do so, if that meant D.J. would be left behind. Had Anna fallen out of love with D.J., and with her role as the tragic hero in his life? I hoped she might explain, as she left the courthouse building. Do you believe that D.J. is mentally incompetent? I asked.Her eyebrows knitted for a moment, but she didnt give an answer.We have no comment, her lawyer said.It occurred to me, after she was gone, that over the four years Ive spent covering her case, this was the first time Id spoken to her directly. For my feature story in The Times, I interviewed Annas mother, father, daughter, brother, colleagues and friends. I even chatted with some people whom shed acted with in high-school plays. My inferences of her character were secondhand. (Perhaps thats why I found her guilty plea surprising.) The same was true for D.J. and his family: His mother and his brother had not agreed to speak with me on the record, in deference to the legal process and to protect D.J.s privacy.In a way, I had re-enacted Annas speaking on behalf of D.J., and something in my article seemed to bring about the same impulse  a desire to re-enact my re-enactment  in many others, too. After it was published, I watched as waves of storytellers colonized and feasted on the details of the case. I heard from dramaturges and poets; documentary filmmakers; experimental videographers; a composer who wished to stage the trial as an opera. A French film producer emailed to say that Isabelle Huppert would be perfect in the role of Anna, and that the story has everything we are looking for  love, desire, manipulation and mystery. (That proved to be a common thread: When people got in touch, theyd often tell me, The thing is, Dan, its a love story)Another round of reinterpreters would draw from Annas former colleagues in disability studies and philosophy. A rash of academic papers offered theory-laden tellings of the facts, with titles like Ableism, Ambiguity and the Anna Stubblefield Case and Ableist Shame and Disruptive Bodies. Some painted Anna as a modern-day Anne Sullivan  a protector of nonverbal people and a champion of their human rights. Others saw her as a reckless, exploitative threat to the very community she meant to help.Scholars of legal ethics, meanwhile, parsed the moral implications of her actions. If Anna really was mistaken in her belief that D.J. had given his consent, then what degree of punishment would fit the crime? In an Op-Ed article written for The Times, Peter Singer of Princeton University and Jeff McMahan of the University of Oxford argued that her original, 12-year sentence was grossly unfair because her sex with D.J. was likely well-intentioned and may not have caused much harm. If Stubblefield wronged or harmed him, they wrote, it must have been in a way that he is incapable of understanding and that affected his experience only pleasurably. Rejoinders from their fellow academics followed.Rereadings and rewritings extended to the legal process, too. An appellate court heard arguments in April 2017 and looked at all the transcripts of Annas original trial, then last summer overturned the verdict on the grounds that Anna was not given a fair chance to defend herself. That decision hinged on (but did not resolve) some subtle questions of the law: Had the trial judge been right to bar almost all references to facilitated communication from the courtroom? Was there any clear, coherent definition of that method to begin with? Might a different treatment of the evidence have yielded a better, truer set of findings?In the end, the only one who never got to give his own interpretation of the story was the person at its heart. D.J.s silence set this whirlwind into motion, sucking in proxy voices to fill the void. Even D.J.s brother and his mother, the ones who would seem to know him best, and love him more than anyone  and who are literally empowered by the state to speak on his behalf  have been sidelined in this storytelling process.We didnt want to get to a point where were in a courtroom and having to go through all this, D.J.s brother said in 2015. We didnt want [D.J.]s initials to be in the newspapers, to see these bloggers making godawful comments. He continued: We were quite content with moving on with our lives. Yet their interests have been spoken for by others all along: First by Rutgers University, which referred the case to law enforcement when the family was only seeking to be left alone; then by the Essex County prosecutors office, which arranged a sting on Anna, coaching D.J.s mother on exactly what to say to her in a recorded conversation; then by me in The Times, where I reported on the strange case more as it pertained to Anna than to the victim and his family; and now by the legal system one last time, which has been willing to accept Annas sorry-not-that-sorry plea in spite of the familys objections.Look at him, he cant consent, D.J.s mother told me when last weeks hearing ended. D.J., who was present with his brother and his brothers pregnant wife, is roughly five feet tall, and he is mostly quiet but for grunts and chirps. You call that justice? she continued. Print this in The New York Times. Tell them what the mother said: A white woman did this to my son.She didnt have to spell it out; the racial context for the plea was clear enough. If the roles had been reversed  if the victim had been a small, white woman in a diaper who could not speak or dress herself, and if the defendant had been a black man in a position of authority  would things have ended this way? I thought back to D.J.s brothers testimony from the original trial. He said that when Anna introduced the family to facilitated communication, he noticed that the folks who used this method were almost always white. (I observed this fact as well, when I visited a facilitated-communication conference in Syracuse.) He was proud, he said, that his brother was the Jackie Robinson of F.C.Later, he would suggest that Anna, in taking ownership of D.J.s voice, had tried to strip him of his black identity  to supplant a life steeped in the history and culture of his God-fearing, Southern-rooted, African-American family with some version of life she thought was better.Now D.J.s family watched as the wheels of justice were thrown into reverse. Annas original conviction has been erased; the judge who sentenced her to serve a dozen years in prison, and denounced her as the perfect example of a predator preying on their prey, was reassigned from the case; and the prosecutors office agreed to let her go with time served. (D.J.s family was awarded a $4 million judgment in a civil suit, but Anna does not appear to have the means to pay it.)On behalf of my brother, who is nonverbal, I want to say, Me, too,  D.J.s brother told me in the courthouse hallway. This was not merely touching for mutual pleasure. This was rape. She raped him two times. She did godawful things with him, and I believe the punishment is woefully inadequate. People with disabilities are at much greater risk than able-bodied people of being sexually abused, he added, and the fact that Anna should receive the gift of this plea deal was a slap in the face to that community as well.I scribbled his words into my notebook, hoping I would get them right in print. And then, as he finished up his speech, a middle-aged white woman approached and handed him her business card. She teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, and she is working on an adaptation of the story for the stage. I would like to write something about the case, she told him.He nodded, put her card into his pocket and walked away. He has no plans to follow up.

WASHINGTON  At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency, four of them high-ranking, were reassigned or demoted, or requested new jobs in the past year after they raised concerns about the spending and management of the agencys administrator, Scott Pruitt.The concerns included unusually large spending on office furniture and first-class travel, as well as certain demands by Mr. Pruitt for security coverage, such as requests for a bulletproof vehicle and an expanded 20-person protective detail, according to people who worked for or with the E.P.A. and have direct knowledge of the situation.Mr. Pruitt bristled when the officials  four career E.P.A. employees and one Trump administration political appointee  confronted him, said the people, who were not authorized to speak publicly.The political appointee, Kevin Chmielewski, was placed on administrative leave without pay, according to two of the people with knowledge of the situation. Mr. Chmielewski was among the first employees of Donald J. Trumps presidential campaign, serving as a senior advance official. The two people, who are administration officials, said that Mr. Chmielewski flagged some of his concerns about Mr. Pruitt directly to the White Houses presidential personnel office.Two of the career officials, Reginald E. Allen and Eric Weese, were moved to jobs where they had less say in spending decisions and less interaction with Mr. Pruitt, the people said. A third career official, John E. Reeder, joined American University as a temporary executive in residence after being told by the E.P.A. to find a new job. And John C. Martin, who served on the security detail, was also removed from the team and had his gun and badge taken away after raising concerns about how Mr. Pruitts security was being handled.A sixth official, Mr. Pruitts chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, also raised questions about Mr. Pruitts spending, according to three E.P.A. officials. He remains in his job but is considering resigning, agency officials said. Mr. Jackson came to the agency from the office of Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, who like Mr. Pruitt had been a major critic of regulatory moves made under President Barack Obama, and is a prominent climate change skeptic.Approval was required by the staff officials for certain of Mr. Pruitts expenditures, and Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski, Mr. Jackson and Mr. Reeder at various points each voiced concerns to Mr. Pruitt directly about his spending, according to the two administration officials.Neither Mr. Jackson nor any of the five officials who left or were removed after questioning Mr. Pruitt would comment when contacted by The New York Times. Before their reassignments or removals, Mr. Weese was the head of Mr. Pruitts protective detail, and Mr. Reeder, Mr. Allen and Mr. Chmielewski each served as deputy chief of staff.The White House declined to comment on Thursday, referring questions to the E.P.A., though President Trump, as he boarded Air Force One, said he had confidence in Mr. Pruitt.And in speaking to reporters on the plane, he described Mr. Pruitt as very courageous, while suggesting he was reviewing the complaints about him. Ill make that determination, Mr. Trump said. But hes a good man, hes done a terrific job. But Ill take a look at it.The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the reassignments were related to objections to spending and other management issues. We dispute the veracity of the accusations, said Jahan Wilcox, a spokesman for the agency.The staff tumult comes to light as Mr. Pruitts stewardship of the agency is under  mounting scrutiny. He is the subject of an investigation by the E.P.A.s inspector general, who is examining some of the spending and security issues. The White House confirmed on Wednesday that it was conducting its own examination.Several current and former E.P.A. employees said morale at the agency had suffered as they watched the friction play out between Mr. Pruitt and the officials. Christopher Zarba, a career E.P.A. employee who retired in February after leading the agencys scientific advisory boards, said it was well known in the office that Mr. Allen had been sidelined for challenging Mr. Pruitt.Brilliant, a natural leader, an off-the-charts-talented guy, Mr. Zarba said of Mr. Allen. He had to push back on Pruitt on some of the trip and office modification expenses to keep everything legal, and we speculated he might have been removed for that reason.A senior political appointee, who came to the agency with the Trump administration and works on policy issues, offered a defense of Mr. Chmielewski: Kevin is one of the most upstanding public servants and nicest all-around people. Just because he stood up to what was clearly a bad idea, they are trying to sabotage the poor guys reputation.Mr. Pruitt declined to be interviewed for this article, but he has spoken with conservative media organizations. In those interviews, he has cried foul about a flurry of media reports about his regular first-class travel, his use of an obscure administrative provision to increase the salaries of two favored aides (over White House objections) and his below-market rental agreement for accommodations in Washington with the wife of an energy lobbyist whose clients won favorable treatment from the E.P.A.The disclosures, he has suggested, were the handiwork of critics who were resorting to personal attacks to derail the deregulatory agenda being pursued by his agency and the Trump administration. Since taking the administrators job in February 2017, Mr. Pruitt has advanced one of the administrations most aggressive regulatory rollbacks, including regulations intended to tighten rules related to coal-burning power plants, oil and gas drilling, auto and truck air emissions, and pesticides.Yet the revelations about his staff turnover, which have not been previously reported, demonstrate that concerns about his spending and leadership resonated within his own team well before they became the subject of media reports and investigations by the E.P.A. inspector general and the White House.Agency records obtained through open-records requests show the critical role that Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski and Mr. Reeder played in reviewing Mr. Pruitts travel plans. In some instances, several agency officials said, pushback by the officials prevailed.For instance, in a conversation with one of Mr. Pruitts closest aides, Mr. Chmielewski sharply objected to a proposal to buy a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership that would have allowed Mr. Pruitt to take unlimited private jet trips for official business, according to two administration officials. The membership was not purchased.Mr. Chmielewski also objected to a proposal to spend about $70,000 to replace two desks in Mr. Pruitts office suite, including his personal desk and one at a security station outside his office. Asked about the proposed desk purchases, Mr. Wilcox, the E.P.A. spokesman, said that the administrator never considered the proposal. Pasquale Perrotta, who became head of Mr. Pruitts security detail after Mr. Weese was removed, insisted that the security desk be upgraded to a bulletproof model, according to current and former E.P.A. employees with direct knowledge of the discussions.The bulletproof security desk was not purchased, but two new desks were ordered for Mr. Pruitts personal office: a brown maple wood stand-up desk, with brass locks, that was purchased from a craftsman and an oversize desk with ornate woodworking that had been in a federal government warehouse in Virginia and was refurbished for Mr. Pruitt at a cost of $2,075. E.P.A. employees gawked at the size and grandeur of Mr. Pruitts refurbished desk, with some comparing it to the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office, officials said in interviews.Still, Mr. Pruitt and his team obtained many of the perks he wanted. Staff members questioned, but nonetheless approved, frequent trips that routed Mr. Pruitt through hub airports that allowed him to spend weekends at his home in Oklahoma. The administrator also had charter flights approved after they were already taken, the public records show.This memorandum responds to your request for written approval for the Administrator and three EPA employees to use a charter service to fly from Denver to Durango, CO on August 4, 2017, read a memo written in late August, after the trip was completed. The approval covered a charter flight to tour the Gold King Mine near Silverton, Colo., after Mr. Pruitts commercial flight to Denver was delayed. This 40-minute flight cost $5,719, the records show.Other memos released through the open-records law show that Mr. Allen handled requests for renovations to Mr. Pruitts office. I spoke to Gayle and we can proceed as it is not part of the $5,000, read an email to Mr. Allen in April 2017, as staff members were being pressed to find a way to spend more on office renovations than was allowed under federal guidelines. In this case, the expenditure involved a biometric lock and was not counted against Mr. Pruitts furniture budget. Approved, Mr. Allen wrote back.The documents do not reflect the behind-the-scenes friction between Mr. Pruitt and the senior officials, but several agency staff members said in interviews that they avoided putting objections into writing because they suspected there would ultimately be an investigation into the matters.Mr. Weese, the security official, questioned Mr. Pruitts desire to use flashing lights and sirens in his motorcade  a perk more commonly associated with the presidency  according to three of the people who worked with or for the E.P.A.Mr. Pruitt, who often ran late, wanted to use the lights and sirens to expedite local trips in Washington to the airport or to dinner, including at least one trip to Le Diplomate, a trendy French restaurant that he frequented. Such use was not consistent with agency policy, but Mr. Weese was unsuccessful in stopping it.The agency said Mr. Pruitt played no role in deciding when the sirens and lights would be used. The security detail for the past 15 years has used them in very limited fashion, Mr. Wilcox said.Mr. Weese was also reluctant to sign off on requests for Mr. Pruitt to travel in first class based on security concerns. Mr. Allen, Mr. Chmielewski and Mr. Reeder, too, questioned the use of taxpayer money to pay for first-class airfare. Only after Mr. Weese was replaced by Mr. Perrotta did Mr. Pruitt regularly fly first class, agency staff members said.There were also questions raised about a request that Mr. Pruitt be issued a bulletproof sport utility vehicle with so-called run flat tires, which keep a vehicle moving even when sustaining gunfire. And they challenged Mr. Pruitts expanded security detail of approximately 20 members, three times the size of his predecessors. Unlike his most recent counterpart under Mr. Obama, Gina McCarthy, Mr. Pruitt has security officials follow him wherever he travels, and also stay on duty overnight.He wanted to be treated like he was the president, said David Schnare, a prominent conservative lawyer and climate change skeptic, who served on the Trump administration transition team at the E.P.A., after an earlier 30-year stint at the agency that started in the late 1970s.Mr. Wilcox, the agency spokesman, said the larger security team was justified, given threats against Mr. Pruitt. They run the variety of direct death threats  Im going to put a bullet in your brain  to implied threats  If you dont classify this particular chemical in this particular way, Im going to hurt you.There was a particularly intense dispute over a request to construct a special security booth in Mr. Pruitts office so he could have confidential conversations without being overheard by career agency employees, according to interviews and public documents first reported by The Washington Post.Mr. Chmielewski suggested converting a broom closet at a cost of about $10,000, one person who worked with the agency said. But Mr. Perrotta wanted a special chamber with sound-dampening privacy products and ceiling baffles that would prevent anyone from intercepting voice or data transmissions. The documents show that the final cost of the new chamber was close to $43,000.Mr. Perrotta also remains an executive at a private security firm, Sequoia Security Group, which separately received a contract from the E.P.A. to conduct a security sweep of Mr. Pruitts office, a deal that is now the subject of an investigation by the agencys inspector general. He did not respond to a request for comment.The various challenges to Mr. Pruitts spending and security priorities did not sit well with him, according to the people who worked with or for the E.P.A., and soon the offending aides were removed.Mr. Allen, a decorated 30-year retired Army officer, was transferred to a different office within the E.P.A., where he mostly works alone, according to two agency officials, one of whom described the setup as an unmarked grave.Mr. Weese was transferred from the security detail to a more general position in the agencys criminal investigation division.Mr. Reeder remains an employee of the E.P.A. while on temporary leave to work at American University. He has been a senior executive at the agency since early in George W. Bushs presidency, but left for American University after many of his responsibilities were taken away from him.Mr. Martin, who served on Mr. Pruitts security detail, raised concerns about Mr. Perrotta and matters related to Mr. Pruitts security arrangements, such as the soundproof booth. He was then told he could no longer be part of the security detail, which he had been a part-time member of for more than a decade, according to two people with knowledge of the events. Mr. Martin became the target of an inquiry by the agencys inspector general, which ultimately cleared him of wrongdoing, according to documents reviewed by The Times.The removal of Mr. Chmielewski, the former Trump campaign official, proved more complicated.As a presidential appointee, Mr. Chmielewski was classified as a member of the senior executive service pay system, and remained in close contact with top aides to both Mr. Trump and Vice President Pence.Even while at the E.P.A., Mr. Chmielewski helped facilitate trips for Mr. Pence and sometimes traveled with him. And he had a personal connection with Mr. Trump, who had called him to the podium during a campaign rally in April 2016 in Maryland, where Mr. Chmielewski grew up.Where the hell is Kevin? Mr. Trump said at the  event. Hes a star. Where is Kevin? Get Kevin up here.Some internal agency memos detailing Mr. Pruitts travel plans list Mr. Chmielewski as the coordinator, and as the senior political appointee, he had to ensure that they were properly authorized. Privately, he urged Mr. Pruitt to rein in his spending, initially in person, and then through intermediaries when he got frozen out, according to the two administration officials.When Mr. Chmielewski returned from a trip to Asia with Mr. Pence in February, he was asked to resign and turn in his credentials. Mr. Pruitts aides informed the White House that they were dissatisfied with Mr. Chmielewskis unresponsiveness during his travels, including a time when he could not be reached in Hawaii, where he was preparing for a visit by Mr. Pence.An anonymous complaint filed with the E.P.A.s inspector general alleged that Mr. Chmielewski could not get the appropriate level of security clearance for his duties because of various indiscretions. After a brief investigation, the inspector general dismissed all the allegations in the complaint as unfounded, according to documents reviewed by The Times.Mr. Chmielewski told associates that he believed the complaints were an effort by Mr. Perrotta and others to discredit him.Separately, Mr. Chmielewski has been the subject of allegations that he was the source of leaks about Mr. Pruitt, and also that he was staying free in the same Capitol Hill home where Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trumps first campaign manager, lives. Someone familiar with the arrangement acknowledged that Mr. Chmielewski, a longtime friend of Mr. Lewandowski, had slept at the home, but said it was only one night and on a couch.The crescendo of criticism of Mr. Pruitt has rallied his defenders, including the Tea Party Patriots and the Heritage Foundation, who in recent days have blasted out endorsements of his management of the agency on social media and in opinion columns. It has also empowered his critics, even from within his own Republican Party.William K. Reilly, who led the E.P.A. under President George Bush, called Mr. Pruitt a third-rate ideologue and said he was aware of staff members who had been sidelined at the agency for raising questions about Mr. Pruitts spending.I think hes well beyond his sell-by date, Mr. Reilly said. Any administration but this one would have discharged him long ago.

