WASHINGTON  White House officials moved quickly on Wednesday to calm fears of a potential trade war with China, saying the administrations proposed tariffs were a threat that would ultimately help, not hurt, the United States economy, hours after China said it would punish American products with similar levies.The administrations insistence that a trade war was not imminent came as the United States and China traded tit-for-tat penalties that caused wild swings in stock markets from Hong Kong to New York. Led by more audacious leaders than either country has had in decades, China and the United States are now locked in a perilous game of chicken, with the possibility to derail the global economic recovery, disrupt international supply chains and destabilize the huge yet debt-laden Chinese economy.White House officials reiterated on Wednesday that China must stop the unfair trading practices President Trump believes have disadvantaged American companies and workers, but they held out the possibility that tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods outlined on Tuesday might never go into effect.Theres no trade war here, Larry Kudlow, Mr. Trumps new top economic adviser, said in an interview on Fox Business Network. He described the threat of tariffs as just the first proposal in a process that would involve negotiations and back-channel talks. I understand the stock markets anxiety, he said. But on the other hand, dont overreact.Behind the scenes, however, top officials remained split over the administrations approach as the United States and China move into a period of high-stakes negotiations. That includes how far to go in punishing China and the types of concessions the White House should accept to avoid a protracted and damaging trade war.People familiar with the negotiations say Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, have at times argued for more dialogue with the Chinese and quicker concessions that would help diminish the trade deficit  the gap between what China ships to the United States and what America ships in the other direction. Other top trade advisers, including longtime China critics like Robert Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, have taken a tougher stance, arguing that these changes would do little to address the mercantilist and protectionist trade policies China has adopted for decades.Mr. Trumps advisers said the president remains resolute and views the pugilistic approach as the only way to force China to end two decades of industrial policies that have hollowed out American manufacturing and resulted in a ballooning trade deficit.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump suggested in a tweet that he saw no reason to back down, since the United States was already on the losing end of trade with China.We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S., he wrote. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!He added in another tweet, When youre already $500 Billion DOWN, you cant lose!It remains unclear whether China will bend to the pressure and make significant changes to its economy  or whether the White House strategy will instead tip the two nations into a trade war that could harm both countries. Producers of American goods like soybeans, pork, automobiles and semiconductors depend on access to the Chinese market both for exports and production and say they are fearful about a conflict.Companies are definitely caught in the middle of this, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai.Economists predict that the direct effects of the tariffs will be relatively small for both China and the United States, since they apply to only a fraction of each countrys economic output.Its hardly a life-threatening activity, Mr. Ross said in an interview on CNBC. He added that the volume of the tariffs was in line with the White Houses calculation that the Chinese have cheated the United States out of $50 billion worth of intellectual property through coercion and cyberattacks.While tariffs would affect a small part of the overall United States economy, they impinge on a relatively large share of American exports to China. If China places tariffs on $50 billion of goods from the United States, as promised, that would be more than one-third of American exports to China. In contrast, American tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese goods would affect only one-tenth of Chinas vast exports to the United States.Within that slice of the economy, the pain could be acute. American farmers and manufacturers, in particular, could suffer. On Wednesday, China said it would penalize American soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods, hours after the United States announced tariffs on flat-screen televisions, medical devices and industrial machinery.The economic effects could also quickly escalate beyond tariffs. The United States is preparing  restrictions that could prevent China from investing in high-tech industries like semiconductors and electric vehicles, and it may consider other restrictions, including visas.China, in return, could make life more difficult for the many American companies that do business in the country, or pare back its purchases of United States debt. China is the largest foreign holder of American debt, holding about $1.17 trillion in United States bonds, notes and bills in January, according to the Treasury Department.China has many ways it can make life exceedingly uncomfortable for a large number of American businesses, both those that are hoping for access to Chinas fast-expanding market, and those that use China as an important part of their supply chains, said Eswar Prasad, a professor of international trade at Cornell University.The Trump administration contends that if it does not challenge Beijing now, the Chinese government will heavily subsidize its companies to become dominant producers of cutting-edge industries from robotics to electric cars. That could imperil the United States ability to create good-paying jobs for future generations, relegating the country to producing food, fossil fuels and financial services, while China extends its lead as the worlds largest manufacturer.But the administrations strategy for halting Chinas rise has been hard to discern, with some advisers insisting that China must remake its economy, while others say the priority is to reduce the trade deficit, prioritize market access for American companies or end Chinas infringement on American intellectual property. Some top officials have indicated the tariffs may never be implemented.On Wednesday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, refused to say whether the tariffs would ultimately go into effect, adding, I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they dont stop the unfair trade practices, then we would move forward.Companies have until May 22 to submit comments to the administration about the tariffs, with the penalties to be imposed at an undetermined date. Separate tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from China and other nations went into effect late last month.In the meantime, American officials including Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Lighthizer have been in talks with the Chinese about ways to resolve their differences. Yet conversations have so far focused on concessions like China reducing tariffs on American cars, opening up its market for financial services and purchasing more semiconductors or natural gas  minor wins that are unlikely to satisfy Mr. Navarro and Mr. Lighthizer, who are pushing for significant and sweeping changes to Chinas market, according to people familiar with the negotiations.The United States has also asked for a $100 billion reduction in the $375.2 billion trade deficit it runs with China. But the goods China has offered to buy to narrow that gap  including semiconductors  are not products the Trump administration wants to export. And some advisers say these kind of sales will not do anything to address the underlying problems with the Chinese economy.China experts say an inconsistent message and approach could undermine Americas ability to successfully negotiate.Were all over the map, said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. The Chinese are trying to take advantage of this lack of consensus and get the United States to take a quick deal that leaves Chinas industrial policy machine intact.Beijing is also eager to show other trading partners that it will not be bullied into changing its policies.Im not very positive about large concessions or changes that are going to come from China, said Heiwai Tang, an assistant professor of international economics at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Chinas current government is more assertive than recent ones, he said, and the country is heavily dependent on technology transfers from advanced economies as it tries to transform its own.For the Chinese to successfully negotiate, analysts said, they have to be able to present the deal to their own people as a win. But the United States has refused to give concessions and has painted the confrontation as one in which China must ultimately lose.Tariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating, Mr. Prasad said.On Wednesday, Cui Tiankai, the Chinese ambassador to the United States, said China preferred to resolve the conflict through talks but would keep its options open.Negotiation would still be our preference, but it takes two to tango, Mr. Cui said. We will see what the U.S. will do.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump denied on Wednesday that the United States was in a trade war with China, hours after Beijing slapped tariffs on a list of U.S. imports in retaliation for similar duties levied by the White House one day earlier."We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S.," Trump wrote in a post on Twitter.(Corrects typing error in headline)(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Australias pokie problem, uproar in Big Tech and relaxed snow monkeys. Heres what you need to know: Anger that YouTube was blocking her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself with the same handgun.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad swaths of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced. Stocks plunged in early U.S. trading, but recovered._____ Big uproar in Big Tech.Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes.Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailers stock. We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms.And Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, will testify before Congress next week on the companys handling of sensitive user data. (Facebook raised its estimate of how many peoples data was improperly used by a consulting firm tied to President Trump, to as many as 87 million.)_____ Australians lose more money gambling, per capita, than any other people in the world. Its not even close.The average Australian adult loses around $900 each year  about 50 percent more than second-placed Singaporeans, and more than double the rate of Americans.Electronic gambling machines known as pokies contribute to an extraordinary degree: a gargantuan 24 billion Australian dollars, or about $18.4 billion, each year.And war is brewing between venue operators and anti-gambling factions. Each is trying to woo state governments, which could regulate the machines but which rely on revenue from them._____ Japans famed snow monkeys are a photogenic wonder.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.) On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Production hell. Tesla and its chief executive, Elon Musk, are learning what the rest of the car industry already knows: Producing a quarter of a million cars a year is daunting. Grindr, the gay-dating app, has prompted an uproar for sharing users H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal information with outside companies. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Exchanges in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said that the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home quickly. [The New York Times] The presidents of Turkey, Russia and Iran met in Ankara to discuss Syrias future. The Iranian leader called for the U.S. to withdraw. [Al Monitor] The Australian Taxation Office, joined by federal police officers, raided the home of a tax office employee who had been acting as a whistle-blower for an investigative report by Four Corners and Fairfax on abuses by his agency. [ABC] I wont be challenging the sanctions. The former captain Steve Smith accepted the 12-month playing ban issued by Cricket Australia for his role in the national teams brazen ball-tampering scandal. [The Guardian] Brazils highest court is expected to decide within hours whether a former president, Luiz Incio Lula da Silva, should be jailed while he appeals his corruption conviction. Jailing him would end his front-runner bid to return to office. [The New York Times] Where is Googoosha? Uzbekistan adores its late dictator, Islam Karimov, but is trying hard to forget his daughter, once the countrys most famous person. [The New York Times] An American football player may have thwarted a school shooting. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. In memoriam: William Prochnau, 80, a journalist and author of Once Upon a Distant War, about the group of reporters whose early warnings that the U.S. wasnt winning in Vietnam went unheeded, but who felt the wrath of every power structure they confronted  the White House, the Pentagon, the South Vietnamese government, the old guard of the press itself, even their own bosses. In Hong Kong, ever tinier apartments are making laundromats the hot new place to hang out.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.The dance studio chain that bears his name now has 260 studios in 22 countries.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames their partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Farmers across Californias agriculture industry are worried over the escalating trade conflict between the United States and China, with steep new tariffs specifically targeting some of the states most lucrative exports.The Chinese finance ministry announced over the weekend that it would impose tariffs on more than 100 American products, including many of Californias staples like wine and pistachios, in retaliation against tariffs imposed on steel and aluminum by President Trump.We have heard a lot of concerns from our wine grape growers and our pistachio and almond growers. Those markets are definitely going to take the largest hit, Sara Neagu-Reed, of the California Farm Bureau Federation, said. Putting us in the middle of this issue is just not fair for our farmers.That could mean trouble for the states farmers in the Central Valley and elsewhere. China is Californias third most valuable destination for agriculture products, according to the California Farm Bureau Federation, just behind the European Union and Canada. The states exports to China totaled more than $2 billion in 2016. Three products alone, all facing tariffs, accounted for most of those exports: $530 million in pistachios, $518 million in almonds and $161 million in wine.The tariffs add another layer of uncertainty for growers in California, and in particular those in the wine industry, which already faces growing production costs. The full impact of the tariffs is not yet clear, but experts are warning of significant decreases in exports of those products. Fluctuating prices in steel could also affect the price of farm equipment.John Aguirre, the president of the California Association of Winegrape Growers, said that the trade war with China threatened to derail long-running efforts by winemakers to expand into the Chinese market. That could carry repercussions well into the future.We not only face the prospect of short term harm to wine grape prices, but really missing out on the longer term opportunity, he said. Once you lose market share, other countries have filled that void and its very difficult to reclaim lost ground.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) A woman opened fire at YouTubes headquarters in California, shooting three people before killing herself. [The New York Times] As Mr. Trump leads a war on California, who will be Gov. Jerry Browns successor? [The New York Times] Cabernet isnt the most obvious pawn in a trade war between the United States and China  but for California, its a highly personal one. [The New York Times] A federal judge on Tuesday threatened to prohibit cities in Orange County from enforcing anti-camping laws  which target homeless people  if the county cannot find a solution to its homeless stalemate. [The Los Angeles Times] Amid continued outrage over Stephon Clarks death, a bill introduced in the State Assembly would significantly restrict when officers can use deadly force. [The Associated Press] Speakers at a Sacramento City Council meeting Tuesday gave passionate testimony about the black communitys grief after Mr. Clarks shooting. [The Sacramento Bee] Governor Brown has ordered state agencies to track harassment and discrimination complaints. [The Associated Press] San Francisco has joined a lawsuit against the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about U.S. citizenship to the 2020 census. [The San Francisco Chronicle] Republicans are eager to seize the backlash against so-called sanctuary laws in conservative pockets of SoCal. [Politico] Travis Allen, the Republican candidate for governor, floated the idea of building state-run institutions to hold the homeless. [The Sacramento Bee] The frantic effort to locate a teenage boy after he fell into sewage pipes in Los Angeles spanned 6,400 feet of pipe. This young man rose like Jesus, said Bryant Jones, a city sanitation manager. [The Los Angeles Times] Los Angeless Lincoln Heights neighborhood is a prime target for investors, but it is squeezing out residents who have lived in the community for decades. [The Los Angeles Times] A spring storm is expected to hit California later this week, potentially showering the Bay Area and Sacramento. [The San Francisco Chronicle] For legal pot shops, paying taxes can be both time consuming and dangerous. [The Sacramento Bee] The push for universal health care in California has pitted pragmatists against idealists. [Politico] Colleges in California are dealing with a growing number of homeless students. [CalMatters]Hundreds of Angelenos gathered Saturday at the Kenneth Hahn Park in Los Angeles to commemorate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whose contributions to American life are being remembered today across the country on the 50th anniversary of his assassination.Community members marched to the highest point of park, where a tree grove has been dedicated in Dr. Kings honor. They played music, banged on drums and waved portraits of Dr. King as they walked in procession.The ribbon cutting ceremony officially opened the space. The event featured remarks by the Rev. James Lawson Jr., one of Dr. Kings peers during the civil rights movement, and other L.A. community leaders instrumental in finishing the project. This is our way of paying tribute to Americas most prominent drum major for peace, Mark Ridley-Thomas, a Los Angeles County supervisor, told CBS News.A stone obelisk bearing Dr. Kings likeness marks the spot. Inscribed on the statue are excerpts from Dr. Kings I Have A Dream address: I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
NEW YORK   It took China just 11 hours to retaliate against the United States for proposing tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese products, but Chinese officials are holding back on taking aim at their largest American import: government debt.In a tit-for-tat response to the Trump administration\'s plan for 25 percent duties on $50 billion of Chinese imports, China hit back with its own list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals. But officials signaled no interest for now in bringing their vast holdings of U.S. Treasuries to the fight.China held around $1.17 trillion of Treasuries as of the end of January, making it the largest of America\'s foreign creditors and the No. 2 overall owner of U.S. government bonds after the Federal Reserve. Any move by China to chop its Treasury portfolio could inflict significant harm on U.S. finances and global investors, driving bond yields higher and making it more costly to finance the federal government.(Graphic: Top U.S. trade partners & foreign holders of Treasuries - http://reut.rs/2CUqQB0)Jeffrey Gundlach, the chief executive of DoubleLine Capital LP, said China can use its Treasury holdings as leverage, but only if they keep holding them."It is more effective as a threat. If they sell, they have no threat," said Gundlach, known as Wall Street\'s Bond King."It would only escalate the situation and eliminate their leverage."Prices on benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury notes slipped on Wednesday, giving back earlier gains on the trade news. Their yield edged up to about 2.81 percent Wednesday afternoon.China\'s Treasury holdings have dipped in recent months, declining by about $30 billion from $1.20 trillion last August, and they are down about 11 percent from their record high above $1.3 trillion in late 2013, according to U.S government data. In all, foreign governments own $4 trillion, or more than a quarter, of the $14.7 trillion in Treasury securities outstanding.Asked by a reporter on Wednesday if China would reduce its U.S. Treasury holdings in retaliation, Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao reiterated China\'s long-standing policy regarding its foreign exchange reserves, saying it is a responsible investor and that it will safeguard their value.China\'s foreign exchange reserves, the world\'s largest, stood at about $3.13 trillion at the end of February, with roughly a third of it held in Treasuries."If they wanted to pull the nuclear switch, if they committed to dumping Treasuries, it would have an immediate and temporary impact on money markets in the United States," said Jeff Klingelhofer, a portfolio manager who oversees more than $6 billion at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. "But I think it is a bigger hit to the sustainability of what they\'re trying to accomplish."Brad Setser, senior fellow for international economicsat the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said China can sell Treasuries and buy lower-yielding European or Japanese debt.But the effect would likely be to strengthen the yuan against the dollar, weakening the relative desirability of its exports, analysts said. The sale could also tank the value of the Treasuries China retains, with nothing to show for the aggression.More likely, if China wanted to turn up the heat it would let the yuan depreciate against the U.S. dollar, according to CFR\'s Setser, a move that could kneecap the Trump administration\'s goal of jump-starting U.S. manufacturing. The yuan weakened by about 0.25 percent on Wednesday but remains near its strongest in two and a half years.Even if the likelihood of a change in Chinese policy regarding its Treasuries portfolio remains low, investors are sensitive to the risk any big shift would pose to world financial markets, where Treasuries are a global benchmark asset.A January report that China might halt its purchases of Treasuries forced yields higher, but China disputed the news and said it was only diversifying its foreign exchange reserves to safeguard their value.(Reporting by Kate Duguid and Trevor Hunnicutt; Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Dan Burns and James Dalgleish)
BEIJING   China will struggle to replace U.S. soybean supplies after implementing an additional 25 percent tariff on American shipments, likely inflicting severe financial pain on domestic companies, analysts and executives at feedmakers said.The world\'s top importer of the oilseed will impose the tariffs on soybeans and 105 other U.S. products, state broadcaster CCTV said on Wednesday, an expected retaliation following Washington\'s aggressive trade actions.Soybeans are considered one of the most powerful weapons in Beijing\'s trade arsenal because a drop in exports to China would hurt Iowa and other farm states that backed U.S. President Donald Trump. Soybeans were the biggest U.S. agricultural export to China last year at a value of $12 billion.China gobbles up about 60 percent of globally traded soybeans to feed the world\'s largest livestock industry.     Factories crush the oilseed to make meal - a key ingredient in animal feed."There simply aren\'t enough soybeans in the world outside of the U.S. to meet China\'s needs," said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics."As for reducing dependence on imports, there are a few options, but none is a magic bullet that could hurt U.S. farmers without generating costs at home."Brazil supplied half of China\'s imports last year while the United States shipped around 33 million tonnes, about a third of the total. Replacing those U.S. tonnes will be no easy feat.Crops in Argentina, the world\'s No. 3 producer, have been hit by a drought, cutting exports from there to less than 7 million tonnes in the 2017/18 season, its smallest in a decade, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.Outside of Brazil, the United States and Argentina, about 17 million tonnes of soybeans comes from a handful of countries.China grows only about 14 million tonnes of soybeans, mainly to make food for human consumption.OPTIONS AT HOMEThere are options at home, including tapping the government\'s emergency strategic reserves and rejigging the ingredients that go into feed, analysts, experts, traders and buyers at feed mills say."Some people say they could just drain their state reserves. That\'s a possibility, (but) nobody knows how many tonnes are in it," said U.S. Soybean Export Council Asia Director Paul Burke.Some feedmakers are quietly drawing up contingency plans, such as finding substitute ingredients.Feed mills could add more corn, a grain in abundance at home, distillers\' dried grains (DDGS), a byproduct of ethanol production, or rapeseed and cottonseed meal to their feed.But maintaining protein levels is complicated. The maximum amount of DDGS in feed is around 20 percent, and toxic ingredients found in rapeseed mean it can only make up 5 percent of pig feed, and it usually isn\'t put in sow or piglet food.Mills also worry that additional demand and tighter supplies will drive up their overheads, inflating prices of pork, a staple in Chinese diets, and increasing people\'s cost of living.China already has stiff tariffs on DDGS imports, and is investigating U.S. sorghum imports for possible antidumping penalties.The threat of action has pushed Brazilian export prices to all-time highs and fueled gains in domestic soybean and soymeal futures prices."I don\'t want China to escalate the trade tension," said a feedmaker\'s purchasing manager, worried about higher prices and a lack of alternative feed sources with comparable protein content to soymeal."Sales from Brazil would normally end around September and it\'s usually U.S. beans between October to March. Where do we get beans from during that time if we only buy from Brazil?"(Reporting by Hallie Gu, Josephine Mason and Dominique Patton; Editing by Tom Hogue)

SEOUL, South Korea   Asian stock markets recouped the previous day\'s losses to trade higher on Thursday as earlier fears of trade conflicts between the world\'s two largest economies dissipated on signs of dialogue.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s Nikkei 225 surged 1.6 percent to 21,667.83 and South Korea\'s Kospi jumped 1.5 percent to 2,442.40. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 0.7 percent to 5,803.50. Stocks in Singapore surged and markets in other Southeast Asian countries were also higher. Markets in mainland China and Hong Kong were closed for holidays.TRADE TALK: The fears of trade conflicts that had escalated with China\'s tariff plans on some U.S. products in response to the similar moves by the United States turned into the hope of trade talks. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, suggested the U.S. tariffs won\'t be implemented if China lowers barriers to trade.ANALYST\'S TAKE: "With the expectation for talks to now take over, it does look like we have a long drawn out process ahead of us. The fact that markets have picked up so quickly also suggests that investors are becoming more desensitized to any threats that can be dismissed as negotiation tactics," said Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at IG in Singapore.WALL STREET: U.S. stock markets finished higher on Wednesday after a sharp plunge in the previous session. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 1 percent to 24,264.30. The S&P 500 index climbed 1.2 percent to 2,644.69. The Nasdaq composite rose 1.5 percent to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 1.3 percent to 1,531.66.OIL: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 29 cents to $63.66 per barrel in New York. The contract dipped 14 cents to finish at $63.37 a barrel on Wednesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, gained 31 cents to $68.33 per barrel in London. It fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel on Wednesday.CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 106.98 yen from 106.78 yen. The euro was flat at $1.228.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. It looks a lot like a trade war.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China announced its own tariffs on $50 billion worth of American goods.Chinas list focused on agricultural products that come from the Republican-dominated farm belt, where lawmakers might be expected to have some influence with President Trump. Above, harvesting soybeans in Illinois.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic, and markets rose after an erratic day.____2. The White House said that the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State  just a day after President Trump said its time to bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home.Mr. Trumps own national security team is in flux, and Pentagon officials argued strenuously against a pullout. They pointed to the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq after President Obama withdrew  a precedent they said laid the groundwork for the militant organization to flourish.____3. President Trump will sign a proclamation directing federal officials to work with governors to deploy National Guard troops to the southwest border.That decision started earlier this week with a Fox News report about a caravan of Central American migrants moving north through Mexico, above. On todays episode of The Daily, we look at how Mr. Trumps approach to immigration transformed over 72 hours.____4. Facebook said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm connected to President Trumps 2016 campaign. That figure is far higher than a previously reported estimate.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, above, will testify before Congress next week on its handling of sensitive user data.And at Google, thousands of employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes.____5. Anger that YouTube was blocking her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself with the same handgun.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, above, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content.____6. It has to be perfect. We sat in as students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., above, put together their yearbook  and grappled with how to tell the story of the mass shooting that took the lives of 17 people.And the Patriots star Julian Edelman may have thwarted a school shooting by reporting a threat, left by a 14-year-old, in a comment on one of Edelmans Instagram posts.____7. Thousands of people gathered in Memphis to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.In a Times Op-Ed, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, once an aide to Dr. King, reflects on his legacy:We owe it to Dr. King  and to our children and grandchildren  to commemorate the man in full: a radical, ecumenical, antiwar, pro-immigrant and scholarly champion of the poor who spent much more time marching and going to jail for liberation and justice than he ever spent dreaming about it.For complete coverage of the 50th anniversary of Dr. Kings assassination, including original essays and photos from our archive, click here.____8. Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate.Scientists who study the changes in plants and animals triggered by seasons have a term for this: phenological mismatch. And theyre still trying to understand exactly how it works and what the consequences might be.Here are five mismatches theyve discovered so far, including one that means the calves of caribou in western Greenland, above, are dying at higher rates.____9. Theres a new niche in the $100 billion tutoring industry: homework therapists.They mix the roles of traditional tutor and straight-up therapist, in person or online. Some New York City parents are doling out hundreds of dollars for the academic help and emotional support for their children.Meanwhile, thousands of teachers in multiple states are striking to protest cuts in pay and benefits and school funding. Inspired by circulating photos of crumbling textbooks in Oklahoma schools, our Reader Center is asking public school teachers about conditions in their classrooms.____10. Finally, whats on TV? Reboots.Trading Spaces returns Saturday on TLC after a decade-long hiatus, and Jersey Shore Family Vacation begins Thursday on MTV.These shows return with casts largely intact, and conceit and ideology trapped in amber, too, our critic writes. But both of them are also experiments to see whether the structures of a more nave time can hold up when filled with a more self-aware participant.Speaking of self-awareness, the late-night hosts took aim at President Trumps broadsides against Amazon. This is when I appreciate Twitter, Seth Meyers said. It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
(Reuters) - Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China may dent production of German luxury SUVs made in the U.S. South and sent to China, with exports from electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and Ford Motor Co also vulnerable.If a tit-for-tat tariff dispute between the two countries erupts into a full-blown trade war, auto production in both will be affected, but U.S. factories would feel the strongest effect because China imports nearly 270,000 U.S. vehicles, worth $11 billion, and sends relatively few back.Tesla\'s California plant, which ships an estimated 15,000 cars a year to China, as well as BMW\'s South Carolina facility and Daimler AG\'s Alabama factory, could lose hundreds of millions of dollars\' worth of production if China goes ahead with its threat to double import tariffs. All three export high-margin luxury models, many of them sport utility vehicles, to China.Ford\'s problem is twofold, involving both imports of premium Lincoln vehicles to China and a plan to export low-cost Focus compacts from China to the United States.General Motors Co\'s exposure is limited because it imports only 30,000 Buick Envision crossovers a year from China, while sending just a handful of vehicles back.Shares of automakers ended higher on Wednesday as Wall Street stocks changed course in the afternoon when investors\' trade fears subsided. [.N] Tesla shares closed 7.3 percent higher at $286.94, Ford shares gained 1.6 percent to close at $11.33, and GM shares were up 3 percent at $38.03.Barclays auto analyst Brian Johnson, in an investor note on Wednesday, predicted that Tesla "would bear the brunt of any increased auto tariff on a relative basis," with China accounting for 17 percent of the company\'s revenue.The United States has a 60-day comment period on plans, and China is waiting for U.S. action before implementing its own. A  Washington-based source close to one of the automakers called the moves "a posturing exercise by both countries (and) part of a process" that will play out over the next two months.China has threatened to double tariffs to 50 percent on imported automobiles and other U.S.-made goods to retaliate against the Trump administration\'s proposed tariffs on a broad range of products, including vehicles and automotive parts.The proposed U.S. tariffs on Chinese-made vehicles could affect Ford\'s plans to shift production of the compact Focus next year from Michigan to China, a move the company said last year would save it $500 million.The Lincoln brand meanwhile is struggling to gain traction in China\'s crowded luxury car market. Ford has said it ships about 80,000 vehicles a year to China, including various Lincoln models.Ford declined to comment specifically on plans for the Focus and Lincoln. It said in a statement on Wednesday: "We encourage both governments to work together to resolve issues between these two important economies."A Mercedes-Benz spokesman said the company does not speculate on ongoing negotiations, adding that it is "monitoring the situation closely."BMW said in a statement: "A further escalation of the trade conflict between the U.S. and China would be harmful for all stakeholders."Tesla declined to comment. A spokesman for the United Auto Workers union, which represents workers at Ford and GM, but not at Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz, declined to comment.GM said on Wednesday it is "too early" to say how the Trump administration\'s proposed tariffs will impact its future production plans for the Envision.Chinese vehicle imports from all markets last year climbed to 1.2 million, according to the China Automobile Dealers Association. Less than a quarter of those - 267,473, according to Statista - came from U.S. auto plants, including 100,000 from BMW\'s South Carolina factory.Decisions on whether and where to shift vehicle production could be complicated by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s moves to significantly revamp or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement that allows tariff-free shipments of vehicles to the United States from Mexico and Canada.(Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit and Norihiko Shirouzu in Beijing; additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington,  Allison Lampert in Montreal and Alexandria Sage in San Francisco; Editing by Peter Henderson and Matthew Lewis)
William Prochnau, a journalist and author who wrote a critically acclaimed book, Once Upon a Distant War, about a handful of skeptical reporters whose early warnings that the United States wasnt winning in Vietnam went unheeded, died on March 28 in his home in Washington. He was 80.The cause was coronary artery disease, said his wife and frequent collaborator, Laura Parker, a staff writer for National Geographic magazine.Mr. Prochnau (pronounced PROCK-now) was a reporter for The Washington Post and a contributing editor of Vanity Fair, where his article Adventures in the Ransom Trade was the basis for the movie Proof of Life (2000), a kidnapping thriller starring Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe. (Ms. Parker said the film rights paid for the Meg Ryan Memorial Kitchen in the couples Washington home.)His novel Trinitys Child inspired the script of By Dawns Early Light (1990), an apocalyptic Cold War movie starring James Earl Jones.Mr. Prochnau often said he was proudest of his own reportage from Vietnam for The Seattle Times in the mid-1960s  work that apparently earned him a berth on President Richard M. Nixons expanded enemies list.The contrasts between what Mr. Prochnau witnessed and the cocksure official accounts of American gains against the Communists inspired Once Upon a Distant War: Young War Correspondents and the Early Vietnam Battles, published by Times Books/Random House in 1995.With television just coming of age, Mr. Prochnau focused on print reporters, primarily David Halberstam of The New York Times; Malcolm Browne, Peter Arnett and Horst Faas of The Associated Press; Neil Sheehan of United Press International; and Charles Mohr of Time magazine  all of whose on-the-ground reporting suggested that Americas military and political strategy was doomed.This small group of young men, he wrote, would bring down upon themselves the wrath of every power structure they confronted  the White House, the Pentagon, the South Vietnamese government, the old guard of the press itself, even their own bosses.In an admiring review in The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote, When all was said and done, in Mr. Prochnaus view, blaming the journalists was simply a case of shooting the messenger.The correspondents were patriotic cold warriors all, Mr. Prochnau concluded, but, Mr. Lehmann-Haupt wrote, the Viet Cong was winning the war, as far as the journalists could see, which seems to have been a good deal farther than anyone in charge.Kai Bird, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer and director of the Leon Levy Center for Biography at the City University of New York Graduate Center, described Once Upon a Distant War in an email as the classic account of the journalistic experience in Vietnam.Mr. Prochnau himself saw this experience as historically pivotal.Their extraordinary adventure would mark the beginning of the era of the modern media, he said of the reporters he profiled, and, ironically, the beginning of the end of the golden age of print.William Walter Prochnau was born on Aug. 9, 1937, in Everett, Wash. His father, Emil, was a circulation agent for The Seattle Times. His mother, the former Florence Foley, became a nurse.His first marriage, to Lani Gruger, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, Ms. Parker, he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Monica Bradley and Jennifer McMaster; a brother, John; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter. Another daughter from his first marriage, Anna, died in 2015.Mr. Prochnau attended Everett Junior College (now Everett Community College) in Washington and Seattle University. At 19, he spurned an offer to play Triple-A baseball to become a sportswriter for The Everett Herald. He went on to cover sports in Alaska.Lured to The Seattle Times, he covered Washington, the Moon landing in 1969 and the restoration of diplomatic relations with China, and profiled the assassin of John Lennon.After leaving The Times, in 1974, he helped Sen. Warren G. Magnuson, a Washington Democrat, win a fifth term. A year later he founded the short-lived Daily Journal-American in Bellevue, Wash. He became political editor of The Post-Intelligencer in Seattle and covered the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980.Mr. Prochnau reported for The Washington Post full time in the 1980s, then returned to Seattle, where he wrote freelance articles and books and in 1996 became a contributing editor to Vanity Fair.He was nothing if not meticulous  and persistent: It took him 11 years to write his Vietnam book. Ms. Parker had vowed not to marry him until he finished it, she said, but the project was proceeding so slowly, she relented and married him in 1988, with the book not even half completed.But that was nothing compared to the 16,000-word article that he and his wife wrote in 2002 about Oskar Speck, who kayaked from Germany to Australia in the 1930s. Pruned nearly by half, the The Incredible True Story of Historys Longest Kayak Journey was finally published in Vanity Fair in February, after being held for 16 years.The story had no news value to speak of, but it was a terrific tale and told perfectly, Graydon Carter, the magazines outgoing editor wrote. Bill was 64 when he wrote the story. He was 80 when we finally ran it. Thats what we call playing a long game.Bill had the temperament and patience of an old-school reporter, Mr. Carter said in an email in reference to the article. So much so, that he never once prodded me about it.

Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching: Another bank takes steps toward gun safety. The next steps in the tariffs tit-for-tat. Investigators are looking into the motive behind the shooting at YouTubes headquarters. What happens after Spotifys direct listing?  Alexis Ohanian of Reddit speaks to Corner Office about online platforms, fatherhood and Metallica.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Britains decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.In the weeks following Britains vote in 2016 for Brexit, fears grew that the post-war economic order was under serious threat. But European stock markets recovered, including Britains. Investors came to see that the European Union was not going to break up, and Britain was not going to erect tall walls around its economy. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to Brexit seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system. Investors took a deep breath and gained some perspective.Movements in the United States stock market suggests the same thing is happening in response to President Trumps trade policies. China on Tuesday evening announced the tariffs it plans in retaliation against those President Trump is threatening. Reacting to Chinas announcement, the S.&P. 500 index plunged early on Wednesday but recovered strongly to close up 1.2 percent.Investors may believe Chinas move will lead to drawn-out negotiations. Here, Brexit is again illustrative. As the back and forth between the European Union and Britain has gone on, investors have gained more clarity and confidence. If talks between the U.S. and China gain steam, the uncertainty now clouding relations between the two countries may gradually clear.But the standoff between the U.S. and China differs in important ways from the Brexit tensions. The U.S., for instance, is in a much stronger position than Britain. China exports far more to the U.S. than the U.S. does to China. Limiting access to the U.S. economy could hurt Chinas growth at a time when it is trying to overhaul important economic sectors. If investors believe that the U.S. can successfully exploit its advantages to make China more friendly to foreign businesses, they may even see the trade skirmish as positive for the global economy.But Brexit also flashes a warning to those expecting a big win for Mr. Trump. One of the reasons that the European Union has presented a united front is that it sees Brexit as a threat to its values and goals. Similarly, China may believe that Mr. Trumps trade attack puts some of its most deeply held aspirations under threat  and will fight back hard.- Peter EavisAfter Citigroup announced plans to limit firearms sales by business customers, the question was which lenders would be the next to make a move on guns. The latest: Amalgamated Bank, the union-owned bank known for its socially minded policies.The firm said on Wednesday that it would adopt guidelines for lenders laid out by Everytown for Gun Safety, an advocacy group backed by Mike Bloomberg.Among those recommendations: Require gun dealers to protect merchandise from burglary and theft and refuse sales to people who appear in distress or intoxicated Require retailers to stop selling high-capacity magazines and bump stocks Require gun makers to commit to developing innovations in firearms that will allow law enforcement to more easily solve gun crimesAmalgamated said that it would not only require all business customers to adhere to those guidelines but added that it wont invest any of its own money in gun manufacturers or distributors.Heres what Amalgamateds C.E.O. Keith Mestrich, said in a news release: Michael J. de la MercedFacebook on Wednesday said the personal information of up to 87 million people, most of them Americans, may have been improperly shared during the 2016 election with Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm connected to President Trump.The new figure sharply increased the companys previous estimate of how many users information was harvested by Cambridge Analytica. The number had been put at more than 50 million users.The sharing of the user data has unleashed a torrent of criticism at Facebook, the worlds largest social network. The companys stock is down sharply since The New York Times and The Observer of London reported on how Cambridge Analytica improperly acquired users data.The company released the revised estimate of affected users in an extended statement on Wednesday about its plans for handling personal data. The company said it will start alerting users on April 9 about whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.In related Facebook news Earlier on Wednesday, lawmakers in Washington had said Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11 about the companys handling of sensitive user data.Beijing moved quickly to escalate its fight with the U.S., responding to the White Houses latest move with $50 billion worth of tariffs on soybeans, cars, chemicals and more. U.S. market futures predictably dropped, as did other markets.Both sides could suffer. Chinese companies are scrambling to react, especially as the U.S. looks to be taking aim at technology (like that central to Made in China 2025). And the squeeze could extend to American companies in unexpected industries, like wine.The big question: Is a full-blown trade war coming? Nathaniel Taplin of Heard on the Street writes, If ongoing negotiations fail and these tariffs become a reality, the long-term impact will likely be far more damaging.And is dragging down the Dow Jones industrial average. The blue-chip index is off nearly 350 points, or 1.4 percent. That slide is worse than the declines of the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq Composite, which are both down less than 1 percent.Boeings 4 percent fall has shaved 87 points off the Dow Wednesday. Boeing is the highest priced stock in the price-weighted index, which means Boeing has an outsized impact on the indexs moves.Boeings shares have served as a proxy for investor concern about a possible trade war with China since the Trump administration announced tariffs on aluminum and steel.Over that period, the stock has fallen 12 percent.The streaming-music companys shares opened at $165.90, but they steadily decline throughout their first day of trading, closing at $149.01.The stock is down 4.1 percent to $142.91 in early trading Wednesday.Because Spotify eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing, there is no I.P.O. price off which to base the performance of its shares. But the companys current shares price remains well above the $132.50 its private shares changed hands at earlier this year.Spotify finished Tuesday valued at $26.5 billion. Does that count as a success? Shira Ovide of Gadfly argues no, since only a tiny fraction of Spotifys shares are available to trade.And will it lead to a wave of direct listings, leaving depressed, workless I.P.O. bankers in its wake? Maybe not, though the Big Board acknowledged signs of more informal interest in direct listings.Sony.Its subsidiary, Sony Music Entertainment, owned 5.7 percent of Spotify ahead of its listing. Sony said it sold 17.2 percent of that stake Tuesday. Sony expects to book a non-operating profit of $986 million this quarter from the increased valuation of the Spotify shares it continues holds and from the share sale.At Tuesdays close, Sonys 5.7 percent stake was worth $1.5 billion.Sony isnt only Asian tech company benefitting from Spotifys smooth debut. Tencent, the Chinese social media company, holds a 7.5 percent stake. That was worth about $2 billion as of Tuesdays close.The video site and its parent company, Alphabet, are still grappling with the shooting at YouTubes headquarters in the Bay Area yesterday. What we know: Police identified the shooter as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and killed herself at the scene. Three people were hurt, one critically.What we dont know: the motive. Ms. Aghdam, who posted to YouTube and other social media, criticized the video sites policies on Facebook in February. But authorities havent highlighted any specific grievance, and said they had yet to find evidence that specific individuals were targeted.What may change: security in Silicon Valley. YouTube, like many other big tech companies, doesnt have visible metal detectors or armed guards. Robert Mueller reportedly told President Trumps lawyers that hes a subject of interest, but not yet an investigation target. A former Skadden lawyer who admitted deceiving Mr. Muellers investigators, Alex van der Zwaan, was sentenced to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000. The Treasury Department and the Office of Management and Budget are fighting over how to implement the tax overhaul, as businesses go to great lengths to lower their tax bills. Senator Elizabeth Warrens suggested method for measuring misconduct at financial institutions probably wouldnt lead to more prosecutions. (White Collar Watch) John Williams is the next president of the New York Fed, despite calls for diversity. (NYT) Articles about Scott Pruitt are now focusing on ethical improprieties, not regulatory rollbacks. (NYT)At issue in WPPs inquiry into its C.E.O., Martin Sorrell, are allegations of misuse of company assets and of personal misconduct, according to the WSJ. Mr. Sorrell has denied any wrongdoing.The investigation comes at a tough time: WPPs revenue is down, and competition from Google and Facebook is up. One of the FTs unnamed sources couldnt see how Mr. Sorrell would survive.In other misconduct news: Morgan Stanley fired Douglas Greenberg, a star financial adviser accused of physical abuse and stalking by multiple women, following an NYT investigation.Forbes profiled All Raise, a group of 36 women trying to double the percentage of women in V.C. partner roles and to increase funding to female founders to 25 percent from 15 percent. It has commitments of $2 million from supporters like Silicon Valley Bank and is in talks with Melinda Gatess investment firm.Diversity, they argue, will help investors spot future successes like Stitch Fix.Itll be a joust, over money and management. CBS has reportedly submitted a takeover bid for its corporate sibling, Viacom  but one below Viacoms market value of $12.5 billion, and without a No. 2 slot at the combined company for the targets C.E.O., Bob Bakish.That isnt going to sit well with either Mr. Bakish or his patron, Shari Redstone. Tara Lachapelle of Gadfly argues that ego shouldnt hold up a deal.The deals flyaround Procter & Gamble is reportedly talking to Pfizer about buying its consumer health business, but far from agreeing on a price. GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser both walked away. (CNBC) The Justice Department is relying on a skewed study of the Time Warner deal, lawyers for AT&T argued in court. (Bloomberg) Elliott Management has purchased a $1 billion stake in various affiliates of Hyundai Motors, another venture into Korean chaebols. (Elliott) The high-end coffee brand La Colombe, reportedly hired Moelis & Company to explore the sale of a stake that could value the company at $1 billion. (Bloomberg) The Chinese digital conglomerate Meituan has bought Mobike, a bike-sharing company, for $2.7 billion. (CNBC)The Japanese conglomerate has reportedly given up day-to-day control over the Fortress Investment Group to help its deal pass the powerful U.S. security watchdog known as Cfius, according to the FT. That could make the investment firm a less useful support for SoftBanks $100 billion Vision Fund.The takeaways: The efforts by SoftBanks Masa Son to court President Trump dont always translate into favorable treatment by the White House, and national security concerns will weigh heavily on foreign investment in the U.S. post-Broadcom.The president has pressed his claim that Amazon is costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money, (It isnt.)Vanity Fair reports that some specific anti-Amazon ideas have been kicked around, including rethinking Amazons contract with the U.S.P.S., canceling its cloud services contract with the Pentagon and encouraging state investigations. (Amazon does not have a contract with the Department of Defense for cloud computing services. The contract for those services has not been awarded to any company including Amazon.)But Bloomberg can find no active discussions about such actions, and Wall Street analysts say investors should ignore the noise, which puts Amazon in good company.More on Amazon and the cloud: Mr. Trump was scheduled to dine last night with Safra Catz of Oracle. Why is that important?The tech flyaround Teslas first-quarter production still fell short of an already lowered target, but shares in the embattled carmaker rose anyway. Investors might want to be wary of Elon Musks promises. Facebook removed over 270 accounts and pages tied to Russias Internet Research Agency, widely regarded as a troll factory. Mark Zuckerberg wont globalize Europes stricter privacy regulations. Tim Wu of Columbia Law School argues that Facebook needs replacing, not fixing. Indias government is eager to collect personal data, but bad at protecting it, an NYT Op-Ed contributor argues. (NYT) Apple has hired John Giannandrea from Google to run its machine learning and A.I. strategy. (NYT) Deutsche Bank formally named John Thain, Mayree Clark and Michele Trogni to its supervisory board. (Deutsche Bank) Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired Hari Moorthy, an engineer at JPMorgan Chase, to build tools to help big companies manage cash. (WSJ) Companies charitable spending is more self-serving than they would have us believe. (NYT) An Indian government crackdown on fake news lasted less than a day. (NYT) The Chinese conglomerate Anbang will receive $9.7 billion from an industry rescue fund. (WSJ) Longfin, a fintech company that went public under small-company rules in December, lost 85 percent of value in six trading days and is now under investigation by the S.E.C. (WSJ) After one of its worst quarters ever, David Einhorns hedge fund Greenlight Capital is sticking to its strategy. (CNBC)Note: While we congratulated Villanova yesterday, we did not congratulate Notre Dame for its win on Sunday, which we heartily do so now.Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
Stocks rose on Wednesday in a roller-coaster trading session during which investors were whipsawed by updates on an escalating trade dispute between the United States and China.The Standard & Poors 500-stock index finished up 1.2 percent, an upbeat end to a session that started with a steep, nearly 1.5 percent decline driven by jitters of worsening trade tensions between the worlds two largest economies.Stocks reversed course after Larry Kudlow, President Trumps newly installed director of the National Economic Council, sought to play down the risks of an outright trade war in late-morning comments to reporters.Washington and Beijing have announced a series of tariffs and counter-tariffs in recent days, with China saying on Wednesday that it planned to impose some $50 billion in import duties on soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods from the United States.The moves came in response to Mr. Trumps recent decision to place tariffs on steel, aluminum, aircraft parts, flat-screen televisions and other products from China, which he has long accused of engaging in unfair trade practices.Investors initially seemed willing to discount the possibility of a trade war, perhaps in the belief that the Trump administrations protectionist talk would fade amid negotiations through traditional channels. But the tit-for-tat tariffs rolled out by the United States and China may be stripping away some of that confidence.The scale and speed of Mr. Trumps actions would have been difficult to predict at the start of the year, analysts at Deutsche Bank said in a note to clients on Wednesday before American markets opened. The growth outlook is more uncertain than it was.The latest volley between the United States and China has mostly involved advanced manufacturing technologies, a dispute that parallels the countries fight over steel and aluminum. The overall value of the duties at issue is small given that total trade between the two countries amounts to around $650 billion a year. But economists and investors say the tensions could ratchet up quickly, and that the tariffs could become more punishing.The growing tensions have helped erode many of the stock market gains that Mr. Trump had touted since taking office. The Dow Jones industrial average has recently slipped to its lowest level of the year, despite generally positive economic growth around the world and tax legislation in the United States that has helped bolster corporate profits.The trade dispute also reverberated in commodities markets Wednesday. Cotton prices fell 2.9 percent, and soybean prices dropped 2.2 percent. Corn prices declined by 1.9 percent.Analysts at Goldman Sachs said Chinas imposition of tariffs on soybeans, an agricultural staple in Midwestern swing states, was a sign of worsening friction between Washington and Beijing.We view the inclusion of soybeans in todays announcement as political in nature and reflective of the escalation of the trade dispute with the United States, Goldman Sachs commodities analysts said in a note to clients.Despite the volatility in stock trading, there was little sign of a rush to the safety of United States Treasury bonds. Instead of falling sharply  a signal of a panicky market  yields on 10-year Treasury notes were largely stable, finishing the day at 2.78 percent.
It looks a lot like a trade war.On Monday, China imposed tariffs on 128 American products imported into the country, including wine, pork and steel pipes.The next day, the Trump administration took a direct hit at China, announcing tariffs on about $50 billion worth of imports like flat-screen TVs, medical devices and aircraft parts.The day after that, China upped the ante. And on Thursday, President Trump said the United States should go further, suggesting additional tariffs on $100 billion of Chinese goods.With each move, the worlds two biggest economies have appeared more than willing to one-up the other to protect their interests, as the Trump administration tries to enact policies to help American workers and the Chinese government tries to become a global leader across a variety of cutting-edge industries.American companies have complained that they dont have a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. The Chinese government provides big subsidies for its homegrown players, as part of a broader state-led plan. The country has taken advantage of gaps in international rules or hasnt bothered to follow them.China has been particularly aggressive in the high-tech realm. It has forced American companies to hand over technology or form joint ventures, in exchange for access to China, the worlds second largest economy. Some American companies contend that Chinese players have stolen their secrets outright.One area of concern for the United States is Chinas ambitious agenda called Made in 2025. Under that plan, Beijing aims to dominate cutting-technologies like semiconductors, artificial intelligence and electric cars. China is putting huge resources behind this industrial policy, which it sees as crucial to its economic future and its national security.Both countries are getting ever more protective of these industries. In the United States, regulators are increasingly blocking Chinese companies from buying American assets, as Congress considers beefing up its rules around foreign acquisitions.China may not stop tariffs as it remains in a retaliatory crouch. Some of the biggest American companies have operations there, and Beijing could begin freezing the companies out.In many ways, the United States and China have been waging a cold war over technology  one that is now escalating and threatening to spill over into the global economy.Stock markets have waffled over the prospect that a trade war between the United States and China could crimp growth in the global economy  or disrupt the worldwide supply chain.And many of Chinas tariffs, including those on soybeans and automobiles, take direct aim at the farm belt and manufacturing hubs, both big bases for President Trump.If the tit-for-tat conflict intensifies, it not only could hurt the economy, but the entire global trading system. The World Trade Organization, which governs the rules of trade, looks increasingly vulnerable. It is part of a broader assault on the post-World War II order that has promoted democratic ideals and international trade, as a way to prevent broader conflicts.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said on Wednesday that U.S. trade actions against China are aimed at upholding the "laws and customs of free trade."Speaking to a group of reporters on the White House driveway, Kudlow was asked if the United States could lose a trade war."No. I don\'t see it that way. This is a negotiation, using all the tools," he said.(Reporting By Steve Holland; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
SHANGHAI  China hit back at the United States on Wednesday with proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of American soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods, in a move likely to stoke fears that the countries escalating confrontation could become an all-out trade war.Moving with unusual speed, Chinese officials outlined plans to make it more costly to import 106 types of American goods into China. They are intended to hit the United States square in the farm belt  a major section of President Trumps political support but also a major supplier of what China stocks in its supermarkets.Beijings plan to institute new tariffs was announced just hours after the Trump administration detailed its own protections on a similar value of Chinese-made aircraft parts, cars and car parts, televisions, steel and much more. Following a previous round of tit-for-tat tariffs unveiled over the past few days, the new measures have sparked concerns that the dispute could widen further, hurting jobs and growth in both countries.Investors drove financial markets lower over the prospect that the two sides were not yet done fighting.China has never succumbed to external pressure, Zhu Guangyao, vice minister of finance, said at a news briefing on Wednesday. He added, External pressure will only make the Chinese people more focused on economic development.The question now is whether the two sides will intensify their efforts to punish each other before they sit down to negotiate. Neither set of tariffs go into effect right away, though the exact timing of the Chinese measures was not clear.The dueling tariffs still do not impact the majority of trade between the two countries, which is valued at nearly $650 billion a year. Still, economists say that the clash could escalate quickly if the two sides fail to find a way to quickly resolve their differences, threatening a commercial relationship that is essential to the world economy.Letting the dispute turn into a test of wills would be a mistake, said Jie Zhao, a senior research fellow at Fudan University in Shanghai.We should negotiate in a professional way, Ms. Zhao said, and make it less ideological and emotional.Chinas proposed new tariffs cover a significant chunk of what it buys from the United States. The protections on the $50 billion of goods announced on Wednesday, together with those on the $3 billion worth of products that Beijing unveiled earlier this week in retaliation for American tariffs on global steel imports, account for about a third of Chinas American imports.By contrast, because the United States imports significantly more from China, tariffs on the same amount of products make up roughly one-ninth of its Chinese imports. That gives the United States more room to find other Chinese products to target.Even as Chinese officials struck a defiant tone on Wednesday, they still said they wanted to avoid escalating the conflict.Chinas attitude is clear, Mr. Zhu, the vice minister of finance, said. We dont want a trade war because a trade war would hurt the interests of both countries.China could still fight back in other ways. Its control over its domestic economy and news media, and its homegrown internet, give it a strong hand in controlling public opinion and minimizing the potential impact on its consumers. In the past, China has mobilized its vast ranks of consumers to turn up their noses at products from Japan, the Philippines and South Korea during political disputes, though getting Chinese consumers to stop buying iPhones and Chevrolets could be trickier.The two sides are clashing with the future in mind. President Trump instituted his latest round of tariffs against China while citing Beijings government-driven efforts to retool the countrys economy to focus on the technologies of the future. Known as the Made in China 2025 program, the plan specifies efforts to build up cutting-edge industries like robotics, aerospace and electric cars.Many companies in Europe and the United States say they fear the program will create state-supported competitors, an argument that has won backing in the Trump administration. Some companies say that Beijing finds ways to force them to hand over technology if they want to sell their wares in China, an allegation that Chinese officials dispute.China appears to show little interest in putting the Made in China 2025 efforts on the negotiating table. A report in state-controlled media on Wednesday described the development of advanced manufacturing as an inherent requirement for the transformation and upgrading of Chinas manufacturing industry, and it is also the only way for Chinas economy to enter a high-quality development stage.For now, Chinas new tariffs could create a more immediate issue for the Trump administration.While they include plenty of goods Americans make, they have a heavy focus on products Americans grow: soybeans, corn, cotton, beef, frozen orange juice, even tobacco and whiskey. Many of those products come largely from Republican-dominated states, where lawmakers might be expected to have some influence with President Trump and could therefore persuade him to back down from his latest trade demands.For manufactured goods, the new Chinese tariffs include cars and car parts, plastics, aerospace products and chemicals. Many of those products are also sold by European companies, giving Chinese buyers alternatives. The new tariffs announced on Wednesday will amount to 25 percent on the American products.Chinese officials  who blamed President Trump for provoking the clash  have appealed to the World Trade Organization, which sets trade rules and moderates disputes, to resolve the feud. But both sides risk censure by the W.T.O.  the Trump administration for its tariffs, and China for swiftly retaliating without a proper review.A key time has come for the United States and China to form a new consensus that includes intellectual property and the opening up of markets, said Song Guoyou, the deputy chief of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University. Otherwise, trade may fluctuate a lot.
CHICAGO   Cargill Inc [CARG.UL] said on Wednesday that it was "deeply concerned" by the escalating U.S.-China trade conflict, after Beijing announced new tariffs on imports of U.S. soybeans and other goods.The company said in a statement to Reuters that the two countries are linked, with China being the second largest market for U.S. food and agricultural exports and it urged both countries to get to the negotiating table "to constructively address their concerns with each other in a time-bound manner.""The impact of trade conflict between the worlds two largest economies could lead to a destructive trade war with serious consequences for economic growth and job creation," Cargill said.(Reporting by P.J. Huffstutter, editing by G Crosse)
WASHINGTON/BEIJING   The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the Chinese ambassador to Washington said it "takes two to tango."(Graphic: U.S. trade in goods with China - http://tmsnrt.rs/2GcOZIH)Just 11 hours after President Donald Trump\'s administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products, China shot back with a list of similar duties on major American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.Beijing\'s swift and forceful response raised the prospect of a quickly spiraling dispute between the world\'s two economic superpowers that could harm the global economy.(Graphic: U.S. imports from China - http://tmsnrt.rs/2FMsz1Q)While Trump posted defiant messages on Twitter, his administration signaled possible wiggle room.Asked whether the U.S. tariffs announced on Tuesday may never go into effect and may be a negotiating tactic, Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, told reporters: "Yes, it\'s possible. It\'s part of the process." He called the announcements by the two countries mere opening proposals.Kudlow later told Fox News Channel: "I don\'t think it\'s a trade war. I think there is going to be intense negotiations on both sides.""I think we\'re going to come to agreements," he said, adding that "I believe that the Chinese will back down and will play ball."Cui Tiankai, China\'s ambassador to the United States, held an hour-long meeting at the U.S. State Department in Washington with acting Secretary of State John Sullivan."Negotiation would still be our preference, but it takes two to tango. We will see what the U.S. will do," the ambassador said afterward.The trade actions will not be carried out immediately, so there may be room for maneuver. Publication of Washington\'s list on Tuesday started a period of public comment and consultation expected to last around two months. The effective date of China\'s moves depends on when the U.S. action takes effect.If the two countries are unable to settle the dispute, a full-scale trade war could destabilize U.S.-Chinese commercial ties, an important component of the global economy.China\'s action rattled U.S. farmers, while shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile.After dropping at the outset of trading, Wall Street\'s three major indexes staged a comeback to close about 1 percent higher as investors turned their focus to earnings and away from the trade fight.White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said U.S. implementation of the tariffs would depend on China\'s behavior."It\'s going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," she told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they don\'t stop the unfair trade practices, then we would move forward," Sanders said.Trump, who contends his predecessors served the United States badly in trade matters, wrote on Twitter: "We are not in a trade war with China that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."POLITICAL DAMAGEWhile Washington targeted products that benefit from Chinese industrial policy - including its "Made in China 2025" initiative to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products in strategic industries such as advanced IT and robotics - Beijing appeared to offer a response intended to inflict political damage.Washington\'s list was filled with many obscure industrial items, but China\'s struck at signature U.S. exports, including soybeans, frozen beef, cotton and other agricultural commodities produced in states from Iowa to Texas that voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.The list extends to tobacco and whiskey, both produced in states including Kentucky, home of U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, like Trump a Republican.Trump said last month that "trade wars are good, and easy to win," but key fellow Republicans expressed unease over the latest developments.McConnell said he was nervous about the "growing trend in the administration to levy tariffs" that could become a "slippery slope," while Senator Chuck Grassley, whose home state of Iowa is a major agricultural producer, said: "Farmers and ranchers shouldn\'t be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country."The possibility of an escalating U.S.-China trade war will result in "a bumpy ride" for the U.S. economy, said James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.China said its list of 25 percent additional tariffs on U.S. goods covered 106 items with a trade value matching the $50 billion targeted on Washington\'s list.U.S.-made goods that appear to face added tariffs in China include Tesla Inc electric cars, Ford Motor Co\'s Lincoln auto models, Gulfstream jets made by General Dynamics Corp and Brown-Forman Corp\'s Jack Daniel\'s whiskey.Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017. Trump has demanded that the China cut the trade gap by $100 billion.The U.S. move was aimed at forcing Beijing to address what Washington says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese competitors, charges Chinese officials deny.The U.S. tariff list followed China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by Trump.(Reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Michael Martina in Beijing; Additional reporting by  Lesley Wroughton, David Brunnstrom, Jason Lange, Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland, Jeff Mason, Makini Brice, Susan Heavey, David Chance and Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Michael Martina, Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard, Tony Munroe, Cate Cadell, Philip Wen, Dominique Patton, Josephine Mason and Stella Qiu in Beijing, Engen Tham in Shanghai and Brenda Goh in Shanghai, Tom Miles in Geneva and Michael Hogan in; Hamburg; Writing by Will Dunham; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON/BEIJING   The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the Chinese ambassador to Washington said it "takes two to tango."Just 11 hours after President Donald Trump\'s administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products, China shot back with a list of similar duties on major American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.Beijing\'s swift and forceful response raised the prospect of a quickly spiralling dispute between the world\'s two economic superpowers that could harm the global economy.While Trump posted defiant messages on Twitter, his administration signalled possible wiggle room.Asked whether the U.S. tariffs announced on Tuesday may never go into effect and may be a negotiating tactic, Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, told reporters: "Yes, it\'s possible. It\'s part of the process." He called the announcements by the two countries mere opening proposals.Kudlow later told Fox News Channel: "I don\'t think it\'s a trade war. I think there is going to be intense negotiations on both sides.""I think we\'re going to come to agreements," he said, adding that "I believe that the Chinese will back down and will play ball."Cui Tiankai, China\'s ambassador to the United States, held an hour-long meeting at the U.S. State Department in Washington with acting Secretary of State John Sullivan."Negotiation would still be our preference, but it takes two to tango. We will see what the U.S. will do," the ambassador said afterward.The trade actions will not be carried out immediately, so there may be room for manoeuvre. Publication of Washington\'s list on Tuesday started a period of public comment and consultation expected to last around two months. The effective date of China\'s moves depends on when the U.S. action takes effect.If the two countries are unable to settle the dispute, a full-scale trade war could destabilise U.S.-Chinese commercial ties, an important component of the global economy.China\'s action rattled U.S. farmers, while shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile.After dropping at the outset of trading, Wall Street\'s three major indexes staged a comeback to close about 1 percent higher as investors turned their focus to earnings and away from the trade fight. [MKTS/GLOB]White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said U.S. implementation of the tariffs would depend on China\'s behaviour."It\'s going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," she told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behaviour of China and they don\'t stop the unfair trade practices, then we would move forward," Sanders said.Trump, who contends his predecessors served the United States badly in trade matters, wrote on Twitter: "We are not in a trade war with China that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."POLITICAL DAMAGEWhile Washington targeted products that benefit from Chinese industrial policy - including its "Made in China 2025" initiative to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products in strategic industries such as advanced IT and robotics - Beijing appeared to offer a response intended to inflict political damage.Washington\'s list was filled with many obscure industrial items, but China\'s struck at signature U.S. exports, including soybeans, frozen beef, cotton and other agricultural commodities produced in states from Iowa to Texas that voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.The list extends to tobacco and whiskey, both produced in states including Kentucky, home of U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, like Trump a Republican.Trump said last month that "trade wars are good, and easy to win," but key fellow Republicans expressed unease over the latest developments.McConnell said he was nervous about the "growing trend in the administration to levy tariffs" that could become a "slippery slope," while Senator Chuck Grassley, whose home state of Iowa is a major agricultural producer, said: "Farmers and ranchers shouldn\'t be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country."The possibility of an escalating U.S.-China trade war will result in "a bumpy ride" for the U.S. economy, said James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.China said its list of 25 percent additional tariffs on U.S. goods covered 106 items with a trade value matching the $50 billion targeted on Washington\'s list.U.S.-made goods that appear to face added tariffs in China include Tesla Inc electric cars, Ford Motor Co\'s Lincoln auto models, Gulfstream jets made by General Dynamics Corp and Brown-Forman Corp\'s Jack Daniel\'s whiskey.Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017. Trump has demanded that the China cut the trade gap by $100 billion.The U.S. move was aimed at forcing Beijing to address what Washington says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese competitors, charges Chinese officials deny.The U.S. tariff list followed China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest U.S. steel and aluminium tariffs imposed last month by Trump.(Reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Michael Martina in Beijing; Additional reporting by  Lesley Wroughton, David Brunnstrom, Jason Lange, Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland, Jeff Mason, Makini Brice, Susan Heavey, David Chance and Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Michael Martina, Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard, Tony Munroe, Cate Cadell, Philip Wen, Dominique Patton, Josephine Mason and Stella Qiu in Beijing, Engen Tham in Shanghai and Brenda Goh in Shanghai, Tom Miles in Geneva and Michael Hogan in; Hamburg; Writing by Will Dunham; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump persists in using a phony number to justify his market-shaking trade actions against China.TRUMP tweets Wednesday: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!" "When you\'re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can\'t lose!"THE FACTS: He overstates the trade deficit by $163 billion.He does this by counting Americans\' purchases of goods from China as a loss for the U.S., while ignoring what China buys from the U.S. He also ignores another big part of the equation  trade in services.Last year, Americans bought about $505.6 billion in goods from China while China bought about $130.4 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was just over $375 billion.Factor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion.As for intellectual property theft, it\'s not clear where Trump gets his figure of $300 billion, though it may be a plausible estimate.Illicit activities such as counterfeit goods, pirated software, theft of trade secrets and copyright and trademark infringement cannot be precisely measured. An independent bipartisan U.S. commission estimated that U.S. interests lost $300 billion from global intellectual property theft in 2013, with China the main culprit. The commission, in a 2017 update, gave a wide-ranging estimate, $225 billion to $600 billion, with thefts led by "thousands of Chinese actors."The Trump administration this week announced planned tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports; Beijing responded with plans to penalize imports from the U.S. by the same amount. This followed an opening salvo of U.S. penalties on steel and aluminum imports from overseas, including China, and Beijing\'s retaliatory taxes on $3 billion of U.S. products.The escalating dispute between the world\'s two largest economies has roiled global markets. The S&P 500 has fallen more than 4 percent since March 1.___2017 U.S. trade statistics: https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/Press-Release/current_press_release/exh20.pdfIntellectual property theft report: http://www.ipcommission.org/report/IP_Commission_Report_Update_2017.pdf___Associated Press writers Christopher Rugaber and Josh Boak contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd

WASHINGTON   U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday he expects trade actions between the United States and China will likely lead to a negotiated deal, but that it was unclear whether such talks would happen by the end of May or later."It wouldn\'t be surprising at all if the net outcome of all this is some sort of a negotiation," Ross said in an interview with CNBC. "It\'s very difficult to put a specific time denomination on negotiations that are as complex as these."Ross\' comments come after China slapped retaliatory duties on a number of American products earlier on Wednesday in response to Trump\'s planned tariffs on Chinese goods, rattling global financial markets."I\'m frankly a little surprised that Wall Street was so surprised by it. This has been telegraphed for days and weeks," Ross said.U.S. President Donald Trump earlier Wednesday stood by his administration\'s actions, tweeting: "We are not in a trade war with China."Ross echoed those sentiments, telling CNBC that China\'s response was "relatively proportionate to the tariffs that we put on based on the intellectual property."He added that he also expected other countries to start "coalescing against China" over its trade practices.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on U.S.-China trade tensions (all times local):___4:00 p.m.Sen. Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, says the United States needs to protect its intellectual property and competitiveness but shouldn\'t force farmers and ranchers to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country."It\'s not fair, and it doesn\'t make economic sense," Grassley says in a statement. "The administration knew that if it imposed tariffs on Chinese goods, China would retaliate against U.S. agriculture. I warned President Trump as much in a White House meeting in February."He said the federal government has a responsibility to "help those Americans and mitigate the damage it caused" to those suffering economic hardship from the tariffs.___3:00 p.m.The American Chemistry Council, a lobbying group, says China\'s threatened tariffs would come down hard on U.S. chemical companies.The group says 40 percent of the products China said it would target Wednesday are chemicals, including PVC and plastics. China imported 11 percent of all U.S. plastic resins last year, or $3.2 billion worth.The council, which represents Dow, DuPont and other major chemical companies, says its members have planned $185 million in new U.S. factories or expansions based on current tariff levels. It says a trade war with China would jeopardize those plans."We strongly urge both the U.S. and Chinese governments to work together to come to a satisfactory and mutually beneficial decision before this situation escalates further," council President and CEO Cal Dooley says in a statement.___2:45 p.m.U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, is critical of the Trump administration\'s tariffs."A trade war always has unanticipated consequences," he said during a press conference at the state capitol Wednesday. "The last two days are an indication of exactly what I\'ve been most concerned about."He says the tariffs could affect Missouri\'s ability to export food abroad, and the U.S. should instead focus on pursuing trade cases it already has against China with the World Trade Organization.___12:45 p.m.The American Soybean Association, a lobbying group that says it represents 21,000 U.S. soybean producers, says China\'s proposed 25-percent tariff on soybeans would be "devastating" to U.S. farmers. China is the largest consumer of U.S. soybeans, buying about one-third of all U.S. soybean production each year, the group says.Association President John Heisdorffer, an Iowa farmer, is calling on the Trump administration to withdraw its proposed tariffs and meet with soybean farmers to discuss ways to improve competitiveness without resorting to tariffs.The association says soybean farmers lost an estimated $1.72 billion on Wednesday morning alone as soybean futures tumbled."That\'s real money lost for farmers, and it is entirely preventable," Heisdorffer says in a statement.___12:10 p.m.Ford and General Motors are calling for continued dialogue to resolve escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China.Both automakers issued statements Wednesday after China proposed steep retaliatory tariffs on imports of U.S.-made vehicles and other goods.Ford says it encouraged the governments to work together. GM urges the countries to "engage in constructive dialogue and pursue sustainable trade policies."GM would be affected by U.S. tariffs because it imports the Buick Envision SUV from China. Ford has plans to import a new version of the Focus compact car from China next year. Both make most of their vehicles in China that are sold there and ship only a small number of vehicles from the U.S. to China.___11:45 a.m.National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow is suggesting that proposed tariffs on Chinese imports may not ultimately go into effect.Kudlow is trying to soothe stock market fears over a potential trade war with China. He says the tariffs announced Tuesday are "potentially" a negotiating ploy in an effort to get China to level the playing field for U.S. businesses.Kudlow tells reporters: "There are carrots and sticks in life," adding that the U.S. is encouraging China to lower trade barriers.He adds that China should take Trump "seriously" on tariffs, but that ultimate the president is a "free-trader."Kudlow says the Trump administration is focused on growing the U.S. economy, saying: "Sometimes the path to this kind of growth is a little rocky. That\'s the way the world works."____11:30 a.m.Boeing shares are sinking after China proposed steep tariffs on U.S. aircraft as trade tension grows between the United States and China.China is a key market for Boeing, accounting for nearly one-fourth of the Chicago company\'s deliveries of commercial airplanes last year.Chinese tariffs on U.S.-made planes are not certain, and the proposal only covers planes within a certain weight range. Analysts say the tariffs would hit older versions of the Boeing 737 that are still in production, but not newer MAX models. Larger wide-body aircraft would not be affected.Still, the threat that Boeing Co. could be caught in trade war crossfire sent the shares down nearly 6 percent in morning trading. They regained some ground by late morning  down $9.65, or 2.9 percent, to $321.17.___10:35 a.m.Analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein are saying that BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Tesla are the biggest potential losers from higher Chinese tariffs on U.S. auto imports.Bernstein said in a note Wednesday that BMW sends 89,000 vehicles annually from the U.S. to China while Daimler AG\'s Mercedes-Benz ships 65,000. Tesla sells about 14,000 but China accounts for around 15 percent of forecast Model S and X sales this year.If enforced, the measures announced by Beijing earlier would increase tariffs on cars from the United States to 50 percent from the usual 25 percent.BMW is headquartered in Munich, Germany but claims the title of biggest U.S. car exporter by shipping vehicles including its X5 SUV from its Spartanburg, South Carolina plant. Stuttgart-based Daimler builds Mercedes in Vance, Alabama.The Bernstein team raised the question of whether the threat of a U.S-China trade war could "nudge the Germans toward localization"  that is, moving production to China.___10:00 a.m.China says it has made a "request for consultations" at the World Trade Organization in response to U.S. tariffs against Chinese products.The Chinese Ministry of Commerce confirmed the step taken Wednesday at the Geneva-based trade body, which triggers the WTO\'s dispute settlement mechanism that will begin with consultations between the two countries.China said the request centers on a proposed product list subject to the additional tariffs under U.S. Section 301 rules.___8:15 a.m.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross is brushing off concern over trade war with China. In an interview with CNBC Wednesday morning, Ross said that tariffs imposed by China amount to 0.3 percent of U.S. GDP and that some action on tariffs has been "coming for a while.""What we\'re talking about on both sides is a fraction of 1 percent of both economies," he said.The larger concern, Ross said, is the protection of U.S. intellectual property.Still, U.S. stock futures slumped over concerns that the back-and-forth tariff actions will stunt trade and growth. Ross said he would not comment on the stock market\'s reaction, but then said he thinks "it\'s being out of proportion."___All times below this point are local time for Beijing.___7:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says the U.S. lost a trade war with China "years ago."In a tweet Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, Trump said: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."China announced tariffs worth $50 billion on a series of U.S. products including soybeans, whiskey and cars.Chinese officials said they were obliged to act after the U.S. announced plans for retaliatory tariffs in an escalating dispute over China\'s technology program and other trade issues.___7:00 p.m.The chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China says Beijing\'s potential retaliation in an escalating dispute with Washington is a concern for every U.S.  company doing business in China.William Zarit told The Associated Press in an interview Wednesday that proposed tit-for-tat tariff hikes by both sides would first hit global stock markets.Zarit said he still hopes Washington and Beijing will not follow through on their threats.Instead they should work toward a "serious negotiation."U.S. business groups mostly agree that something needs to be done about China\'s aggressive push in technology. But they worry that China\'s measures targeting U.S. exports of aircraft, soybeans and other products could help bring on a tit-for-tat trade war of escalating sanctions between the world\'s two biggest economies.___6:40 p.m.A senior Chinese commerce official has defended the official technology policy at the center of an escalating trade dispute with the United States.Wang Shouwen, a deputy commerce minister, told reporters Wednesday that the long-range industrial strategy known as "Made in China 2025" is open to foreign companies, including American firms, and to private companies, not just state-owned enterprises.The policy calls for creating Chinese global leaders in electric cars, robots and other fields.Wang said the plan, which lays out specific targets for domestic brands\' share of the market in some sectors, should be seen as a guide rather than mandatory.Foreign business groups complain that strategy will limit or outright block access to those industries.___6:00 p.m.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman has urged the U.S. to come to the table and discuss an escalating trade dispute.Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told reporters in Beijing on Wednesday that China\'s door to dialogue with Washington remains open "but the U.S. has missed the opportunity time and time again."Geng made the comments after Beijing announced plans to raise tariffs on imports from the U.S.He said talks between the two countries require "mutual respect and equal treatment, instead of being coerced by one party unilaterally and condescendingly."Geng added that neither side should be "threatening the other with senseless and unreasonable demands."___5:50 p.m.European stock markets have fallen sharply after China announced a series of tariffs on U.S. goods, stoking fears that the two countries were on the brink of a full-scale trade war.Among the region\'s major indexes, Germany\'s DAX was down 1.2 percent while the FTSE 100 index fell 0.4 percent, in the wake of China\'s decision to raise tariffs on $50 billion of U.S. goods including soybeans, aircraft and automobiles. China was responding to Washington\'s equivalent duties on Chinese goods.Joshua Mahony, market analyst at IG, said it\'s "no surprise that we are seeing traders flock to safe havens in response, with gold and the yen both sharply higher throughout the morning\'s trade."Gold, for example, was up 0.8 percent at $1,347.40 an ounce.___5:30 p.m.A senior Chinese finance official has warned that attempts by foreign countries to pressure China on trade will fail, striking a firm note as Beijing announced proposed tariff hikes on American goods in response to planned U.S. duties.Zhu Guangyao, China\'s deputy finance minister, said Wednesday that Beijing hopes both sides can work together in a constructive manner, "instead of acting in a willful way."He made the comment at a briefing to discuss China\'s plans to impose a 25 percent tariff hike on U.S. soybeans, autos, aircraft and other goods valued at $50 billion.Zhu said that China never gives in to outside pressure and that "pressure from the outside will only urge and encourage the Chinese people to work even harder" and to innovate and develop.___5:15 p.m.A senior official with China\'s Commerce Ministry says Beijing will keep the door to negotiations with the U.S. open, after announcing a plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of U.S. goods in response to proposed U.S. tariffs.Wang Shouwen, a vice minister of Commerce, said Wednesday at a briefing with reporters that Beijing doesn\'t want a trade war but will fight one if forced to.Wang said Beijing was willing to resolve these disputes with the U.S. through dialogue on the basis of "mutual respect and mutual benefit."Wang said: "If anyone wants to fight, we\'ll be there with him, if they want to negotiate, the door is open."___4:20 p.m.China has raised tariffs on $50 billion of U.S. goods including soybeans, aircraft and automobiles in response to Washington\'s increased duties on Chinese goods in a technology dispute.The Commerce Ministry on Wednesday criticized the U.S. move as a violation of global trade rules and said China was acting to protect its "legitimate rights and interests."It said a 25 percent tariff would be imposed and the date the charges will take effect would be announced later.The dispute stems from U.S. complaints that Beijing pressures foreign companies to hand over technology in return for market access.Companies and investors worry the conflict could dampen worldwide commerce and set back the global economic recovery.
WASHINGTON   The United States and China should avoid a trade war, China\'s Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai said on Wednesday, stressing that Beijing\'s preference was to resolve the dispute  through negotiations."Negotiation would still be our preference but it takes two to tango," Cui told reporters after an hour-long meeting at the State Department with Acting U.S. Secretary of State John Sullivan. "We will see what the U.S. will do," he added.Cui said the meeting covered all aspects of the U.S.-China relationship, which he described as "comprehensive and complex.""We discussed the overall relationship, including the trade aspects," he said.Cui and State Department officials said the meeting had been arranged before Washington announced proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese products, a move that provoked Chinese retaliation.A U.S. trade official said on Wednesday the United States may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, but he declined to say whether high-level meetings were planned.One of the first opportunities for the United States and China to discuss the dispute will be on the sidelines of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank meeting in Washington  on April 20-22. A U.S. official said no talks had been scheduled.The State Department said afterwards that both sides had discussed the need to restore "fairness and balance" in the economic relationship between the United States and China, the world\'s largest economies.Both sides agreed on the importance of pursuing a "constructive U.S.-China relationship that produces meaningful results," the department said in a statement.The meeting also reaffirmed their commitment "to the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula" - a reference to their cooperation in resolving a crisis over North Korea\'s development of nuclear missiles capable of hitting the United States.China has traditionally been North Korea\'s closest ally though ties have been frayed by North Korean leader Kim Jong Uns pursuit of nuclear weapons and missiles and Beijing\'s backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by Diane Craft and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   An escalating trade dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies heightened fears Wednesday of a global trade war, sent global stock markets tumbling but also left the door open to a negotiated settlement that might prevent any serious damage before it begins.The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled after markets fell in Europe and Asia on worries of an intensifying trade conflict between the United States and China.After the United States unveiled plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports Tuesday, China lashed back within hours, matching the American tariffs with plans to tax $50 billion of U.S. products, including soybeans and small aircraft.The tariffs wouldn\'t kick in right away. The U.S. government is inviting public comment on its trade sanctions through May 11 and will hold a hearing on the plan May 15. And China set no date for its 25 percent duties to take effect, saying it is waiting to see what President Donald Trump does.U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross brushed off concern about a trade war. In an interview with CNBC on Wednesday morning, Ross said the tariffs announced by China amount to a mere 0.3 percent of America\'s gross domestic product. He added that some U.S. punitive action against Beijing has been "coming for a while" over what the United States calls China\'s predatory behavior involving technology."What we\'re talking about on both sides is a fraction of 1 percent of both economies," Ross said.The larger concern, the commerce secretary said, is the protection of U.S. intellectual property.Asked whether the U.S. tariffs against China were a negotiating ploy, Lawrence Kudlow, Trump\'s top economic adviser, said: "Potentially. It\'s part of the process. I would take the president seriously on this tariff issue. There are carrots and sticks in life... Both sides benefit by positive solutions that lower barriers."Beijing\'s list of 106 products included the biggest U.S. exports to China, reflecting its intense sensitivity to the dispute over American complaints that it pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.The clash reflects the tension between Trump\'s promises to narrow a U.S. trade deficit with China that stood at $375.2 billion in goods last year and the ruling Communist Party\'s development ambitions. Regulators use access to China\'s vast market as leverage to press foreign automakers and other companies to help create or improve industries and technology.In a tweet Wednesday after China\'s announcement, Trump said: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."A list the U.S. issued Tuesday of products subject to tariff hikes included aerospace, telecoms and machinery, striking at high-tech industries seen by China\'s leaders as the key to its economic future.China said it would immediately challenge the U.S. move in the World Trade Organization. A deputy finance minister, Zhu Guangyao, appealed to Washington to "work in a constructive manner" and avoid hurting both countries but warned against expecting Beijing to back down.Companies and economists have expressed concern that global economic activity might sputter if other governments are prompted to raise their own import barriers.China announced tariffs worth $50 billion on a series of U.S. products including soybeans, whiskey and cars. Chinese officials said they were obliged to act after the U.S. announced plans for tariffs in an escalating dispute over China\'s technology program and other trade issues."U.S. companies at this point would like to see robust communication between the US government and the Chinese government and serious negotiation on both sides, hopefully to avoid a trade war," said the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China, William Zarit. "I can only hope that we solve our differences as soon as possible to avoid damage to the U.S. economy, Chinese economy and to U.S. companies."American companies have long chafed under Chinese regulations that require them to operate through local partners and share technology with potential competitors in exchange for market access. Business groups say companies feel unwelcome in China\'s state-dominated economy and are being squeezed out of promising industries.Chinese policies "coerce American companies into transferring their technology" to Chinese enterprises, said a statement by the U.S. Trade Representative.Foreign companies are increasingly alarmed by initiatives such as Beijing\'s long-range industry development plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025." It calls for creating global leaders in electric cars, robots and other fields. Companies complain that might block access to those industries.Wang, the commerce official, defended "Made in China 2025." He said it was "transparent, open and non-discriminatory" and foreign companies could participate. Wang said the plan, which sets targets for domestic brands\' share of some markets, should be seen as a guide rather than mandatory.A report released Tuesday by the U.S. Trade Representative also cited complaints that Beijing uses cyber spying to steal foreign business secrets.The Chinese list Wednesday included soybeans, the biggest U.S. export to China, and aircraft up to 45 tons in weight. That excludes high-end Boeing Co. jetliners such as the 747 and 777, leaving Beijing high-profile targets for possible future conflicts.Also on the list were American beef, whisky, passenger vehicles and industrial chemicals.Zhu, the deputy finance minister, expressed thanks to American soybean farmers who he said had lobbied the Trump administration to "safeguard hard-won economic relations between the United States and China."To minimize the cost to China, regulators picked products for which replacements are available, such as soybeans from Australia or Brazil, said Tu Xinquan, director of WTO studies at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing.The Global Times newspaper, published by the ruling party and known for its nationalistic tone, suggested that further retaliatory action might target service industries in which the United States runs a trade surplus. Regulators have wide discretion to withhold licenses or take other action to disrupt logistics and other service businesses.In a separate dispute, Beijing raised tariffs Monday on a $3 billion list of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe in response to increased duties on imports of steel and aluminum that took effect March 23.___McDonald reported from Beijing.___AP Writers Zeke Miller, Gillian Wong and Christopher Bodeen and AP researchers Shanshan Wang and Yu Bing contributed.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce (in Chinese): www.mofcom.gov.cn
SHANGHAI   As trade tensions rise between the United States and China, a small but vocal online community is calling for a boycott of U.S. products, fanning fears that American brands could see a backlash similar to that faced by South Korea last year.China on Wednesday hit back at the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of duties on key U.S. imports with similar value including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals. [nL4N1RH18A]"Counterattack in trade war" was the third most-read topic on China\'s Weibo microblogging platform on Wednesday, viewed about 230 million times, while an editorial published the same day in the state-backed English-language tabloid Global Times warning the United States against an entering a trade war drew roughly 7,000 comments."The sons and daughters of China should unite and boycott U.S. products, modern war is conducted by the people," said one Weibo user with the handle "Deanliu1314".A commenter on the Global Times article said, "if they resist Chinese products, the United States won\'t be able to find an alternative. But if we boycott all U.S. products, China-made products can easily fill the gap".Products online commenters called for boycotting included Boeing  planes, Apple products, U.S. soybeans and even American graduate schools, with others saying that they could repeat what Chinese shoppers had done to South Korea."I resolutely support all trade measures China is taking against the United States," said another user who said he would boycott U.S. and South Korean products. "It starts with me."However, there was no evidence yet of an organised campaign to stoke anti-U.S. behaviour, or that consumers were yet shunning U.S. goods in any numbers.Trade and business exchanges between South Korea and China turned chilly last year after South Korea deployed the U.S.-made Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) anti-missile system despite vehement objections from Beijing.The THAAD disagreement prompted an undeclared Chinese boycott of products ranging from South Korean cosmetics to cars, and was estimated to have knocked about 0.4 percentage points off South Korea\'s expected economic growth in 2017. [nL3N1OD250]The highest profile corporate casualty was South Korean conglomerate Lotte Group, which saw its plans for mega shopping complexes indefinitely suspended and nearly all of its Lotte Mart stores in China shut for much of the year over alleged fire safety issues. [nL4N1MR6B7]Ben Cavender, an analyst at Shanghai-based China Market Research Group, said U.S. businesses in China such as Starbucks were more firmly entrenched in the country, making them less likely to receive similar treatment."A lot of the brands are employing Chinese workers, essentially they\'re Chinese companies in their own right," he said.However, he warned that everyday consumption goods could nonetheless be hit."You can see consumers saying we\'re not going to buy a Ford, or a GM product, and we\'re going to buy a European product or a Chinese product instead," he said.Jim Boyce, a Beijing-based wine consultant who writes the blog Grapewallofchina, said while there were concerns that the duties would make U.S. wine less cost-competitive, the greater worry was over the image the trade war would generate for U.S. goods. [nL2N1RG14C]On Monday, China imposed extra tariffs on imports of American goods including wine, in response to U.S. duties on steel and aluminium imports."Are we going to see people in China worried about drinking American wine because of politics? That\'s the bigger problem," he said.Christopher Beros, trade director for China and the Pacific Rim at the California Wine Institute, which represented roughly 1,000 California wineries, said the issue was making him nervous."We do see collective thinking from time to time, and if someone gets stigmatised in a way, that\'s always a concern."(Reporting by Brenda Goh; Additional Reporting by SHANGHAI Newsroom; Editing by Tony Munroe and Alex Richardson)
TOKYO   Japanese government officials are bracing for Donald Trump to get tough in trade talks, and are particularly anxious that the U.S. president could target Prime Minister Shinzo Abe\'s weak-yen policies.The deal Trump clinched with South Korea last month, which was reached in unusually quick negotiations and included a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation, was the kind of agreement Tokyo fears most.The officials told Reuters that they worry that similar tactics could be used against Tokyo when Trump meets Abe for a summit at Mar-a-Lago, the president\'s Florida resort, later this month.If Trump forces Bank of Japan and currency policy into discussions, Japanese policymakers dont have an obvious way to appease him, especially given the unpredictable nature of his attacks.The biggest risk is if Trump links trade with currency policy and accuses Japan of keeping the yen artificially weak through ultra-easy monetary policy, especially as he seeks to appeal to voters ahead of Novembers mid-term U.S. congressional elections. Back in January 2017, Trump alleged that Japan used its "money supply" to weaken the yen and give exporters an unfair advantage.Any such concerted pressure could bind Tokyo\'s hands in dealing with a climb in the yen, which would hurt the nations export-reliant economy that has been growing but may not be resilient to such a sideswipe."As mid-term elections draw near, it\'s possible Washington could put Japan\'s currency policy to notice," said a Japanese government official with knowledge of the negotiations.Another official said: "It\'s hard to predict what Trump would say, so the BOJ\'s policy could come under fire. It\'s not an immediate risk but something in everyone\'s mind.WARY OF SENDING SIGNALTo be sure, the side agreement on the won that South Korea agreed to is not binding and focuses on what Japan already does  disclose details on currency intervention such as how much was spent and when. Still, Japan is wary of sending out any signal to markets that Trump is attacking Japans currency policy and that this could in any way prevent Tokyo from acting to restrain excessive yen gains.When Abe and Trump met in February 2017, they kicked off a bilateral economic dialogue led by their deputies to discuss a series of issues, including trade, infrastructure and technical aid.By broadening the agenda, Japan has managed so far to avert direct U.S. demands for negotiations over a bilateral trade pact, known as a free trade agreement (FTA).Japan has long upheld a multilateral framework as its export-reliant economy has benefited greatly from global free trade. This approach helps Japan diffuse direct pressure from countries like the United States to open up its politically sensitive markets, such as agriculture.Japanese officials say they will resist two-way trade deals with the United States at the summit, even if that reduces the chance of gaining exemptions for Washington\'s recently introduced steel and aluminium tariffs. Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union from these import duties. South Korea avoided tariffs but at a cost of agreeing to export quotas.There are now major questions about whether the Japanese multilateral approach will be good enough for Trump.The U.S. Trade Representative last week criticised what it said were non-tariff barriers to the Japanese car market and called for greater access to Japan for American beef and rice."The United States is only interested in a bilateral deal and probably won\'t listen to Japanese calls for a multilateral approach on trade," said Naoyuki Shinohara, Japan\'s former top currency diplomat who retains close contact with incumbent policymakers."Japan will eventually have to enter FTA talks" and face U.S. pressure to open up its auto and farm markets, he said.BOJ\'S COMMUNICATION CHALLENGESome officials say Japan is in a stronger position than South Korea and won\'t have to compromise as much. That is because it still does not have a bilateral FTA, is transparent on currency policy and hasn\'t intervened in the currency market since northeastern Japan was hit by a massive earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011."Japan has far more to lose from a bilateral FTA. It doesn\'t make sense to do this to avoid tariffs," said a third government official directly involved in bilateral negotiations. "We\'ll never allow currency issues be tied to trade. That\'s absolutely unacceptable."A renewed attack on Japan\'s currency policy will be damaging particularly since Tokyo has hardly any ammunition left to fight another yen spike.Fears of a trade war have boosted investors\' demand for the safe-haven yen and pushed up the Japanese currency to around 106 against the dollar, significantly stronger than the 109-level on which many exporters base their earnings forecasts for the current fiscal year to March 2019.Japanese policymakers have warned that the yen\'s 7 percent gain against the dollar this year is too volatile a move, though such verbal warnings have had little effect in keeping yen rises in check.While currency intervention hasnt been ruled out if the yen spikes to less than 100 to the dollar, gaining U.S. consent for such a move would be extremely hard, the officials say.That leaves monetary policy as a last resort, though the BOJ too has barely any tools left to fight a currency gain or another recession after BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda\'s "bazooka" stimulus that started in 2013.The BOJ\'s huge buying has dried up bond market liquidity and years of near-zero interest rates have eroded bank profits, raising concern that more easing could do more harm than good.Even maintaining the current policy, which pegs Japanese government bond yields at zero even as U.S. interest rates rise, could draw U.S. heat if Washington perceives it as intended to weaken the yen, some analysts say.The BOJs current framework is clearly a weak-yen policy. Japan would struggle to explain otherwise if it comes under heat by the United States, said Yasuhide Yajima, chief economist at NLI Research Institute.Hiroshi Watanabe, a former top Japanese currency diplomat, said Tokyo could face criticism if the dollar rises to around 115 yen and the U.S.-Japan interest rate gap widens to around 350 basis points."The BOJ should be mindful that at some point, the United States could argue that it\'s using monetary policy" to keep the yen weak, he said.(Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Martin Howell)
WASHINGTON   The United States and China, the world\'s two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other\'s goods.The United States on Tuesday said it would impose 25 percent duties on $50 billion of imports from China, and China quickly retaliated by listing $50 billion of products that it could hit with its own 25 percent tariffs. Earlier in the week, Beijing announced separate import duties on $3 billion of U.S. goods in response to the Trump administration\'s duties on all steel and aluminum imports, including from China.U.S. officials sought to downplay the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. Even so, economists warned that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could escalate."The seeds of a more serious conflict are there," said Adam Slater, lead economist at Oxford Economics, a consulting firm.Some of the largest American brands, from Apple to Boeing to Kentucky Fried Chicken, are increasingly intertwined with the Chinese market. They either sell billions of dollars of goods there or make some of their products in China, or both.So h did we get here, and what might the impact be?:__WHY DID THIS DISPUTE BLOW UP?President Donald Trump says Beijing is violating its free-trade commitments by pressuring foreign companies to hand over technology to potential Chinese competitors in exchange for market access.A U.S. trade official said Wednesday that the administration was moved by concerns that China is increasing its use of unfair trade practices, expanding them from industries such as steel to high-tech industries where U.S. companies dominate.A key irritant is Beijing\'s long-range industry plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025." It calls for establishing Chinese global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields. Foreign companies complain that the initiative will limit or outright block their access to those industries.Trump has also pledged to narrow the U.S. trade deficit with China, which Washington estimated at $337.2 billion last year, a record for any country.__WILL U.S. CONSUMERS END UP PAYING MORE?Not yet. The United States plans to impose tariffs on mostly machinery and high-tech goods typically purchased by businesses. The duties would mostly steer clear of the billions of dollars of consumer goods that the U.S. imports from China, such as iPhones, toys, and shoes. Only about one-tenth of China\'s goods exports to the United States would be affected.Still, economists say many companies might try to pass their extra costs from the tariffs onto consumers. Prices would rise, though likely only slightly. Kathy Bostjancic, an economist at Oxford Economics, estimates they could raise inflation by just one-tenth of a percentage point.__WILL THE DISPUTE HURT U.S. ECONOMY?The steps taken so far shouldn\'t have much of an impact. Only about 2.5 percent of all U.S. imports are affected by the tariffs. And imports from all countries amount to just 15 percent of the economy.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody\'s Analytics, estimates that the tariffs threatened so far could slice U.S. growth by just one or two-tenths of a percentage point this year."So far, at least, this is relatively minor," he said. "It\'s going to take a lot to derail this economy."Still, specific industries would feel some pain if threats of higher tariffs are carried out. China is the top overseas market for U.S. soybeans. And China has included soybeans on its list of 106 products that would be hit by retaliatory tariffs.Automakers such as Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz would also be hit. BMW exports 89,000 cars a year from the U.S. to China, while Mercedes-Benz sends 65,000 cars, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein. Tesla expects to sell about 15 percent of its Model S and Model X cars in China this year.__WHAT WILL LIKELY HAPPEN NEXT?So far, no tariffs have actually been imposed. And some U.S. officials say they\'re at least partly intended as a negotiating ploy. U.S. officials say they\'ll hold hearings on the administration\'s proposed target list of 1,300 products in mid-May and haven\'t set a deadline for when the tariffs would take effect.Nor has China set a date for imposing tariffs on the 106 products it has targeted."It will be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented, and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said.___Associated Press Writer Joe McDonald in Beijing contributed to this report.

(Reuters) - Shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile on Wednesday after China proposed duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in retaliation to Trump administration tariff plans.China was hitting back against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods with similar tariffs on U.S. goods even as Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the administration was involved in a "negotiation" with China rather than a trade war.While the broader U.S. equity market recovered somewhat as the day wore on industrial stocks were still down significantly by late afternoon. [.N]Shares in U.S. aerospace giant Boeing Co were last down 2.5 percent making it one of the biggest drags on the S&P 500 though it was not immediately clear how much the tariffs would affect Boeing\'s newer products. The United States exported $15 billion of aircraft to China in 2016, ranking the sector equally with agricultural products like soybeans, according U.S. trade data."We understand some big-picture concern but it appears to us that the specific proposals from China this morning are calibrated carefully to avoid a major impact on Boeing and are therefore intended more as a message to the U.S. administration that additional trade barriers will be met with an escalating response," said JPMorgan analyst Seth Seifman.DowDuPont Inc said its agriculture unit could be hurt by the escalating conflict as there could be "price declines in the total market" for soybeans, with negative impacts on U.S. farmers. Its shares were last down 0.6 percent.General Motors shares reversed earlier losses and were last up 0.7 percent after the No. 1 U.S. automaker called for constructive U.S./ China dialogue, citing an "interdependence between the world\'s two largest automotive markets."Agricultural machinery maker Deere & Co was down 4.5 percent. Eli Lustgarten, industrial outlook consultant at ESL Consultants, St Louis, said he was more concerned about the impact to food commodity exports, which would hurt Deere\'s U.S. farm customers, than farm equipment exports.Soybean exporter Archer Daniels Midland Co and another agribusiness Bunge Ltd reversed their premarket losses and were last up more than 1 percent.Some analysts including Mizuho\'s Jeremy Scott saw a silver lining for meat producers though as soybean supply could be stranded on the U.S. market. This could cut costs for U.S. meat companies. Tyson Foods shares were up 2 percent as a result.Investors in the S&P 500\'s technology sector were also rattled since it has the biggest revenue exposure to China out of the benchmark\'s 11 major sectors. Chipmakers such as Nvidia Corp, with a 1.7 percent drop, and Intel Corp, with a 1.0 percent decline, were among the biggest percentage losers in that sector."These are some of the companies most exposed to potential tariffs. They would affect their business directly, immediately. said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer of Commonwealth Financial Network in Waltham, Massachusetts.Shares of Caterpillar, also a big exporter to China, fell 1.5 percent.(Additional reporting by April Joyner, Scott Alwyn, Charles Mikolajczak and Lewis Krauskopf in New York, Taenaz Shakir in Bengaluru; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and David Gregorio)
(Reuters) - China on Wednesday hit back at U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports, proposing additional tariffs of 25 percent on 106 categories of U.S. goods, from soybeans to autos, chemicals and some kinds of aircraft.The trade tension brewing between the world\'s two largest economies hit global markets, with shares of industrial companies with exposure to Chinese markets, such as Boeing Co and Deere & Co, among the hardest hit.The following are some of the possible winners and losers among U.S. companies and sectors:AUTO COMPANIES:U.S. automaker General Motors Co urged the two countries to engage in constructive dialogue over trade. The company\'s stock fell as much as 3 percent before reversing course to close nearly 3 percent higher.GM rival Ford Motor Co also lost as much as 3 percent before rebounding to close 1.6 percent higher while electric carmaker Tesla Inc , which depends on China for 17 percent of its revenue, fell as much as 5.8 percent before retracing losses to end up over 7.2 percent. Shares of Fiat Chrysler fell as much as 3.4 percent before recovering to end up nearly 2 percent.Ford said it encouraged both governments to work together to resolve issues.BOEING & INDUSTRIALS:Aircraft maker Boeing Co closed down 1 percent, weighing the most on the Dow Jones Industrial Average as documents from China\'s Ministry of Commerce and the U.S. manufacturer showed the move would affect some older Boeing narrowbody models. It was not immediately clear how much the tariffs would impact its newer aircraft.Boeing said it was assessing the situation while analysts from JP Morgan said the proposals from China looked to have been calibrated carefully to avoid a major impact on the planemaker.Fellow Dow component 3M Co lost as much as 2.4 percent before rebounding to end 0.6 percent higher.Farming equipment maker Deere lost nearly $10 per share at its lowest. The company urged the two countries to work toward a resolution to "limit uncertainty for farmers and avoid meaningful disruptions to agricultural trade." The stock ended 2.9 percent lower at $148.57.TECH MAJORS:The S&P 500 technology sector, which has the biggest revenue exposure to China among the benchmark\'s 11 major sectors, dipped 0.5 percent before rebounding to end 1.3 percent higher.Chip stocks were among the worst-hit in the sector with Intel Corp and Nvidia Corp both falling before retracing losses to end narrowly higher. Broadcom Ltd ended the day nearly flat at $236.99. China\'s position as an assembly hub for electronic devices makes it the biggest consumer of semiconductors.Cisco Systems Inc closed slightly higher at $41.20, but said it was "analyzing the impact of these tariffs on Cisco and reviewing plans to minimize the impact on our business, our customers and our partners," company spokeswoman Robyn Blum told Reuters.WHISKEYBrown-Forman Corp, the maker of Jack Daniel\'s whiskey, slipped about 1 percent before recovering to close up 1.3 percent to $54.71 after whiskey was singled out as the only spirit on which China planned to impose more tariffs.The Distilled Spirits Council, a U.S. industry group, asked the United States and China to reach a resolution without subjecting American whiskey to more tariffs, which it said would harm Chinese consumers, its hospitality sector and U.S. whiskey exporters. The Council also said U.S. whiskey accounted for nearly 70 percent of the total U.S. spirits exported to China, by value, in 2017.COMMODITIES & CHEMICALSDowDuPont Inc said its agriculture unit could be affected by the escalating conflict, warning of price declines for soybeans, and a negative impact on U.S. farmers. Shares closed up about 0.6 percent at $63.69.Grain traders Archer Daniels Midland Co and Bunge Ltd, which trade U.S. soybeans in China, were both off as much as 1.5 percent. Archer Daniels recovered to add 1.8 percent to $43.90, and Bunge gained 2 percent to close at $75.64.The American Chemistry Council (ACC) - which counts Exxon, Chevron, Monsanto and others as its members - urged the United States and China to come to an understanding. "Engaging in a trade war with one of our country\'s most significant trading partners is not the answer," said ACC Chief Executive Officer Cal Dooley.Exxon closed 0.2 percent lower at $74.87, and Monsanto also fell 0.2 percent to $116.75. Chevron dipped 0.3 percent to $114.48.WINNERSU.S. meat processor Tyson Foods Inc, meat exporter Hormel Foods Corp rose on the prospect of a drop in prices of soybean - a key feedstock - following higher Chinese tariffs on U.S. exports. Tyson closed up 2.3 percent at $71.54, and Hormel ended the day at $35.87, a gain of 4.8 percent.(This version of the story deletes first half of Cisco statement from paragraph 13 after company said the outdated portion was provided to Reuters in error)(Reporting by Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr, Shounak Dasgupta and G Crosse)
HONG KONG   Global shares fell sharply Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, in an escalation of trade tensions between the world\'s two biggest economies.KEEPING SCORE: After a flat open, European markets fell sharply once the China tariffs were announced. Germany\'s DAX fell 1.1 percent to 11,867 while France\'s CAC 40 was down 0.7 percent at 5,114. The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares was 0.4 percent lower at 7,003. Wall Street was poised for big losses at the open with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures 1.4 percent lower. The anticipated retreat at the open is set to wipe out Tuesday\'s gains.TARIFF TENSIONS: Beijing and Washington detailed plans to hike tariffs on a broad swath of imported goods from each other, in a series of rapid fire announcements over less than 24 hours. China issued a $50 billion list of more than 100 U.S. goods including soybeans and aircraft targeted for a possible 25 percent tariff hike. Beijing was responding to an announcement hours earlier by President Donald Trump\'s administration outlining proposed tariffs on 1,300 imported Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecoms gear, to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of U.S. technology. China\'s envoy to the WTO said Beijing would challenge the U.S. moves. The Chinese Commerce Ministry said the date the tariff hikes take effect depends on whether the U.S. actually moves to raise its duties.ANALYST TAKE: "The losses more than wipe out Tuesday\'s rebound and set us on course for another worrying session driven by fears that a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies is heating up with neither side showing any sign of backing down," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.ASIAN SCORECARD: Most Asian indexes had closed when China announced its response to the U.S. tariff plans. Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 crept 0.1 percent higher to end at 21,319.55 but South Korea\'s Kospi slid 1.4 percent to 2,408.06 as the won weakened from the 3  year high it touched against the dollar earlier this week. The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.2 percent to 3,131.11 while Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng slumped 2.2 percent to 29,518.69 with the decline accelerating in the final minutes of trading after Beijing announced specifics of its tariff hikes.CURRENCIES: The euro was flat at $1.2273 while the dollar fell 0.4 percent to 106.23 yen.ENERGY: Oil\'s rally fizzled. A barrel of U.S. crude fell 92 cents to $62.59 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 82 cents to $67.30 a barrel in London.
BEIJING   Beijing has announced a $50 billion list of U.S. goods for possible tariff hikes in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.That followed the release of a U.S. government list of Chinese goods targeted for punitive tariffs in response to complaints Beijing pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.On Monday, China raised duties on $3 billion of U.S. pork, apples, and other goods in response to higher American import duties on steel and aluminum.The issues at stake:___Q: WHY DID THIS DISPUTE BLOW UP?A: U.S. President Donald Trump says Beijing is violating its free-trade commitments by pressuring foreign companies to hand over technology to potential Chinese competitors in exchange for market access.Trump has pledged to narrow the U.S. trade deficit with China, which Washington put at $375.2 billion last year, a record for any country.A key irritant is Beijing\'s long-range industry plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025," which calls for creating Chinese global leaders in electric cars, robotics and other fields. Foreign companies complain that will limit or outright block their access to those industries.___Q: WHAT HAVE THE TWO SIDES DONE SO FAR?A: Trump approved tariff increases on steel and aluminum imports in response to complaints American suppliers were threatened by unfairly low-priced imports.The United States buys little steel and aluminum from China, but analysts said Beijing felt compelled to respond, partly as a "warning shot" ahead of an expected fight over technology.On Monday, China raised duties on pork and aluminum scrap by 25 percent and on apples, sparkling wine, steel pipes and other goods by 15 percent. The measures appeared to target farm states that voted for Trump in 2016.___Q: WHAT IS AT STAKE?A: The United States and China have the world\'s biggest trading relationship. That gives them an incentive to reach a settlement to avoid damaging many businesses on both sides.Exports to China directly or indirectly supported 1.8 million new U.S. jobs in 2015, according to the U.S.-China Business Council, an industry group.Wednesday\'s Chinese tariff hike targeted goods including soybeans, the biggest U.S. export to China, and aircraft.Economists and investors worry other governments might respond by raising their own import barriers. That might chill commerce and set back a global economic recovery.___Q: WHY DOES TECHNOLOGY MATTER?A: The latest tariff dispute strikes at the heart of technology industries China\'s leaders consider vital for its economic future.Chinese factories assemble most of the world\'s smartphones, computers and consumer electronics. But Beijing wants to capture more of the profits by becoming a creator of technology instead of a low-cost factory.The ruling Communist Party is spending heavily and pressing foreign companies for help in developing Chinese global competitors in telecoms, electric cars and other technologies.Washington is trying to promote technology exports to offset its imports from China and support higher-paying jobs.American and other foreign companies have long complained about Chinese rules that require automakers and others to work through local partners, compelling them to share technology with potential competitors.Last month, Washington filed a World Trade Organization complaint over Chinese policy it said limits the ability of foreign companies to control and profit from their technology.___Q: WHAT\'S LIKELY TO COME NEXT?A: Chinese officials have acknowledged their country has more to lose in a full-blown conflict with Washington but say they will endure the cost.Beijing has options for retaliating against U.S. companies operating in China. Regulators could withhold licenses or alter other conditions to hamper foreign business activity.Some economists have suggested Washington could target state-owned enterprises that dominate industries including energy, telecoms and banking.Europe and Japan also have grumbled about the monopolies and other privileges given to SOEs. Washington may try to get them to jointly pressure Beijing for change.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump's administration does not at this time have another new, big trade initiative planned against China and is focused on implementing the moves that have already been announced, a White House official said on Wednesday.The official said the administration was aware of the market reaction to the trade row with Beijing, but said economic fundamentals and long-term trends were more compelling to policymakers at the White House.(Reporting by Jeff Mason, editing by G Crosse)
BERLIN   It is crucial for the United States and the European Union to engage in dialogue to avoid a trade conflict, a spokeswoman for the German Economy Ministry said on Wednesday.China hit back on Wednesday at the U.S. plans to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals."The development shows it\'s all the more important for us to use the time that we now have until May 1 for dialogue between the U.S. and the EU to avoid a spiral that leads to a trade conflict," she added.Baron said it was also important to talk to China about trade.(Reporting by Michelle Martin and Madeline Chambers)
WASHINGTON   The United States and China may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, a U.S. trade official said on Wednesday, but he declined to say whether any new high-level meetings were planned.The official also said retaliatory tariffs proposed by China on $50 billion worth of U.S. goods on Wednesday, hours after Washington readied tariffs on a similar amount of Chinese goods, were an attempt to "intimidate" the Trump administration to "back down" from its trade demands."As the president himself made clear, whenever he announced the 301 actions, there have been talks, there may continue to be talks," the official told reporters on a conference call. "We would like to see China change its actions and we\'d like to see them move in a more market oriented direction."(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by David Gregorio)
THE HAGUE   An Islamist militant suspected of war crimes in Mali appeared before the International Criminal Court on Wednesday but did not address the allegations against him, instead complaining about the conditions of his detention.The ICC issued an arrest warrant against Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz Ag Mohamed Ag Mahmoud for crimes allegedly committed while serving as de facto chief of religious police after his jihadist group seized control of the Malian city of Timbuktu in 2012.He is accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity over the destruction of cultural monuments in the ancient city in Mali\'s north, and over enforcement of policies that led to sexual enslavement of women and girls.When asked during his first appearance at the ICC if he had any observations to make to the court, Al Hassan, who is not yet required to enter a plea, complained about his detention."I was detained in a single room with a camera," he told the judge after confirming his identity. Al Hassans duty counsel told the court his client believed the circumstances of his detention were "harming his dignity and his privacy".Al Hassan was a member of Ansar Dine, one of several Islamist militant groups that have waged an insurgency against the Malian government since 2012.Timbuktu is known for monuments dating to its 14th century golden age and was once a major trading hub and centre of Sufi Islam - a branch of the religion seen as idolatrous by some Muslim militant groups.After seizing Timbuktu, Ansar Dine introduced its version of sharia law that Al Hassan is accused of helping to enforce, including forced marriages for some women and girls and the destruction of Sufi monuments.Under ICC rules, Al Hassan has not yet formally been charged. The next step in his case is a confirmation of charges hearing that has been tentatively set for Sept. 24.He was handed over to ICC custody in The Hague on March 31, almost a year after his arrest in northern Mali.Mali fell into turmoil when Islamist fighters and Tuareg-led rebels seized control of the country\'s north six years ago.France poured hundreds of troops into its former West African colony to repel the insurgents in 2013, but attacks have been spreading further south towards the capital Bamako despite a U.N. peacekeeping mission.(Reporting by Stephanie van den Berg; Editing by Anthony Deutsch and Mark Heinrich)
BEIJING   China's Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday that the United States has repeatedly missed the best opportunities for resolution on trade.Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang also told a regular news briefing that China was maintaining communication with the United States on the current trade issues.(Reporting by Philip Wen; Writing by Michael Martina; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)

WASHINGTON   The White House said on Wednesday it hoped China would change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that would avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs."It\'s going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they don\'t stop the unfair trade practices then we would move forward," she said.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Writing by Tim Ahmann; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley on Wednesday blasted the Trump administration over its handling of trade issues, saying while the United States should act, China\'s retaliatory moves were disproportionately affecting America\'s agriculture sector."If the federal government takes action on trade that directly results in economic hardship for certain Americans, it has a responsibility to help those Americans and mitigate the damage it caused," the Iowa Republican said, adding that he planned to take action in the Senate Judiciary and Finance committees.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Kevin Drawbaugh; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
SHANGHAI   The United States\' trade investigation into Chinese firms has no factual basis and the environment for intellectual property protection has continuously improved, a leading Chinese trade group for machinery and electronic products said on Wednesday.The China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products, which has nearly 10,000 members, made the comments in a statement issued to state broadcaster CCTV.It said that the US\' actions would cause "huge" losses to Chinese and U.S. firms and noted that the Chinese government was ready to take equal measures on U.S. products to safeguard China\'s interests. "We will give it full support," it said.(Reporting by Brenda Goh; Editing by Kim Coghill)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser said on Wednesday he expected China would "play ball" on trade and come to agreements that would avoid the need for the United States to implement steep tariffs on Chinese imports."I think we\'re going to come to agreements," White House National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow told Fox News Channel. "I personally, my view, I believe that the Chinese will back down and will play ball."(Reporting by Tim Ahmann; Editing by James Dalgleish)
LONDON   The ratcheting up of trade tensions between the United States and China is "worrisome", the head of the OECD said on Wednesday after the two countries traded blows over $50 billion of import tariffs."This is very worrisome. You are talking about the number one and number two traders in the world," Angel Gurria, Secretary General of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development said at London\'s Chatham House think-tank."It\'s not good for anyone, it\'s bad... It\'s a lose-lose situation."(Reporting by Marc Jones; editing by Dhara Ranasinghe)
LOS ANGELES   Actor Robert Downey Jr. is joining the directors of "Avengers: Infinity War" in calling for fans to maintain secrecy.The star tweeted "no spoilers please." He signed it with the (hashtag) ThanosDemandsYour Silence. Thanos is the fictional Marvel Comics villain who will be portrayed by Josh Brolin in the movie. Downey plays Iron Man.Directors Joe and Anthony Russo went on Twitter to tell fans they would be screening a limited amount of footage prior to the film\'s release on April 27. They say "only a handful of people know the film\'s true plot."They asked fans to maintain the same level of secrecy so that they don\'t spoil it for others.
WASHINGTON   Steve Bannon, President Donald Trump\'s former chief strategist and 2016 campaign CEO, had a fiery response on Wednesday to Wall Street\'s dim view of Trump\'s trade actions against China.Ask the working people in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan about Wall Street. Wall Street supported and cheered on the export of their jobs. To hell with Wall Street if they dont like it. Its time somebody stood up to them and Donald Trump is the perfect guy. Wall Street is always short term. Trump is trying to protect the beating heart of American capitalism - our innovation," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.Bannon, who maintains ties to the White House, said Trump\'s recent moves to impose tariffs are a signal to the Chinese that "the game of continual delay is over" and that they will have to address the central issue of forced technology transfers.""Its full throwdown. Trump has planned this out for a long time. He led with the smart things, forced technology transfers. Its obvious the Chinese have no real response to this. I think they played completely into his hands. By putting tariffs on agricultural products and avoiding addressing the technology questions theyve shown once again they consider us nothing more than a tributary state.This is the beating heart of American capitalism: Technology innovation that the Chinese have either stolen or forced American companies to turn over. Trump has signaled that those days are over," he said.Just 11 hours after the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products, China responded with a list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by James Dalgleish)
SALEM, Ore.   Federal authorities on Wednesday began legal proceedings to strip U.S. citizenship from two Bosnians, including one living in Oregon, for war crimes including executing civilians during that country's civil war in the 1990s.The move by the U.S. Justice Department comes years after Rasema Handanovic and Edin Dzeko were extradited and later convicted by courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011. After serving her sentence, Handanovic returned to Beaverton, Oregon, according to a statement from the Justice department, while Dzeko has not yet been released by Bosnian authorities.The department filed denaturalization lawsuits against the pair in federal courts in Oregon and the District of Columbia Wednesday. It wasn't immediately clear if Handanovic has an attorney in Oregon, and information about an attorney for Dzeko was not immediately available.Members of the same military unit during the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990's, the pair were convicted of executing civilians and unarmed soldiers during a massacre in the tiny mountain village of Trusina.The larger conflict between Bosnia's three main groups  Muslims, Serbs and Croats  lasted from 1992 until 1995, killed 260,000 people and displaced forced 1.8 million more to flee. Muslims and Croats were allied against the Serbs at the start of the war, but they became enemies when Croat forces sought to capture territory held by the Bosnian army.The military unit to which the pair belonged, part of the Bosnian army, attacked Croats in Trusina on April 16, 1993.During the attack, the pair was part of a firing squad that executed six people, including civilians, and Handanovic made sure all six were dead by shooting them again, Bosnian courts later found. Dzeko was also convicted of killing an elderly man and his wife, according to the Justice Department.After the massacre, the pair hid their military service and applied for refugee status in the U.S., claiming to have been victims of persecution, the Justice Department said.After receiving the status, both moved to the Pacific Northwest, with Dzeko settling in Everett, Wash., and Handanovic in Beaverton. Federal authorities only learned about their participation in the massacre later, when Bosnia and Herzegovina requested in 2011 that the pair be extradited.Both were convicted in Bosnia the following year. Handanovic cooperated with Bosnian courts and received a reduced sentence for providing information about other members of the unit, including Dzeko.

MOSCOW   Russia\'s foreign intelligence agency chief Sergei Naryshkin said on Wednesday that Washington\'s actions toward Russia mean its possible to start speaking of a return to the Cold War era."Washington has become fixated with the fight against a non-existent, so-called Russian threat. This has reached such proportions and acquired such absurd characteristics that it\'s possible to speak of a return to the dark times of the Cold War," the spy chief said, speaking at a security conference in Moscow.(Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Writing by Polina Ivanova)
PARIS  A jihadist fighter from Mali was brought before the International Criminal Court on Wednesday to face charges of rape, torture and sexual slavery, crimes that prosecutors say were perpetrated while he was the head of the police during a jihadist occupation of the ancient city of Timbuktu.At the hearing in The Hague, prosecutors said that Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz Ag Mohamed Ag Mahmoud, 40, had committed crimes against humanity and war crimes in 2012 and 2013 by abusing, whipping and torturing residents who violated strict religious laws.He forced young women to marry jihadist fighters, which led to repeated rapes and sexual enslavement of young women and girls, they said.Officials say girls were forced into marriages, some lasting only a few days or a few weeks, in an attempt to provide a justification for their being forced to have sex. If a girl ran away, she would be tracked down and brought back, said a lawyer working on the case, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the details. Children were born from these forced marriages.The case has renewed a focus on continuing abuses by Islamist extremists, including those who have attacked ancient sites of religious and cultural significance. Timbuktu, now a Unesco World Heritage Site, has been a renowned center of Islamic civilization for centuries.It is also expected to draw heightened attention to the deteriorating security situation in large parts of sparsely inhabited and parched regions of sub-Sahara Africa, where armed rebel groups, including jihadists and criminal gangs, often hold sway.The situation in Mali and the larger Sahel region have increased in importance for the West, as not only poverty but also jihadist violence have forced people to flee. Traffickers have brought thousands of migrants to the Mediterranean coast, using it as a springboard to cross over to Europe.In 2012, sweeping across northern Mali, the armed groups seized control of Timbuktu and other towns and imposed their vision of religion, through terror, on a local population who did not adhere to it, the warrant for Mr. Al Hassans arrest said.Mr. Al Hassan, who had about 40 jihadist police officers under his control, took part in the lashings of men and women and also played a role in the destruction of local shrines of Muslim saints that were deemed idolatrous, according to court documents. Mr. Hassan was not asked to enter a plea at the hearing.Asked if he had anything to say, he complained that he was held in a single cell with a camera, which he said violated his privacy and his dignity.He is the second member of the Ansar Dine jihadist group to appear before the court at the request of the government of Mali, where most people practice a moderate form of Islam.In 2016, Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi pleaded guilty to smashing Timbuktus holy shrines and was sentenced to nine years in prison. He was also ordered to pay close to $3 million in reparations.The arrival of Mr. Al Hassan last weekend was a boon for the court, which is winding up its current cases. It has multiple investigations underway, but a large staff of prosecutors and judges could run out of work if the worlds first international criminal court cannot get hold of more fugitives.Created in 2002 to deal with war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, the court depends on governments to enforce its arrest warrants; at least 12 warrants are outstanding, and more are believed to exist but remain under seal.Mr. Al Hassan was arrested a year ago by French troops tracking jihadists in the north of Mali. His capture was fortuitous, as he was not the target of the operation.Handed over to the Malian authorities, Mr. Al Hassan was detained until the court prepared and issued a sealed arrest warrant asking him to surrender. Last Saturday, he was sent to The Hague.The Mali cases have their roots in 2012, when armed rebels and homegrown Islamic jihadists set up a ministate in Northern Mali around Timbuktu that lasted about a year.In 2013, French and Malian forces pushed them out of the towns where they had held sway. But until today, the state has had little control over large areas of northern and central Mali.Peacekeepers and police officers from the United Nations who are now stationed in Mali concede that they cannot control the countrys vast terrain or fully suppress jihadist or other rebel groups.Western diplomats say that the security situation in Mali has steadily deteriorated and jihadists have stepped up their activities.They say the jihadists continue to offer weapons and money to young men in the vast and impoverished desert region. And the groups can move with relative ease across the borders where Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger meet.In January, amid growing concern, defense ministers from the Sahel, as well as France, met in Paris in the latest push to step up antiterrorism operations in the vast region.They said they hoped to have a new military force in place this year drawn from troops in the region  including Chad, Mauritania, Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso  to work alongside United Nations peacekeepers and the French military mission in Mali.The so-called G5-Sahel Force will be funded mostly by Saudi Arabia and the European Union.
MOSCOW   Top Russian defense and security officials on Wednesday launched diatribes at the West, accusing it of fomenting a new Cold War in a bid to retain waning influence in global affairs.Moscow used an annual security conference attended by top defense officials from Asia, Africa and Latin America to harshly criticize the U.S. and its allies, accusing them of putting global stability at risk.Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu accused the U.S. and its NATO allies of using "the non-existent Russian threat to methodically boost their military potential" and beef up their forces near Russia\'s borders.Shoigu emphasized that the U.S.-led missile defense program has become a "major destabilizing factor inciting an arms race."He pointed at a growing number of NATO intelligence flights near Russia\'s borders and an increasing pace of NATO\'s military drills, noting that they have "a clear anti-Russian character.""The danger of provocations and military incidents has significantly increased," Shoigu said.Russia-West relations have sunk to their lowest level since the Cold War following Moscow\'s 2014 annexation of Crimea and support for separatists in eastern Ukraine, differences over the war in Syria and the allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.Shoigu said that NATO has stonewalled Moscow\'s attempts to engage in a dialogue, adding that "we aren\'t going to knock on the closed door, but will not leave attempts to apply pressure on us unattended."He warned that Moscow will respond to NATO\'s moves by strengthening its defense capabilities to "ensure military security of Russia and its allies."Russia-West tensions further escalated this month after the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain, leading to mass diplomats\' expulsions by the West and Russia. Britain has blamed Russia for the poisoning of former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, accusations which Russia has ferociously denied.Sergei Naryshkin, the director of Russia\'s Foreign Intelligence Service told the conference that the attack on Skripal was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies." British and U.S. officials have previously rejected similar Russian allegations."Washington has become fixated on fighting the non-existent Russian threat, and that fight has reached such a scale and acquired such absurd traits that we can talk about the return of the gloomy times of the Cold War," said Sergei Naryshkin, the director of Russia\'s Foreign Intelligence Service.He said that the U.S. and its allies have been unable to adapt to global changes, including a growing role of China, Russia and other countries."The U.S. and part of Europe have failed to prepare for such changes, they can\'t accept inevitable weakening of their once overwhelming clout," he said. "Engulfed by fear of change, the West is ready to surround itself with a new Iron Curtain."
LONDON   Britain\'s FTSE 100 managed a small gain on Wednesday despite global trade worries denting appetite for risky assets, as investors piled into defensive sectors which make up a large part of the UK index.The blue-chip FTSE 100 closed 0.1 percent higher, while mid-caps fell 0.7 percent.The FTSE recovered from sharp losses at the open, when it slid along with other European indexes after China announced additional tariffs on $50 billion of U.S. goods.Worries over global trade have weighed on stocks over the past month, with the Trump administration set to unveil a list of Chinese advanced technology imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to punish Beijing over technology transfer policies."It\'s more (about) the second-order effects on global growth sentiment, and the fact that this is all arriving at a time where some of the leading indicators have been rolling over anyway," Ian Williams, economics & strategy research analyst at Peel Hunt, said.The FTSE 100 was the only European index to end in positive territory, a feat investors put down to its strong weighting in defensive sectors less vulnerable in a sell-off."Generally, at times like this historically the UK equity market has been reasonably defensive ... the nature of the sector weightings tend to be a bit less cyclically-exposed," Williams added.Pharmaceutical stocks Shire and GlaxoSmithKline were among the biggest gainers, while precious metals miner Fresnillo was up 1.1 percent, as gold is considered a safe-haven asset.Cigarette firms British American Tobacco and Imperial Brands, and consumer goods giants Diageo and Unilever, also gained as investors rushed into high dividend-paying stocks.Sectors which are more sensitive to the economic cycle, such as financials and materials, were the biggest weights.Miners Anglo American, BHP Billiton, Glencore and Rio Tinto fell 2.5 to 3.2 percent as metals prices sank. Investors worried that tariffs may disrupt metal imports to China, the biggest global buyer.Shares in WPP fell 2 percent after the advertising group said it was investigating an allegation of personal misconduct against its CEO, Martin Sorrell, who denied wrongdoing."Given (Sorrell\'s) high profile, the accusations are bound to attract a lot of attention and, given he is the face of WPP to many, there is likely to be a negative impact on sentiment today," Liberum analysts said."One thing this may do is intensify talk about Sir Martin\'s successor at WPP, which has been an issue lurking in the background," they added.While individual stock moves were relatively muted, shares in Morrisons were the top gainers, up 2.9 percent after favourable data from Kantar on the supermarket\'s performance.The data showed Morrison and peer Tesco continued to outperform rival "big four" supermarkets in the 12 weeks to March 25, with both enjoying sales growth of 2.4 percent. Shares in Tesco however declined 0.7 percent.Among small-caps, Topps Tiles shares tumbled 13.3 percent to a four-month low after the flooring retailer said sales had been hit by a weaker market and bad weather.(Reporting by Kit Rees; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
EVELETH, Minn.  On northern Minnesotas Iron Range, where evergreen trees stretch on for miles and snowpack lingers into the spring, a political shift is underway.Generations of residents have gone to work in the mines, endured cycles of booms and layoffs, and mostly voted for Democrats. But President Trumps tariffs on imported steel are being celebrated as a boost to the local taconite mines, which supply American steel mills, and Republicans are hopeful that they can flip the areas congressional seat in November.President Trump is keeping his promises that he made on the campaign trail, said Pete Stauber, a retired police officer and former professional hockey player who is running for Congress as a Republican. He talked about leveling the playing field for the American worker. He did that with the tariffs.Much has been said about groups who dislike the tariffs: a bipartisan mix of manufacturers,  farmers and politicians who warn of trade disputes and unforeseen consequences. Chinas announcement on Wednesday of proposed tariffs on a range of American exports  including soybeans, chemicals and cars  heightened concern that a trade war could be looming.But in a few places where Republicans see openings to win seats and upend a national political forecast that seems to favor Democrats in November, the 25 percent tariff on foreign steel and the 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum are viewed as economic lifelines straight from the Oval Office.In Southern Illinois, where a Republican congressman, Mike Bost, faces a tough re-election campaign, a steel mill that laid off hundreds is calling back workers. In Ohio, where the governorship and a Senate seat are on this years ballot, another steel mill could soon reopen. And in upper Minnesota, where iron ore pits  vast canyons of red-tinted dirt  shape the landscape, the tariffs could be a stabilizing force for towns still recovering from mine closings.Its really strange, said Mayor Bob Vlaisavljevich of Eveleth, a longtime Democrat who in recent years has changed his registration to Republican and decorated his City Hall office with a Trump bumper sticker. A billionaire from New York is the one saving us.Many in northern Minnesota still speak fondly about the Democrats in their own congressional delegation, and plenty have criticisms of the presidents Twitter habit and of Republican attitudes toward labor unions. But there is a broad sense that Mr. Trump has taken up the regions cause right as the national Democratic Party is frustrating them with environmental regulations they see as unduly burdensome to miners and with calls for stricter limits on guns.I feel theyve kind of gone off the deep end, said Lyn Pahlen, 53, an auto-parts store owner who lives in Chisholm, Minn., where a 36-foot-tall statue of an iron miner towers above the main highway.Ms. Pahlen, a former Democratic voter who supported Mr. Trump, said her business suffered a few years ago when an influx of foreign steel, much of it from China, led many of the local mines to temporarily shut down. With less money being spent around town, Ms. Pahlen cut some employees hours and laid off others. Ms. Pahlen said she was taking a wait-and-see approach.Conditions are better now. Mines began reopening in the final months of Barack Obamas presidency, when he cracked down on steel dumping, and that growth has continued under Mr. Trump. The mines employ about 4,000 people in this sparsely populated region, according to the Iron Mining Association of Minnesota, and thousands of others work for mining industry vendors.Things are coming around, said Dan Pierce, who was out of work for about 15 months after a mine in Keewatin, Minn., shut down in 2015.Mr. Pierce, a Democrat and local union vice president, is no fan of Mr. Trump, and he was dismayed when the president temporarily exempted a few countries, including South Korea and Brazil, from the tariffs. Still, he said people were cautiously optimistic that the tariffs would have tangible benefits on the Iron Range.People are working overtime, Mr. Pierce said. People are spending money in the community.Mr. Stauber, the Republican candidate for Congress who serves now as a county commissioner, is hoping to capitalize on some of that economic momentum as he runs in Minnesotas Eighth District, which stretches more than 27,000 square miles from the Minneapolis exurbs through the Iron Range and up to the Canadian border.The district, which Mr. Trump won by 15.6 percentage points in 2016, according to DailyKos Elections, could be one of the Republicans best chances of flipping a Democratic seat in the House. Mr. Obama carried the district by 5.5 percentage points in 2012; he won by 8.6 percentage points four years earlier. Representative Rick Nolan, the incumbent Democrat, is retiring after narrowly winning re-election in 2016.Much is riding on November for both parties. Minnesotas United States senators, Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, both Democrats, are up for election, and the states Democratic governor, Mark Dayton, is retiring and leaving an open seat.Another congressional seat held by Democrats, the First District in the southern part of Minnesota, is also considered a tossup. Representative Tim Walz won a close race in 2016 and is running for governor this year instead of seeking another term in the House.Up on the Iron Range, Mr. Nolan supports the presidents tariffs and remains popular among miners. But he has faced pressure from some fellow Democrats who want stricter environmental regulations, as well as from right-leaning constituents disenchanted with his party. Democrats have not yet nominated a candidate to replace Mr. Nolan, 74, who said he was leaving office to spend more time with his family.Mr. Nolan said the president connects in his messaging on the Iron Range by focusing on economic anxiety. Democrats could improve their pitch to voters on that topic, Mr. Nolan said.Miners who are sitting on the bench hoping to go back to work someday, and you have someone saying, Hey, I care about you, Mr. Nolan said. That means a lot to people.In the union halls and restaurants of northern Minnesota, the enthusiasm for the tariffs is tempered by decades of ups and downs, hiring sprees and layoffs. People often use phrases like guarded optimism and stabilization.Many longtime residents  and it seems most everyone is a longtime resident  recall their fathers struggling without a job in the bust of the 1980s, or a grandfather encountering hard times. They tell of a time when places like Eveleth, where the population of 3,700 is about half of its 1930 peak, had more businesses, more young families, more high school graduates staying home instead of moving to the cities, Minneapolis and St. Paul.Brian Zarn, 54, grew up nearby and has worked at the mine in Eveleth for about 29 years. He said it had been a rewarding career with a salary that supported his family, but also work pockmarked by layoffs and frustration with foreign steel being sold cheaply on American shores.Were cautiously optimistic, but we know the industry has got a lot of problems. China keeps overproducing, said Mr. Zarn, a local union president, who was wearing a shirt that read, STEELWORKERS Not Made In China.We hope that the tariffs are in there long-term, he added. But were realists, too. We look at the past.
WASHINGTON  Thousands of Google employees, including dozens of senior engineers, have signed a letter protesting the companys involvement in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret video imagery and could be used to improve the targeting of drone strikes.The letter, which is circulating inside Google and has garnered more than 3,100 signatures, reflects a culture clash between Silicon Valley and the federal government that is likely to intensify as cutting-edge artificial intelligence is increasingly employed for military purposes.(Read the text of the letter.)We believe that Google should not be in the business of war, says the letter, addressed to Sundar Pichai, the companys chief executive. It asks that Google pull out of Project Maven, a Pentagon pilot program, and announce a policy that it will not ever build warfare technology.That kind of idealistic stance, while certainly not shared by all Google employees, comes naturally to a company whose motto is Dont be evil, a phrase invoked in the protest letter. But it is distinctly foreign to Washingtons massive defense industry and certainly to the Pentagon, where the defense secretary, Jim Mattis, has often said a central goal is to increase the lethality of the United States military.From its early days, Google has encouraged employees to speak out on issues involving the company. It provides internal message boards and social networks where workers challenge management and one another about the companys products and policies. Recently, the heated debate around Googles efforts to create a more diverse work force spilled out into the open.Google employees have circulated protest petitions on a range of issues, including Google Plus, the companys lagging competitor to Facebook, and Googles sponsorship of the Conservative Political Action Conference.Employees raised questions about Googles involvement in Project Maven at a recent companywide meeting. At the time, Diane Greene, who leads Googles cloud infrastructure business, defended the deal and sought to reassure concerned employees. A company spokesman said most of the signatures on the protest letter had been collected before the company had an opportunity to explain the situation.The company subsequently described its work on Project Maven as non-offensive in nature, though the Pentagons video analysis is routinely used in counterinsurgency and counterterrorism operations, and Defense Department publications make clear that the project supports those operations. Both Google and the Pentagon said the companys products would not create an autonomous weapons system that could fire without a human operator, a much-debated possibility using artificial intelligence.But improved analysis of drone video could be used to pick out human targets for strikes, while also better identifying civilians to reduce the accidental killing of innocent people.Without referring directly to the letter to Mr. Pichai, Google said in a statement on Tuesday that any military use of machine learning naturally raises valid concerns. It added, Were actively engaged across the company in a comprehensive discussion of this important topic. The company called such exchanges hugely important and beneficial, though several Google employees familiar with the letter would speak of it only on the condition of anonymity, saying they were concerned about retaliation.The statement said the companys part of Project Maven was specifically scoped to be for non-offensive purposes, though officials declined to make available the relevant contract language. The Defense Department said that because Google is a subcontractor on Project Maven to the prime contractor, ECS Federal, it could not provide either the amount or the language of Googles contract. ECS Federal did not respond to inquiries.Google said the Pentagon was using open-source object recognition software available to any Google Cloud customer and based on unclassified data. The technology is used to flag images for human review and is intended to save lives and save people from having to do highly tedious work, the company said.Some of Googles top executives have significant Pentagon connections. Eric Schmidt, former executive chairman of Google and still a member of the executive board of Alphabet, Googles parent company, serves on a Pentagon advisory body, the Defense Innovation Board, as does a Google vice president, Milo Medin.In an interview in November, Mr. Schmidt acknowledged a general concern in the tech community of somehow the military-industrial complex using their stuff to kill people incorrectly, if you will. He said he served on the board in part to at least allow for communications to occur and suggested that the military would use this technology to help keep the country safe.An uneasiness about military contracts among a small fraction of Googles more than 70,000 employees may not pose a major obstacle to the companys growth. But in the rarefied area of artificial intelligence research, Google is engaged in intense competition with other tech companies for the most talented people, so recruiters could be hampered if some candidates are put off by Googles defense connections.As Google defends its contracts from internal dissent, its competitors have not been shy about publicizing their own work on defense projects. Amazon touts its image recognition work with the Department of Defense, and Microsoft has promoted the fact that its cloud technology won a contract to handle classified information for every branch of the military and defense agencies.The current dispute, first reported by Gizmodo, is focused on Project Maven, which began last year as a pilot program to find ways to speed up the military application of the latest A.I. technology. It is expected to cost less than $70 million in its first year, according to a Pentagon spokeswoman. But the signers of the letter at Google clearly hope to discourage the company from entering into far larger Pentagon contracts as the defense applications of artificial intelligence grow.Google is widely expected to compete with other tech giants, including Amazon and Microsoft, for a multiyear, multibillion-dollar contract to provide cloud services to the Defense Department. John Gibson, the departments chief management officer, said last month that the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure Cloud procurement program was in part designed to increase lethality and readiness, underscoring the difficulty of separating software, cloud and related services from the actual business of war.The employees protest letter to Mr. Pichai, which has been circulated on an internal communications system for several weeks, argues that embracing military work could backfire by alienating customers and potential recruits.This plan will irreparably damage Googles brand and its ability to compete for talent, the letter says. Amid growing fears of biased and weaponized AI, Google is already struggling to keep the publics trust. It suggests that Google risks being viewed as joining the ranks of big defense contractors like Raytheon, General Dynamics and the big-data firm Palantir.The argument that other firms, like Microsoft and Amazon, are also participating doesnt make this any less risky for Google, the letter says. Googles unique history, its motto Dont Be Evil, and its direct reach into the lives of billions of users set it apart.Like other onetime upstarts turned powerful Silicon Valley behemoths, Google is being forced to confront the idealism that guided the company in its early years. Facebook started with the lofty mission of connecting people all over the world, but it has recently come under fire for becoming a conduit for fake news and being used by Russia to influence the 2016 election and sow dissent among American voters.Paul Scharre, a former Pentagon official and author of Army of None, a forthcoming book on the use of artificial intelligence to build autonomous weapons, said the clash inside Google was inevitable, given the companys history and the booming demand for A.I. in the military.Theres a strong libertarian ethos among tech folks, and a wariness about the governments use of technology, said Mr. Scharre, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington. Now A.I. is suddenly and quite quickly moving out of the research lab and into real life.
(Reuters) - Ford Motor Co on Wednesday said it encouraged the U.S. and Chinese governments to "work together to resolve issues" after China retaliated against U.S. plans to impose tariffs with a list of similar duties."We encourage both governments to work together to resolve issues between these two important economies," Ford said in a statement.Responding to tariffs imposed by the Trump government less than 11 hours later, China issued a list of duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in a move that sent global markets lower.(Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)


SAO PAULO   China\'s move to slap tariffs on U.S. farm products sent Brazil soy premiums surging to historic highs on expectations of higher export demand on Wednesday, but traders and analysts warned that Latin America could not entirely replace U.S. production.China responded to U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plans to impose $50 billion in tariffs on its goods by announcing tariffs of equal value on U.S. imports, including a wide range of agricultural products.Goods produced in South America made the list, including soy, beef, tobacco, cotton and frozen orange juice.That raised the prospect that China would seek to shift large parts of its agricultural sourcing from the United States to the region. Alternate global suppliers of goods ranging from televisions to vaccines could be unexpected beneficiaries of Trump\'s policies.Already record high premiums for Brazilian soy over Chicago prices were driven up 37 percent in response, the biggest one-day increase since January 2017."I have never seen a premium this high in history, this in a way will more than compensate for the bloodbath in Chicago," said Aedson Pereira, an analyst at IEG-FNP, a subsidiary of Informa Economics.Chicago soybeans futures contracts for May delivery fell 2 percent, closing at around $10.15 per bushel, retracing some losses after a 5 percent plunge.But Latin America does not produce enough to compensate fully for U.S. output - and that may help push China and the United States to settle the dispute, according to Pereira and other analysts.Brazil already sells roughly 75 percent of its soybean exports to China and with increasing domestic demand is unlikely to be able to free up much more for export."Even if Brazil sells its entire export volume to China, the Asian country would be short of 30 million tonnes," said one Brazil-based analyst, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to speak to the media.South America\'s other top producer Argentina already sent almost 90 percent of its 7.3 million soybeans to China last year, while smaller Paraguay does not have diplomatic relations with China.The outlook for soybean prices was already robust after Argentina supplies took a hit from drought, while China\'s demand has continued to rise.Rodrigo Oliveira, chief strategist of Agro Financeira, a small trading and hedging firm based in the state of Tocantins, said his firm was looking to take advantage, buying up more Brazilian soybeans compared to last year."When China is going to buy from Brazilian trading (firms), they will have to pay us the Brazilian premium," said Oliveira. "This is going to be huge for Brazilian soybean prices."(Reporting by Ana Mano and Roberto Samora; Additional reporting  by Maximilian Heath and Nicolas Misculin in BUENOS AIRES, Daniela Desantis in ASUNCION, Karl Plume in CHICAGO and Jose Roberto Gomes in SAO PAULO; Writing by Jake Spring, Editing by Rosalba O\'Brien)
NEW YORK   U.S. President Donald Trump\'s recent tariffs and retaliation from other nations, in particular China, may reduce domestic economic growth by 0.1 to 0.2 percentage point over the next 12 months, Moody\'s Analytics\' chief economist Mark Zandi said on Wednesday."It will put a dent in that growth," Zandi told reporters on a conference call. "The impact on the economy will be small."Zandi cautioned if tension escalates, the drag on U.S. gross domestic product will grow.(Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
BEIJING   China has never given in to external pressure, Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao said on Wednesday, shortly after Beijing unveiled a list of U.S. goods it will target in response to planned U.S. tariffs.External pressure will instead promote China's development and innovation, Zhu told reporters in Beijing.Friction is hard to avoid in fast-growing China-U.S. trade, and huge challenges face the two sides, but Zhu said he still hoped relations could return to a healthy track, since a trade war could hurt all sides.(Reporting by Kevin Yao; Writing by Ryan Woo; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico & Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way - they want people to pour into our country unchecked....CRIME! We will be taking strong action today. [0719 EDT]- We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue! [0722 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
SHANGHAI/HONG KONG   China hit back on Wednesday at the U.S. government\'s plan to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports, and adding to fears that the world\'s two largest economies are heading towards a trade war.Below are some of the reactions from some Chinese companies and trade bodies to Washington\'s announcement of proposed tariffs on Chinese imports into the U.S.China Eastern AirlinesThe airline said on Wednesday that it could adjust capacity and frequency on the China-United States route in the expectation that the trade dispute could impact passenger travel and cargo. It has set up a group to come up with a relevant plan."A trade war is not good for the two countries. We hope that China and the United States can negotiate together to avoid a trade war," said the carrier\'s Chief Executive Ma Xulun.When asked about the airline\'s plane buying plans, he said that "it\'s too early to say, we will keep an eye on the situation of the China-U.S. trade war."TCL MultimediaA representative for China\'s largest TV manufacturer said it plans to shift some TV production from its Huizhou headquarters in southern China to its factory in Mexico if the proposed tariffs are implemented.He said the company expects the impact to be manageable as the U.S. accounts for just over 10 percent of its sales, and  production capacity at its Mexican factory can be increased without huge additional costs. He added that the company also has a factory in Vietnam that can replace some of its China production capacity if needed.China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic ProductsThe industry body, which represents nearly 10,000 manufacturing firms, said the United States\' trade investigation into Chinese firms had "no factual basis".It noted in a statement published by state broadcaster CCTV that the Chinese government was ready to take equal measures on U.S. products to safeguard China\'s interests and said it would give Beijing its full support.COSCO ShippingThe shipping company said on Tuesday that there was currently little evidence that the tensions were affecting cargo volumes but noted that it had reduced U.S. capacity slightly over the past few years as part of a restructuring.China\'s largest shipping company, though, said that it was ready to take "appropriate action" to protect its market should it start to see an impact. It added that trade between China and the United States currently contributes to about 15 percent of its cargo volumes.CRRC Corp LtdAn executive at the train carriage maker, which has won contracts to supply Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston with metro cars, said it was still researching the impact of an announced 25 percent tariff on 1,300 Chinese products, including advanced rail equipment.He said the company still needs to "carefully look at what items the list affects" before making an assessment.He declined to be named as he was not permitted to speak to the media. A CRRC spokesman declined immediate comment.Air ChinaThe airline said last week that it did not expect to see any significant impact on the Chinese flag carrier\'s passenger and cargo volumes."The relationship between the United States and China is a complementary one. It\'s very strong. This trade war is like a game," said the company\'s board secretary Zhou Fen at a post-results briefing."We don\'t think this issue will impact on our passenger and cargo volumes, there shouldn\'t be much impact."(Corrects firms\' names to TCL Multimedia, not TCM Multimedia, and COSCO Shipping from COS Shipping)(Reporting by Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI and Sijia Jiang in HONG KONG; Additional Reporting by Tina Ge in HONG KONG; Editing by Martin Howell)
CHICAGO   China\'s proposal on Wednesday for tariffs on U.S. beef confirmed the worst-case scenario for the U.S. cattle industry, trade groups said on Wednesday, even as they remained hopeful the dispute could be resolved quickly.China listed U.S. goods from soybeans to beef that could potentially incur a 25 percent import tariff by the end of May if Washington carries out its threat to raise similar duties on $50 billion in Chinese goods.A trade war would be a blow to the U.S. beef industry, which has seen an increase in year-over-year supplies even as prices have been falling for market-ready cattle, partly due to seasonal factors.In June 2017, U.S. beef exports returned to China after a 13-year absence over mad cow disease worries. Some restrictions remain in place along with a 12 percent duty on beef imports from the United States, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation (USMEF).USMEF data showed U.S. beef exports to China after the market reopened in the second half of 2017 totaled 3,020 tonnes valued at $31 million.Over the past nine months Chinese interest in U.S. beef has steadily gained momentum, said USMEF CEO Dan Halstrom in a statement. Additional tariffs on U.S. beef will risk opportunities for further growth, he said."USMEF is hopeful that this trade dispute can be resolved without China introducing additional obstacles for U.S. beef," Halstrom said.Kent Bacus, director of international trade and market access for the National Cattlemen\'s Beef Association, also in a statement, said it was "unsettling" but not surprising to see U.S. beef targeted for retaliation."This is an inevitable outcome of any trade war. This is a battle between two governments, and the unfortunate casualties will be America\'s cattlemen and women and our consumers in China," said Bacus. The Trump administration has until the end of May to resolve the issue, Bacus added.(Reporting By Theopolis Waters; Editing by David Gregorio)
WASHINGTON   The world\'s two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there\'s still time to pull back from the brink.Financial markets bounced up and down Wednesday over the brewing U.S.-China trade war after Beijing and Washington proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of each other\'s products in a battle over the aggressive tactics China employs to develop its high-tech industries."The risks of escalation are clear," Adam Slater, global economist at Oxford Economics, wrote in a research note. "Threats to the U.S.-China relationship are the most dangerous for global growth."There\'s time for the two countries to resolve the dispute through negotiations in the coming weeks. The United States will not tax 1,300 Chinese imports  from hearing aids to flamethrowers  until it has spent weeks collecting public comments. It\'s likely to get an earful from American farmers and businesses that want to avoid a trade war at all costs.Also, China did not say when it would impose tariffs on 106 U.S. products, including soybeans and small aircraft, and it announced it is challenging America\'s import duties at the World Trade Organization.Lawrence Kudlow, the top White House economic adviser, sought to ease fears of a deepening trade conflict with China, telling reporters that the tariffs the U.S. announced Tuesday are "potentially" just a negotiating ploy."We\'re very lucky that we have the best negotiator at the table in the president, and we\'re going to go through that process," said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. "It will be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented, and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing."The prospect of a negotiated end to the dispute calmed nerves on Wall Street. After plunging in early trading, the Dow Jones industrial average ended up rising 231 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 24,264.The sanctions standoff started last month when the United States slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. On Monday, China countered by announcing tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. products. The next day, the United States proposed the $50 billion in duties on Chinese imports, and Beijing lashed back within hours with a threat of further tariffs of its own.Things could easily escalate. The U.S. Treasury is working on plans to restrict Chinese technology investments in the United States. And there\'s talk that the U.S. could also put limits on visas for Chinese who want to visit or study in this country.For its part, China conspicuously left large aircraft off its sanctions list Wednesday, suggesting it is reserving the option to target Boeing if relations deteriorate further.Douglas Irwin, a Dartmouth College economist who has just written a history of U.S. trade policy, said the tit-for-tat tariffs are shaping up as the biggest trade battle since World War II."It\'s huge," he said.In 1987, the Reagan administration triggered shockwaves by slapping tariffs on just $300 million worth of Japanese imports  that\'s million with an "m\'\'  in a dispute over the semiconductor industry. Those tariffs covered less than 1 percent of Japanese imports at the time.The tariffs the U.S. unveiled Tuesday apply to nearly 10 percent of Chinese goods imports of $506 billion.And during the dispute three decades ago, Japan, a close U.S. ally, chose not to retaliate. It eventually gave in to U.S. demands."What we\'ve seen with China is very different," Irwin said. "When the steel tariffs went in  boom, they came back with retaliation. ... They were not going to take it lying down."Making matters trickier, the dispute over Chinese technology policy strikes at the heart of Beijing\'s ambitions to become the global leader in cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence and quantum computing.In August, President Donald Trump ordered the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to investigate China\'s tech policies, particularly longstanding allegations that it coerces U.S. companies into handing over sensitive technology to gain access to the Chinese market. The tariffs proposed Tuesday were the result of that investigation.The U.S. also accuses China of treating U.S. companies unfairly when they try to do business there and of encouraging Chinese hackers to break into U.S. corporate computer systems and steal trade secrets.The Trump administration is coming under intense pressure to de-escalate the dispute. American farmers, who disproportionately supported Trump in the 2016 election, are especially outspoken in seeking trade peace. After all, China buys nearly 60 percent of American soybean exports."American farmers are waking up this morning to the prospect of a 25 percent tax on exports that help sustain their farming operations," said former U.S. Sen. Max Baucus, co-chair of Farmers for Free Trade. "We urge the administration to reconsider escalating this trade war."Some analysts predict Beijing will ultimately yield to U.S. demands because it relies far more heavily on the U.S. market than American businesses rely on China\'s."It is no coincidence that the Chinese have not yet set the date when these new tariffs will become effective," said Raoul Leering, head of international trade analysis at ING. "It is likely that China will, in the end, cut its losses and be willing to give Trump something."But Robert Holleyman, a former U.S. trade official, said he worries that both sides will impose tariffs  and they will stick indefinitely."That would hit American consumers in the pocketbook and would reduce access by American businesses and farmers to the largest market in the world," he said.And the Eurasia Group consulting firm warned in a research note about fear that the dispute "could spiral dangerously out of control, given that this trade action is really less about trade and more about China\'s rise as a technology leader."___AP writers Zeke Miller and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed to this report.___Animated explainer on trade disputes:https://youtu.be/qWF5DF_XQYk____
NEW YORK   Wall Street\'s three major indexes staged a comeback to close around 1 percent higher on Wednesday as investors turned their focus to earnings and away from a trade conflict between the United States and China that wreaked havoc in earlier trading.After investors fled equities in the morning due to proposed retaliatory tariffs from China, their concerns about a potential trade war eased by the afternoon after Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the administration was in a "negotiation" with China rather than a trade war.Investors said they were comforted by the fact that any tariffs would not take effect immediately, if at all. Strategists also cited the S&P\'s bounce above a key technical support level and said they expect equities to rise further around the first quarter earnings season, due to start in mid-April."We\'re starting to feel that while markets hate uncertainty, Trump\'s bark is worse than his bite when it comes to trade," said Robert Phipps, a director at Per Stirling Capital Management in Austin, Texas."It\'s earnings that\'s going to lift us off this bottom. It wouldn\'t shock me if we chopped around sideways for a little bit before earnings season ... The trade stuff is really a side show. We\'re waiting for real economic data like the jobs report Friday and for earnings. For now its going to be all about the technicals," he said.The S&P opened below its 200-day moving average, a key technical level, but inched above it as the session progressed, and by afternoon was in positive territory.The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 230.94 points, or 0.96 percent, to close at 24,264.30, the S&P 500 gained 30.24 points, or 1.16 percent, to 2,644.69 and the Nasdaq Composite added 100.83 points, or 1.45 percent, to 7,042.11.The turnaround marked the first time the S&P had showed gains for two consecutive days since early March.Despite big swings in stocks, trading activity in U.S. equity options was muted as expectations for strong corporate earnings quelled the urge to load up on contracts that benefit from a surge in market volatility.    The Cboe Volatility Index, the most widely followed barometer of expected near-term volatility for the S&P 500, closed down 1.04 points at 20.06.The technology sector rose 1.4 percent with only two of its stocks ending the day in negative territory including Facebook Inc, which was pummeled after news its chief executive would testify in Congress over a data privacy scandal. It too closed well off its session low with a 0.6 percent drop to $155.10.Boeing was the biggest drag on the Dow due to its exposure to China, and ended the day well off its session lows with a 1 percent decline to $327.44 after falling as low as $311.88.Farm machinery company Deere & Co ended down 2.9 percent at $148.57 as it could be hurt by China tariffs if its customers\' exports are curbed.After being a laggard for much of the session, the S&P 500\'s industrials sector turned positive late in the day to close 0.4 percent higher.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 2.19-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 2.95-to-1 ratio favored advancers.The S&P 500 posted one new 52-week high and eight new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 40 new highs and 94 new lows.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.04 billion shares, compared with the 7.3 billion average for the last 20 trading days.(Additional reporting by Saqib Iqbal Ahmed and Herbert Lash in New York and Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Patrick Graham and James Dalgleish)
NEW YORK   The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4:20 p.m.Stocks rallied to finish higher Wednesday, overcoming worries about an escalating trade dispute between the U.S. and China.After plunging 501 points at the open, the Dow Jones industrial average finished with a gain of 230 points, or about 1 percent.Technology stocks reversed early losses, with the notable exception of Facebook, which fell slightly. Consumer stocks were strong, but industrials such as plane maker Boeing and farm equipment maker Deere, which could be hurt by any tariffs, closed with losses.The whiplash followed announcements by the U.S. and Chinese governments that they plans to impose tariffs of 25 percent on $50 billion worth of the others' imports. Some analysts downplayed the back-and-forth as negotiating tactics.The S&P 500 finished up 30 points, or 1.2 percent, at 2,644.69.___11:50 a.m.Stocks remain lower on Wall Street amid an escalating trade dispute between the U.S. and China but have pared some of their sharp early losses.Investors seemed rattled by news of the tit-for-tat $50 billion in proposed tariffs announced by both countries. A full-fledged trade war could slow global commerce.Big industrial and technology stocks were hardest hit by the selling. Boeing shares are down 2.7 percent and Caterpillar is down 2 percent. Among big technology shares, Facebook was down 1.7 percent.The S&P 500 lost 0.5 percent or 12 points to 2,602. The Dow Jones industrial average is 0.7 percent lower, or 176 points, at 23,858.Gold, considered a safe-haven investment, is up 0.2 percent._____9:35 a.m.Stocks are opening sharply lower on Wall Street as an escalating trade dispute between the U.S. and China poses a threat to global economic growth and corporate profits.The Dow Jones industrial average fell about 500 points at the open, with energy, industrial and materials sectors leading the decline.Deere & Co. fell 4.3 percent and Caterpillar dropped almost 3 percent. Boeing was down 3.3 percent.The sell-off was triggered after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff in retaliation for U.S. tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese goods.European and Asian markets also fell sharply.Gold, considered a safe-haven investment, rose nearly 1 percent.
NEW YORK   China hit back quickly on Wednesday against the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.COMMENTS:JOHN STOLTZFUS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, OPPENHEIMER ASSET MANAGEMENT, NEW YORKAt this point, when you look at the broad nature of the decline, it shows elements of a tariff tantrum happening in the market. Theres not a trade war going on at this point. Both sides are firing shots across the bow. Theyre responding to each other with heavy-handed tactics. Its not so deep as to cause the reaction the market is taking right now. Its overreacting, we would think. For volatility players, its just what they loveFor intermediate and long-term investors, its a greater opportunity to build a shopping list for stocks to pick up that are cheaper now.We recently reduced materials to market perform. We reduced health care from overweight to market weight. We increased our weighting in financials exposed to the domestic economy. Aside from that, were emphasizing emerging over developed international markets. Weve overweight U.S. equities over international (equities). Were moderately exposed to fixed income. And weve raised cash at this time, to 5 percent from 2, 2-1/2 percent. We didnt just do that because of this. Weve already seen the market soften some. (Today) should not be taken separately from the downside of the market weve seen since March.BRAD MCMILLAN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL NETWORK, WALTHAM, MASSACHUSETTSI dont think the market has factored in the ultimate prospect of (a further escalation) happening. Right now, its showing a rational response, but if theres a trade war, the damage could be significantly worse. The chances of that happening are still not high. There are a lot of moving parts from a macro perspective. Valuations still have a lot of confidences built in. If you subtract the confidence in increasing growth and economic prospects, valuations will contract. Another 10 percent decline is not out of the question. It might even get worse.Were paying attention to the moving average. Weve seen it break below that, and weve seen it recover. Right now, (Chinas proposed tariffs) are more about negotiation and posturing than any policy actions that have been taken. Right now, were still in a wait-and-see mode. That said, the chances of a bad outcome are materially higher today than, say, yesterday.Over the past couple of years, youve seen growth outperform value. In difficult times, value is the place you move to, and were starting to see signs of thatIn international markets, the danger is widespread, but international stocks are less expensive than U.S. stocks, so international exposure is an area to look at. More defensive sectors  utilities, real estate investment trusts  are typical flight-to-safety areas.The question is, Why isnt the market falling further? It wouldnt be unreasonable to see worse than what were seeing. It shows that theres still some potential for this situation to be resolved, and then well see the market resume an upward trend. Economic growth is solid, corporate earnings are solid. Yes, weve seen the market take a real hit. Yes, it could get worse. But were not ready to panic just yet.China very explicitly made the proposed tariff response a political spear aimed at Trumps heartland. To the extent that it does get worse, it would disproportionately affect the red states. It could have a material impact (on the midterm elections).STEVEN ENGLANDER, HEARD OF RESEARCH AND STRATEGY, RAFIKI CAPITAL, NEW YORK:"If you look at equities right now, the market is seeing  very few scenarios where they go up as a consequence of these trade actions. That seems obvious. However, if you look at the FX market, the tariffs doesn\'t mean the U.S. wins or loses or if there is a right or a wrong."The market doesn\'t see many plausible stories in which equity markets go up because of this, but you can tell plausible stories for dollar moving up or down."I think the market sees that the shift in probabilities as being overwhelmingly skewed to the downside for stocks, but for FX you don\'t know. You cannot say for sure of dollar positive or negative."Now, is the equity market over-reacting? The S&P market cap is about $23 trillion. So 1.3 percent drop is about $300 billion, give or take. You put a tariff on 20 percent on $60 billion of goods, that amounts to about $12 billion."The market has discounted 25 years of tariffs. You can ask the question of whether the market has exaggerated the trade? But keep in mind the nature of the outcome of tariffs is rarely lasting that long or extending that far."There is a scenario that is dollar positive in that maybe the current account deficit is reduced or the Fed raises rates. Normally that would be seen as dollar positive. But there is a dollar negative aspect in that perhaps the tariffs apply to some necessary components of the U.S. economy, and slow it down. You can tell stories, but the stories that you can tell make a lot more sense about being worried about equities but less so as a basis for coming down solid on how the dollar behaves."JASON WARE, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, ALBION FINANCIAL GROUP, SALT LAKE CITY:"What drives the tape over the short run? It\'s sentiment. If trade tensions ease, one could argue that a bounce is in order. The 200 day moving average is a technical level that so many people watch, that it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you slice through it, you get more sell orders and the algorithms and machine trading kicks in."BRUCE MCCAIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT KEY PRIVATE BANK IN CLEVELAND, OHIOThe problem with this is its coming at a time when we are trying to put an end to a fairly normal correction (in stocks). So I think there is the potential that this drives it a little bit deeper as we do that, but our philosophy has been as long as there is not major economic deterioration, whatever you see in terms of a short-term emotional reaction in a market correction will tend to play itself out and then ultimately the longer-term trend will reassert itself...The market hasnt wanted to finish the correction. It has avoided sell-offs except on some really bad news. If anything this may give it a push over the edge so we can get the corrective forces to play out and then stabilize things and be prepared to really assess what the longer-term prospects look like."(The midterms are) clearly an overhang that we are going to have to face, but I think most investors assume there is going to be some loss for the Republicans as we go through the midterms and then we will see what ultimately happens.Going into this, Trump had a number of things that he wanted to achieve as part of his agenda, and one of them was trade issues. The interesting thing is virtually everybody agrees there are some things China has been doing that they shouldnt be doing. Whether or not he is taking the right approach to it or not we will see in the coming months, but if he actually can come out of this with some major concessions from China that deal with some of the intellectual property rights and some of the other things that have been problematic, it will ultimately I would think leave him in better shape for the midterms then it would be if he doesnt go through it now.JIM VOGEL, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, FTN FINANCIAL, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEEFixed income has been ahead of equities on this story since it broke in March and equities did their best to ignore it. People arent used to even asking the questions much less putting pencil to paper to try to develop even a preliminary answer. Were trading some of this stuff in four to eight hour increments and changing our minds collectively as to what it really is going to mean. In theory trade breakdowns dont impact the economy quickly, instead they are a damper on forward activity, but the stock markets acting like things are going to come to a screeching halt.Because tariffs are an underlying part of the new tension, the market will eventually shift far more attention to the potential for a floor under inflation even if the economy sputters because we are hurting certain select industries.MARC CHANDLER, CHIEF GLOBAL CURRENCY STRATEGIST, BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO, NEW YORKAll that has happened in the past 24 hours is that the details of sanctions - which goods - have been announced. The real escalation is if the U.S. retaliates again.The selloff in the U.S. stock market that began in late January into early February began before the trade war talk started. Some investors might want to come get back involved  the S&P 500 is below the 200-day moving average  but I think these trade issues keep them off-balance."I dont think were in a trade war. I think of a trade war as an escalation ladder, and these moves are still low rungs on the ladder. Rungs we have already explored with other countries including allies like Canada. Theres almost always constant tension  over lumber, dairy, pipelines, autos  and we take each other to the WTO. And there are tariffs. And no one thinks the U.S. and Canada are in a trade war.  The militaristic concepts were invoking  currency war, trade war, a new Cold War  are jumping rungs on the ladder.JACK ABLIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER AT CRESSET WEALTH IN CHICAGONow they are coming back targeting our largest exports. Futures seem to be eroding. Tariffs by themselves and an escalating trade war would certainly have deleterious effects on just about everything. Stripping it away, at least we are not in a frothy market situation, something where there is some vulnerability there. There are going to be a lot of companies not affected by tariffs, probably, and those earnings are going to be pretty good."One of the things is that analysts are actually raising their revenue and profit forecasts going into the (earnings) season, which is really kind of a reversal of what we have seen for years. If you take those numbers and project out for four quarters, I argue the market is about 7.5 percent undervalued relative to the next four quarter earnings if you just look at the cumulative growth."Obviously we need kind of a quiet period on these headlines and we need to focus on what is ultimately important and that is earnings. So I am hopeful over the next couple of weeks that earnings will be that shiny object that everyone can focus on.ADAM SARHAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF 50 PARK INVESTMENTS IN NEW YORK"The market is erring on the side of caution. The level of uncertainty has definitely surged. When you see China retaliate stronger than the U.S. that\'s a very strong signal that they mean business.""Everybody knew they were going to retaliate. The question was how strong of a retaliation. Today\'s move clearly shows that they mean business.""Today we\'re close to testing important levels of support. If the market takes out February\'s low, if all three indexes break below and close below that low that\'s going to significantly change the landscape. It\'ll show the intermediate term trend will have shifted to a bearish trend from a sideways trend.""Right now we\'re clearly in correction territory. For the correction to end we have to get some certainty on this trade situation. If it escalates we\'re going into a bear market. If it de-escalated the market\'s moving higher. The only thing that matters now is certainty.""You don\'t have to be fully invested. If this gets ugly and we get another 2008 style bear market everything goes down. If that happens, the safest place to be would be to be out of the market.""The market is very news dependent and a positive headline or a positive tweet could significantly change the dynamic. The market right now is desperate for clarity. Until we get that clarity we\'ll have sideways to down action."If the U.S. responds to China or if more countries are dragged in he said: "This could very quickly get out of hand and cause a global recession. For now a defensive stance is warranted."RICHARD BENSON, CO-HEAD OF PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS, MILLENNIUM GLOBAL INVESTMENT, LONDON:"The impact on (the) financial market has not been that significant. So this has not really affected our portfolio allocation. We\'ve done bits and pieces but there has been no massive shift. The net effect on U.S. GDP is just 0.3 percent of GDP, which is minimal. It could worsen, sure. If that materializes, then we could see a more pronounced sell-off in stocks. So we\'re waiting for the next moves from both the U.S. and China."MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: Stocks were sharply lower, with the S&P opening down 1.3 percent.   BONDS:  Benchmark 10-year note prices gained 5/32 in price to yield 2.726 percent, down from 2.783 percent on Tuesday.FOREX:  The dollar nudged lower, down 0.2 percent.(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300)
MILAN/LONDON   European shares fell for a second day after China unveiled new tariffs against U.S. products, increasing concerns of an escalating trade standoff between the two countries.China hit back quickly on Wednesday against U.S. plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.The pan-European STOXX 600 index and Germany\'s exporter-heavy DAX fell 0.5 and 0.4 percent respectively, suffering their second straight day of losses.Both however ended off earlier lows following an initial kneejerk reaction."Investors might expect further escalation, but we must come back to the view that this process has all the hallmarks of a Trump negotiation where we see the president back down from the worst case scenario in return for key concessions," said ETX Capital analyst Neil Wilson.Later on Wednesday, U.S. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said people should not overreact to the trade actions and said they should be seen as "a negotiation, using all the tools".The basic resources and tech sectors were worst performers with falls of 2.4 and 1.7 percent respectively, while cyclical stocks such as financials and industrials also weighed heavily.Even though trade war concerns dampened the broader sentiment, traders said some European companies such as Airbus or Adidas could get a competitive edge against U.S. rivals in Chinese markets as a result of the tariffs.Airbus shares fell 0.8 percent, outperforming heavy losses in its U.S. rival Boeing, while Adidas rose 1.3 percent, broadly in line with gains in U.S. peer Nike.Elsewhere among individual stocks, WPP fell 2 percent after the advertising group said it was conducting an investigation into an allegation of personal misconduct against its chief executive, Martin Sorrell, who denied any wrongdoing.Swiss Re fell 3.9 percent after the reinsurer said Japan\'s SoftBank was in talks to buy a stake which is unlikely to exceed 10 percent.Bloomberg reported on March 29 that SoftBank was looking to buy a 25 percent stake in Swiss Re, worth about $9.6 billion, as part of its drive to broaden its investments, which include its $93 billion Vision Fund for technology projects.German IT leasing specialist Grenke rose 3.5 percent after a positive trading update for the first quarter.(Reporting by Danilo Masoni; Editing by David Holmes)
___At the brink: US and China threaten tariffs as fears riseWASHINGTON (AP)  The world's two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there's still time to pull back from the brink. Financial markets trembled Wednesday at the prospect of a U.S.-China trade war after Beijing and Washington proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of each other's products in a battle over the aggressive tactics China employs to develop its high-tech industries.___Facebook scandal affected more users than thought: up to 87MNEW YORK (AP) Facebook says tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought, up to 87 million instead of the 50 million reported before. Facebook says it will restrict the data it allows outsiders to access on its users. Those developments come as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook has a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly.___Police: YouTube shooter was calm when found sleeping in carSAN BRUNO, Calif. (AP)  The woman who shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home. Authorities say Nasim Aghdam did not mention being angry with YouTube and gave no indication she was a threat to anyone. Later that day, she went to a gun range before walking into a courtyard at YouTube's campus south of San Francisco. That's where she fired a handgun several times and then killed herself.___On the Money: Glut of used cars gives buyers more optionsDETROIT (AP)  Bargain prices on 2- and 3-year-old vehicles fueled record sales of used cars, trucks and SUVs last year, a trend that is expected to continue because people can save thousands of dollars over buying new. Used car sales hit 39.2 million vehicles in 2017, more than double the number of new automobiles sold, according to the Edmunds.com auto website. About 4 million leased vehicles will return to the market this year, many of them relatively new with most of the technology that's on new vehicles.___AMC to open Saudi Arabia's first movie theaterNEW YORK (AP)  AMC says it will open Saudi Arabia's first movie theater on April 18. Cinema operators are rushing to build theaters in the Gulf kingdom after the Saudi government in December said it would open the country to commercial movie theaters for the first time in more than 35 years. AMC's first theater will open in Riyadh. It plans to open up to 100 theaters by 2030.___Marijuana not part of North Dakota's corporate farming banBISMARCK, N.D. (AP)  A North Dakota official says the state's Great Depression-era law banning corporate farming won't preclude horticulture operations from growing medical marijuana, provided it's not done on agricultural land. Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem issued the opinion at the request of the state health department. The intent of the corporate farming law is to protect the state's family farming heritage. But Stenehjem says the marijuana question is a tax law matter that doesn't fall under farming law.___CVS Health eyes kidney patients for next expansion into careWOONSOCKET, R.I. (AP)  CVS Health is now planning to treat kidney failure patients as the drugstore operator branches deeper into monitoring and providing care. The company said Wednesday it will offer home dialysis for patients through its Coram business and it is working with another company to develop a new device for that. A spokeswoman declined to name the company or say how much CVS is spending on the venture.___US services firms grew at a slower pace in MarchBALTIMORE (AP)  U.S. services firms expanded at a slower clip in March compared to the prior month, largely because the pace of business activity and new orders fell. The Institute for Supply Management says its services index dropped to 58.8 from 59.5 in February. Any reading above 50 points toward growth. The services sector has been expanding for more than eight years.___Stocks surge as market escapes early plunge on trade fearsNEW YORK (AP)  After being spooked by rising trade tensions between the US and China, stocks rallied Wednesday on hopes the two sides will settle their differences. The Dow Jones industrial average recovered from an early 501 point drop to gain 230. Retailers and household goods makers climbed while tech stocks reversed losses. Big industrials such as Boeing and Deere were lower.___The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 30.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,644.69. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 230.94 points, or 1 percent, to 24,264.30. The Nasdaq composite rose 100.83 points, or 1.5 percent, to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 19.51 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,531.66.U.S. crude dipped 14 cents to $63.37 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline stayed at $1.98 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas rose 2 cents to $2.72 per 1,000 cubic feet.
TOKYO   Oil prices rose on Thursday, holding onto a late-session rally the previous day, buoyed by the U.S. government data showing a surprise drawdown in crude stockpiles.U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude for May delivery <CLc1> was up 19 cents, or 0.3 percent, at $63.56 a barrel by 0140 GMT after settling down 14 cents.Front-month London Brent crude <LCOc1> for June delivery was up 20 cents, or 0.3 percent, at $68.22, having ended down 10 cents.Before the rebound late on Wednesday, after the release of the Energy Information Administration (EIA) inventory data, WTI and Brent had hit two-week lows after China proposed a broad range of tariffs on U.S. exports, feeding fears of a trade war.U.S. crude inventories fell by 4.6 million barrels last week, compared with analysts' expectations for an increase of 246,000 barrels, EIA data showed on Wednesday. [EIA/S]Gasoline stocks fell by 1.1 million barrels, compared with analysts' expectations for a 1.3 million barrels drop. Distillate stockpiles, which include diesel and heating oil, rose by 537,000 barrels, versus expectations for a 1.1 million barrels drop.Oil has also received support from a turnaround in the U.S. stock market and a Reuters survey showing OPEC oil output fell in March to an 11-month low due to declining Angolan exports, Libyan outages and a further slide in Venezuelan output.Shanghai September crude futures <ISCc1> were untraded due to a public holiday in China, after falling 0.8 percent on Wednesday. Shanghai trading will resume on Monday.(Reporting by Osamu Tsukimori; Editing by Aaron Sheldrick)
NEW YORK   Even as trade tensions are mounting between the United States and China, the importance of Chinese moviegoers to Hollywood has never been more apparent.Global moviegoing reached a record high of $40.6 billion in 2017 despite a downturn in audiences at U.S. and Canada theaters, the Motion Picture Association of America said Wednesday in its annual report. That was despite the lowest attendance at domestic theaters in 22 years.Instead, the growth was largely propelled by China, which accounted for $7.9 billion in ticket sales in 2017. That fueled a 7 percent increase in the overseas box office. U.S. and Canada ticket sales by comparison totaled $11.1 billion, down 2 percent. If not for a 4 percent increase in the average ticket price to $8.97, the drop would have been worse.But after briefly stalling in 2016, the needle is going the other direction in China."The Chinese film market is going to be the largest film market in short order," said Charles H. Rivkin, the former assistant secretary of state who in January took over for Christopher Dodd as MPAA chairman. "They\'re building about 25 screens a day."The shift has in many ways already begun. For the first time, the Chinese movie market overtook North America in the first quarter of 2018. Several big-budget Hollywood productions, including Steven Spielberg\'s "Ready Player One," \'\'Pacific Rim: Uprising" and "Tomb Raider," debuted bigger in China than in the U.S. and Canada.The growing importance of Chinese movie theaters to Hollywood comes at a sensitive time for relations between the two countries. In response to moves by the Trump administration, China on Wednesday unveiled proposed tariffs on numerous American products, rocking the stock market and stoking fears of a larger trade war.Restrictions on film imports to China are already considerable for Hollywood; the country caps foreign films at 34 per year. The Office of the United States Trade Representatives is currently negotiating to lessen those terms. "We remain hopeful," said Rivkin of the negotiations.While pessimism often abounds about the future of the theatrical business in North America, due in part to digital upstarts like Netflix, Amazon and Apple, the MPAA sought to paint a more optimistic picture. John Fithian, president and chief executive of the National Association of Theatre Owners, attributed any year-to-year ups and downs to the quality of the releases.Among the statistics trotted out by the report: more than three-quarters of the U.S. and Canada population  263 million people  went to movie theaters at least once in 2017. The gender split of audiences was exactly 50-50.For the first time, the report expanded to include home entertainment revenue. And despite the cratering of the DVD market in recent years, global home entertainment grosses have increased the last two years, thanks to rising digital sales: $32.1 billion in 2017, up from $24.5 billion in 2016. Those totals, however, include subscription streaming services, which many consider a threat to theaters.Frequent moviegoers aged 18 to 24 also appeared to decrease after a bump last year. The MPAA earlier reported 7.2 million such moviegoers in 2016. In 2017, it was 5.2 million. The MPAA attributed the difference to a change in research methodology, shifting from phone surveys to online ones.Despite being among the most overlooked demographics in the movies themselves, Latinos made up 24 percent of frequent moviegoers in 2017, despite accounting for 18 percent of the population.But one of the brightest new markets for the MPAA is Saudi Arabia. On Wednesday, AMC said it would open the country\'s first movie theater."We think it could be a very big market," said Fithian. "Some have estimated that the market will hit $1 billion within a few years. If you see the pace of development that\'s being described, I think you\'ll see how that\'s possible.""It\'s literally as fast as we can build them and they will come," said Fithian.___
WASHINGTON  President Trump has been commander in chief for 14 months, but to an uncanny degree, he still sounds like the armchair statesman who ran for the White House in 2016.I want to get out, Mr. Trump said of the United States military engagement in Syria, at a news conference on Tuesday with leaders of the Baltic States. I want to bring our troops back home.Mr. Trumps words were at odds with the strategy his administration is pursuing in Syria. But they were almost verbatim what he said in pre-election tweets, as well as in debates two years ago against Republican challengers and his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.Far from learning on the job or modifying his views to fit the imperatives of Americas global role  as did so many of his predecessors  Mr. Trump is falling back on the familiar mix of belligerence and isolationism that fueled his America First campaign.The NATO alliance, he said, was delinquent. Russia is a partner with whom, he insisted, I think I could have a very good relationship. The United States should have kept the oil after the Iraq war. Rather than pursuing military adventures abroad, he said, I want to get back. I want to rebuild our nation.Mr. Trumps reversion to his campaign themes comes as he has reshuffled his national security team, ousting aides with more conventional views of American power, like Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser, in favor of more hawkish figures, like Mike Pompeo and John R. Bolton.How these new players will mesh with Mr. Trumps throwback persona may determine whether the president is signaling a midcourse correction in foreign policy or merely retreating to phrases and positions that give him comfort.Mr. Tillerson and General McMaster curbed some of Mr. Trumps most radical ideas  convincing him, for example, not to rip up the Iran nuclear deal. Along with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, they talked him into deploying more troops to Afghanistan.Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Bolton, analysts predict, will bend more readily to Mr. Trumps wishes. Add to that a difficult midterm election, which aides say will make the president determined to cater to his political base. And, after more than a year in office, they say Mr. Trump is more confident that his instincts are the right ones.He has been very consistent essentially since the 1980s, said Eric S. Edelman, a former under secretary of defense for policy in the George W. Bush administration. He knows very little about the world, about history, about the policy details. But he does have strong convictions and they are remarkably durable and apparently impervious to contrary evidence.They include, Mr. Edelman said, the belief that his predecessors were gullible, and that he will do better; that allies have exploited the United States, and must pay back their debts; that free trade is bad; and that military force should be used sparingly, but that we should be strong and scary and that will make people afraid to screw with us.All those convictions were on vivid display in the East Room on Tuesday.Mr. Trump reiterated his contention that the North American Free Trade Agreement is a phenomenal deal for Mexico and a horrible deal for the United States. Mexico, he complained, ran a trade surplus of more than $100 billion with the United States.He claimed that no one had been tougher on Russia than him, pointing to his recently passed $700 billion defense budget. But Mr. Trump said nothing about his administrations expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats as a punishment for the countrys role in a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter living in Britain.I could have a very good relationship with Russia, he insisted. And with President Putin. And if I did, that would be a great thing.Mr. Trump praised his three Baltic guests and promised that the United States would be a steadfast ally. But he slammed other NATO members for not paying their fair share of the alliances costs.Nor did Mr. Trump spare a more favored ally, Saudi Arabia, which he said was pressing the United States to stay militarily engaged in Syria. The White House said the president spoke on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia, and Mr. Trump seemed to refer to the conversation at the news conference. I said, Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe youre going to have to pay, he recalled.Mr. Trumps remarks, which came two weeks after he welcomed the kings heir, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, to the White House, left some senior officials shaking their heads. They also created a split-screen moment that is becoming all too common in Washington.Even as he was talking about withdrawing the 2,000 remaining United States troops in Syria and cutting more than $200 million in recovery aid there, the administrations point man for combating the Islamic State, Brett McGurk, was making the case across town for more aid and troops staying until the job is done.Speaking at the United States Institute of Peace, Mr. McGurk said the $100 million the United States has already spent on recovery aid  used to clear away unexploded bombs and clean up giant piles of war rubble in Raqqa  was essential to allow many of the one million displaced residents to return home.Mr. Trumps order to suspend the future aid, pending a review, is not hampering our work in the field, Mr. McGurk insisted. He also seemed to suggest that American troops were not leaving anytime soon.Were in Syria to fight ISIS, Mr. McGurk said. That is our mission. Our mission isnt over. Were going to complete our mission.Above all, Mr. Trump has taken pride in delivering on his campaign promises. Earlier on Tuesday at a working lunch with the Baltic leaders, he noted that he had campaigned against trade deficits and was taking aim at them, with China.He has also promised to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv  and has done so, even at the risk of jeopardizing his goal of a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.But Bill Clinton and George W. Bush both promised to move the embassy during their campaigns, too, only to reverse course later when they realized the costs of such a decision.The best and most intelligent presidents are adaptive, said R. Nicholas Burns, a diplomat who served in the Clinton and Bush administrations. They reconsider some of their views from the campaign. I worry that we are looking at someone who is not adaptive  who is not learning on the job.
AL MUKALLA, Yemen  Houthi rebels in Yemen hit a Saudi Arabian oil tanker with a missile on Tuesday, an attack that could escalate the three-year-old conflict even as the leader of the United Nations expressed optimism about renewed diplomacy to end it.In a statement carried on Al Mayadeen television in Yemen, the Houthis said the missile strike avenged the Yemeni civilians killed Monday in a Saudi aerial assault on Al Hudaydah, the only Yemeni seaport controlled by the rebels. At least 14 people, including children, were killed after they ventured outside their residential building to get some fresh air in the stifling midmorning heat, witnesses said.The Saudi-led military coalition, which has been bombing the Houthis and their allies since March 2015, has said its attack on Al Hudaydah struck military targets.The Houthis have no air force. But they have enraged the Saudis by repeatedly firing missiles into Saudi Arabia, most notably a seven-missile barrage launched late last month. The Saudis claim that the weapons are supplied by Iran, Saudi Arabias regional rival. Iran denies it.Saudi Arabia confirmed that the oil tanker, which was not identified by name, was attacked by the Iran-backed Houthis in the early afternoon.The tanker was in international waters west of Al Hudaydah, according to a statement by the Saudi coalition spokesman, Col. Turki al-Malki. He did not disclose the extent of the damage but called the assault a serious threat to the maritime navigation and international trade in the region.The spokesman also said a Saudi-coalition warship had escorted the tanker from the area, but he hinted that the stricken vessel might be leaking fuel, saying the attack created the risk of environmental and economical damage.The Houthis control nearly 200 miles of Yemens Red Sea coastline, which includes Al Hudaydah, a critical entry point for humanitarian aid. The Saudis have severely limited shipping traffic to the port during the conflict.There were fears that the missile strike on Tuesday could lead to a tighter Saudi clampdown on Al Hudaydahs port.The escalation came against the backdrop of an intense fund-raising effort by the United Nations to help civilians in Yemen, which the organization has called the worlds worst man-made humanitarian disaster.More than 22 million of Yemens 27 million people need emergency aid, nearly 18 million have little or no food, more than one million have been sickened by cholera and more than two million have been displaced from their homes, the United Nations refugee agency said Tuesday on Twitter.Secretary General Antnio Guterres of the United Nations, who attended a donor conference for Yemen relief in Geneva on Tuesday, said that more than $2 billion had been raised  about half from Saudi Arabia.Asked at a news conference if he saw a contradiction in aid money donated by a country to repair what it is destroying, Mr. Guterres sought to answer diplomatically.Well, we all know that there is a war, we all know who are the parties to the war, but the two things need to be seen separately, he told reporters.Mr. Guterres also said his special envoy for the Yemen conflict, Martin Griffiths, who recently visited Saudi Arabia and Yemen, had come away very encouraged and was now visiting other countries in the region in hopes of establishing a dialogue for talks. I am optimistic about that possibility, he said.

(Reuters) - Lennar Corp on Wednesday signalled confidence in housing demand ahead of the crucial spring selling season by raising the number of homes it expects to sell in fiscal 2018, sending the No.2 U.S. homebuilder\'s shares as much as 9.6 percent.Shares of other homebuilders, including D.R. Horton Inc, Toll Brothers Inc and PulteGroup Inc, also rose 2-4 percent on a day when most U.S. stocks were lower on fears of U.S.-China trade war.Lennar\'s higher home sales forecast comes on the back of its acquisition of smaller rival CalAtlantic Group Inc in February. The homebuilder said it would sell 45,765 homes in fiscal 2018, compared with its previous forecast of 32,000-32,500 units.The raised expectation follows a strong first quarter in which the company reported higher revenue and profit. "Lennar\'s results point to the continuation of strong demand," Edward Jones analyst Robin Diedrich said.In a housing market with supply shortage and higher demand due to low unemployment and rising wages, the homebuilder expects average selling price of $400,000-$405,000 in fiscal 2018, up from $376,000 last year."The recently passed Federal Tax Act continues to add additional momentum to the economic landscape," Chief Executive Officer Stuart Miller said on the earnings call.While supply shortage due to higher raw material costs and shortage of labour is fuelling short-term demand for homes, it is hurting affordability.That coupled with a lower limit on mortgage tax deduction under the new tax law and rising interest rates have raised concerns of a slowdown in the long-term demand.STRONG DEMAND BOOSTS Q1The Miami-based builder, which mainly sells single-family homes, said the number of homes it sold in the first quarter rose 24.1 percent, while average sales price increased 7.7 percent.Orders, a key indicator of future revenue for homebuilders, rose 30.4 percent to 8,456 homes in the quarter.Net income for Lennar rose to $136.2 million, or 53 cents per share, in the quarter ended Feb. 28, from $38.1 million, or 16 cents per share, a year earlier.Excluding these items, the company earned $1.11 a share.Revenue rose 27.5 percent to $2.98 billion, beating the average analyst estimate of $2.65 billion.Lennar said it was exploring strategic options for its real estate investment arm, Rialto Capital Management, to focus on homebuilding.Lennar\'s stock was up 8.5 percent at $61.92 in afternoon trading and is on course for its biggest percentage gain in more than six years.(Reporting by Arunima Banerjee in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)
FREETOWN   Opposition candidate and former military junta leader Julius Maada Bio was sworn in as Sierra Leone\'s new president late on Wednesday, just hours after the elections commission announced his victory in a tight run-off poll.He now faces the difficult task of rebuilding the impoverished West African nation\'s economy that was dragged down by the world\'s deadliest Ebola epidemic and a global slump in commodity prices.Representing the Sierra Leone People\'s Party (SLPP), Maada Bio won 51.81 percent of votes cast in the March 31 poll, according to results announced by the National Electoral Commission (NEC) on Wednesday.He defeated former foreign affairs minister and ruling All People\'s Congress (APC) candidate Samura Kamara, who had held a slight lead based on partial results earlier in the day but in the end garnered 48.19 percent.Dressed in traditional white robes, Maada Bio was sworn in just before midnight at a hotel in the capital Freetown, raising in the air the Bible upon which he swore the oath of office to the cheers of supporters."This is the dawn of a new era. The people of this great nation have voted to take a new direction," he said in a speech following the short ceremony in which he made an appeal for national unity."We have only one country, Sierra Leone, and we are all one people.""EVERYONE IN, NO ONE OUT"Maada Bio, who briefly ruled Sierra Leone as head of a military junta in 1996, replaces outgoing President Ernest Bai Koroma, who could not seek re-election due to term limits.The largely peaceful election process has come as a relief for the country of 7 million people, who in the 1990s endured a brutal civil war fueled by the diamond trade and notorious for its drug-addled child soldiers and punitive amputations.SLPP supporters packed into the NEC headquarters on Wednesday, and following the announcement of the election results party officials urged the Maada Bio\'s backers to remain calm."Celebrate responsibly. Do not disturb your neighbor. Victory for all men, not victory for some. Everyone in, no one out," the party\'s campaign manager Ali Kabba said.Opposition supporters, confident of victory, sang and danced in the streets of Freetown on Wednesday evening hours before Maada Bio was officially declared the winner."I feel happy about the results. I am here because my president Julius Maada Bio has won the election in this country," said Adolfus Kargbo, among a group of SLPP supporters chanting Maada Bio\'s name.(Writing by Aaron Ross and Joe Bavier; Editing by Sandra Maler and Lisa Shumaker)
WASHINGTON   China's ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai, arrived at the U.S. State Department on Wednesday for talks with Acting Secretary of State John Sullivan amid a deepening U.S.-China trade dispute.Cui did not respond to reporters questions on arrival. State Department officials said the meeting had been set up before the United States announced new tariffs on Chinese products on Tuesday, a move that provoked Chinese retaliation.A U.S. trade official said on Wednesday that the United States and China may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, but he declined to say whether any new high-level meetings were planned.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and David Brunnstrom; Editing by Susan Thomas)
We first meet Joe  his face shadowed, his breathing heavy  as he cleans up after a night of work. The tools of his trade include a roll of duct tape and a ball-peen hammer smeared with blood, which might lead us to believe that we have entered the world of a serial killer. The girl whose picture is briefly glimpsed might be his latest victim. An aura of dread and violence is summoned by the off-center images, the syncopations of the editing and the relentless hum and throb of Jonny Greenwoods score.Before long we understand that Joe is a rescuer and avenger rather than a predator: a survivor of war and child abuse who now specializes in delivering young women from evil. That Joe is officially a good guy isnt much comfort, either to him or to the audience, who will spend the 90 minutes of Lynne Ramsays You Were Never Really Here in his fractured, anxious and desperately sad reality.Played by a burly, bearded, brooding Joaquin Phoenix, Joe is a man haunted by grief and tormented (but also comforted) by thoughts of suicide. He is capable of gentleness  with his fragile, half-senile mother (Judith Roberts) and with Nina (Ekaterina Samsonov), a girl he tries to save from sex traffickers  and also of ferocious cruelty, directed at himself and his targets. I hear you can be brutal, a potential client says. By the time that line is uttered, we know that its a drastic understatement.The movie, based on a nasty, 90-page novella by Jonathan Ames, is brutal, too, less in its graphic violence  though there is plenty of that  than in the grisly intensity of its mood. The plot, which involves an all-the-way-to-the-top kidnapping conspiracy catering to the depravities of powerful men, is lurid and preposterous, an episode of Law and Order SVU amplified with self-conscious Taxi Driver overtones. A different version of the story would have brought out the weary sentimentality of Mr. Amess book, and turned its pulpy genre poses into sub-superhero clichs. But Ms. Ramsay, an uncompromising and iconoclastic British filmmaker whose earlier features include Ratcatcher, Morvern Callar and We Need to Talk About Kevin, has never had much use for plot.Or rather, she uses conventional narrative elements as scaffolding for the emotional effects and psychological explorations that are her primary interests. You Were Never Really Here is less concerned with what Joe does or why he does it than with how it feels to be in his skin and in his head.Mr. Phoenix serves Ms. Ramsays vision with disciplined doggedness. His lines would probably fit on an index card, and none of them are especially memorable. But the sound of his breathing, his groans of frustration and his gasps of panic, his occasional squalls of weeping are hard to forget. Even if his adventures in a netherworld of abuse are not especially credible  or even if they are, to some extent, the product of his own disordered mind  there is something powerful in his agony.The gravity and force of Mr. Phoenixs performance and Ms. Ramsays direction are impressive, but its hard not to feel that their talents have been misapplied, and that there is less to the movie than meets the eye. The title gestures toward emptiness and absence, of course, but what You Were Never Really Here delivers is less the promised dose of existential alienation than a thematic void. Joe is very much there: its everything else that seems to be missing.
BEIJING   China's commerce ministry said it has initiated a World Trade Organization dispute procedure against the U.S. 301 tariffs investigation on Wednesday, amid an escalating trade dispute between the world's two largest economies.China earlier on Wednesday said it would impose new tariffs on 106 U.S. products ranging from autos, soybean and whisky worth $50 billion of 2017 imports, countering a U.S. announcement of tariffs on an estimated $50 billion worth of Chinese goods.(Reporting by Beijing Monitoring Desk; Editing by Robert Birsel)
WASHINGTON   Beijing\'s objections to U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs are "completely baseless" and there is no justification to impose $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts and other goods, the Trump administration said it told China and the World Trade Organization Wednesday.China\'s requests for consultations under WTO rules and its objection to tariffs were based on an erroneous conclusion that the steel and aluminum tariffs were "global safeguard" measures to protect industry against a surge of imports, the communication issued by the U.S. Trade Representative\'s (USTR) office said.But USTR said that the steel and aluminum tariffs were put in place on national security grounds. WTO rules include an exemption for measures related to national security.USTR said it would not engage in discussions with China about its safeguard objections to the tariffs.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Susan Thomas)
(Reuters) - As equity markets show increasing fragility, investors are looking for any sign that selling pressure will wane. Some of those markers could be found in the charts favored by technical analysts - although they suggest investors still face considerable risk.With the S&P 500 closing on Monday below its 200-Day Moving Average for the first time since the June 2016 Brexit panic, investors worried that an important indicator of the bull market trend has been broken.Stocks have traded below that key level now for three consecutive days on fears of an escalating trade war with China and the potential for tougher oversight of the technology companies that have supported the market. On Wednesday, stocks opened sharply in the red, but later recovered some equilibrium.The following charts reflect the technical vulnerabilities of the market.(GRAPHIC: S&P  - https://reut.rs/2q6HKZy)Investors see the 200-day moving average as a proxy for the long-term trend, underpinning the markets advance. It has been broken only twice since 2016 and the lower close in June 2016 lasted just one day.Spending much time below the 200-day moving average, as occurred in late 2015, could coincide with a more severe period of market weakness. That said, the S&P 500 has yet to reach a failure swing by violating its early February trough at 2,532.69. Market players may look for the index to reclaim its 50-day moving average - a proxy for the intermediate-term trend - to suggest the recent damage is being repaired.(GRAPHIC: DJ Industrial Average - https://reut.rs/2GxECMI)While the Dow is showing similar action, the blue-chip average has not recorded a closing violation of its 200-day moving average during its recent weakness. Even so, the index is also down about 10 percent for the year.(GRAPHIC: Nasdaq Composite - https://reut.rs/2q3JOl3)While the Nasdaq surpassed its January peak to reach a record high in March, the index is now down about 9 percent from that top and threatening support at a trend line from its late-June 2016 trough, as well as its 200-day moving average.(GRAPHIC: Tech Titans - https://reut.rs/2q4DyK2)Technology stocks, which have been a driver for the market, handily outperformed the S&P 500 last year, gaining 37 percent vs. the broader indexs 19 percent rise.Now a price-weighted composite of Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon.com and Facebook - five of the six largest- capitalized stocks in the S&P 500 - is down close to 12 percent over the past four calendar weeks and on track for the worst such decline in its six-year history. These tech titans account for more than $3.3 trillion in market capitalization, or more than 14 percent of the S&P 500s total value. Thus, in the absence of a major rotation, action in these key tech stocks may be critical to the markets next major move.(GRAPHIC: NYSE Advance/Decline Line - https://reut.rs/2GxzQ5I)However, there are some positive indicators: The NYSE daily advance/decline line (A/D), a measure of the overall participation in an advance, peaked in January just a few days prior to the tops in the S&P 500 and Dow. The A/D moved above its 200-day moving average in early 2016, and remains there, which is a positive indicator for market breadth and shows that not all technical signs are negative.(GRAPHIC: NYSE New High/New Low - https://reut.rs/2Gw8rkB)Additionally, another internal measure, the NYSE New High/New Low Index, has fallen below 20 percent and is flirting with its February low of 17.1 percent. Although this reading reflects the weakness that the market has endured, it is potentially reaching washed-out levels, from which a surprise reversal may develop. Thus, despite the market's decline, there may be some silver linings under the surface.(Reporting by Terence Gabriel, Editing by Megan Davies and Dan Grebler)
SINGAPORE/SHANGHAI   China on Wednesday announced plans to place a 25 percent tariff on certain U.S. aircraft, in a move expected to affect some older Boeing Co narrowbody models, according to documents from China\'s Ministry of Commerce and the U.S. manufacturer.But although several analysts said China had spared the newer 737 MAX - key to future Boeing profits - the impact remained uncertain because of a lack of detail in the announcement and the fact that not all airplane characteristics are published.Boeing shares fell as much as 6 percent after China hit back at U.S. tariffs with the announcement of duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, cars, beef and chemicals, as well as planes.These include aircraft with an "empty weight" of between 15,000 kg and 45,000 kg, or 15 to 45 tonnes.Depending on how "empty weight" is defined, this leaves a question mark over the fate of Boeing\'s new big-selling 737 MAX 8 jet - though the larger MAX 9 and MAX 10 could be spared.The stakes are high. The United States exported $15 billion of aircraft to China in 2016, ranking equally with agricultural products like soybeans as the biggest category of goods.Several definitions of "empty weight" are used in the aircraft industry and the ministry document gave no explanation.Two industry experts said the rules most likely refer to the "manufacturer\'s empty weight," or the core aircraft structure.But manufacturers are usually shy about publishing this number because of its commercial sensitivity, while they do give estimates for the slightly higher "operating empty weight," which includes airline crew and some equipment, but not fuel.Yet even this number can vary according to an airline\'s specific requirements, so it is seen as a guideline.Whatever category is used, the range appears comfortably to include the current-generation 737 narrowbody aircraft, which  is in the midst of being replaced by the newer 737 MAX.737 MAX 8 IMPACT UNCLEARBoeing documents available online list the "operating empty weight" (OEW) of the 737-700, 737-800 and 737-900 well within the tariff zone at 37.6 to 42.9 tonnes.The "manufacturer\'s empty weight" (MEW) would typically be about 1-1.5 tonnes lower, two airplane appraisal experts said.In contrast, the newer 737 MAX 8 is heavier than its predecessor, with an operating empty weight of 45,070 kg, according to a Boeing document published in August 2017.Depending on how rules are applied, this leaves it hovering close to the tariff border line and potentially still exposed to sanctions if the more conservative "manufacturer" scale is used."I would expect a non-variable weight (MEW) to be used as the benchmark, as OEW will vary from operator to operator," said Stuart Hatcher, chief operating officer of UK-based advisory firm IBA, adding this would pull the jet below 45 tonnes.Even if the more generous OEW weight format were used, not all 737 MAX 8s might escape as some use lighter layouts. "A 70kg drop is pretty easy once you get into the realms of low-cost carriers or standard single-class operations," Hatcher added.Boeing said in a statement that while the United States and China have both outlined positions that could harm the global aerospace industry, nothing drastic has happened yet."We will continue in our own efforts to proactively engage both governments and build on the recent assurances by U.S. and Chinese leaders that productive talks are ongoing," it said.Chinese airlines have been on a buying spree from Boeing and rival Airbus as air travel grows.Boeing and China\'s Commercial Aircraft Corp of China (COMAC) are expected to open a 737 completion center in the coastal city of Zhoushan to install interiors and paint liveries this year.The bulk of published 737 orders from Chinese that have not yet been delivered are for the newer MAX version.However, China Southern Airlines, Ruili Airlines and Okay Airways each have two 737-800s on order and Xiamen Airlines has four more, according to the Boeing order book.Asked if the airline\'s plane buying plans could shift away from Boeing, China Eastern Airlines Corp Chief Executive Ma Xulun said on Wednesday "it\'s too early to say, we will keep an eye on the situation of the China-U.S. trade war."Apart from some Boeing jets, the Gulfstream G650, a large corporate jet manufactured by General Dynamics Corp, also falls into the weight range targeted for tariffs.Gulfstream declined to comment.(Reporting by Jamie Freed in SINGAPORE and Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI; additional reporting by Tim Hepher in PARIS, Alwyn Scott in NEW YORK; Writing by Jamie Freed and Tim Hepher; Editing by Mark Potter, Susan Fenton and Tom Brown)
SEOUL/NEW YORK   A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea\'s Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant\'s governance.It is Elliott\'s latest challenge to South Korea\'s family-run conglomerates after it forced Samsung Electronics Co Ltd to increase shareholder returns in 2017, and comes amid a government campaign to boost investors\' power in a country where shareholder activism is rare.Elliott Advisors called for a "more detailed roadmap" as to how Hyundai Motor Group will "improve corporate governance, optimize balance sheets, and enhance capital returns" at Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors.The fund did not provide a breakdown of its stakes in Hyundai\'s three affiliates but its over $1 billion worth of shares account for around 1.5 percent of the total market value of the three firms.Hyundai Mobis shares jumped as much as 6.1 percent to their highest since Jan. 25 in the wake of the announcement. Hyundai Motor rose 4.9 percent, its highest in three weeks, while Kia Motors gained 3.8 percent in morning trade in Seoul, versus the broader market\'s 0.13 percent fall. Hyundai Glovis shares rose as much as 4.8 percent."I see Elliott\'s call as positive, as it should enhance shareholder value," said Kim Sung-soo, a fund manager at LS Asset Management."Elliott has declared war against Hyundai but it has not made detailed demands, so further discussions need to be seen."Auto-to-steel giant Hyundai Motor Group announced a plan last week to streamline its complex ownership structure as it responds to calls from the government and investors for greater transparency and better governance at family-controlled conglomerates, or chaebols.But worries that the plan would benefit the parent groups controlling family ahead of investors have hit the share prices of group companies such as parts supplier Hyundai Mobis.While Elliott said it was pleased that Hyundai Motor Group had taken a first step toward reform, it added in a statement that "more needs to be done to benefit the companies and stakeholders"."Elliott looks forward to engaging with management and other stakeholders directly on these issues, and to offering recommendations regarding the proposed plan," the hedge fund said.Hyundai Motor Group responded that it was "confident" its restructuring plan would enhance shareholder value, and promised to communicate with investors at home and abroad.BATTLE WITH CHAEBOLSLast year, South Korea\'s new antitrust chief told Reuters he had been in talks with Hyundai Motor Group about unwinding its circular shareholdings, which critics say give too much power to the controlling family at the expense of shareholders.Under Hyundai\'s plan, Hyundai Mobis is to spin off its domestic module and after-service parts businesses and merge them with logistics affiliate Hyundai Glovis, which is personally backed by Hyundai\'s controlling Chung family.But some investors complained that Mobis could be giving away the most profitable part of its business too cheaply.The plan is yet to be approved by shareholders.After the merger, Group Chairman Chung Mong-koo and his son Chung Eui-sun, who is vice-chairman, will buy stakes in Mobis held by other affiliates Kia Motors, Glovis and Hyundai Steel.The group has not announced when the family members would buy the Mobis stakes.Elliott\'s intervention is another headache for Hyundai, which is already struggling with slowing sales in China and the United States and Seoul\'s diplomatic row with Beijing last year.Paul Singer\'s $33 billion firm Elliott Management is one of the few investors willing to take on South Korea\'s powerful chaebols.In 2015 it narrowly lost its battle to block a merger of two Samsung Group affiliates that will allow the controlling Samsung family to consolidate their holdings ahead of a leadership transition.In 2016, Elliott called on Samsung Electronics to introduce a transparent holding company structure and pay a special dividend, among other demands. Samsung rejected the call for a holding company, but announced plans to cancel its existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018.Samsung Electronics Vice-Chairman Jay Y. Lee was later jailed for bribing a friend of former President Park Geun-hye in exchange for government support for a restructuring seen as advantageous to the controlling Lee family.The South Korean public has become increasingly angry at bad behavior by chaebol family members in the wake of the corruption scandal involving Samsung which led to the impeachment of Park last year.Past foreign attempts to take on chaebol families include Sovereign Asset Management\'s unsuccessful bid to unseat SK Group Chairman Chey Tae-won who was convicted of financial wrongdoing in 2003.(This story has been refiled to fix dateline)(Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin in Seoul and Liana B. Baker in New York; Additional reporting by Ju-min Park and Dahee Kim; Editing by Tom Brown and Stephen Coates)
(Reuters) - A trade group representing U.S. auto parts makers said on Wednesday it supported stronger bilateral engagement between the United States and China and that tariffs were not the solution for intellectual property theft."We are concerned about the impact that tariffs will have on the ability of our 1,000 company members to remain competitive in a global marketplace," said Ann Wilson, senior vice president of government affairs at Motor Equipment Manufacturers Association.(Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty)

(Reuters) - General Motors Co on Wednesday urged the United States and China to engage in constructive dialogue over trade, after the two countries announced tariffs on $50 billion of each others\' imports."We continue to believe both countries value a vibrant auto industry and understand the interdependence between the world\'s two largest automotive markets," U.S. No.1 automaker said in a statement.(Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)

WASHINGTON   In attempting to punish China for its trade practices, President Donald Trump may open the door for other countries to grab U.S. market share, including Mexico and Japan, which he has also targeted with sharp trade rhetoric.According to detailed U.S. import data those nations are among the top alternate suppliers of some 1,300 product lines due to be hit with a 25 percent tariff if they are imported from China, and the possible winners of such an abrupt shift in relative prices.Mexico already ships about $6 billion of flat-screen televisions to the United States, about twice that of China, while Thailand\'s $3.5 billion in hard disk drive exports to the United States is about four times that of China.Japan, Malaysia and Vietnam are all rivals in the market for printer parts.Shifts to those and other countries won\'t happen overnight. The list of hundreds of goods Trump wants to tax is subject to appeal and could be withdrawn if, as some analysts suspect, the aim is to reach a negotiated settlement with China over broader trade issues.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s office deliberately targeted products that could be sourced elsewhere in devising its China tariff list, which was aimed at inflicting maximum pain on Chinese exporters and minimum pain on Americans. An algorithm developed to choose the products ranked them according to their impact on U.S. consumers, and products readily available outside of China were given a lower impact rating, a USTR official told Reuters."A proposed product list was then compiled by selecting products with the lowest consumer impact from the ranked list," the official said.Former U.S. Deputy Trade Representative Robert Holleyman said, "I do think that it is designed in part to allow shifts in supply chains over time," rather than try to outright curb U.S. imports regardless of the source.Though he said the use of tariffs has put key U.S. industries like agriculture and aerospace at risk, "the administration did do some careful analysis on this. They tried to minimize some direct damage on U.S. consumers."According to U.S. census data, despite some high-profile items, like televisions, the list seemed tilted toward goods with less Chinese market penetration. However research firm Panjiva noted that in some cases, such as thermostats, China supplies in excess of 40 percent of U.S. imports, with alternatives perhaps less available.Several dozen of the items, including a list of drugs like epinephrine and veterinary vaccines, registered no imports in 2017. The weighted market share of those with a least a dollar of imports was 7.7 percent.That may be good news in terms of the consumer impact of the tariffs. But it also shows the complexity Trump faces in trying to reorganize a tightly integrated global economy.TCL Multimedia, China\'s largest television maker, said it would shift some production to a plant it has in Mexico, underlining the difficulty of targeting imports in a world of multinational companies with several production bases.While the tariffs may indeed pose a cost to Chinese businesses, they are unlikely to shift much production to U.S. firms. Meanwhile, U.S. companies will have to find alternative sources for more expensive imports, if they can, and those industries on the receiving end of Chinese retaliation will also suffer."If this is a long-term strategy to put in place and maintain tariffs on Chinese inputs to change the trade deficit with China, then that is problematic, because the retaliation will stay in place and that will hurt large classes of exporters," Holleyman said.(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
CHICAGO   DowDuPont Inc said on Wednesday that its agriculture unit could be affected by the escalating U.S.-China trade conflict, after Beijing announced new tariffs on imports of U.S. soybeans and other goods.The company believes there could be "price declines in the total market" for soybeans, with negative impacts on U.S. farmers, spokesman Gregg Schmidt said. DowDuPont\'s agriculture unit, Corteva Agriscience, also could see its U.S. share affected "pro rata based on our current share," he said.(Reporting by Tom Polansek; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump is not attacking the business sector with his recent critiques of Amazon.com Inc but wants the online retailer to do more when it comes to taxes, his economic adviser said on Wednesday."His view on Amazon is we\'ve got to have a level playing field with regards to taxes," Kudlow told reporters at the White House. "They have improved their tax collections, but more can be done."Trump, a Republican, has been harshly critical of the company in recent days, making unsubstantiated claims that the U.S. Postal Service is losing money shipping Amazon\'s packages and accusing the retailer of not paying enough taxes.Shares of Amazon have slumped, and on Wednesday were down 0.3 percent in mid-day trade on the Nasdaq amid a wider losses on Wall Street over the latest U.S.-China trade spat that has drawn in the technology sector. [.N]Seattle-based Amazon voluntarily collects state sales tax on items it sells direct to customers in all 45 states that impose one, but is not required to collect taxes on third-party sellers using its Marketplace service.Asked about that, and the bulk shipping rate that Amazon and other companies pay, Kudlow said: "There\'s a lot of glitches in that" but gave no other details.Representatives for the retailer could not be immediately reached for comment.(Reporting by Steve Holland and Susan Heavey; Editing by Doina Chiacu and Jeffrey Benkoe)
TOKYO   Sony Corp said on Wednesday it expected to book a non-operating profit of about 105 billion yen ($986 million) in the April-June quarter from appraisal gains and a subsidiary's sale of part of its stake in just-listed Spotify Technology.Sony said in a statement that wholly-owned unit Sony Music Entertainment had sold 17.2 percent of its 5.71 percent in Spotify when it debuted on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. Shares of Spotify ended up 12.9 percent at $149.01 on their first day of trade, valuing the world's largest streaming music service at $26.5 billion.($1 = 106.4500 yen)(Reporting by Chang-Ran Kim; Editing by Stephen Coates)
BEIJING   China on Wednesday vowed to impose measures of the "same strength" in response to a proposed U.S. tariff hike on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods in a spiraling technology dispute that has fueled fears it might set back the global economic recovery.The Commerce Ministry said it would immediately challenge the U.S. move in the World Trade Organization."At the same time, we are preparing to take measures of the same strength and same scope against U.S. goods," said a ministry statement. "These measures will be announced shortly."The clash reflects growing tension between President Donald Trump\'s promises to narrow the multibillion-dollar U.S. trade deficit with China and the ruling Communist Party\'s development plans. Those include using access to China\'s vast market as leverage to induce foreign automakers and other companies to help create or improve industry and technology.Beijing was reacting to a U.S. announcement Tuesday of a list of Chinese goods targeted for a tariff hike previously approved by Trump. They include medical, aerospace and information technology.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s Office said those products benefit from Chinese policies that including requiring foreign companies to hand over technology in violation of Beijing\'s free-trade commitments.Chinese officials have given no indication what U.S. goods might be targeted in response but businesspeople and economists have cited Boeing jetliners and soybeans as possible targets.The dispute has fueled fears it might set back the global recovery if other governments are prompted to raise their own import barriers.Asian governments will closely watch Beijing\'s reaction in a dispute that "may compel countries to pick sides," said Weiliang Chang of Mizuho Bank in a report.On Wednesday, Asian stock markets were mixed. Market benchmarks in Hong Kong and Tokyo were off 0.2 percent at midday but the Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.8 percent.American companies have long chafed under Chinese regulations that require them to operate through local partners and share technology with potential competitors in exchange for market access. Business groups say companies feel increasingly unwelcome in China\'s state-dominated economy and are being squeezed out of promising industries.Chinese policies "coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to domestic Chinese enterprises," said a USTR statement.A USTR report released Tuesday also cited complaints Beijing uses cyber spying to steal foreign business secrets, but it was unclear whether the latest tariff hike was in response to that.In a separate dispute, Beijing raised tariffs Monday on a $3 billion list of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe in response a higher American import duties on steel and aluminum.The technology-related tariffs are more sensitive for President Xi Jinping\'s government because they strike at industries seen by communist leaders as vital for China\'s future development.Companies have warned Trump\'s action might hurt U.S. companies and consumers."The administration is rightly focused on restoring equity and fairness in our trade relationship with China," said the executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Myron Brilliant, in a statement. "However, imposing taxes on products used daily by American consumers and job creators is not the way to achieve those ends."The USTR also launched a WTO case last month challenging Chinese policies it said unfairly limit foreign companies\' ability to control their technology.U.S. authorities say Beijing denies foreign companies the right to block use of technology by a Chinese entity once a licensing period ends and imposes contract terms that are less favorable than for local technology.Foreign companies are increasingly alarmed by initiatives such as Beijing\'s long-range industry development plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025," which calls for creating Chinese global leaders in electric cars, robots and other fields. Foreign companies complain that strategy appears to limit or outright block access to those industries.Beijing reported a trade surplus of $275.8 billion with the United States last year, or two-thirds of Beijing\'s global total. Washington reports different figures that put the gap at a record $375.2 billion.China has accused Trump of damaging the global system of trade regulation by taking action under U.S. law instead of through the WTO. The Commerce Ministry\'s statement Wednesday criticized the latest moves as "a typical unilateralist and protectionist practice."___Chinese Ministry of Commerce (in Chinese): www.mofcom.gov.cn
BEIJING   Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, have largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.The office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products.China hit back within hours with its own threatened duties on U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals.The U.S. proposed list of $50 billion (35.67 billion pounds) in tariffs is aimed at forcing Beijing to address what Washington says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese competitors through initiatives such as the "Made in China 2025" plan.But advanced information and communication technology (ICT) products, among China\'s top priorities, were conspicuously absent from Trump\'s tariffs list, giving both countries\' companies in the sector good reason to breathe sighs of relief."Just about every major ICT product was exempted," one U.S. industry source said of the U.S. list. "They did target Made in China 2025, but with a caveat. They weren\'t going to unduly harm the consumer."USTR said it developed the tariff targets using a computer algorithm designed to choose products that would inflict maximum pain on Chinese exporters but limit the damage to U.S. consumers.The list got an initial scrub to remove products identified as likely to cause disruptions to the U.S. economy and those that needed to be excluded for legal reasons, with remaining products ranked based on impact to consumers.Cellphones, laptops, PCs, servers, and telecoms equipment are all largely exempted under Trump\'s plan, which still must undergo a public comment period of about two months before being finalised.TECH EXPORTSThe Semiconductor Industry Association says U.S. companies have about half of global semiconductor market share, constituting the United States\' fourth ranked export behind aircraft, refined oil and automobiles.UBS Securities has said that Chinese electronics and tech exports account for 43 percent of total exports to the United States.But much of the value of that trade comes from U.S. semiconductors that are sent abroad for low value-added processing before finding their way back to U.S. consumers registered as U.S. imports.If the U.S. government had slapped duties in such imports, they would have dealt a blow to one of the United States\' industrial pillars.The Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF), a U.S. technology think tank whose board includes representatives from top companies such as Apple Inc, Amazon Inc, Cisco Systems, Google, and Intel Corp, said in a submission to the U.S. government during the tariff investigation that 10 percent duties levied on Chinese ICT imports would slow the growth of U.S. output by $163 billion over the next 10 years.Another tech industry insider told Reuters: "It\'s possible the reason is that the U.S. companies will be damaged by this and the government is taking that into account."Among tech products not exempted were magnetic hard drives and flat-panel television sets, and the U.S. duties were heavily focused on industrial manufactured goods, such as machines, robots, motors, valves, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.The tariffs are designed to change negotiating dynamics between China and the United States over trade and give Trump leverage to get concessions out of Beijing.But Trump is also focused on his promise to voters to reinvigorate U.S. manufacturing jobs.Jacob Parker, vice president of China operations at the U.S.-China Business Council, warned that any efforts by Trump to get U.S. companies to move production back home through tariffs could backfire, much as when President Barack Obama put tariffs on Chinese tyres only to see tyre imports from Indonesia and Taiwan surge."You could certainly see a focus on re-shoring operations. That\'s not going to happen," Parker said."If we stop importing a product from China, we\'ll just import it from the next lowest cost producer, such as Korea or Vietnam or Malaysia, rather than make it in the U.S. and pay more for it."(Reporting by Michael Martina and Cate Cadell; Editing by Alex Richardson)
LUTON, England   Peugeot-maker PSA has unveiled plans to raise output at its British Vauxhall van plant, in a pre-Brexit show of confidence that will raise pressure on sister brand Opel\'s German workforce to offer concessions in labor talks.PSA, which last year acquired Opel/Vauxhall from General Motors, will build Peugeot and Citroen models as well as the next Vauxhall Vivaro van in Luton, north of London. Production will rise to 100,000 vehicles from 60,000 in 2017.The French group, which is locked in labor talks with Opel\'s German workers, said the Luton investment was helped by "responsible social dialogue with the Unite union guaranteeing production flexibility", as well as UK government support.The union said 350-400 jobs would be created as a result of the investment, which PSA said would amount to about 100 million euros ($123 million). Around 1,400 people are currently employed at the site, which is Britain\'s only van plant.The announcement is a boost to Prime Minister Theresa May ahead of talks to decide Britain\'s long-term trading relationship with the European Union, although PSA Chief Executive Carlos Tavares underscored the need for free trade."I take on board the assurances that the UK government have provided us on seeking tariff-free and frictionless trade with the EU going forward," he said at the plant on Wednesday."There is still work to do to ensure frictionless trade."The Vivaro, which currently shares underpinnings with Renault\'s Trafic van, will in future be assembled on PSA\'s EMP2 vehicle platform.That will allow production of the Peugeot Expert and Citroen Jumpy to be introduced in Luton, the group said, confirming an earlier Reuters report.After rescuing PSA from near-bankruptcy in 2013, Tavares is negotiating new union deals for Opel/Vauxhall as he pursues an ambitious restructuring plan designed to restore the division\'s profitability by 2020.Raising pressure on Germany\'s IG Metall union, the division\'s German CEO Michael Lohscheller underlined that new deals had now been struck with workers in Britain, Spain, Austria, Hungary and Poland, allowing investment in their sites.The latest UK investment safeguards the Luton plant\'s future for "many years to come", Lohscheller said on Wednesday.PSA said it needed to boost van output to meet growing demand but could wait until 2020 to decide on future car production at its Ellesmere Port factory in northwest England, where the run of its current Astra Sports model does not end until the next decade.The British government is contributing 9 million pounds to the van investment as part of its push to support the UK automotive industry, which employs over 800,000 people and generates revenue of 77.5 billion pounds ($110 billion).(Reporting by Costas Pitas; Writing by Laurence Frost and Costas Pitas; Editing by Mark Potter)
LUTON, England   Britain's departure from the European Union next year is a concern but not a sufficient one to block Peugeot's investment in its van plant in England, chief executive Carlos Tavares said on Wednesday after announcing an expansion there.Tavares, speaking alongside British business minister Greg Clark, said the country still needed to do work to ensure there would be frictionless trade with the EU after Brexit in March next year.But Peugeot was agile enough to take risks in a world where Brexit was far from being the only source of political uncertainty, and a decision on van production at Vauxhall's plant in Luton, southern England, could not wait, he added.(Reporting by Costas Pitas, writing by David Milliken; editing by Stephen Addison)
DUBLIN   Irish cider maker C&C bought the wholesale arm of troubled British drinks firm Conviviality for a nominal fee on Wednesday, safeguarding most of the jobs threatened by the parent company\'s expected collapse.Britain\'s largest franchised off-licence and convenience chain, which also operates more than 700 stores under the Bargain Booze and Wine Rack brands, said on March 29 it was likely to collapse into administration within two weeks, putting some 2,600 jobs at risk.The group hit trouble last month when it failed to allow for a 30 million pounds ($42 million) tax bill in its cash flow forecast, and has since failed to raise 125 million pounds in an emergency cash call.C&C, whose shares had jumped 9 percent to 2.87 euros in late trade, said it had bought Conviviality\'s wholesale arm Matthew Clark and its wine, spirits and craft beer distributor Bibendum, as well as four smaller businesses belonging to the two.Davy Stockbrokers said the deal would be transformational for C&C\'s UK platform. "While not without risk - maintaining supplier and customer relationships will be key - we believe the transaction makes economic and strategic sense and will help reshape the equity narrative," Davy analysts wrote in a note.Around 2,000 staff will join C&C as a result of the deal, a spokesman for the Irish maker of Magners, Bulmers and Tennents said.Matthew Clark, the largest independent distributor to the UK on-trade drinks sector, which Conviviality bought for 200 million pounds less than three years ago, employees 1,400 people, according to its website.C&C said it would provide funds from its existing facilities to support the working capital and other cash requirements of the businesses, which had gross revenue of 1.2 million pounds in the 12 months to the end of April 2017.Anheuser-Busch InBev, the world\'s biggest brewer, will provide additional financial support to the transaction, C&C said.($1 = 0.7102 pounds)(Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by David Holmes)
BOSTON   A former U.S. Navy pilot from Massachusetts who received the Medal of Honor for his heroics during the Korean War has been buried at Arlington National Cemetery.The Navy says Capt. Thomas Hudner Jr. was laid to rest with full military honors Wednesday during a ceremony that included a "missing man" flyover by the squadron he flew with during the war.Hudner, a Fall River native and longtime Concord resident, died in November at age 93.Hudner was awarded the Medal of Honor for his efforts during the Battle of the Chosin Reservoir in 1950. He crash landed his plane in an unsuccessful effort to save the life of his wingman and friend, Ensign Jesse Brown, the Navy\'s first black combat pilot.
(Reuters) - A Chinese scientist in Kansas was sentenced on Wednesday to more than 10 years in a federal prison for conspiring to steal samples of a variety of genetically engineered rice seeds from a U.S. research facility, the U.S. Justice Department said.U.S. District Court Judge Carlos Murguia in the District of Kansas sentenced Weiqiang Zhang, 51, a Chinese national living in Manhattan, Kansas, to 121 months in prison.Zhang was convicted in February 2017 on three counts, including conspiracy to steal trade secrets and interstate transportation of stolen property, the department said in a statement."Today\'s sentence demonstrates the significant consequences awaiting those who would steal trade secrets from American companies," said John P. Cronan, DOJ\'s acting assistant attorney general.Neither Zhang nor his attorney could be reached for comment on Wednesday.Zhang, who holds a doctorate from Louisiana State University, worked as a rice breeder for Kansas-based Ventria Bioscience Inc, which develops genetically programmed rice used in the therapeutic and medical fields. He stole hundreds of rice seeds produced by Ventria and stored them at his Manhattan residence, the statement said.China had long banned commercial growing of GMO grains due to public opposition to the technology. But last year, ChemChina\'s purchase of Swiss agrochemical and seed company Syngenta was seen by market analysts and industry experts as a sign that the country was becoming more open to production of genetically modified crops.In recent years, U.S. law enforcement officials have urged agriculture executives and security officers to increase their vigilance and report suspicious activity involving farm products, citing a growing economic and national security threat to the sector.(Reporting by P.J. Huffstutter and Tom Polansek in Chicago; Editing by Matthew Lewis)
WASHINGTON   The United States called on Houthis on Wednesday to stop escalating the conflict in Yemen and demonstrate a commitment to dialogue, a day after an attack on a Saudi oil tanker by the Iran-allied group."The United States is very concerned about the Houthis\' latest attempt to escalate the war in Yemen, this time by attacking a commercial vessel while it transited one of the world\'s busiest shipping lanes, the Bab al-Mandab, in international waters," the White House said in a statement.(Reporting by Doina Chiacu)
OTTAWA/MEXICO CITY   Mexico, Canada and the United States have made good progress in their bid to modernize the NAFTA trade pact but still have work to do, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Wednesday.Freeland also said she would be flying to Washington for a meeting on Thursday with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, who is pushing hard for a quick deal in principle to finish before a July 1 presidential election in Mexico.The three members of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) could announce by mid-April the outlines of a settlement that would likely tackle the key issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, say sources familiar with the matter."We\'re making good progress on NAFTA ... having said that, we\'re not there yet," Freeland told business executives in Winnipeg. The meeting was televised.One of the biggest chapters to be resolved is a U.S. demand that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA nations be increased to 85 percent from 62.5 percent.A Mexican source said U.S. negotiators had shown "some flexibility" on the issue, adding that the three nations were now looking at alternatives.Only six of the roughly 30 chapters have been closed and wide differences remain on topics such as dispute resolution and government procurement.Canadian officials do not see how the three nations can close the remaining chapters in the next two weeks, a source familiar with Canada\'s negotiating position said on Wednesday."There\'s a possibility they could come up with a symbolic agreement in principle that signaled they had reached a consensus on five or six key issues," said the source, who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation.Chief negotiators will meet in Washington next week and there are no current plans for an eighth round of talks, which officials had earlier suggested would start on April 8, the source added.U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to ditch NAFTA if it cannot be reworked to his satisfaction, and talks to modernize the 24-year-old treaty have dragged on since August.Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, predicted on Wednesday that there would be "some positive news on NAFTA ... and I think the stock market is going to love that."Moises Kalach, a senior member of the CCE business lobby, which represents Mexico\'s private sector in the NAFTA talks, said he expects signs of progress even if ministers do not reach a formal agreement.The United States "is in more of a rush than before ... the window of opportunity is now open, it\'s a couple of weeks," Kalach said on Mexican television.Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo and Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray held talks on Wednesday with Lighthizer and Jared Kushner, Trump\'s son-in-law and close adviser, the Mexican government said in a statement.Guajardo and Videgaray "agreed to continue the dialogue to advance on shared positions in the pending chapters," the Mexican government said. "These discussions will be maintained at the technical level with both the U.S. government and the Canadian government."NAFTA negotiating teams have been meeting for weeks to try to narrow their differences, Guajardo said on Monday, sounding a positive note for making further advances at a regional summit of leaders in Peru that begins on April 13.If an initial NAFTA deal is reached, a longer period will be needed to finalize technical details, Guajardo said.(Additional reporting by Anthony Esposito, Daina Beth Solomon and Julia Love in Mexico City and Steve Holland in Washington; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Sandra Maler)
CHICAGO   U.S. agricultural machinery maker Deere & Co said on Wednesday it would monitor Beijing\'s new tariff proposals to evaluate their impact on the company and its customers.The statement came after shares of U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors fell after China retaliated against the Trump administration\'s tariff plans by proposing duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.The tit-for-tat retaliatory policies are feared to hit U.S. farm exports, exacerbating the troubles of farm equipment makers, which have been battling weak domestic demand for the past four years.Deere shares fell as much as 6.2 percent on Wednesday and were still down 3.8 percent at $147.24 in afternoon trading."We strongly encourage officials to work toward a timely resolution to limit uncertainty for farmers and avoid any meaningful disruption to agricultural trade," said Ken Golden, director of global public relations at Deere.(Reporting by Rajesh Kumar Singh; Editing by Matthew Lewis)
(Reuters) - Broadcom Inc said on Wednesday it had completed its move back to the United States from Singapore, weeks after President Donald Trump blocked its $117 billion offer to buy Qualcomm Inc on national security grounds.Broadcom, which was a U.S. company until it was bought in 2016 by Singapore's Avago, had announced its plan to redomicile on Nov. 2, days before making its first offer for Qualcomm.The company said it exchanged all shares of Broadcom Ltd to newly issued stock of Broadcom Inc on a one-for-one basis and that its stock would continue to trade under the same ticker.Broadcom's existing co-headquarters in San Jose, California will become its sole headquarters, the company said.The move to the United States could allow Broadcom to buy U.S. companies without coming under the scrutiny of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS),  which has the power to stop deals that could harm national security.Broadcom's shares were up 0.4 percent at $237.97 in after hours trading.(Reporting by Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)
NEW YORK   Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Wednesday:Boeing Co., down $3.38 to $327.44Industrial companies took some of the worst losses after China proposed tariffs on aircraft and other items.Dave & Buster's Entertainment Inc., down 9 cents to $40.60The chain of restaurants and arcades gave disappointing sales forecasts for the current year.Acuity Brands Inc., down $5.30 to $129.48The lighting company reported a smaller quarterly profit than analysts had expected.Lennar Corp., up $5.73 to $62.82The homebuilder posted better sales than Wall Street had forecast.U.S. Steel Corp., down 1 cent to $34.99China's list of $50 billion in possible tariffs also included imported steel.Hormel Foods Inc., up $1.65 to $35.87Shares of food and consumer goods makers rose as investors bought those high-dividend stocks for their yield.Range Resources Corp., down 17 cents to $13.78Energy companies sank along with oil prices as investors worried that trade tensions could slow down growth in the global economy.Cloudera Inc., down $8.95 to $13.29The technology company's fiscal year forecasts disappointed analysts.
BALTIMORE   U.S. services firms expanded at a slower clip in March compared to the prior month, but growth levels still appear to be solid.The Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday that its services index dropped to 58.8 from 59.5 in February. Any reading above 50 points toward growth. The services sector has been expanding for the past 98 months, or more than eight years.The March index from the trade association of purchasing managers suggests that the robust pace of growth seen at the start of 2018 might be unsustainable. Measures of both business activity and new orders declined in March, but they were down from relatively high levels and still pointed to growth. The employment component of the index improved in March."It\'s still a strong reading, it just cooled off a bit," Anthony Nieves, chair of ISM\'s business survey committee for non-manufacturing companies, said about the drop in new orders.The index is drawn from a survey of purchasing managers in the services industry, which includes finance, health care and retail and accounts for the majority of U.S. economic activity.Of the industries surveyed, 15 reported expansion last month, including the transportation and lodging and food services. Just two industries  education and information services  contracted.
NEW YORK   Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who rose to national prominence in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and his third wife, Judith, are divorcing, the New York Post quoted him on Wednesday as saying.After a 15-year marriage, Judith Giuliani, 63, filed a contested divorce proceeding in state Supreme Court in Manhattan, indicating an expected fight over their assets, including properties in New York and Palm Beach, Florida, the Post reported."It is with great sadness I can confirm that Judith and I are divorcing," the 73-year-old former mayor told the newspaper. "We hope to do this as amicably as possible, and hope that people will respect the privacy of our children at this time."He added in the statement: In these divorce situations, you cannot place blame, it is 50/50, there are problems on both sides."Neither the couple nor their representatives could be reached for immediate comment. A search of online court records did not immediately show that the two had filed for divorce.Giuliani and his second wife, Donna Hanover, a television journalist, have two adult children, Andrew and Caroline. His first marriage to Regina Peruggi, his second cousin, was annulled after 14 years.Giuliani became involved with the then-Judith Nathan in 1999, while estranged from Hanover, New York media reported at the time. He announced his intention to divorce Hanover in a 2000 news conference that was reported to have blindsided her and was widely criticized in local media.Judith Giuliani, a registered nurse, and her previous husband, Bruce Nathan, have an adult daughter, Whitney. Her first marriage to Jeffrey Ross ended in divorce in 1979.Giuliani became the city\'s first Republican mayor in 20 years when he defeated David Dinkins, New York\'s first black mayor, in 1993. He was serving his second term at City Hall when suicide hijackers crashed two jetliners into the World Trade Center in 2001. He ran unsuccessfully for U.S. president in 2008.(Reporting by Barbara Goldberg; Additional reporting by Steve Gorman; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Peter Cooney)
MOSCOW   Russia long saw Donald Trump as the wild card in its strategy to improve relations with the United States.But 14 months after he became U.S. president, Moscow is close to viewing him as a busted flush, unable to enact his pledge for better ties.Trump reluctantly signed off on new sanctions against Moscow last summer over allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Last week he backed the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats and the closure of Russia\'s Seattle consulate over the poisoning of an ex-Russian agent in Britain.After betting the farm on Trump, Russia has seen relations with the West sink so low that there is talk of a new Cold War. President Vladimir Putin\'s options for a change of strategy, banking less on Trump and his ability to sway those around him on Russia, is severely limited as he prepares for a new term.One option being explored is to try to widen splits in the West by courting France and Germany. Another is to draw closer to China and India. But the relationship with Washington is still seen in Moscow as central to Russian foreign policy."Washington has become fixated with the fight against a non-existent, so-called Russian threat," Sergei Naryshkin, Russia\'s foreign intelligence agency chief, said on Wednesday."This has reached such proportions and acquired such absurd characteristics that it\'s possible to speak of a return to the dark times of the Cold War."Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said earlier this week that the standoff was worse than during the Cold War between East and West after World War Two."...Then some kind of rules and appearances were kept up. Now, as I see it, our Western partners ... have cast aside all proprieties," Lavrov said.The Cold War saw the Soviet Union square off against the United States, with the threat of nuclear war hanging over the world until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.But the standoff was kept under control by arms treaties, superpower summits and both proscribed and informal rules of engagement.The new standoff, raw and unpredictable, has been likened to a "fight without rules" by Konstantin Kosachev, head of the upper house of Russian parliament\'s foreign affairs committee.The risk of miscommunication, miscalculation and sudden escalation into a hot war is higher than during the original Cold War, he says.ARCH HAWKSTrump\'s appointment of Mike Pompeo and John Bolton, whom Moscow regards as arch Russia hawks, to key foreign policy posts last month has further soured the mood in Moscow, say analysts and people close to Russian decision makers.When it comes to the United States, these sources say Moscow is not willing to change course, make concessions or launch new initiatives.Russia will therefore continue to engage only if and when the United States is ready to do so, and, if faced with more hostile action - such as further diplomatic expulsions - will respond in kind, the people close to decision makers say."All we can do is keep the doors open for negotiation and  wait and see what will happen. That\'s the predominant view," said Andrey Kortunov, head of a think-tank close to the Russian Foreign Ministry.In particular, Moscow is keeping the door open to a possible summit between Trump and Putin, an idea floated by Trump, and is also keen for U.S.-Russia talks on strategic nuclear stability to avoid a costly arms race.But its baseline scenario is a downward spiral in ties."Washington is the standard bearer of a new Cold War,"  Fyodor Lukyanov, a foreign policy expert close to the Kremlin, wrote in government daily Rossiyskaya Gazeta after last week\'s  U.S. diplomatic expulsions."There\'s no point in hoping for an improvement in ties or any progress in any area for the foreseeable future," said Lukyanov, who has warned the Russian elite to brace for sweeping Iran-style financial sanctions.EASTWARDS, FRANCO-GERMAN PIVOTWhile better ties with the United States are seen as a remote possibility, improved relations with France and Germany are seen as "more interesting opportunities for political investment," said Kortunov.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov praised France\'s "constructive position" after Paris confirmed French President Emmanuel Macron would still visit Russia in May despite tensions. Alexei Pushkov, a senator specializing in foreign policy, has lauded German Chancellor Angela Merkel\'s decision to back Russia\'s proposed Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.The planned pipeline will connect Germany and Russia, despite concerns from other EU nations who fear it will harm the bloc\'s energy security.Lukyanov said Moscow should look to beef up ties with Beijing and Delhi as they had "freedom to maneuver" on the world stage and were not vulnerable to Western pressure on Russia.Moscow believes the only wild card it has with Washington is Trump who, in Russian eyes, appears to have been playing a game of good cop bad cop, offering Russia a glimmer of hope, while Congress and his administration read Russia the riot act.Russia casts Trump as a hostage of the U.S. political establishment who it accuses of reducing his room for maneuver by boxing him in with the special investigation into his associates\' possible collusion with Moscow and what Russia says are false allegations it meddled in U.S. politics.Its disappointment with Trump has unfolded in stages.Trumps decision to launch a missile strike against a Syrian air base, drop a large bomb in Afghanistan in an attack on Islamic militants and stick with Obama-era policies over Russia\'s annexation of the Crimea region from Ukraine, and, until recently, his tough talk on North Korea, went down badly in Moscow.And initial euphoria over his victory gave way to dismay last summer when the man they hoped would end U.S. sanctions reluctantly reinforced the penalties.His decision to back the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats over the Skripal affair was a new inflection point."Increasingly, diplomacy is becoming irrelevant in Russian-U.S. relations," Dmitri Trenin, a former colonel in the Russian army and director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, said of the move."It seems to be the time to hit/retaliate/prepare for a fight."Trump\'s approval of the expulsions was seen as a bad omen for his relationship with Putin by an online Russian newspaper viewed as close to the Russian presidential administration."If 14 months after taking office Trump has not won himself freedom of maneuver, it\'s very hard to count on him getting it in what\'s left of his presidential time," wrote Vzglyad.Trump\'s congratulatory phone call to Putin after the Russian leader\'s re-election, his talk of a U.S.-Russia summit in the same call, and his statement on Tuesday saying it would be "a great thing" if he had a "very good relationship" with Putin have provided small shards of hope to Moscow."In theory, one can imagine that if President Trump somehow clears himself of the allegations of collusion with Russia .. he might get out of the cage and exercise a little bit more autonomy in rebuilding this relationship," said Kortunov, the think-tank head close to the Foreign Ministry."But these hopes are very slim."(Editing by Timothy Heritage)
WASHINGTON   The White House is calling on Yemen\'s Houthi rebels to "cease further escalation," after a Saudi-led coalition battling the rebels said they attacked a Saudi oil tanker.Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement Wednesday that the United States is "very concerned about the Houthis\' latest attempt to escalate the war in Yemen."Yemen\'s Houthi rebels attacked a Saudi oil tanker in the Red Sea on Tuesday, causing "minor damage" to the ship, the Saudi-led coalition battling the rebels said. The attack occurred in international waters west of the port of Hodeida in Yemen, which is under Houthi control.Sanders said: "We call on the Houthis to cease further escalation and demonstrate their commitment to a peace process by engaging in constructive dialogue."
_________The word agonistic has appeared in one article on nytimes.com in the past year, on March 22 in the T magazine article Does Having a Day Job Mean Making Better Art? by Katy Waldman:_________The Word of the Day and the quiz question have been provided by Vocabulary.com. Learn more and see usage examples across a range of subjects in the Vocabulary.com Dictionary.
WARSAW, Poland   Polish groups campaigning for a bill on returning real estate seized, stolen or sold under duress decades ago have invited American politicians to see firsthand the restitution irregularities the groups say occur without proper regulation.Last week, 59 U.S. senators wrote Poland\'s prime minister to urge the passage of legislation that would compensate the heirs of people who lost property during World War II and later under communism.Poland is central Europe\'s only country without such a law. Individual cases are handled by courts, but activists say criminal activity has caused many plots and houses to be given to the wrong people.Polish activists and lawmakers who are combatting what they call a "restitution mafia" invited the senators on Wednesday to tour sites in Warsaw that were transferred to people unrelated to the original owners.
BEIJING   China\'s decision to impose tariffs on imports of soybeans from the United States is \'regrettable\' and \'won\'t solve the trade imbalance\', the China director of the U.S. Soybean Export Council said on Wednesday.U.S. soybean futures fell more than 5 percent following the announcement. A Beijing-based soybean trader said there are growing concerns about the cancellation of previously purchased cargoes by the world\'s top buyer of the oilseed.Soybeans, the top U.S. agricultural export to China, were among the 106 U.S. products on which Beijing plans to impose an  additional 25 percent in tariffs.The U.S. is the second-biggest soybean supplier, after Brazil, to China, the world\'s largest consumer of the bean.The move had been expected by the U.S. soybean industry, China Director Zhang Xiaoping told Reuters, despite the Council, which represents American soybean producers, having done "everything" to prevent it.China may still buy U.S. soybeans, despite the additional tariff, if the market needs supplies, added Zhang.However, the Beijing-based trader said he had already received calls from customers who are worried about the tariffs being applied to cargoes not yet shipped."Some customers still have contracts in hand. They will wash out those cargoes (if the duties are implemented soon)," said the trader, who works for an international firm and declined to be identified.The effective date for the tariffs was not announced, but China\'s Ministry of Finance said it was dependent on the $50 billion in tariffs due to be adopted by the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump.(Reporting by Dominique Patton; Editing by Clarence Fernandez and Christian Schmollinger)
WASHINGTON   U.S. companies hired 241,000 new workers in March, a private survey found, a solid total that suggests the already-low unemployment rate may be headed lower in the coming months.Payroll processor ADP said Wednesday that the gains were strong across different industries, with construction, manufacturing and professional services such as accounting showing healthy hiring increases.The figures come two days before the government releases its monthly employment figures. Economists forecast that Friday\'s official report will show employers added 185,000 jobs, a smaller but still solid figure, according to a survey by data provider FactSet.ADP compiles hiring data from millions of companies that are clients of its payroll services. Its figures frequently diverge from the government\'s report. Last month, the government said 313,000 jobs were added, much higher than ADP\'s initial estimate of 235,000.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody\'s Analytics, which prepares the ADP report, cautioned that the actual job count in the government\'s report Friday may be lower than ADP\'s because the government\'s figures are more sensitive to weather. Several Northeastern cities were hit with snowstorms last month, which may have restrained hiring in construction and other industries.Still, the figures suggest that the recent run of healthy job gains may have continued into March. Employers nationwide have added an average of 242,000 jobs a month in the past three months. Hiring at that pace indicates that businesses anticipate robust consumer and business spending.Zandi expects hiring will remain strong enough over the next 12 months to reduce the unemployment rate, already at a 17-year low of 4.1 percent, to as low as 3.5 percent.The emerging trade fight with China should have only a small impact on growth and jobs, Zandi said in a conference call with reporters, unless it escalates significantly. It may slice one or two-tenths of a percentage point from growth."So far, at least, this is relatively minor," he said. "It\'s going to take a lot to derail this economy."
NEW DELHI/SINGAPORE   Boeing said on Wednesday it has won a binding order from Jet Airways for 75 of its 737 MAX narrowbody jets, as the Indian carrier expands to meet domestic passenger demand that has shown no sign of abating despite years of growth.Jet Airways, in a regulatory filing late on Tuesday, said it had entered an agreement to buy the aircraft, but it did not say whether the agreement was a formal order or a non-binding memorandum of understanding.Boeing said in a statement that Jet Airways will be the first Indian airline to take delivery of the new and improved 737 jet.Based on Boeing's list prices, the deal could be worth between $7.2 billion and $9.7 billion depending on which 737 MAX variants the airline chooses. Airlines usually get significant discounts from manufacturers though, bringing costs well below list prices.The 737 MAX can seat between 130 and 230 passengers, depending on the variant.Shares of Jet Airways, which rose as much as 3.2 percent in Wednesday morning trade, closed 1.5 percent lower, as the wider Indian market pulled back late in the trading day.The latest agreement comes as Indian airlines rush to expand fleets to meet ever-increasing demand for domestic as well as international flights, making it one of the most targeted sales markets for Boeing and European rival Airbus SE.Boeing said in July it expected Indian airlines to order up to 2,100 aircraft worth $290 billion over the next 20 years, calling it the highest-ever forecast for Asia's third-largest economy.Domestic passenger traffic increased 17.9 percent in January from a year earlier for the 41st consecutive month of double-digit growth, according to data from the International Air Transport Association.Jet Airways Chief Executive Vinay Dube last month told reporters the airline was hoping to close the latest deal by the end of March.The airline finalised a separate deal to buy 75 other Boeing 737 MAX aircraft last year.(Reporting by Jamie Freed in SINGAPORE and Aditi Shah in NEW DELHI; Writing by Euan Rocha Editing by Christopher Cushing and Alexandra Hudson)
PARIS   French commuters were angry and frustrated when rail workers began a wave of strikes over government reforms this week, but a handful of apps are thriving on the disruption.Activity surged on BlaBlaCar, France\'s number one car ride-sharing app and among its fastest-growing start-ups, as it does whenever there is trade union action."Typically, these strikes allow a lot of people to change their habits," said co-founder Nicolas Brusson, who said the app handles 50 to 100 percent more reservations on strike days.Drivy, a peer-to-peer car rental app, said business was up 30 percent on Tuesday, when the first two-day rail strike began. It was up more than 50 percent on March 22, when public sector workers protested against changes to benefits and employees of the state railway company SNCF joined them in solidarity.Since unions plan 36 days of strikes between now and the end of June, commuters need to get used to finding alternatives to get to work.Even SNCF stands to gain from the disruption. It owns iDVroom, an app that allows users to find car-sharing options online, an apparent hedging strategy by the company, which is expected to lose around 20 million euros ($25 million) for every day of the strike.IDVroom said it had four times as many visitors to the site on Tuesday and five times as many downloads of the app.France has a growing number of start-ups which combine technology and the collaborative economy, something 40-year-old President Emmanuel Macron is keen to promote.The last big standoff between the government and rail unions was in 1995. In those days before the smart phone\'s invention, frustrated commuters had to walk or cycle to work."There needs to be a trigger factor that allows people to discover the service for the first time," BlaBlaCar co-founder Brusson said, adding that the app now had 13 million registered users in France out of a population of 67 million.(Editing by Luke Baker and David Stamp)
BERLIN   German used-car dealing platform Auto1 Group, recently backed by Japan\'s SoftBank, increased sales by 47 percent last year as it expanded into eight new European markets, bringing the total to 30 countries.The 460 million euro investment by SoftBank\'s Vision Fund in January had ruled out the need for Berlin-based Auto1 to consider a stock market listing to drive further growth and valued it at 2.9 billion euros ($3.6 billion).Auto1, whose platform model is designed to makes it easy for dealers and customers to trade across borders, said in a statement that its sales hit 2.2 billion euros in 2017, up from 1.5 billion the year before.The company traded more than 420,000 used vehicles via its platforms Auto1.com, wirkaufendeinauto.de and Autohero, an increase of 40 percent from a year earlier. Most were privately owned vehicles sold to dealers.Co-founder Christian Bertermann declined to say whether Auto1 was profitable, nor did he give any forecasts for this year, but told Reuters the company was looking to enter the few remaining European markets where it is not yet present."We will continue to work on making selling and buying used vehicles easier, more transparent and more trustworthy," Bertermann said on Wednesday.($1 = 0.8138 euros)(Reporting by Nadine Schimroszik; Writing by Douglas Busvine; Editing by Alexander Smith)

RIYADH   The Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen said on Wednesday that Saudi Arabia's air defense had intercepted a missile that the armed Houthi movement said it fired at storage tanks belonging to Saudi Aramco oil company.Debris fell on residential areas when the missile, launched towards the southwestern Saudi Arabian port of Jizan, was destroyed around 2130 (1830 GMT) but there were no reported casualties or damage, coalition spokesman Colonel Turki al-Malki said.Aramco said on Twitter that all its facilities in Jizan were safe and operating normally.Tensions have risen in recent days after the Houthis, who control most of northern Yemen, launched a series of missile strikes on Saudi Arabia which the coalition said were intercepted. Falling debris killed one person in Riyadh, the first death in the Saudi capital from the Yemen war.Saudi Arabia accuses arch-rival Iran of supplying missiles to the Houthis, who have taken over the Yemeni capital Sanaa and other parts of the country. Tehran and the Houthis deny the allegation.Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates intervened against the Houthis in Yemens war in 2015 to restore the internationally recognized government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi. The United Nations says 10,000 people have died in the fighting.(Reporting by Ali Abdelaty and Stephen Kalin; Writing by Noah Browning; Editing by Grant McCool and James Dalgleish)
BOSTON   Massachusetts can move forward with a lawsuit accusing credit reporting firm Equifax Inc of failing to safeguard its databases or provide prompt notice of a breach that exposed the personal data of 147 million people, a state court judge has ruled.Suffolk County Superior Court Judge Kenneth Salinger in Boston, in a decision made public on Wednesday, denied a motion by Equifax to dismiss a lawsuit Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey filed after the breach was disclosed in September.Salinger wrote that the lawsuit stated a plausible claim that Equifax breached its legal duties to address all reasonably foreseeable risks to its data security and to implement reasonably up-to-date fixes to its software.The lawsuit alleged that Equifax knew or should have known by March 2017 that a serious security vulnerability existed in computer code that the company used in its systems but failed to patch or upgrade its software to eliminate it.As a result, hackers were able to access its databases and steal personal information, the lawsuit alleged."These allegations state a viable claim for violation of the data security regulations," Salinger wrote.Equifax declined to comment.The lawsuit is one of several legal challenges facing Equifax related to the data breach. It also faces class action lawsuits and investigations by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various state attorneys general.The lawsuit that Healey filed in September is the only one by a state attorney general to date. The lawsuit seeks penalties and restitution as well as an order requiring Equifax to disgorge any profits it obtained during the breach.In a statement, Healey, a Democrat, said her office was prepared to make its case in court to protect state residents and prevent future breaches."Today\'s order confirms that Equifax is not above the law and can be held accountable for violating the rights of Massachusetts consumers," she said.Equifax in March said it expects costs related to its massive data breach to surge by $275 million this year, suggesting the incident could turn out to be the most costly hack in corporate history.Equifax in court papers says that it is continuing to cooperate with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other law enforcement agencies to investigate the breach and identify the hackers behind it.(Reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Tom Brown and Lisa Shumaker)
NEW YORK   Federal prosecutors asked a judge Wednesday to imprison a Turkish banker for over 15 years for helping Iran evade economic sanctions, saying he was a key player in undermining efforts to curb Iran\'s nuclear ambitions.The U.S. government said in papers filed in Manhattan federal court that Mehmet Hakan Atilla lied at a trial that ended in January as he tried to minimize his role in a multi-year scheme to launder billions of dollars in Iranian oil proceeds.The prosecution further strained relations between the U.S. and Turkey.Atilla, 47, is scheduled to be sentenced next Wednesday after his conviction on multiple conspiracy charges and bank fraud. In papers filed last week, his lawyers sought leniency, saying even four years in prison would be too long a penalty for the deputy general manager of state-run Halkbank.A spokesman for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called the trial outcome a "scandalous verdict."In their papers, prosecutors called Atilla\'s crimes "without parallel" and said they provided Iran with a slush fund to use as it wished, damaging U.S. efforts to deprive Iran of money to pursue nuclear weapons.They criticized Atilla\'s pre-sentencing claims, saying he downplayed his crimes as he noted that he owes no allegiance to the U.S."This is a breathtaking minimization of a concerted, prolonged, willful effort to evade and subvert U.S. sanctions that were part of a highly public international effort to curb the nuclear ambitions of the world\'s foremost state sponsor of terrorism and a leading threat to world peace and stability," prosecutors said.They added that Atilla had plenty of warning about his crimes because he regularly lied in person and by phone with senior U.S. government officials in Turkey and in the United States as he tried to shield his bank from sanctions against it."Whether Atilla owed any \'allegiance\' to the United States lacks any sentencing significance," the government said.It said Atilla\'s lawyers were seeking "extraordinary leniency" when they told the judge that Atilla was "at most, a functionary in someone else\'s mammoth plot to circumvent American economic sanctions aimed at Iran."At trial, prosecutors said Atilla began in 2011 to conspire with Turkish gold trader Reza Zarrab to let Iran trade its oil and gas for gold, with some of the funds moving through U.S. financial institutions without their knowledge.Zarrab pleaded guilty and testified against Atilla, saying he paid over $50 million in bribes to Turkey\'s finance minister in 2012 to advance the scheme. He also testified that he believed Erdogan knew about the plot.Atilla has remained incarcerated without bail.
MISSION, Texas   On Tuesday, the same day that U.S. President Donald Trump announced his intention to deploy military to help patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, Edwin Valdez and four other Central American migrants were walking through dense brush at a south Texas wildlife reserve, hoping to escape notice.The men had illegally crossed into the United States that morning, guided by a smuggler who had since abandoned them. Now they were lost and uncertain how to proceed.In vehicles nearby, U.S. Border Patrol agents had been alerted to migrants moving through the area, and after detecting movement in the bushes, they swooped in to arrest the men.It was business as usual in the Rio Grande Valley, one of the busiest crossing points for migrants trying to enter the United States illegally.In just a few hours that morning, 61 migrants, including Valdez, were rounded up in the area. Ten, including four from China, were caught with the help of a tracking dog in a sugar cane field. Two Hondurans were taken into custody at a public park.Several of those caught said they were unfazed by tough talk from Trump, who has made headlines around the world with tweets railing about border security and threatening to end the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) unless Mexico does more to "stop the big drug and people flows."Trump\'s renewed frustration about border security, rekindled over the weekend by news of a "caravan" of Central American migrants moving through Mexico toward the U.S. border, reflects the broader frustration of his administration.In the months after Trump took office, the number of migrants caught along the U.S.-Mexico border fell dramatically, hitting a low of about 15,700 in April, from more than 42,400 in January 2017, U.S. Customs and Border Protection data shows.But arrests have crept back up since, and in the first months of 2018 have reached levels at, or near, those seen during the last year of his predecessor, President Barack Obama.Rising arrests of families and unaccompanied minors along the border are a particular concern.In March, their numbers surpassed the previous three years and "rivaled fiscal year 2014, when we had a crisis," Manuel Padilla, chief of the border patrol\'s Rio Grande Valley sector, said in an interview with Reuters.He said families with children, who are more difficult to deport quickly, form about 49 percent of the current apprehensions in his region. He said they often walk up to the first U.S. officials they find to ask for help."It doesn\'t matter how many agents are out there," when it comes to families, he said, "because this population is turning themselves in."REVOLVING DOORValdez, 20, who worked as an electrician\'s assistant in his home country of El Salvador, said he previously tried to cross the border illegally in 2016.That time, he was picked up by border patrol officers after wandering lost and dehydrated in the desert for four days. After six months in detention, he was deported last year, but decided to travel north again after gangs threatened him at his job.While crossing has become more and more difficult in recent years, Valdez said, need is a powerful motivator."Necessity forces people to leave their countries so they can bring a better life to their families," he said. "That\'s why people are willing to suffer through all this."People like Valdez who have been previously deported can often be quickly sent home.Immigrants traveling with small children when caught, however, often spend only a few days in custody because of a shortage of detention facilities suitable for families and court settlements that preclude prolonged detention of minors.In the Rio Grande Valley, parents are often released with electronic ankle monitors and ordered to appear with their children in court on a specific date for deportation proceedings. Trump has railed against the practice, which he calls "catch and release."At the Hidalgo port of entry, one of the busiest crossings in South Texas for legal trade and traffic across the U.S.-Mexico border, Customs and Border Protection officers seemed largely indifferent to the renewed rhetoric from Washington."Everyone who is in office has their own agenda, which is different than the law. But the law is the law and that\'s what we are enforcing," said Port Director Carlos Rodriguez, who has been with the enforcement agency for 20 years. "That has been true consistently through administrations."For migrants like Jose Romero, 27, who made the harrowing days-long trip through Mexico with his 8-year-old daughter in the back of a dark cargo truck, threats from the president are little deterrent.In his mountain home in Honduras, Romero made just $4 a day as a farm laborer, not enough to feed his family of five, he said. After his arrest at the border and subsequent release to wait court proceedings, he said he doubted if migrants can be deterred."They will keep coming," he said, because of violence and poverty south of the border. "The people are afraid."(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg; Editing by Sue Horton, Clarence Fernandez and Richard Chang)
LISBON   Ryanair cabin crew held a third one-day strike in Portugal over worker rights on Wednesday, prompting 11 flight cancellations and a government promise to investigate alleged violations.Inspectors from the state Authority for Labour Conditions were monitoring the strike in the country\'s main airports in Lisbon, Porto and Faro, Labour Minister Jose Vieira da Silva told a parliamentary committee.The SNPVAC cabin crew union said 11 Ryanair flights to and from Portugal were cancelled in the morning after some 90 percent of the 330 crew personnel in Portugal joined the strike.But Europe\'s largest low-cost carrier said the majority of Portuguese crews were working normally and only a small number of early flights had been cancelled or delayed. It planned to operate its full schedule through the rest of the day.SNPVAC accuses Ryanair of using its Irish jurisdiction to ignore parenthood rights and not allow doctor-approved sick days, as well as resorting to disciplinary processes and threats for not reaching in-flight sales objectives.One of the strike\'s goals was to involve the government in the dispute.Ryanair, which was forced to recognise trade unions to avoid mass strikes in December, argues that staff working conditions are comparable to competitors.Vieira da Silva said that although most of the Portuguese crews\' contracts were signed under Irish jurisdiction, the EU Treaty of Rome still guarantees worker rights under local legislation have to be respected."If any of the rights, not just the right to strike, have been compromised, an investigation has to be carried out on a case by case basis to apply this article of the Treaty of Rome ... And this is what the Authority for Labour Conditions will assure with all the means at its disposal."The inspectors were also looking into union allegations that Ryanair had illegally replaced striking crews with staff brought in from other countries. The minister said some such replacements are perfectly legal while others are not, so the issue required examination.SNPVAC said representatives of cabin crew unions from Spain, Italy and Germany were in Portugal to give support and called for talks to discuss a joint strike at Ryanair."We want to set a meeting of unions soon with the objective of having a European strike. We don\'t want to do more strikes, what we want is to change the situation where our rights are trampled upon," said SNPVAC director Fernando Gandra.(Reporting by Andrei Khalip; Editing by Axel Bugge and David Holmes)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. REPORT: YOUTUBE SHOOTER TOLD FAMILY MEMBERS SHE \'HATED\' COMPANYInvestigators do not believe Nasim Aghdam, 39, specifically targeted the three victims she wounded with a handgun at the company\'s headquarters south of San Francisco.2. CHINA DELIVERS \'SAME STRENGTH\' RESPONSE IN TARIFF STANDOFFBeijing is urging the U.S. to come to the table to resolve a trade dispute as it issues a $50 billion list of U.S. goods subject to tariffs.3. TRUMP WANTS US MILITARY TO SECURE BORDER UNTIL WALL IS BUILTFederal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., but there is precedent to send National Guard troops there in certain capacities.4. WHO WON WISCONSIN COURT RACELiberal judge Rebecca Dallet\'s runaway victory in a state Supreme Court race cheers Democrats eager for evidence their party is destined for big wins in midterm elections.5. FRANCE PUTS EUROPEAN-HIGH 78,000 SECURITY THREATS ON POLICE DATABASEA German parliamentarian raises questions about whether the system is being abused, with different European nations applying different criteria when flagging people for "discreet checks."6. WORLD MARKS 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF KING SLAYINGThe global commemoration culminates with events in Memphis and Atlanta, followed by a march and ending in speeches by Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and others.7. WHAT FORMER FRIEND OF WASHINGTON FAMILY TOLD AUTHORITIESAlexandra Argyropoulos tells the AP that she told Oregon child welfare officials in 2013 that Jennifer and Sarah Hart  who plunged off a California cliff with their children in an SUV  had been depriving the kids of food as punishment.8. RHODE ISLAND TO BUY FARMS TO HELP NEW FARMERSThe state is launching a program to buy farms and sell them to new farmers for dirt cheap, an unconventional approach to ensure that farming remains viable.9. WHERE HOLLYWOOD IS COMING UP SHORTA new study finds the film industry\'s move toward diversity has largely ignored people with disabilities.10. WHAT DJ\'S GOAL IS AT GOLF\'S FIRST MAJORDustin Johnson isn\'t looking back at the freak back injury that knocked him out of the Masters last year.
KERBALA, Iraq   A small group of Iraqis including a soldier who fought in the civil war have turned to model making to deal with their memories of conflict and maintain touch with the military phase of their lives.It\'s an unusual hobby but former soldier Radhwan al-Hassnawi, 28, says he wants to pay tribute to his comrades through the models, which are called dioramas."After leaving the army, I tried to find a way to stay in the spirit of the military life and I found out on the internet, and on Facebook in particular, that this hobby is common in Europe, but I did not expect that it is known in Iraq," said al-Hassnawi, who served in Iraq\'s army between 2007 and 2011.His dioramas depict military scenes from the war that began in 2003 when a coalition led by the United States invaded to topple Saddam Hussein. It drew in Sunni and Shia militias and al Qaeda and became a sectarian and political struggle in which hundreds of thousands died and all sides committed atrocities.But the scenes in the dioramas are not necessarily intense or violent.One two-inch scene by al-Hassnawi shows a seated man watching a black Humvee pull up and a figure in combat fatigues emerges. The Humvee bears the insignia of Iraq\'s elite Counter Terrorism Service and bristles with antennae and guns.Al-Hassnawi told Reuters he began making the models when he discovered that around a dozen of his fellow countrymen made dioramas and some were willing to help him learn.Now his work depicts military vehicles including tanks and armoured personnel carriers and tableaux of artillery training and counter-terrorism forces in battle.Some models stem from news images and others are drawn from memories. One scene shows the al-Adhim road he used to drive down to join his unit in Mosul, or go on leave.Each diorama is detailed and the main vehicles or characters are set against backdrops including rubbish-strewn roads or blast-blackened buildings. A model of a T-90 tank comprises almost 1,300 pieces and took him around two weeks to construct and paint.Many people want to forget the conflict, but al-Hassnawi said his motivation is different."My main project is to continue with this hobby to document all the heroic moments lived by the Iraqi armed forces. There are thousands of heroic scenes of the armed forces that I have to recreate," he said.(Reporting by Ahmed Saeed Jari; Writing by Mark Hanrahan; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday that a decision had been made on the future of American troops in war-torn Syria and the White House would make it public soon.Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the decision was reached at an "all hands on deck" National Security Council meeting on Tuesday.President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable. [nL2N1RG1HN]At the same time, Trump\'s advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilize areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.Trump said at a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent."It\'s time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw American forces.The Pentagon and State Department have said a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State\'s defeat is a lasting one.(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by David Gregorio)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and Syria (all times local):11:10 a.m.The White House says the U.S. military mission to eradicate the Islamic State group in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" but offers no timetable for withdrawal.President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he wants to bring troops home to start rebuilding the U.S.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that the U.S. and its partners remain committed to eliminating the small Islamic State group presence that continues in Syria.Sanders says the administration will continue to consult with allies regarding future plans.Trump discussed Syria in a meeting with his national security team on Tuesday.___9:20 a.m.The director of national intelligence says the White House will announce a decision about U.S. involvement in Syria "relatively soon."Dan Coats told reporters Wednesday that top national security officials met Tuesday in an "all hands on deck" meeting and that "some decisions were made."President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we\'ve almost completed that task."Trump\'s comments conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries.__12:11 a.m.President Donald Trump expects to decide very quickly whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission of defeating the Islamic State group is almost completed.Trump\'s comments at a White House event on Tuesday conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group.Later on Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump\'s entire national security team strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.
MADRID   Spain hopes to sign off on a bilateral agreement with Britain over Gibraltar before October so as not to hinder a Brexit transition deal, Spanish Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis told Reuters on Wednesday.Failure to reach an agreement on Gibraltar, a British territory on Spain\'s southern coast, could disrupt a planned 21-month transition period for Britain following its official withdrawal from the European Union on March 29, 2019.Gibraltar is due to leave along with the United Kingdom on that date, though 96 percent of its population voted in the 2016 referendum to remain in the EU and the territory is anxious to preserve free movement of people across its border with Spain.Talks between London and Madrid have been underway since January, Dastis said, with teams of Spanish and British civil servants meeting three or four times so far in encounters arranged in both countries."Things are progressing well so therefore we\'d like to be optimistic," Dastis said in an interview.Both the EU and Britain have said they hope to get the exit deal agreed by October.Dastis said he hoped the bilateral accord on Gibraltar could be signed off before October and form a part of that final deal, which is also expected to comprise a framework for future trade relations between the EU and the United Kingdom."Our aspiration is that the bilateral agreement (with Spain) can be signed off the same time as the general agreement," he said.The EU has said the transition deal can only be finalised if Britain honors its commitments on Gibraltar and on the Irish border, another thorny diplomatic issue for London.AIRPORT, TAX DATATalks are centering around possible joint use of Gibraltar airport and a more comprehensive sharing of fiscal data between Britain and Spain for Gibraltar residents to prevent tax avoidance, Dastis said.The airport is built on a disputed isthmus of land that connects Gibraltar to Spain and that Madrid does not recognize as British territory. It handles around half a million passengers per year with regular flights to British cities.Spain has sought joint use for the airport on two previous occasions."It seems to us a good idea to make a third attempt. You could apply the saying \'third time lucky\'," he said.The peninsula, a British territory since 1713 and known to its 30,000 residents as "the Rock", is a major point of contention in Anglo-Spanish relations. Spain has long claimed sovereignty over the territory.Shortly after the 2016 Brexit referendum, Spain\'s then-foreign minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo ruffled British feathers by saying he hoped Britain\'s exit from the EU would usher in co-sovereignty of Gibraltar - or as he put it at the time, "the Spanish flag on the Rock".Spain still wants to reclaim Gibraltar, but the government is not trying to use Brexit to further that goal, Dastis said."We recognize that Gibraltar was ceded to Britain more than 300 years ago but our aim is to recover it," he said."However, we do not want to convert the conversation between the European Union and Britain into a hostage-type situation."(Reporting By Sonya Dowsett; Editing by Julien Toyer and Gareth Jones)
CALGARY, Alberta   Kevin Connauton believes he\'s playing the best hockey of his career.Connauton had a goal and an assist in continue his superb second half, and the Arizona Coyotes beat the Calgary Flames 4-1 on Tuesday night.Connauton has 10 goals in 30 games since the All-Star break, tying him with Tampa Bay\'s Victor Hedman for most among defenseman since Jan. 28. The 28-year-old had just one goal in the first 42 games this year."I\'m playing a lot more confident. Using my skating, using my shot," the 28-year-old said. "Had a rough year last year with injuries and then sitting out. So the beginning of the year, I was still trying to get back to my game, but I think I\'m back there now."Richard Panik, Christian Fischer and Dylan Strome also scored for Arizona, which has won three in a row.Nick Shore got his first goal as a Flame. Injury-riddled Calgary has lost eight of nine."I don\'t think the guys are not putting the effort in, it\'s just not coming easy for us right now," veteran forward Tanner Glass said.Arizona struck first at 3:48 of the first period when Panik deflected Connauton\'s point shot past rookie goaltender Jon Gillies.Panik has also been on a tear with six goals in his last 10 games.Connauton made it 2-0 at 16:39 on a nifty play at the blue line. After a fake shot that sent Curtis Lazar spinning to the ice, he wristed a shot inside the goal post on a screened Gillies.Connauton is in the final season of his two-year deal and is set to become an unrestricted free agent on July 1."I\'ve had some ups and downs, but you grow from those things. When you get pushed back a little bit, it motivates you and you keep driving forward and I\'m excited to see what happens this summer," he said.The teams exchanged goals early in the second period. Fischer was credited with a goal at 2:18 when a rebound off Gillies\' pad caromed in off the skate of rookie Flames defenseman Rasmus Andersson.Shore put Calgary on the scoreboard at 4:32, snapping Lazar\'s rebound past Antti Raanta for his first goal since being acquired by the Flames in a trade with the Ottawa Senators.It was the only puck to elude Raanta, who had 42 saves in picking up his sixth consecutive victory. He improves to 21-16-6 on the season.Gillies had 17 stops and fell to 2-4-1.Calgary\'s power play woes continued. The Flames are 0 for 30 in the last 12 games and 1 for 48 over the last 17 games.NOTES: Arizona D Jeff Chychrun (lower body) left the game late in the first period and did not return. ... In a new-look first line for Calgary, Sam Bennett moved to center between Johnny Gaudreau and rookie Spencer Foo. ... Arizona improves to 18-1-1 when giving up two or fewer goals.UP NEXTCoyotes: Play at Vancouver on Thursday night.Flames: Play at Winnipeg on Thursday night.___More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
NEW YORK   The buzzy debut of Spotify Technology SA on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday drew retail investors across generations, not just the Millennials who make up the largest proportion of the music streaming service\'s customer base, retail brokerages said on Wednesday.Spotify\'s listing was hotly followed, as it went public via the unusual method of a direct listing, without selling new shares. There was demand for the stock, and shares ended up 12.9 percent on their first day of trade on the New York Stock Exchange. On Wednesday, the shares ended the day\'s session at $145.87, down 2.1 percent from Tuesday\'s close.Social media platform Snap Inc\'s high-profile IPO last year had been notable for being popular with Millennials, the primary user base for the company\'s mobile app Snapchat. But though Millennials are also a key demographic for Spotify, the Swedish company\'s listing did not draw disproportionate interest from that generation.Demand was seen across age groups, according to brokerages Fidelity and TD Ameritrade."There\'s good interest in it," said J.J. Kinahan, TD Ameritrade\'s chief market strategist, who is based in Chicago. "It\'s pretty well split across age groups."Fidelity said among its customers, baby boomers were slightly more active in trading Spotify shares than Millennials or members of Generation X. Baby boomers made nearly one-third more trades than Millennials and 20 percent more trades than members of Generation X. A similar pattern holds for other tech IPOs, a Fidelity spokesman said.Retail investor behavior indicated some caution about jumping in.On StockTwits, a social media platform whose users are mostly retail investors, only 40 percent of members were bullish on Spotify ahead of the debut. Negative sentiment toward the IPO rose as the date approached and the expected trading price climbed, said Pierce Crosby, StockTwits director of business development, based in New York."Our community is as bearish as they\'ve ever been (about Spotify)," Crosby said.On the site, users posted messages expressing concerns about Spotify\'s lack of profits and competition from companies such as Apple Inc.High-profile IPOs of companies associated with the tech sector have had a mixed track record in the past year. Shares of MuleSoft Inc and Roku Inc, which went public in March 2017 and September 2017, respectively, have climbed more than 100 percent since those companies\' IPOs. On the other hand, shares of Snap and Blue Apron Holdings Inc have fallen below their IPO prices.Individual investors who spoke with Reuters similarly expressed reservations about buying Spotify shares."I think a lot of similarly situated retail investors still view many of the VC-backed, marketplace tech companies as destined IPO flops," said Layla Tabatabaie, an entrepreneur and advisor to tech startups who lives in New York.Others said they would only consider buying the stock at a lower price."It\'s certainly a strong company in regards to the service it offers," said Jonathan Johnson, a relationship banker in Portland, Oregon. "I\'d consider buying it but not at these (price) levels."(Reporting by April Joyner; additional reporting by Sinad Carew in New York; Editing by David Gregorio)
NEW YORK   A man accused of helping to plan the Sept. 11 attacks wants to be able to publicly distribute art he makes in his cell at the Guantanamo Bay detention center.Ammar al Baluchi\'s attorneys sent a motion to a military commission on Wednesday, saying the Department of Defense has violated his rights by making it more difficult for him to draw and paint and by blocking him from giving his artwork to his attorneys.The Department of Defense put new restrictions on materials created by al Baluchi, a nephew of suspected Sept. 11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, after some of his artworks were given to curators putting together a New York City exhibition of detainee art last year. Two of the pieces were part of the show, which ran in the final months of 2017.Lawyer Alka Pradhan said the restrictions should be lifted because al Baluchi, who\'s awaiting a trial by a military tribunal, gets a therapeutic benefit from being able to create and share his work and because it could help him appear more human to the officials who may decide whether he is put to death."The fact of the matter is, you cannot discount every possible method of humanizing these men to the public when they have been so dehumanized by the government for so long," Pradhan said.A Pentagon spokeswoman, Navy Cmdr. Sarah Higgins, said items produced by detainees at Guantanamo Bay "remain the property of the U.S. government." She said she couldn\'t comment further on any ongoing litigation.The idea that al Baluchi should be able to create and display art spurred disgust and anger among some family members of those killed on Sept. 11."My son doesn\'t have a right to breathe. They shouldn\'t have a right to draw," said Jim Riches, a retired deputy fire chief whose firefighter son was killed at the World Trade Center. "My son went to work, and he died that day. These are the guys that plotted to kill them. I think they forfeited their rights to draw any pictures or whatever they want to do."Al Baluchi is accused by U.S. military prosecutors of being a senior member of al-Qaida directly involved in sending several of the Sept. 11 airplane hijackers to the U.S., including financing their trips. The defense says there\'s no proof he made those transactions or knew the hijackers intended to attack the United States.Al Baluchi was captured in Pakistan in 2003 and was extensively interrogated by the CIA before his transfer to Guantanamo Bay. His trial has yet to be scheduled.One of al Baluchi\'s art pieces is "Vertigo at Guantanamo," a series of multicolored dots in a pattern that evokes a tornado. Pradhan said it is a reference to vertigo al Baluchi experiences as a result of CIA torture.The "Vertigo" piece was among several from Guantanamo Bay detainees that were shown at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the end of last year in an exhibit called "Ode to the Sea."In the motion, al Baluchi\'s attorneys say that after the exhibition got media attention, the Department of Defense said it would no longer allow objects made by the Guantanamo Bay detainees to leave the island. The attorneys also said al Baluchi\'s art supplies have been confiscated at least once."This was the first time in a very long time that the public has gotten a window about how these men are living in Guantanamo," Pradhan said.___Follow Deepti Hajela on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/dhajela. For more of her work, search for her name at https://apnews.com
In the music industry, one of the biggest issues hanging over Spotifys arrival on the New York Stock Exchange has been what the major record companies would do with the billions of dollars in equity they held in the streaming service.One answer became clear on Wednesday, when Sony announced that it had sold 17 percent of its stake in the company for more than $250 million.The transaction was made on Tuesday, the day Spotify began trading on the exchange, Sony said. Spotify had closed its first day with a market valuation of $26.5 billion.In Spotifys early days, record companies viewed the streaming services hybrid business model of both free and paid streaming as a potential risk that could undermine the sales of CDs and downloads. So as a condition of granting licenses for their music, the labels received chunks of equity.As things turned out, sales of CDs and downloads have plunged dramatically in the last few years, although the quick rise of streaming has increased the recording industrys revenues over all.What the labels would do with any profits from selling their Spotify stakes has been a subject of debate in the industry. The labels have said that they will share the profits with their artists but have offered few specific details about how those payments would be calculated.The Worldwide Independent Network, a trade group for small music labels, has called on the major labels to share that money with the independent labels they distribute.Among the majors, Sony had the largest share in the company, with about 5.7 percent, according to Spotifys prospectus. The stakes owned by the other two big labels, Universal and Warner, were not disclosed but are believed to be 4 percent or less. Merlin, an organization that represents independent labels in licensing negotiations, also has a stake.Sony said it had sold 17.2 percent of its position in Spotify on Tuesday. It offered no further details of the transaction, but if it was made at Spotifys closing price of $149.01, the sale would be worth $260.5 million. If the sale occurred at the opening price of $169.50, it would be $296 million.Sony also announced on Wednesday that it would book a profit of 105 billion yen (about $986 million) for its fiscal first quarter, attributed to both its sale of the Spotify stock and the value of its remaining stake.For the big labels, the question of whether  and when  to sell their Spotify equity ties in with a potential risk when it comes to dealing with their artists. If the labels sell right away, they may be accused of prematurely cashing out; if they wait, they may be accused of holding on too long to money that they have said belongs to their artists.Representatives of Universal, Warner and Merlin declined to comment, but no transactions related to those companies stakes in Spotify have been announced.A spokeswoman for Sony Music on Wednesday declined to comment on any details of Sonys transaction. But on Tuesday, before the market opened, Sony and the Orchard, its independent distribution arm, released a brief statement saying that they were committed to sharing with their artists and distributed labels any net gain they may realize from a sale of Sony Musics equity stake in Spotify.
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is weighing further retaliation against Russia for meddling in the election and interfering in the affairs of the United States and its allies, the top U.S. intelligence official said Wednesday."This is under considerable consideration and more things will be done  and soon  above where we are right now," National Intelligence Director Dan Coats told reporters at a breakfast briefing. "I would just say stay tuned on that. I think we are becoming more and more aware of the potential for Russia to continue to engage in any number of ways relative to our elections and a lot of steps are being taken."Russia has been accused of meddling in the 2016 presidential election and of being behind the March 4 nerve agent attack on ex-Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, in the city of Salisbury, England.The poisoning plunged relations between the West and Russia to their lowest ebb since the Cold War. More than two dozen Western allies expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain. Russia responded by ordering the same number of their envoys out.Russia has denied being behind the nerve agent attack. In Moscow, Sergei Naryshkin, director of Russia\'s Foreign Intelligence Service, the top KGB successor agency, said the poisoning was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies."Naryshkin said the poisoning was the latest example of the U.S.-led efforts to undermine Russia, adding that the Russia-West chill is comparable to the Cold War.Coats said the U.S. agrees with British Prime Minister Theresa May who said that Russia is the only nation state capable of using the nerve agent in such an attack."They (the Russians) either instituted it themselves or they lost control of it and somebody else did it. When you look at the history of it  the Russian malign activities and so forth  it\'s not hard to come to the conclusion that the Russians were out to send a signal to their other spies who have come out of the cold. Or (it was) just a continued power play by (Russian President Vladimir) Putin just prior to his election," Coats said.Putin was pushing hard to get as many votes as possible in his re-election bid so the attack might have been his way of "playing Mr. Strongman" and persuading voters into thinking his is the leader to bring Russia back into power after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the USSR in the early 1990s.He described Putin as "shrewd" and "calculating" and said when dealing with the former KGB officer, the U.S. needs to "go in with eyes wide open and with a high degree of skepticism."Coats was asked why the U.S. decided to retaliate against Russia by closing its consulate in Seattle, which was near a submarine base, Naval Base Kitsap, as well as Boeing Co. operations.The Russians didn\'t decide to open a consulate in Seattle because of "the climate or the nice living conditions," Coats said. "One could assume that they went there because there were (intelligence) collection opportunities."
The Yankees love to flaunt their history. This is understandable, considering all those championships, and it is also smart business. When they do it outside the public view, though, it takes on a different meaning, connecting generations of the privileged few who have worn pinstripes.This season the Yankees have affixed all of their retired numbers above the lockers in the home clubhouse. They honor nearly two dozen players or managers this way, so the numbers ring the room. Giancarlo Stanton dressed for his first Yankees home game on Tuesday under No. 10  for Phil Rizzuto.For historical resonance, 3 would have been better, for Babe Ruth, the original Bronx slugger. Or maybe 9, for Roger Maris, the player Stanton considers the single-season home run king. Also appropriate would be 44, for Reggie Jackson, another swaggering import with prodigious power.But, O.K., lets consider Rizzuto, the Hall of Fame Yankees shortstop from the 1940s and 50s. He hit 38 home runs in his career. Stanton hit 38 home runs after the Fourth of July last season. Rizzuto played 13 seasons and never struck out more than three times in a game, which he did just once. Stanton struck out in all five of his at-bats on Tuesday, and some of the frozen fans even booed him.You put up a performance like that, you should get booed, Stanton said after the Yankees 11-4 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays. Its not ideal, but weve got another one. Weve got plenty more.The Yankees are bound to Stanton for the next decade after acquiring him from Derek Jeters downsizing Miami Marlins in a December trade. In his first home game as a Yankee, Stanton learned an important lesson, one that Rizzuto and all the other Yankees champions knew well: Even on your worst day, theres still a good chance youll win.Stanton turned down deals that would have sent him to the St. Louis Cardinals and the San Francisco Giants last winter, largely because he had a no-trade clause and would not let Jeter dictate his future. But he also wanted to be part of a starry ensemble, not the headline attraction. In eight seasons with the Marlins, Stanton never experienced a winning season. His four preferred destinations  the Yankees, the Houston Astros, the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Chicago Cubs  all reached the league championship series last season.The Yankees will count on Stanton, to be sure, but Tuesday showed the wisdom of his decision. His team made his own struggles a footnote.Stanton had never struck out five times in a game before. His five whiffs tied a single-game Yankees record, and Baseball-Reference.com produced just two other games in which a Yankees position player went 0 for 5 with five strikeouts: Andy Phillips in 2005 and a rookie Bernie Williams in 1991.Stanton looked lost against Chris Archer, against whom he is now 0 for 9. Archer has a wicked slider to right-handers, and Stanton swung over it for strike three in the first inning. Then he stared at a third-strike fastball in the third and went down swinging on a fastball in the fifth. Austin Pruitt (fastball) and Sergio Romo (slider) got him later.And yet, the other Yankees had so much traffic on the bases that Didi Gregorius drove in eight runs, a single-game record for a Yankees shortstop (Jeters high was five). Gregorius hit fourth, right behind Stanton, who brushed off his futility.He picked me up, too, Stanton said of Gregorius. Thats what a cleanup hitter does. You clean up the garbage in front of you.That line got a laugh from a pack of reporters that was surely much bigger than any that confronted Stanton, 28, in the clubhouse at Marlins Park. Navigating the scrutiny of the New York fans and news media could be challenging, but younger players have handled it.Everyones been booed, Aaron Judge said. Its no big deal. He knows that. Youve just got to go out there and do your job the next day. If you dont have it one day, you cant complain, you cant mope, which hes not. He knows how it is.Judge learned plenty as the American League rookie of the year last season, gritting his way through a summer shoulder injury without complaint. He was healthy enough in October to star in the wild-card game, and he hit three home runs in the A.L.C.S.  while going 1 for 20 with 16 strikeouts in the division series with Cleveland in between.Like Stanton on Tuesday, though, Judge discovered the main benefit of life as a Yankee: exceptional teammates. As helpless as he looked against the Indians, Judge came out a winner anyway. Likewise, Aaron Boone may have opened the bullpen door too soon on Tuesday, but in the end, it barely mattered.In his home debut as Yankees manager, Boone pulled starter Jordan Montgomery after five innings and 80 pitches. Montgomery had allowed just two hits and a run, though he had walked four and his legs were getting numb in the cold. Montgomery did say he was ready to continue, but Boone had seen enough and went to Jonathan Holder, who faced five batters in the sixth inning and gave up four hits.The Rays soon tied the score, but the Yankees took over in the next inning and won in a rout. When you win by seven runs, you can spin Stantons feeble day into something positive.I like when the big boy doesnt get any and were able to score 11, Boone said, because theres going to be a lot of days when we hop on his back.
A group that is suing Harvard University is demanding that it publicly release admissions data on hundreds of thousands of applicants, saying the records show a pattern of discrimination against Asian-Americans going back decades.The group was able to view the documents through its lawsuit, which was filed in 2014 and challenges Harvards admissions policies. The plaintiffs said in a letter to the court last week that the documents were so compelling that there was no need for a trial, and that they would ask the judge to rule summarily in their favor based on the documents alone.The plaintiffs also say that the public  which provides more than half a billion dollars a year in federal funding to Harvard  has a right to see the evidence that the judge will consider in her decision.Harvard counters that the documents are tantamount to trade secrets, and that even in the unlikely event that the judge agrees to decide the case without a trial, she is likely to use only a fraction of the evidence in her decision. Only that portion, the university says, should be released.This is an important and closely watched civil rights case, William S. Consovoy, the lawyer for the group, Students for Fair Admissions, said in his letter to the court. The public has a right to know exactly what is going on at Harvard. Even if this were a commercial issue  as Harvard would like to portray it  the public would have a right to know if the product is defective or if a fraud is being perpetrated.At stake in the dispute is the secrecy of the university admissions process, especially at elite institutions like Harvard that are competing for a small pool of highly qualified students, and whether and how race and ethnicity play a role.Students for Fair Admissions includes more than a dozen Asian-American students who applied to Harvard and were rejected. They contend in their lawsuit that Harvard systematically and unconstitutionally discriminates against Asian-American applicants by penalizing their high achievement as a group, while giving preferences to other racial and ethnic minorities. They say that Harvards admission process amounts to an illegal quota system.A spokeswoman for Harvard, Rachael Dane, while declining to comment on the specifics of the litigation, said: Harvard College does not discriminate against applicants from any group in its admissions processes. We will continue to vigorously defend the right of Harvard, and other universities, to seek the educational benefits that come from a class that is diverse on multiple dimensions.Harvard gave the court the documents in question, which include six years of admissions data on hundreds of thousands of high school students, as part of the pretrial discovery process. About 40,000 students apply to Harvard each year.The judge in the case, Allison D. Burroughs of the Federal District Court in Boston, has scheduled a hearing on April 10 for both sides to present oral arguments on whether the documents should be made public.The two sides provided lengthy letters to Judge Burroughs, giving a preview of their arguments. The judge has set a trial date for next January, though Harvard in its letter said it was prepared to go to trial as soon as October.The contents of the documents have been only roughly sketched out in court papers. But Harvard said in its letter that the parties have exchanged more than 90,000 pages, including deeply personal and highly sensitive information about applicants to and students at Harvard and the inner workings of Harvards admissions process.Harvard understands that there is a public interest in this case and that the public has certain  though not unfettered  interests in access to judicial materials, the university said. Those interests, however, must be balanced against the need to protect individual privacy and confidential and proprietary information about the admissions process.The leader of Students for Fair Admissions and the architect of the case against Harvard is Edward Blum, a longtime crusader against affirmative action who has recruited plaintiffs, hired sympathetic lawyers and raised millions of dollars from conservative groups to challenge voting rights laws and affirmative action policies, often successfully.One of Mr. Blums landmark cases was a lawsuit by Abigail Fisher, a white applicant who said she was denied admission to the University of Texas at Austin because of her race. The United States Supreme Court ruled 4-3 in favor of the university in 2016, saying that it is constitutional to use race as one of many factors in admissions decisions.Critics have seen the lawsuit against Harvard, which seems intended to go to the Supreme Court, as an attempt to reignite that battle.The Trump administration has taken an interest in the issue, opening a parallel investigation based on a separate 2015 complaint to the Justice Department by a coalition of Asian-American organizations.In its letter to the judge, Harvard said that it had an obligation to protect the identities of applicants, who take it on faith that their applications will remain private. While names and other information that could directly identify applicants have been redacted from the documents, the university said that hometowns, awards and other elements could reveal applicants identities through simple internet searches.The documents also include deposition testimony concerning the procedures Harvard used to evaluate applications; internal correspondence among admissions officers about applicants qualities; and statements by admissions officers about why they liked some applicants better than others.That information is highly proprietary to Harvard and of great interest to college admissions consultants and others who seek any advantage they can muster in the highly competitive admissions process, Harvard said in its letter. Releasing it would put Harvard at a severe competitive disadvantage, the university said, and would prompt applicants to try to game the system.Students for Fair Admissions scoffed at the notion that the admissions procedure was akin to a trade secret. This case does not involve anything like national security, the formula for Coca-Cola or embarrassing details of private life,  the group said, citing case law.The group noted that Harvard officials have repeatedly said that there is no formula for being admitted, and that books and articles have been written about how the Harvard admissions process works.The plaintiffs cited a landmark affirmative action case, Gratz v. Bollinger, in which the Supreme Court ruled in 2003 that the University of Michigan was using an unconstitutional scoring system for undergraduate admissions. The system automatically awarded 20 out of 150 points toward admission to members of underrepresented minorities.There is no way the public could have understood the dispute, the group said, if the facts had been hidden.

RIGA   Russia began testing missiles with live munitions in the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, alarming Latvia, a member of NATO, which says the drills have forced it partly to shut down Baltic commercial airspace.The Russian defense ministry said on Monday that its Baltic Fleet, based in its European exclave of Kaliningrad, was preparing for routine training in the Baltic Sea, including live fire drills to practice hitting air and sea targets."It is a demonstration of force," Latvia\'s Prime Minister Maris Kucinskis told Reuters. "It is hard to comprehend that it can happen so close to (our) country," he said.The tests are being carried out in Latvia\'s exclusive economic zone, officials said, an area of the sea just beyond Latvia\'s territorial waters where Latvia has special economic rights, as well as further west in the Baltic Sea.Riga has closed some of its airspace for the three days of tests, and Sweden also issued a warning to civilian sea traffic and said there could be delays and disruption to civilian air traffic.The missile tests and military drills follow Russia\'s massive war games last September, which stretched from the Baltics to the Black Sea. The exercises unnerved the West because of their scale, scope and what NATO said was a lack of transparency.At a time of high East-West tensions, NATO officials worry  that any accident involving military weapons and a civilian ship or plane could spark a wider conflict.In Ottawa, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance would follow the tests closely, while noting that every nation had the right to carry out military exercises."We are staying vigilant and we are also increasing the readiness of our forces, especially in the Baltic region," he told reporters after meeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Moscow accuses NATO of stirring up anti-Russian propaganda."PROVOCATIVE ACTION"Latvia said Russian drills have never taken place so near its territory. Kucinskis noted that the decision to test so close to Latvian waters came after the West\'s expulsion of Russian diplomats last month, the largest since the Cold War.The diplomats were expelled after a nerve agent attack on March 4 against a former Russian double agent and his daughter in Salisbury, England.Latvian officials said Russia is not breaking any international rules and has the right to exercise. But the Latvian defense ministry summoned Russia\'s military attache to express its concern.Russia says it is testing its forces after the winter."Drills lasting for three days in the region where there is very intensive aviation traffic, and given everything else that is happening in relations between the West and Russia, I think that it is a rather provocative action," Latvia\'s ambassador to Russia, Maris Riekstins, told Latvian Television.(Additional reporting by Johan Sennero in Stockholm, Andrew Osborn in Moscow and David Ljunggren in Ottawa; writing by Robin Emmott; editing by Larry King and Dan Grebler)
WASHINGTON  Facebook on Wednesday said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm connected to President Trump during the 2016 election  a figure far higher than the estimate of 50 million that had been widely cited since the leak was reported last month.Mark Zuckerberg, the companys chief executive, also announced that Facebook would offer all of its users the same tools and controls required under European privacy rules. The European rules, which go into effect next month, give people more control over how companies use their digital data.Facebook had not previously disclosed how many accounts had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, the firm connected to the Trump campaign. It has also been reluctant to disclose how it was used by Russian-backed actors to influence the 2016 presidential election.Among Facebooks acknowledgments on Wednesday was the disclosure of a vulnerability in its search and account recovery functions that it said could have exposed most of its 2 billion users to having their public profile information harvested.The new effort to appear more transparent about the data leaks  including a rare question-and-answer session with Mr. Zuckerberg and reporters  came just before Mr. Zuckerbergs expected testimony next week on Capitol Hill, where he will most likely face criticism over how the company collects and shares the personal data of its users. Sheryl Sandberg, Mr. Zuckerbergs top deputy, has several national television interviews scheduled for later this week.The company said that on Monday it would start telling users whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook in Washington, said the 87 million figure was an estimate of the total number of users whose data could have been acquired by Cambridge Analytica. He said that the estimate was calculated by adding up all the friends of the people who had logged into the Facebook app from which Cambridge Analytica collected profile data.We wanted to put out the maximum number of people who could have been affected, Mr. Zuckerberg told reporters.It remains unclear exactly how many users had their personal information accessed by Cambridge Analytica. The firm said Wednesday that it had licensed data for no more than 30 million users of the social network.Facebook also released a lengthy document describing how it would protect personal data in the future. In that document, Facebook said its search and account recovery systems had been open to abuse by anyone who already had some information about an individual, such as a phone number or email address. The vulnerability extended to much of the platforms user base before it was closed on Wednesday, Facebook said.The company also said it would limit the types of data that can be harvested by software used by outside businesses. The changes mean that users will have to give permission before an app can collect information beyond their names and addresses.The company also said it would no longer allow outsiders to use apps to gather information about the religious or political views of its users. And it will stop using third-party data from companies such as Experian and Acxiom to help supplement its own data for ad targeting.Its clear now that we didnt focus enough on preventing abuse, Mr. Zuckerberg said. We didnt take a broad enough view of what our responsibility is. That was a huge mistake, and it was my mistake.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a 2011 agreement meant to protect users privacy. User data is crucial to the companys business, because it is used to deliver advertising to users.Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify about the companys handling of sensitive user data before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees on Tuesday and the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues, said Representatives Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, and Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, of the House committee.Senator Chuck Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said, With all of the data exchanged over Facebook and other platforms, users deserve to know how their information is shared and secured.Facebooks problems stretch back before the reports about Cambridge Analytica, to earlier investigations into how Russian actors infiltrated the platform by placing ads and posts to influence the 2016 election. Mr. Zuckerberg initially dismissed the idea of foreign interference on Facebook as a crazy idea.Since then, the company has been the focus of investigations by law enforcement and congressional committees that are delving into the Russian influence campaign. Facebook now acknowledges that its platform was used to sway voters.All those troubles have prompted investors to flee the company, and its stock has fallen sharply in recent weeks.In response, the company has put its executives front and center.Mr. Zuckerberg typically talks to groups of reporters only after the company releases its quarterly financial reports. But after not responding in public for several days following the Cambridge Analytica disclosure, he has given a series of interviews.And Ms. Sandberg, Facebooks chief operating officer and the second most recognizable face at the company, is set to be interviewed this week by Fox News, PBS NewsHour, NBCs Today show and Bloomberg. Ms. Sandberg will be interviewed remotely from California.Facebook said its new openness was meant to show that it takes the intense criticism over its handling of user data seriously.In Washington, Facebook employees and public relations firms retained by the company have talked to regulators and congressional staff members about new privacy measures, including updates to policies that are intended to make them easier to understand.On Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg provided a preview of what he will tell Congress next week. He said Facebook was an idealistic and optimistic company.But he acknowledged that the company had committed serious errors by not ensuring that robust safeguards were in place for users.Asked if he should still be leading the company, he said, Yes. Life is about learning from the mistakes and learning what you need to go forward.Terrell McSweeny, a Democratic member of the Federal Trade Commission, said that Mr. Zuckerberg has a big task ahead of him in Washington.I think it is important for Zuckerberg to clearly explain how Facebook plans to earn back consumer trust, Ms. McSweeny said. Consumers need reassurance that their data are not being misused.
LOS ANGELES   More than 50 Hollywood executives have thrown their support behind Netflix, which is facing a campaign by a Palestinian-led movement to drop Israeli television series "Fauda" from its streaming platform.In a letter on Tuesday to Netflix chief content officer Ted Sarandos, the executives from record labels and Hollywood talent agencies called the move by the Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions (BDS) movement a "blatant attempt at artistic censorship.""Fauda" is an Israeli-made television thriller set in the West Bank about an Israeli undercover agent who comes out of retirement to hunt for a Palestinian militant.The show, which features dialog in both Hebrew and Arabic, was first broadcast on Israeli television in 2015 and premiered on Netflix in December 2016. Netflix is due to release the second season in May.In a posting on its website last week, the BDS called on Netflix to "nix \'Fauda\'," saying the series "glorifies the Israeli military\'s war crimes against the Palestinian people.""Failing to do so will open Netflix to nonviolent grassroots pressure and possible legal accountability," the posting added.Netflix declined to comment on Wednesday.In its letter of support, the U.S.-based Creative Community for Peace called "Fauda" a "nuanced portrayal of issues related to the Israeli/Palestinian conflict.""We want you to know that we stand behind you and Netflix in the face of this blatant attempt at artistic censorship," the letter said. Signatories included Universal Music Publishing Group Chief Executive Jody Gerson, Geffen Records president Neil Jacobson and Steve Schnur, music president at videogame producer Electronic Arts.The campaign against "Fauda" is the latest move since 2005 by BDS to promote a global cultural boycott against Israel.It has succeeded in recent years in dissuading a number of music acts, including Pink Floyd frontman Roger Waters, Elvis Costello and New Zealand singer-songwriter Lorde, from performing in Israel.(This version of the story corrects typographical error in penultimate paragraph to against instead of again)(Reporting by Jill Serjeant; Editing by Sandra Maler)
BAGHDAD   Iraq may carry out special forces operations against Islamic State militants in neighbouring Syria to stop them infiltrating back into Iraq, an expert close to the Baghdad government said on Wednesday.While troops could be dropped into Syria, the plan did not at this stage involve sending ground forces over the border, Hisham al-Hashimi, who advises several governments on Islamic State, including Iraq\'s, told Reuters.Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi declared victory in Iraq over the jihadist group in December, but on Sunday he described the militants\' presence in Syria as a real danger.With Baghdad on good terms with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Abadi stressed that any operations would be limited."Our plan is to move from fighting terrorism in Iraq in Iraq to fighting terrorism in the region ... We are not trespassing over our border or attacking neighbouring countries," he told a news conference, adding that the plan was being discussed by the Iraqi military leadership.Last year Iraqi warplanes carried out at least one strike on Islamic State targets inside Syria, in coordination with the U.S.-led anti-Islamic State coalition and with the approval of the Syrian government.Iraq also good relations with Iran and Russia, Assad\'s main backers in the seven-year Syrian civil war, while it receives at the same time strong support from the coalition.Abadi declared the victory five months after U.S.-backed Iraqi forces dislodged Islamic State militants from Mosul, their de facto capital in the north of the country.This put an end to the cross-border "caliphate" they declared in 2014 but Islamic State continues to carry out ambushes, assassinations and bombings across Iraq.Special forces from a number of countries already operate in Syria, including the United States, Russia and Iran. Turkey has also sent in ground forces to push Kurdish fighters away from its border.(Reporting by Maher Chmaytelli; editing by David Stamp)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Wednesday:1. WHERE TRUMP WANTS TO SEND US TROOPSThe president says he favors using the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is built.2. \'EVERYBODY STARTED RUNNING\'A woman opens fire at YouTube headquarters in northern California, setting off a panic among employees and wounding at least four people before fatally shooting herself.3. HOW SPIES MAY BE HARVESTING INTELThe U.S. government acknowledges the existence in Washington of what appear to be rogue devices that foreign spies could be using to intercept cellphone calls.4. FIRST PUNISHMENT HANDED DOWN IN MUELLER PROBEA Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is sentenced to 30 days in prison.5. WHAT\'S ROILING PARTS OF EUROPEFor decades after World War II, racist, extremist and anti-Semitic views were considered taboo in public life. But today they are openly expressed by mainstream politicians.6. AFTER BACKLASH, GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS MINDThe Interior Department backs down from a plan to impose steep fee increases at popular national parks.7. WHICH IPO IS ROUSING SUCCESSSpotify\'s opening act on Wall Street strikes a chord with investors betting on the unprofitable company\'s trend-setting music streaming service.8. DRUG-RESISTANT BACTERIA POSE GROWING THREAT"Nightmare bacteria" with unusual resistance to antibiotics of last resort were found more than 200 times in the U.S. last year.9. BILL COSBY\'S LEGAL TEAM GETS LIFTThe judge rules that the defense at the entertainer\'s sex assault retrial can call a witness who says Cosby\'s accuser talked about framing a celebrity.10. WHO\'S BRINGING NEW MOJO TO MASTERSThe power off the tee and sharpness with his short game make him look like the Tiger Woods of old. The smile suggests someone entirely different.
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone   Sierra Leone's election commission declared main opposition candidate Julius Maada Bio as the West African nation's new president Wednesday, giving the opposition party its first presidency in 10 years.Chief Justice Abdulai Charm swore in the new leader along with Vice President Mohamed Juldeh Jalloh just hours after the announcement. Bio pledged to govern for all Sierra Leoneans at the ceremony.Bio won Saturday's runoff vote with 51.81 percent of valid votes cast, the National Electoral Commission said. The former military leader running for the Sierra Leone Peoples Party beat ruling party candidate Samura Kamara, who received 48.19 percent of the votes.More than 2.5 million people, or 81 percent of eligible registered voters, cast ballots in the runoff, said election commission's chairman, Mohamed N'Fah Alie Conteh.Any registered voter has seven days to petition to the Supreme Court against the results. This was Bio's second bid for the presidency. He lost in 2012.Tensions rose in the West African nation of 7 million people after neither the ruling All Peoples Congress party candidate nor Bio won the March 7 first round election outright. The Sierra Leone Peoples Party has not held the presidency since 2007.The runoff vote had been set for March 27 but was delayed after a ruling party member filed a court challenge alleging irregularities in the first round and a temporary injunction was issued, stalling preparations. The high court lifted the injunction last week, allowing the second round to take place Saturday.The winner will now lead efforts to continue rebuilding the country after the devastating 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic as well as a deadly mudslide in August that killed some 1,000 people in the capital, Freetown.The election is the fourth since Sierra Leone's brutal civil war ended in 2002, and the previous vote in 2012 was largely peaceful.Outgoing President Ernest Bai Koroma has served two terms and was barred by the constitution from running again.
BAGHDAD   Islamic State militants have restated their loyalty to the group\'s leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, in what is believed to be their first public pledge of allegiance to him since his "caliphate" in Syria and Iraq collapsed last year.The group continues to carry out bombings, ambushes and assassinations in both countries, as well as in Libya. However, Baghdadi\'s whereabouts have been unknown since the cross-border "caliphate" he declared in 2014 disintegrated with the fall of Mosul and Raqqa, its strongholds in Iraq and Syria respectively."To infuriate and terrorise the infidels, we renew our pledge of loyalty to the commander of the faithful and the caliph of the Muslims, the mujahid sheikh Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi al-Hussaini al-Qurashi may god preserve him," militants said in a statement posted on their social media groups.Hisham al-Hashimi, who advises several governments including Iraq\'s on Islamic State affairs, said this was the first known pledge of loyalty to Baghdadi since Iraqi forces recaptured Mosul in July and an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias took Raqqa in November, in both cases backed by a U.S.-led coalition.There have been conflicting reports over whether Baghdadi, an Iraqi, is still alive.However, Hashimi told Reuters that he was believed to be hiding in the vast desert area that straddles the Syria-Iraq border,U.S. airstrikes killed most of his top lieutenants, including Islamic State\'s "war minister" Abu Omar al-Shishani, "governor of the Iraqi region" Abu Muslim al-Turkmani, group spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani and "governor for Syria" Abu Ali al-Anbari.(Reporting by Maher Chmaytelli; editing by David Stamp)
BEIRUT   The Syrian rebel group Jaish al-Islam released five prisoners on Wednesday as part of a deal over the eastern Ghouta town of Douma, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and state media said.The Britain-based war monitor said the insurgents had kidnapped them from the nearby town of Adra about five years ago.Syrian state TV separately said the army had freed the four women and a man from the militants as part of "efforts by the Syrian state to liberate all the prisoners in Douma".Syrian government forces, backed by Russia, have now recaptured nearly all of eastern Ghouta, on the outskirts of Damascus, from the rebels in a ferocious assault that began in February, marking a major victory for President Bashar al-Assad.Jaish al-Islam holds more than 3,500 prisoners and hostages in total, Rami Abdulrahman, director of the Observatory, told Reuters.State media has said Jaish al-Islam had accepted a deal giving its fighters safe passage to towns that are located in a buffer zone on the border with Turkey that is controlled by the Turkish military and allied Syrian rebel groups.Jaish al-Islam has not confirmed any deal with the Syrian government over eastern Ghouta. On Tuesday an opposition source said talks were continuing with Damascus, even as state media reported the departure of another group of fighters from eastern Ghouta.The state news agency SANA said on Wednesday buses had entered Douma for the third consecutive day to evacuate more rebel fighters and their families to the northern Syrian city of Jarablus, near the border with Turkey.The group, which is estimated to have many thousands of fighters, has previously insisted it will not leave Douma or accept "forced displacement" to another part of Syria.A military source told Reuters on Monday that some elements of Jaish al-Islam were still rejecting a deal and that military force would be used if they refused to accept one.The source said on Tuesday the government had set a deadline for militants to leave Douma, without saying how long.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme; Editing by Gareth Jones)
LONDON   The top executives of bailed-out Italian bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena told investors in London on Wednesday the bank is making progress with its turnaround plan, two fund managers who attended the meetings said.CEO Marco Morelli and CFO Andrea Rovellini said in one-to-one investor meetings they were confident about hitting targets agreed with EU authorities to clear the rescue, one fund manager said.Morelli and Rovellini did not provide specific figures but said first-quarter earnings, due in May, would confirm the restructuring is on track, the second investor said.Italy\' fourth-largest bank, brought low by mismanagement and a huge bad loan pile, has been the biggest threat to the country\'s financial stability for years, until an 8.1 billion euro ($10 billion) bailout last summer handed the Rome government a 68 percent stake.But concerns over the Tuscan bank have intensified after Italy\'s inconclusive election last month, which could produce a government dominated by the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement and the far-right League.Both parties have opposed the previous government\'s efforts to shore up the country\'s banks, which have been struggling to deal with soured loans left over from a recession.Monte dei Paschi is due to offload by mid-2018 25 billion euros ($31 billion) in bad loans repackaged as securities in Italy\'s biggest such disposal, with help from a state-sponsored, privately-funded banking support fund.It plans further sales of 5.4 billion euros to cut soured loans to 14 percent of total lending by the end of 2019, a level which would still be almost three times the European average.Yielding to regulatory pressures, all major Italian banks have raised their goals to cut problematic loans as bankers say the European Central Bank wants to see their level drop below 10 percent of total lending.Investors fear Monte dei Paschi may need fresh capital to cover further loan losses or to be able to shed bad debts more quickly than anticipated under its restructuring plan. They also worry about the bank\'s slow turnaround progress.One fund manager said Morelli ruled out the ECB may demand a more ambitious clean-up, after lengthy negotiations over the turnaround plan agreed with Brussels last year.Monte dei Paschi\'s shares have lost 40 percent since they returned to trade on the Milan bourse in late October, prompting both Italy\'s Treasury and the bank to deny fresh capital may be needed.Monte dei Paschi made a 2017 loss of 3.5 billion euros, hit by 5.3 billion euros in loan writedowns as revenues dropped 6 percent.Banking sources have told Reuters Monte dei Paschi needs to find a partner quickly, possibly as part of a three-way merger, but none have emerged so far.UBI Banca, tipped in the Italian press as the most likely suitor, has repeatedly denied any interest.Monte dei Paschi\'s shares closed up 1.5 percent, outperforming a 0.5 drop in the European bank index"It\'s one of the few names that is up on the day," said the fund manager, who holds Monte dei Paschi debt but no shares."If you assume that people are going back and voting with their wallets, then they (the management) must be at least getting the messaging right."The investor said he expected that the Italian government\'s stake in the bank would ensure the situation "gets sorted out".He said Morelli and Rovellini, who were accompanied by the head of investor relations, did not talk about a possible partner. "They\'ve got bigger issues," he said, adding that he thought the bank had to be cleaned up first.Meetings will continue on Thursday, one person said.Monte dei Paschi declined to comment on the meetings.(Additional reporting and writing by Valentina Za in Milan. Editing by Silvia Aloisi, Jane Merriman ands David Evans)
PARIS   Millions of French commuters suffered a second day of travel chaos on Wednesday as striking rail workers locked horns with President Emmanuel Macron\'s government in a dispute over reforming the state-owned SNCF railways.Commuters in and around Paris pushed their way onto the few trains running during the rush-hour while many platforms in the French capital\'s busiest stations lay empty.SNCF said the number of drivers on strike fell slightly on Wednesday, though more signalmen and conductors had walked out than a day earlier. Across the company, including administrative and sales staff, the participation rate dipped.Macron wants to transform the heavily indebted rail company, which loses 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) each year, into a profit-making public service able to withstand foreign competition when its monopoly ends in 2020 in line with European Union rules.Unions reject plans to end rail workers\' special privileges, including job-for-life guarantees and early retirement, and complain the government is paving the way for privatizing the SNCF.The longer the strike grinds on, the more pain it will cause protesters losing out on pay, and unions that help make up for their members\' losses.The government is digging in for a drawn out standoff and Prime Minister Edouard Philippe postponed a weekend trip to Mali in order to be able to deal with strike.Macron, a former investment banker, has set a summer deadline for the overhaul to be completed."I don\'t understand the strike. Some say we want to break up public services and it\'s simply wrong," Julien Denormandie, a junior minister in Macron\'s government, told BFM TV.In taking on the rail unions, Macron is treading where past presidents have either failed or steered clear, determined to cement his image as a fearless and indefatigable modernizer of the French economy.The battle\'s outcome could define Macron\'s presidency, with trade unions, already badly bruised by his success in liberalizing labor regulations last autumn, also needing to score a win.A growing number of French people support the strike, with 44 percent approving it, up 6 percentage points from two weeks ago, according to an Elabe poll for BFM TV.At the same time, a large majority is in favor of the specific measures proposed by the government to reform the rail service.TIME TO TALK DEBTOther protest movements are also simmering, with university students, public workers, garbage collectors and pensioners all angry at Macron\'s social and economic reform agenda.So far, though, they have shown no sign of coalescing into a single, more potent movement, just as France prepares to mark the 50th anniversary of the May 1968 anti-establishment revolt and general strike that transformed the nation by pushing the government to adopt more progressive social policies.On Wednesday, only one in seven high-speed TGV trains were running - slightly more than on Tuesday - and one in five trains on overground commuter lines into Paris, similar to Tuesday\'s levels. The unions plan to strike two days in every five over the next three months."It\'s not our aim to frustrate rail passengers. Our goal is to find a way out of this row, to sit down and negotiate and find real solutions," said Roger Dillenseger of the UNSA-Railways union.The SNCF said the participation rate fell to 30 percent of staff from 34 percent on Tuesday. However, the number of striking conductors and signal-box workers - considered essential for running services - climbed by 8 and 7 percentage points respectively.Before the strike, the government offered small concessions, including delaying the opening of SNCF networks to foreign companies as long as legally possible and dropping plans to push some aspects of the reform through by decree.It has, however, said it will not discuss how much of the SNCF\'s 46 billion euro debt pile the Treasury will assume until a deal is reached on employment benefits, prompting union accusations that it negotiating "with a gun to their heads".Transport Minister Elisabeth Borne faced calls on Wednesday from within Macron\'s ruling Republic on the Move (LREM) party to address the issue earlier."It is important that the government says how, when and under what conditions the SNCF\'s debt will be taken over," Jean-Baptiste Djebarri, parliamentary rapporteur on SNCF reform, told Europe 1 radio.(Additional reporting by Leigh Thomas; Writing by Richard Lough; Editing by David Stamp and Alison Williams)


Philadelphia wants to open the playoffs at home. Toronto wants home-court advantage all the way to the NBA Finals.How they get through some marquee games this week will go a long way in determining if they reach those goals.For the Raptors, it\'s a game Wednesday against the team right behind them. For the red-hot 76ers, it\'s the one just in front of them: LeBron James and the reigning East champs from Cleveland on Friday.Toronto hosts Boston, with both teams playing for the second straight night. The Raptors lost Tuesday in Cleveland and Boston later fell in Milwaukee, keeping the Raptors two games ahead with five to play.A win Wednesday and the Raptors will be on the verge of locking up the No. 1 seed. Lose their third consecutive game, and the door stays open for Boston to grab it for the second straight season. The Celtics trimmed three games off their deficit during a six-game winning streak that was snapped Tuesday, and would clinch the head-to-head tiebreaker with a win Wednesday."It\'s a challenge that we\'re all looking forward to," Raptors All-Star guard DeMar DeRozan said, "what\'s at stake when it comes to first, and secondly, just to be able to bounce back and play and get this feeling off us. And go back to our home court, understand that we\'ve been playing great there all year."Philadelphia takes an 11-game winning streak into Detroit on Wednesday. With a victory there, the 76ers would have a shot at third place with a victory over James and the Cavaliers, who are a half-game ahead of them.The Sixers are 1 1/2 games ahead of Indiana for the final home-court spot. It\'s an important one for a young team just returning to the postseason."We don\'t hide from our goal," Philadelphia coach Brett Brown said. "We want home court."___STILL ALIVEDetroit made it to Week 25 still with playoff hopes, despite all the changes the Pistons had to make during the season.They might end up looking like they did at the start, with center Andre Drummond and point guard Reggie Jackson as the 1-2 tandem. Blake Griffin is out with a right ankle injury and scheduled to be re-evaluated this week.Without him, the Pistons have put together a five-game win streak to stay in the race, but would be eliminated with their next loss or Milwaukee\'s win.Still, Jackson said over the weekend he was proud of the Pistons for hanging in the way they have. He missed nearly half the season with his own ankle injury, and not long after he returned the Pistons lost Griffin, whom they acquired in a midseason trade with the Clippers."It\'s been tough on our guys," coach Stan Van Gundy said. "I mean, we\'ve done a lot over the course of the year, a lot of changing just in the way we play. We played early in the year with Reggie, we incorporated the movement and the pick-and-rolls. Reggie went out, we became more of just a movement team. We get Blake, we became a totally different team. Now we got Reggie back and Blake\'s out, we\'re back to it. Our guys had to make some shifts throughout the year and it hasn\'t been really easy for them."___AHEAD THIS WEEKPortland at Houston, Thursday. James Harden and Damian Lillard could be the first-team All-NBA backcourt.Washington at Cleveland, Thursday. A possible playoff preview, though only if the Wizards start playing better to get the No. 6 seed.Minnesota at Denver, Thursday. Possibly a must-win for the ninth-place Nuggets, who are a game back of No. 7 Minnesota.Milwaukee at New York, Saturday. Last time he played at Madison Square Garden, Giannis Antetokounmpo jumped over Tim Hardaway Jr. for a dunk in one of his highlight plays of the season.___FINAL FOURThe NBA G League is down to its final four teams, with a chance for a repeat champion.Austin hosts South Bay on Thursday in the Western Conference finals, while Raptors 905 visits Erie on Friday to determine the East winner.Raptors 905 edged Grand Rapids in its opening-round game, and then rallied to knock off regular-season East champ Westchester in the East semifinals. Toronto\'s minor league affiliate can become the first repeat champion since Asheville won in 2004-05.South Bay has scored 125 and 126 in its playoff games. The best-of-three G League finals begin Sunday.___STAT LINE OF THE WEEK49: Number of wins San Antonio can finish with, ending the Spurs\' streak of 18 straight 50-win seasons.
DENVER   Now that Charlie Blackmon has agreed to a lucrative new deal, he can afford to trade in that Jeep Cherokee he\'s had forever.Only, that\'s not how he rolls."I\'m going to get some new tires," he said.That\'s just Blackmon being Blackmon, the insightful and quirky leadoff hitter extraordinaire with the ragged beard and impressive mullet who will be patrolling the Colorado Rockies outfield for quite some time.The NL batting champion made a long-term commitment Wednesday rather than test the free-agent market next offseason, agreeing to a contract that guarantees him $108 million over six seasons. It\'s been in the works for most of spring training  and under the radar."I didn\'t want to create distractions," he said.In January, the two-time All-Star center fielder had agreed to a $14 million, one-year deal. The new agreement announced in San Diego, where the Rockies are playing a four-game series with the Padres, calls for a $14 million salary this year, with $2 million payable on April 30, and $21 million in each of the next three seasons.Blackmon has player options of $21 million for 2022 and $10 million for 2023, and his 2023 salary can escalate up to $5 million based on plate appearances in 2022: $500,000 each for 400, 425, 450, 475, 500 and 525, and $1 million apiece for 550 and 575.His 2023 salary would increase by $2 million if he is among the top three in MVP voting from 2018-22 and by $1 million if he finishes fourth or fifth. The 2023 salary is capped at $18 million.As part of the deal negotiated by agents Sam and Seth Levinson, Blackmon can list 15 teams each season he can\'t be traded to without his consent.The deal follows an offseason in which many top free agents struggled to find lucrative long-term contracts."I knew this was going to be a big year for me, leading into this season, this season and what would happen after the season," Blackmon said. "I weighed all my options and chose what I feel like is the best decision for me and my family and that\'s to stay in Colorado."This potentially could open the door for a rich new deal with Gold Glove third baseman Nolan Arenado, who\'s eligible to become a free agent after the 2019 World Series."I did speak to Nolan a little bit in spring training about his future and obviously how that relates to my future," Blackmon said. "I\'d love for those futures to be together. I think he\'s a very important part of this team. I\'d love to see Nolan around for a long time. We didn\'t specifically talk about, \'Hey what if I do this or you do that.\' We didn\'t play that game."Rockies general manager Jeff Bridich didn\'t want to go down that road, either."This is really all about Charlie and thrilled we were able to get this done," Bridich said. "He\'s one of the elite players in the game now."Blackmon is coming off one of the best seasons ever for a leadoff hitter in helping the Rockies to the NL wild-card game. His 102 RBIs while hitting in the top spot were a major league record, surpassing the mark of 100 set by Darin Erstad of the Angels in 2000. Blackmon\'s 383 total bases from the leadoff spot in 2017 also were the most all-time.The 31-year-old Blackmon has started this season on a torrid pace  hitting .316 with four homers and six RBIs.He\'s known for being goofy, inquisitive and even a tad bit forgetful. He once tested the limits of the gas gauge on his Cherokee and ran out of fuel in the process, leading teammate DJ LeMahieu to help him out. Arenado once recounted a tale about how they carpooled back from the airport after returning from a trip only for Blackmon to remember his car was still there.Few work harder at honing their craft, which is why he\'s blossomed into one of the game\'s top hitters. Over his big-league career, he\'s hit .305 with 115 homers and 361 RBIs.In high school, Blackmon was also a left-handed pitcher and was picked by the Marlins in the 28th round of the 2004 draft. A year later, he was selected in the 20th round by the Red Sox after a season with Young Harris College in Georgia. He attended Georgia Tech, where he switched from the mound to outfield full-time and was taken by the Rockies in the second round in 2008."I always felt like I was going to be really good at something," Blackmon said. "I really wanted it to be baseball. For a long time I wanted it to be pitching. Turns out, I stink at pitching ... I\'m glad I was able to make that change."___AP Baseball Writer Ronald Blum contributed to this report.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
DETROIT   Bargain prices on 2- and 3-year-old vehicles fueled record sales of used cars, trucks and SUVs last year, a trend that is expected to continue because people can save thousands of dollars over buying new.Used vehicle sales hit 39.2 million vehicles in 2017, more than double the number of new automobiles sold, according to the Edmunds.com auto website. To be sure, Americans for years have bought more used cars than new, but a recent glut of well-equipped vehicles coming off leases is sending more people to the used market.That cut into new vehicle sales last year, helping to push them down 2 percent. And the trend is likely to continue because leasing remains around a near-record 30 percent of all U.S. new vehicle sales. That will provide an ample supply of used cars for at least three more years, said Ivan Drury, senior manager of industry analysis for Edmunds. (Edmunds regularly provides content, including automotive tips and reviews, for distribution by The Associated Press.)"In almost every instance, that 3-year-old car is going to save you so much money it wouldn\'t make any financial sense" to choose new, Drury said.About 4 million vehicles are coming into the used market from leases this year, many of them cars that can be bought cheaply because buyers are more interested in SUVs.On average, the buyer of a 3-year-old car can save around $14,000 over buying the same car new, according to Edmunds.New vehicle prices continue to rise to record levels, pushing some people out of the market and making off-lease vehicles even more attractive, Drury said. At the same time, the rate of increase for used cars is slowing due to abundant supply, so the gap between new and used prices is growing.The average new vehicle in 2012 sold for $30,803. By the end of 2017, that rose by nearly $4,400, according to Edmunds. During the same period, the average used auto price rose $2,784, to $19,462. The difference between new and used prices grew by almost $1,600, from $14,125 in 2012 to $15,714 last year.The spread between new and used is even more dramatic for a 3-year-old vehicle. Last year, 3-year-old autos sold for about $20,500. From 2012 to 2017, the gap between a 3-year-old vehicle and an average new one grew more than $3,500 to $13,877.For Jonathan Bursevich, who lives near Fort Lauderdale, Florida, the spread between new and used was just too great to pass up. In December, he bought a well-equipped, mint condition gray 2015 Audi A4 from a dealership for about $23,000, a savings of at least $16,000 over the cost of a new one.The 25-year-old risk management broker checked prices on Google and found a new A4 to be "way out of my budget." His parents always bought used cars, foregoing the latest features but saving thousands. So he checked and found an Audi-certified used A4 with 46,000 miles on it for a little over half the price of a new one "which I thought was a fantastic value for the car."The used Audi lacks some technology that\'s on the new one, including a backup camera and a steering assist feature, Bursevich said.  "If I don\'t feel like I\'m in the stone age and everything else works, then I would be more than happy to save money," he said.The only reason buyers would go for a new vehicle is if the design is dramatically different or if it has new technology they want, Drury said. But not every vehicle has been redesigned, and technology hasn\'t changed that much in the last few years. Most 2 or 3-year-old cars have backup cameras and Bluetooth technology to link phones to the cars, he said.  Many have blind spot detection and other features, he added.Currently the good used deals are on cars, but even that will change in the next few years as more SUVs are added to the mix of vehicles coming off leases, said Jeff Schuster, a senior vice president at the forecasting firm LMC Automotive.Seeing the trend toward higher used-vehicle sales and the slowing price increases of used cars, many dealers have changed their business models and aren\'t marking up used vehicles like they used to, Drury said.David Kelleher, who runs a Fiat Chrysler dealership in suburban Philadelphia, lowered used vehicle prices and moved more of them last year. As a result, he doubled used-vehicle sales from 45 per month to 90, while new vehicle sales stayed flat.Buyers, he said, come to the dealership knowing the average price for a used car. "We\'re pricing to the market rather than the old model, which was you trade the car, put it in the shop and mark it up $2,500," Kelleher said.
GOLD COAST, Australia   An opening ceremony rich in symbolic tributes to Australia\'s indigenous people was about to get under way at the Commonwealth Games.At the same time, Aboriginal activists gathered in the shadows of the main stadium to get their message across, too.Flanked and outnumbered by a heavy police presence, about 100 protesters carried banners with the message "Colonisation Is Not A Game" and waved black, red and yellow Aboriginal flags.Chanting "No Justice, No Games," they walked up to the stadium at Carrara in the rain on Wednesday night and were ushered by police, via a parking lot and soggy paddock, into a field across the road from the main entrance.Queensland Police Deputy Commissioner Steve Gollschewski said three people were arrested for public nuisance offenses but otherwise there were no issues."The people were able to make their protest and get their message across," he said. "It was a very good outcome."A smaller group had halted the Queen\'s baton relay briefly earlier in the day blocking a road before the route was altered slightly for the final 14 baton bearers to continue.The Australian Broadcasting Corp. quoted one of the protesters, Wayne Wharton, as saying "We are calling on the Commonwealth heads of every nation that has come here to demand (Prime Minister) Malcolm Turnbull to initiate a truth commission."The British established colonies in Australia in the late 1700s after declaring it "terra nullius"  owned by no one  despite the presence of Aboriginal people on the island continent for at least 50,000 years.Today, Aboriginal people make up just three percent of the population of 24 million and are the most disadvantaged ethnic group in Australia by most measures from health, to employment and rates of imprisonment.Activists, who have dubbed the event as the "Stolenwealth Games" aim to highlight that despite former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd\'s national apology in 2008 to Australia\'s Aboriginal people for past injustices, progress has been slow on the timetable he set for ending indigenous disadvantage.Prince Charles, opening the 21st edition of the Commonwealth Games on behalf of his mother Queen Elizabeth II, said "sport can be a great force for good which can help create harmony between communities."The ancient stories told by the indigenous people of Australia remind us that even though we may be half a world away, we are all connected," said Charles, reading from a message from the queen.The Commonwealth Games has brought together 71 nations and territories of the Commonwealth and the opening ceremony was billed as "a celebration of unity, culture and diversity."The night included a traditional welcome to land by a local indigenous elder and a smoking ceremony near the end, and highlighted imagery, scenes and sounds of the ancient culture.Wesley Enoch, an Aboriginal man who directed parts of the opening ceremony in 2006 in Melbourne and against on the Gold Coast, said it was important that the event had an "indigenous context.""To watch that smoking ceremony ... we all smelt the same after that. It\'s also about welcoming, cleansing, to begin from a new beginning," he said at a news conference Thursday. "The power of welcome is all throughout this ceremony. You can\'t welcome athletes from all over the globe and all over the nation to this place without having proper ceremony."Indigenous protests also coincided with previous Commonwealth Games in Australia in 1982 at Brisbane and in 2006 in Melbourne.Enoch said Australia had come a long way in the 12 years between hosting the games.Asked about the protests, Enoch said it was important to be clear that local elders had invited the games organizers, athletes and people onto their land and had helped find a way to express their culture."We all own that story. As Australians, we own that indigenous heritage," he said. "And that\'s a big lesson to learn."Gold Coast 2018 chairman Peter Beattie, a former Queensland state premier and trade ambassador, said his organization had worked closely with local indigenous groups had a "philosophical commitment to indigenous reconciliation."Beattie said Thursday he\'d meet with protesting groups if he was asked."We are really committed to this  it\'s not just a ceremony," he said. "If people have genuine grievances they have a right to go and out demonstrate them. We believe in people\'s rights. I think it\'s fair enough for them to express their view."Let\'s be really honest, this nation doesn\'t have a great record if you look at how indigenous people have been treated. Frankly, we need to reach out to people and part of that is being tolerant and understanding."
On a drizzly and cold Tuesday night at Citi Field, Matt Harvey took the mound for the first time this season. He was wearing an elbow-length undershirt. When he singled in the third inning of the Mets 2-0 win over the Philadelphia Phillies, Harvey refused the customary jacket to keep his pitching arm warm.This was the man once known as the Dark Knight, who stared down opponents with a bloody nose and a knee-buckling arsenal during his stellar 2013 and 2015 seasons.But ahead of what could be Harveys final season in a Mets uniform, the teams new coaches, under Manager Mickey Callaway, have stressed that Harvey does not need to carry that persona anymore. He just needs to be the best version of his current self.Against the Phillies, Harvey, 29, had a slower fastball than before (90-93 miles per hour) but showed better command and a plan of attack. He used high fastballs against overeager Phillies hitters to induce flyouts or strikeouts. He allowed only one hit and one walk, and fanned five over five scoreless innings.Hes got that look in his eye back, said Mets catcher Travis dArnaud, who has caught Harvey off and on since 2013. He added later: He didnt have his best stuff but he was still in it. He wasnt going to give up.Harveys past two seasons had been filled with struggle and injury. He showed he could recover from Tommy John surgery in 2013, but he had not been the same since a 2016 surgery to treat thoracic outlet syndrome.During a 2017 season in which Harvey posted a career-worst 6.70 earned run average and dealt with a weak shoulder, only one of his 19 starts was scoreless. He matched that feat in his first start of the new season.Going five innings and not giving up a ton of runs is definitely a plus and something I havent been used to, Harvey said with a smirk, adding later: Im happy I was able to do that without my good stuff or feeling that great.Harvey did not earn the win, leaving the game in a scoreless tie. Reliever Jerry Blevins ended a Phillies scoring threat in the sixth inning by striking out Odubel Herrera with two runners on base.In the bottom of the frame, Todd Frazier and dArnaud gave the Mets (3-1) a 2-0 lead with run-scoring hits. On base after each hit, Frazier and dArnaud twisted their hands in the direction of the home dugout, as if using a pepper grinder, enacting the teams new salt-and-pepper celebration for the 2018 season.Harvey could have pitched deeper into the game, but Callaway pulled him after a relatively manageable pitch count of 86.But because Harveys spot in the lineup was coming up in the bottom of the fifth inning and the Mets needed offense, Callaway turned the game over to a bullpen that was well rested after Mondays game was postponed because of snow.And he showed his modern approach to using relievers regardless of inning, deploying AJ Ramos, a setup man and former closer, and Blevins in the sixth inning against the top of the Phillies lineup. Seth Lugo pitched the seventh and eighth innings.They tell us to get out to the bullpen by the fourth inning, just because you never know whats going to happen, Ramos said. Im ready to pitch whenever.In all, the Mets allowed only three hits. Jeurys Familia pitched out a jam in the ninth inning to secure the victory.Since taking over, Callaway and the new pitching coach Dave Eiland have worked diligently to improve Harvey, both on the mound and between the ears.Over the winter, the Mets listened to trade offers for Harvey but opted to keep him, in part, because of the recommendations of Callaway and Eiland. They still saw potential in Harveys worn body and psyche.Harvey reported to spring training in a jovial mood. He proclaimed that he was healthier and stronger than ever after enjoying his first normal off-season in a while. He flashed 94-96 m.p.h. fastballs. He thanked Callaway and Eiland for their support. They lifted Harveys confidence at every turn.He is going to throw 96, but today it was a tough day to pitch and have your best, crisp stuff, Callaway said Tuesday. If it were a warm summer day, you would see a little bit more velo out of him.In spring training, Harvey refused to talk about the past (he was suspended three games without pay last season for failing to show up to Citi Field after a night of partying) or the future (his upcoming free agency). Callaway and Eiland noted progress in Harvey, watching him break bad habits from when he did not have the proper shoulder strength. It showed on Tuesday.Im healthy, Im not in pain and theres no issue, Harvey said. Just going out there and battling and just really concentrating on pitching.
It is certainly odd when you enter Johns Sharpening Service & Supplies and the first thing you hear is a customer asking about the price of a hairbrush.Three bucks, no, two, answered Vinnie Bianco, one of the owners of the knife and tool sharpening store at 10th Avenue and 63rd Street in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn.Dive into the history of this corner storefront, however, and youll quickly learn that it is home to two businesses: the sharpening service, yes, but also Bianco Brothers, which manufactures an assortment of beauty, podiatry, surgical and dental products and instruments.The sharpening business, now owned by three Bianco brothers, Vinnie, Joey and Dominic, was started in 1972 by their father, John Bianco, who was also a hair stylist and the owner of three Brooklyn salons. He was well known in the citys beauty community and often entered hair styling competitions, competing against Vidal Sassoon, Vinnie Bianco said.The senior Bianco, who passed away in 2009, also ran a namesake salon products business, and some items are still sold at the store today. In the early 90s, the brothers decided to merge their sharpening skills with their fathers history in the beauty industry and start making their own specialty instruments, like tweezers and scissors, instead of importing them from a supplier in Germany.We thought we could do better, Vinnie Bianco said.He rattled off the range of store regulars: hairdressers, barbers, podiatrists, veterinarians, chefs, butchers, manicurists.Dont forget the sword swallower, chimed in Joey, Vinnies identical twin brother.Indeed, Kristen Knapp, who goes by the stage name Wendy Blades and is the resident sword swallower at the Coney Island Circus Side Show, has been a loyal customer for the past several years.I trust them with the tools that I use for my art, she said. After a brief pause, she added: But really, they help me not die.In order to explain her craft and how she wanted the brothers to edge her sword, Ms. Knapp gave an impromptu demonstration in the store, which Joey recorded on his phone.They knew right away what they needed to do, Ms. Knapp said. Joey and Vinnie can do everything in like 15 minutes but I always end up staying for over an hour and a half, chatting.Several large grinding wheels are spread throughout the workspace. One wall displays scissors in all shapes and sizes; prices range from $50 to $500 per pair. Next to the scissors are hair sprays and dyes, brushes and beard oils. The counter space has a dizzying display of nail cutters, splitters and nippers, most of which are made by the Biancos.Perhaps the stores most charming fixture  although he is not officially on the payroll  is Joseph Solitario, 83, who lives down the block. Every day, he stands behind the counter to help people. Hell get the brothers attention if a customer hasnt been greeted. Hell wash the windows. Hell have a cup of coffee and talk about his 21 grandchildren.His wifes baked ziti is the best, Vinnie said, who often eats lunch with Mr. Solitario.On the back of the entrance door, customers have made an ad hoc bulletin board. On a recent weekday morning, there were two ads looking for a barber, and a for-sale listing of a barbershop on Avenue U.Henry Ficke, a podiatrist with an office in Gravesend, said hes been a customer since the mid-90s, ever since he met Vinnie at a trade show.Any person who works with precision tools knows the importance of good maintenance, he said.But Dr. Ficke said he also relies on Vinnie for all kinds of things, including an introduction to a new part-time podiatry job in Staten Island, because of Vinnies vast connections.I call him before I call anyone else, Dr. Ficke said. I once called him about a broken chair!
MANCHESTER, N.H.  John Kasich had been here before. This much he pointed out, twice, before anyone had a chance to wonder why he was back.Wow! he called out, stepping into the Red Arrow Diner on Tuesday for an unannounced stop, emitting the kind of surprise that only a politician can summon over three dozen people eating lunch. It was just this crowded the last time.Mr. Kasich sidled up beside the counter, squatting to greet a young customer, Sophia Bauer, whose name he seemed to hear as Sylvia.How old are you? he asked. Five? Are you going to be in first grade? Do you have a dog? Oh, really? Soon, Sophia was being tickled by the two-term Republican governor of Ohio.He led her by the hand toward a booth in the corner, where a television camera was waiting. Isnt that cool? he said. The two peered into the camera together. The governor smiled. Then Sophia was dismissed. All right, Sylvia, he said. Go back to your mom. It was time to talk to CNN again.It is both unclear what Mr. Kasich is doing here, in the first-in-the-nation primary state, and entirely clear what he is doing. He is not not running for president.There would be nothing unusual about this  convening with past supporters and advisers from his 2016 campaign, making the rounds to talk up his record, congratulating the locals on their wisdom, their food, their can-do attitude  but for some inconvenient political context for Mr. Kasich.President Trump intends to run for re-election in 2020, and he has beaten Mr. Kasich before  here (by nearly 20 percentage points), elsewhere, and everywhere but the governors home state during the last round of primaries. In a party that, since then, has broadly pledged itself to Mr. Trump in sickness and in health, the president would almost certainly beat him again if the race were held today.But then, the race is not being held today, and Mr. Kasich is not exactly who he was in 2016, when he finished a semi-surprising second here. He is now one of the few prominent Republicans willing to knock Mr. Trump on health care, climate change, Russia and other issues in front of any television camera that will have him. In doing so he has won a new set of national admirers, though not always those who vote in Republican primaries.I think Im increasingly viewed now as not just a Republican but as something different, kind of a hybrid, he said in a half-hour interview on Tuesday, shuttling between stops in an S.U.V. I have people of all shapes, sizes, philosophies and party preferences that approach me. But what does that mean? I dont know. Im on television, so all the sudden they want to talk to me. Television moves everybody up, right?That remains to be seen, electorally. A University of New Hampshire poll released in February found that 60 percent of the states Republicans would support Mr. Trump again in a primary; 18 percent planned to vote for someone else. Another recent poll was more generous to Mr. Kasich, though it still showed Mr. Trump with a clear edge. And while some prominent Republicans in the state, like former Senator John E. Sununu, remain vocal Kasich defenders, few sitting officeholders have made a point of consistently challenging Mr. Trump.Mr. Kasichs case against Mr. Trump rests as much on tone as substance. The governor, a longtime supporter of free-trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, has been sharply critical of the presidents tilt toward protectionism on trade, saying it runs afoul of the Republican Party he knew. He has also lamented the presidents bid to dismantle DACA, the program aimed at protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation.On this and other issues, though, Mr. Kasich has sought to contrast himself with Mr. Trump most pointedly as a spokesman for national decency. Rarely was he more animated on Tuesday than during a discussion of the presidents Easter morning tweet declaring, NO MORE DACA DEAL. On Easter, the governor said on Tuesday, later adding, Come on, leaders dont do that.Officially, Mr. Kasich says, another run for president is not on his immediate radar, but he is keeping his options open, maintaining the relationships required for any prospective campaign.Regardless of his eventual choice, Mr. Kasich has succeeded, at least, in installing himself permanently in the grand drama of the Trump era, drawing a pack of reporters to New Hampshire in an off-year on the pretext of a question-and-answer session at a college and ensuring that the news media will continue to track his doings once his term expires in January.He enjoys being consequential, said Tom Rath, a senior national adviser to Mr. Kasichs 2016 campaign and a former attorney general of New Hampshire. That alone would be enough to continue this effort, whatever you want to call this effort.Mr. Kasich, 65, has excelled for decades at such relevance retention, to say nothing of reinvention. During a hiatus from politics in the early and mid-2000s, he was the host of a Fox News show, Heartland With John Kasich, broadcast live from Columbus, Ohio  and at times, a fill-in for Bill OReilly  while working as an investment banker for Lehman Brothers.Known to colleagues as prickly and blunt as a nine-term congressman, he now projects a cant-we-all-get-along buoyancy about the ways of the world, calling himself the prince of light and hope in the 2016 primary field and proving to be a prolific purveyor of campaign trail hugs.Since then, Mr. Kasichs perpetual skepticism of the president has contributed to the impression that he was something of a silver medalist in 2016, the last man standing between Mr. Trump and high office. In practice, that was Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mr. Trumps only true threat by the middle of the primary season. Mr. Kasich, who did stay in the race one day longer than Mr. Cruz despite trailing him by about 400 delegates, was such a nonfactor that Mr. Trump did not bother with a nickname for him until late April 2016. It was 1 for 38 Kasich.If the governor ran again, said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trumps one-time campaign manager and a veteran of New Hampshire politics, Hed be 0 for 50 John.Jeanie Forrester, the chairwoman of the New Hampshire Republican Party, reported few rank-and-file voter concerns about their leader in Washington, even as Trump critics like Mr. Kasich and Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, who visited last month, make pilgrimages to the state. Everybody is feeling pretty good, she said.Still, Kasich allies see a way, noting the states wealth of independent voters and observing that far more New Hampshire residents sided against Mr. Trump, who won the primary with 35 percent of the vote, than with him. (Many more, of course, declined to support Mr. Kasich, who received 16 percent.)As the generally popular governor of a longtime bellwether state, Mr. Kasich has distinguished himself from some fellow Republicans on policy, expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and pushing for new gun restrictions after recent mass shootings.At least as central to his political brand, currently, is a contrarian streak that lurches beyond substance. He can speak at times like a sort of Midwestern oracle with a sweet tooth, by turns invoking Aristotle and Aquinas, raising the radio volume for Stairway to Heaven and holding forth on the majesty of dessert.Human reason is imperfect, he said at one point during the interview, borrowing from his recent State of the State address back home.I like Bowie. I love Lady Gaga, he said at another.Friendlys! he cried soon after, when a fellow passenger mentioned that a Friendlys was near. I want to go to Friendlys. (He got to go to Friendlys, chasing his fish-and-chips from the diner with a kind of omnibus sundae known as the Jim Dandy.)A short while later, Mr. Kasich arrived for the stated purpose of the trip: a fireside forum at New England College in Henniker, where a bipartisan crowd of some 150 students and political veterans received him warmly. Hes a positive voice, said Gary Glines, 60, whose wife, a Democrat, had turned his attention to Mr. Kasich before the 2016 primary. She said, You need to listen to this guy. He sounds like you. By the nights end, Mr. Kasich, appearing for over an hour, sounded like a person running for president  or, at least, a person reminding New Hampshire that he is not this president.He lamented the namby-pamby of his fellow politicians. He pledged to do the best I can at doing the best I can. He encouraged the crowd to give an ovation to Dana Bash of CNN.And when the moderator asked if Mr. Kasich believed New Hampshire should keep its place at the head of the political calendar, the governor pandered knowingly. The Iowa caucus, he said gently, should probably still come first, despite that states shortcomings. I spent a year there one week, Mr. Kasich said. Just kidding, Iowa!The joke did not kill, even in this room.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Fifty years after a shot rang out in Memphis, killing the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., freedom rang from the balcony of the Lorraine Motel as a bell tolled 39 times to mark a life cut short by racism.King died among the most hated men in America, but Wednesday, admirers grateful for his life and legacy mourned his loss and pledged to carry on his unfinished work to end racial injustice and economic inequality"Nothing would be more tragic than for us to stop at this point," said the Rev. William Barber, who will renew King\'s Poor People Campaign this spring. "We must go up together or go down together. What he said then is what we must do now."A host of tributes to the slain civil rights leader were held across the country. At the epicenter was Memphis, where King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, while in town for a sanitation workers\' strike. The dignity of the workers paralleled this year\'s anniversary, with teachers in Oklahoma and Kentucky walking out of schools to push for more funding.The triple evils of racism, poverty and war that King hammered at the end of his life linger  from economic, educational, housing and health disparities to the looming threat of nuclear war. Both the speakers and marchers of the day pledged their commitment to picking up King\'s mantle.The Rev. James Lawson, who invited King to Memphis 50 years ago to assist with the sanitation workers\' strike, said more progress is needed toward King\'s goal of equality for all."I\'m still anxious and frustrated," said Lawson, his black hair turned gray. "The task is unfinished."Speaking in King\'s hometown of Atlanta, the Rev. Bernice King recalled her father as a great orator whose message of peaceful protest was still vital decades later."We decided to start this day remembering the apostle of nonviolence," she said during a ceremony to award a prize named for her father.As painful as losing her father was, she said she wouldn\'t change history."Actually, I\'m glad that everything happened the way that it happened because I can\'t imagine the world that we live in without the contributions of Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King and the sacrifice that they made," she said.As a march began in Memphis, people locked arms or held signs as they chanted and sang songs such as "We Shall Overcome." Memphis police estimated the crowd at about 10,000."We know what he worked hard for, we know what he died for, so we just want to keep the dream going," said Dixie Spencer, who came from nearby Hardeman County, where she\'s an NAACP leader. "We just want to make sure that we don\'t lose the gains that we have made."Martin Luther King III addressed marchers at the end of their route."There\'s something wrong in our nation where a minimum of 48 million people are living in poverty. That\'s unacceptable. We must do better. America should be embarrassed about having people living in poverty," he said.In the evening, ringing bells marked the moment King was gunned down at age 39. Members of King\'s family pulled a rope together to ring a bell 39 times at the pool surrounding the Atlanta crypt of King and his wife. The family then laid a wreath of multicolored flowers in front of the crypt. The crowd gathered outside the Lorraine Motel fell silent as the bell began to ring there. A red and white wreath was placed on the balcony where King had been standing when he was shot.Small-time criminal James Earl Ray pleaded guilty to the killing and quickly recanted, claiming he was set up. The conviction stood, and Ray died in prison in 1998.Marking the anniversary of the assassination, President Donald Trump issued a proclamation in honor of the slain leader, saying: "In remembrance of his profound and inspirational virtues, we look to do as Dr. King did while this world was privileged enough to still have him."The president has been the target of veiled criticism by some speakers at King commemorations in recent days as they complained of fraught race relations and other divisions since he was elected.Shirley Mason was a young woman living in Detroit when King was killed. Now 70, she said she came to Memphis not only to honor King\'s legacy but to call for his work to be continued."(King) went through the struggle and gave up his life," she said. "Why not get out ourselves and do some sacrificing?"____Brumback reported from Atlanta.____For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
ANKARA, Turkey   Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday that his military "won\'t stop" trying to oust Syrian Kurdish fighters from northern Syria, as he met with the leaders of Russia and Iran for talks on trying to resolve the conflict.The three countries, which have teamed up to work for a Syria settlement despite their differences, reaffirmed their commitment to Syria\'s territorial integrity and the continuation of local cease-fires. They called on the international community to provide more aid for war-ravaged Syria.Erdogan, President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani were holding their second summit to discuss Syria\'s future since attending a similar meeting in Sochi, Russia, in November. Russia and Iran have provided crucial support to President Bashar Assad\'s forces, while Turkey has backed the rebels seeking to overthrow him.Speaking at a joint news conference, Erdogan said Turkish troops, which last month took control of the northwestern Kurdish enclave of Afrin, would move eastward into Manbij and other areas controlled by the U.S.-backed Kurdish militia, the Peoples\' Protection Units, or YPG, which Turkey considers to be terrorists."I say here once again that we will not stop until we have made safe all areas controlled by the (YPG), starting with Manbij," Erdogan said.He stressed that Turkey\'s fight against the YPG would not distract from efforts to eliminate remnants of the Islamic State group from the country.Wednesday\'s summit came as the White House said its military mission to eradicate IS in Syria was coming to a "rapid end," though it offered no timetable for withdrawal of the roughly 2,000 U.S. troops currently in Syria as part of an American-led coalition fighting the Islamic militants since 2014. President Donald Trump had said a day earlier that the U.S.\'s primary mission was to defeat IS and "we\'ve almost completed that task."With allies anxious about a hasty U.S. withdrawal, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Wednesday that the U.S. would stay in war-torn Syria to finish off the job of defeating the Islamic State group and was committed to eliminating the militants\' "small" presence that "our forces have not already eradicated."But Sanders suggested that would not be a long-term endeavor, and she described the extremist group that once controlled vast swaths of Syria and Iraq as "almost completely destroyed."Trump\'s comments conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of whom spoke at a separate event in Washington on Tuesday about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries.Asked about a possible U.S. pullout, Rouhani suggested Wednesday that the U.S. threat to withdraw from Syria was an excuse for soliciting money from countries that want U.S. forces to remain there."One day they say they want to pull out of Syria. ... Then it turns out that they are craving money," he said. "They have told Arab countries to give them money to remain in Syria."It was unclear what Rouhani was referring to. But Trump in recent weeks has asked Saudi Arabia to contribute $4 billion for reconstruction in Syria as part of his efforts to get other countries to help pay for stabilizing the country, according to a U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn\'t authorized to discuss the conversations publicly.Rouhani also reiterated that there can be no military solution to the Syrian crisis. "It should be resolved through political solutions," he said.Russia, Iran and Turkey have sponsored several rounds of talks between the Syrian government and the opposition, and brokered local truces in four areas, helping to reduce hostilities. Their next tripartite meeting will be held in Tehran.Erdogan said the Turkish and Russian militaries were discussing the possibility of establishing field hospitals in Syria\'s Tal Abyad town to care for people injured in the Syrian government offensive on the rebel-held Damascus suburbs of eastern Ghouta. "Be it the Turkish armed forces, be it the Russian armed forces, (we) want to quickly establish a field hospital so that initial treatment can be provided," Erdogan said.Meanwhile, the Russian military said Wednesday that it expects a rebel evacuation from the suburbs of the Syrian capital to be completed in the coming days.The Russian Defense Ministry and Syrian rebels struck a deal on Sunday for the Army of Islam, the biggest opposition group in eastern Ghouta, to leave the area for the rebel-controlled north.The rebels were still leaving the town of Douma, but the evacuation was expected to wrap up in the coming days, said Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy of the Russian General Staff.Earlier, Russia\'s Defense Ministry said that more than 3,000 rebels and their family members had evacuated Douma since Sunday.The evacuation comes after a blistering five-week government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds of people and caused catastrophic damage in the besieged suburbs.___Associated Press writers Josh Lederman in Washington, Zeina Karam and Bassem Mroue in Beirut, Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow, Cinar Kiper in Istanbul and Amir Vahdat in Tehran contributed to this report.
SAHARONIM DETENTION CENTRE, Israel   Israel on Wednesday released from detention a small group of African migrants who had been awaiting deportation after the collapse of an international deal to send them to Rwanda.Some 200 additional migrants are still being held at the Saharonim detention center in southern Israel awaiting possible deportation to Uganda but their fate depends on whether an Israeli envoy who visited the east African state on Wednesday had managed to secure a deal for them to be taken in.In the event agreement is not reached, they too will be freed, probably on Thursday. The long-term fate of the freed migrants was unclear but Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he was seeking a new relocation deal, although he gave no details.Netanyahu said on Tuesday he was cancelling an agreement with the U.N. refugee agency to relocate thousands of African migrants, bowing to right-wing at home pressure to scrap the deal.Netanyahu\'s critics seized on his backtracking on the arrangement - under which thousands of other migrants would have won the right to remain in Israel - as a sign of political weakness.For the estimated 37,000 migrants in Israel, most of them from Eritrea and Sudan, the whirlwind of announcements over the past three days about their future has swept their status even deeper into limbo.On Monday, Netanyahu announced the arrangement with the UNHCR that would have relocated about 16,250 migrants to Western countries.But the fact that thousands more would be allowed to stay raised an outcry from right-wing politicians and on social media from Netanyahu\'s nationalist voter base, which wants the migrants expelled. He then announced he was putting the agreement\'s implementation on hold and by Tuesday, he killed it.The 58 migrants set free from Saharonim in the south of the country boarded buses to Tel Aviv. They were freed because the state could not give assurances to the Supreme Court that it had found a safe haven for them abroad."I have been detained for six months and at lunch time today the police came and told me I was being released, I don\'t know where I\'ll go yet," Musia Bara from Eritrea told Israel\'s Channel 1.Several hundred migrants held a demonstration in central Jerusalem later on Wednesday demanding to be allowed to stay and for the forced deportations to be stopped.Eritrean Muluebrhan Ghebrihiwet, 27, one of the demonstrators who has been in Israel for almost seven years and who was released from detention last month, said Israel\'s government was playing mind games with the migrants."We are grateful to the Israeli public for their support  but the government has waged a psychological war against us and they have done so because of politics but we are refugees, human beings and we demand that they stop," he said.(Additional reporting by Ronen Zvulun in Jerusalem; Writing by Ori Lewis; Editing by Alison Williams)
BEIRUT   Any move to negotiate with Israel would be an "unforgivable mistake", Iran\'s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said on Wednesday, after Saudi Arabia\'s crown prince said Israelis were entitled to live peacefully on their own land.Saudi Arabia - birthplace of Islam and site of its holiest shrines - does not officially recognize Israel, but Mohammed bin Salman\'s comments, quoted in the U.S. magazine The Atlantic, are a further sign of an apparent thawing in bilateral ties.They come as mainly Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia faces off against Shi\'ite Iran in a regional power struggle. Tehran and Riyadh back opposing sides in the conflicts in Yemen and Syria as well as rival political groups in Iraq and Lebanon."Movement toward negotiation with the cheating, lying and oppressive regime (of Israel) is a big, unforgivable mistake that will push back the victory of the people of Palestine," Khamenei said in a statement posted on his official website.The statement, which did not explicitly name Saudi Arabia, said it was the duty of all Muslims to support Palestinian resistance movements and it pledged continued Iranian backing for the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas.After the crown prince\'s comments, his father King Salman reiterated Saudi Arabia\'s support for a Palestinian state.Riyadh has long maintained that normalising ties with Israel hinges on an Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war - territory Palestinians seek for a future state.However, Saudi Arabia opened its air space for the first time to a commercial flight to Israel last month, which an Israeli official hailed as historic following two years of efforts.In November, an Israeli cabinet member disclosed covert contacts with Saudi Arabia, a rare acknowledgment of long-rumored secret dealings which Riyadh still denies.Khamenei issued Wednesday\'s statement in reply to a letter he recently received from Hamas chief Ismail Haniya which  criticized the support of Arab governments in the region for the United States.Hamas, which is sworn to Israel\'s destruction, dominates the small coastal strip of Gaza, where this week at least 17 Palestinians were killed in clashes with Israeli security forces.In his statement, Khamenei called on the people of Muslim countries to defeat Israel."With an intense and planned struggle they should force the enemy to retreat toward the point of demise," he said.(Reporting By Babak Dehghanpisheh; Editing by Gareth Jones)
BEIJING   Meituan Dianping, China\'s largest provider of on-demand online services, is buying bike-sharing firm Mobike for $2.7 billion, in a deal that will intensify the rivalry of their common backer Tencent Holdings with Alibaba Group.Meituan announced the deal on Wednesday but did not disclose the value of the deal. Two sources told Reuters the equity value of the deal was $2.7 billion.The deal consolidates the resources of the two firms, which are backed by Chinese gaming and social media giant Tencent, as Mobike faces off against Alibaba-backed Ofo, which also counts ride-hailing firm Didi Chuxing as a major investor.The two bicycle-sharing companies have raised hundreds of millions of dollars from investors but have waged a costly war of subsidies in a bid to win the Chinese and overseas markets."(We) need to be more soberly aware that the competition Mobike is facing is becoming increasingly fierce," said Mobike executives in a letter to employees shared with the media on Wednesday.Mobike in June raise $600 million in a round led by Tencent and expanded into Singapore, the United States and the United Kingdom, among other markets.Ofo this month said it raised $866 million in a new funding round led by Alibaba. Both Mobike and Ofo say they have roughly 200 million users each globally.As part of the acquisition, Meituan and Mobike will share technology, operations, marketing and customer service resources, Meituan said. Mobike, which counts over 30 million rides a day, will maintain its brand following the deal and keep its current management team, Meituan said.The consolidation will help Meituan sharpen its offerings in the on-demand sector. Alibaba-backed services are also integrating aspects of their payments and apps to create linked services that provide ticketing, bike-sharing, ride-hailing and food delivery.Earlier this week, Alibaba said it would assume full control of Chinese food delivery platform Ele.me, a rival to Meituan.And Alibaba-backed Didi has begun integrating Ofo\'s service into its own platform, and is also launching its own branded sharing bicycles.(Reporting by Cate Cadell in BEIJING, Julie Zhu and Kane Wu in HONG KONG; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman)
DAKAR, Senegal  A former military commander and coup leader who later went to graduate school in the United States and Britain was declared the winner of Sierra Leones presidential runoff on Wednesday after a campaign season marred by reports of violence and irregularities.The winner, Julius Maada Bio, was immediately sworn in as the countrys president on Wednesday night. The countrys chief justice, Abdulai Charm, said the inauguration needed to be held quickly to avoid a power vacuum and was in compliance with the countrys Constitution.Candidates from 16 parties ran for president, but in the first round of voting last month, no one won the 55 percent required to avoid a second round.Mr. Bio, 53, from the Sierra Leone Peoples Party, received 51.8 percent of the vote in the runoff on Saturday, narrowly defeating Samura Kamara from the governing party, the All Peoples Congress, who won 48.2 percent, according to the Electoral Commission.Mr. Bio succeeds President Ernest Bai Koroma, who is stepping down after serving a second five-year term. His tenure was punctuated by tragedy, including an outbreak of the Ebola virus and a deadly mudslide, in a country that is still recovering from a civil war that ended in 2002 after the deaths of more than 50,000 people.In recent days, the candidates exchanged accusations of tribalism and even charges of attempts at ethnic cleansing. Sierra Leone, a former British colony with a population of nearly seven million, has long been divided along tribal and regional lines.Several episodes of violence were reported at political rallies this year, and at least one death and several injuries were recorded. A gunshot was heard close to Mr. Bios home after polls were closed on Saturday. For a time, internet service was suspended, as well as international phone service.Andrew Lavali, the executive director of the Institute for Governance Reform, an independent research group in Sierra Leone, said the presence of heavily armed soldiers in the capital, Freetown, and elsewhere, created an atmosphere of fear and intimidation for many voters.The military presence was even higher than what the country had during the 1996 elections, when the country was still at war, Mr. Lavali said.In addition, Patrick Jaiah Kamara, a reporter for the newspaper Concord Times, complained that he and two fellow journalists were beaten and had their cameras destroyed by members of the governing party. Police officers and soldiers stood by and did not stop the attack, he said.My face still swollen from the beating I received and my camera was completely destroyed, Mr. Kamara said.The Electoral Commission had postponed the runoff after a High Court judge found irregularities in the first round of voting. And even after the runoff was held on Saturday, the outcome was delayed because of disagreements over how to count the votes.Sierra Leone has abundant natural wealth, including diamonds, bauxite and iron ore, but the country is one of the worlds poorest, with high rates of maternal and infant mortality. Many adults make a living from activities like selling clothes along the road, pushing loads in wheelbarrows for hire and driving motorbike taxis.Education and improved health care are needed to get the nation back on its feet. And corruption is a major challenge, according to Prof. Ibrahim Abdullah, a former professor of history and African studies at Fourah Bay College at the University of Sierra Leone.Mr. Bio was born in the southern district of Bonthe. He joined the armed forces in 1985, and in 1987 he graduated as a second lieutenant from the countrys military academy. Three years later, Mr. Bio was part of a group of soldiers sent to Liberia as part of a contingent of Sierra Leones peacekeeping force.A year later Mr. Bio and other members of the armed forces were deployed back to the south of Sierra Leone to clamp down on an insurgency by the Revolutionary United Front, which opposed the government of President Joseph Saidu Momoh.In 1992, Mr. Bio and six other soldiers staged a coup in which they overthrew Mr. Momoh. Mr. Bio was made deputy head of state until January 1996, when he led another coup and toppled his boss, Valentine Strasser, who was made president after the 1992 coup.Mr. Bio ruled the country for just three months and handed power over to a civilian government after elections in 1996. He resigned from the armed forces and emigrated to the United States where he lived and studied for about a decade. He later earned a masters degree in international affairs from American University in Washington.Mr. Bio returned to Sierra Leone in 2008 and established a cocoa and coffee farming company. In 2012 he led the Sierra Leone Peoples Party as its presidential candidate, but he lost to Mr. Koroma.He is also a senior research fellow at the University of Bradford in England, where he is pursuing a Ph.D. in Peace Studies.Mr. Bios victory in Sierra Leone resembles, in some ways, that of Muhammadu Buhari, Nigerias president since 2015, according to Mr. Lavali. Mr. Buhari was a former military commander who led his country after a coup there.Mr. Lavali said that military officers, including those involved in past coups, were now taking part in democratic politics and competing in elections. He called that development a transformative step for countries like Sierra Leone that have been torn by conflict.It shows a transition from a country where people used guns to acquire power to a level where the ballot is used to secure the mandate of the people, Mr. Lavali said.
UNITED NATIONS   Morocco was considering "all options" if the United Nations does not address its accusations that the Polisario independence movement is threatening a 1991 ceasefire in the Western Sahara conflict, the foreign minister said on Wednesday.Morocco claimed Western Sahara after colonial Spain left, but Polisario fought a guerrilla war for independence for the Sahrawi people until a U.N.-backed ceasefire, monitored by U.N. peacekeepers. The U.N. Security Council is due to renew the annual mandate for the peacekeeping mission later this month.The region has effectively been split by an earthen wall separating an area controlled by Morocco that it claims as its southern provinces, and territory controlled by the Polisario with a U.N.-mandated buffer zone between them.Morocco\'s Foreign Minister Nasser Bourita met with U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Wednesday to complain that the Polisario forces had entered the buffer zone and were building structures.Bourita said he provided evidence to Guterres. He told reporters afterwards that "the U.N. should react to any threat to the ceasefire" and "today there is a real and very serious threat to that ceasefire.""Morocco is saying very clearly that all the options are under consideration," Bourita said. "If the U.N., if the international community, don\'t take their responsibilities, Morocco will take its own responsibility."In a letter to the U.N. Security Council on Monday, the Polisario rejected the "utterly unfounded and false allegations" made by Morocco.U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said on Monday that U.N. peacekeepers "have not observed any movement of military elements in the northeast territory" and that they are monitoring the situation closely.U.N. talks have long failed to broker an agreement on how to decide on self-determination. Morocco wants an autonomy plan under Moroccan sovereignty. Polisario wants a U.N.-backed referendum including on the question of independence.Tensions increased in Western Sahara in 2016 when Moroccan forces faced off with a brigade of Polisario forces in the remote Guerguerat area near the Mauritania border. Both sides withdrew their forces last year.Relations between Morocco and the U.N. hit a low in 2016 after then-U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon used the word "occupation" to describe Morocco\'s annexation of Western Sahara. Morocco expelled dozens of U.N. staff working for the mission there known as MINURSO.(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; editing by Grant McCool)
ALGIERS, Algeria   A former Algerian prime minister says a leadership vacuum and uncertainty over whether the North African nation\'s ailing president will seek a fifth term has created a political impasse a year before the next election.Ali Benflis, who has sought Algeria\'s presidency twice before, is part of an opposition that wants firm democratic guarantees if President Abdelaziz Bouteflika decides to run again after 19 years in office.But like other potential candidates, the former prime minister so far has refused to commit to running. The electoral situation is so opaque in Algeria, a Muslim country that is a Western ally in the war on extremism, they don\'t know who their main rival would be, making it hard to plot a win."Our country is in a multidimensional crisis, but (it\'s) essentially political since there is a vacuum at the top of the state hierarchy," Benflis, a former ally of the president\'s, said in an interview with The Associated Press. "There no longer is legitimacy."First elected in 1999, Bouteflika is Algeria\'s longest serving leader since the former French colony won independence in 1962. The 81-year-old president, who rarely has been seen in public since he was partially paralyzed by a stroke five years ago, has not said if he plans to run in the May 2019 election or designated a favored successor.A constitutional change in 2008 removed term limits and opened the way for him to become president for life. A 2016 amendment reversed the move, limiting presidents to two terms. Since the two-term limit was not applied retroactively, Bouteflika can seek re-election one more time.Another unknown is who is running Algeria right now: Bouteflika, his brother Said Bouteflika or the powerbrokers that long have been an essential component of the country\'s obscure governing structure. Also unclear is what role, if any, a coterie of army generals that in the past chose the winning presidential candidates from their own ranks might play going forward.Benflis, 73, an influential lawyer and justice minister in a previous government, was Bouteflika\'s campaign director in 1999 and was named prime minister in 2000. Then something broke. He quit as prime minister in 2003 and unsuccessfully challenged the man he once supported in 2004 and again in 2014  like others crying fraud at election results. He formed his own party in 2015, Talaie El Houriat, Arabic for Vanguard of Freedoms.The lack of clarity over Bouteflika\'s plans has so paralyzed politics that no one has declared an intention to run for president. While some have proposed uniting by a single opposition candidate as a way forward, Benflis thinks that strategy would fail."That would be the reappointment of the same system," said Benflis. "The presidential election will resolve nothing."Tackling Algeria\'s political, economic and social crises with structural reforms that create a climate attractive to investment, "that\'s the priority for us, and not the presidential election," Benflis said.While rich in natural gas and oil, Algeria\'s economy has been hard-hit by the global drop in oil prices, forcing limits on government subsidies to the population that helped maintain calm when the Arab Spring was triggered in neighboring Tunisia.Another priority, he said, is ensuring that elections are organized by a "truly independent and autonomous commission.""The current commission called \'high\' and \'independent\' is neither high nor independent. It\'s an appendage of power and the Interior Ministry," Benflis said of the electoral commission whose members, judges and politicians, are designated by the president.He also called for a "political pact" between authorities and politicians of all stripes to support a democratic transition that could be overseen by the army  the "backbone of the Algerian state."Members of Bouteflika\'s entourage refuse to discuss Benflis and accuse him of betraying the president.Democratic institutions and regularly scheduled elections show that "Algeria has definitively turned the page on transitions" of power under Bouteflika and that the Algerian army has "no political role to play," Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia recently said.Last fall, Ouyahia was among two officials who said the president had decided to seek another mandate. However, Bouteflika muddied the waters in a message on March 19, the Victory Day that marks the end of Algeria\'s seven-year war for independence, saying the country "needs political diversity ... and competition for power."Like others, Benflis cannot read between the lines of the president\'s message, saying only that if the ailing president seeks a fifth term, "it will be a leap into the unknown."
BEIRUT   A top Syrian Kurdish politician suggested on Wednesday that the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the Iraqi government could mount joint operations against Islamic State in the area on the border of the two countries.Aldar Xelil warned of a jihadist revival in eastern Syria, where operations by the U.S.-backed SDF have tapered off since they diverted fighters to the northwest to fight a Turkish offensive."Iraq is a neighboring state and is also suffering from Daesh terrorism," he said in a telephone interview with Reuters, using the Arabic acronym for Islamic State."Daesh is present in the shared area between us, and this points to the possibility of conditions arising that would pave the way for joint actions against Daesh," he said.Xelil is co-chair of the Movement for a Democratic Society, a coalition of mainly Syrian Kurdish parties, and an architect of plans for autonomy in northern Syria.The SDF, which the Kurdish YPG militia spearheads, has been the main partner of the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State in Syria, helping drive the jihadists out of swathes of northern and eastern Syria last year.But its operations against Islamic State have been sidetracked since Turkey, backed by allied Syrian insurgents, mounted an invasion in northwestern Syria targeting the YPG-controlled Afrin region of the northwest.The SDF sent fighters to Afrin from other areas, and the     U.S.-led coalition has said this resulted in limited offensive operations against Islamic State.Turkey views the YPG militia as a terrorist group and a threat to its national security. Turkey and its Syrian militia allies captured Afrin town last month, leading the YPG to declare a new phase of guerrilla war in the northwest.Xelil said the shift in tactics away from direct confrontation meant fewer fighters were needed in the northwest."The number has reduced a lot," he said. "The surplus number will head to the other areas to strengthen the defence of these areas," against Islamic State and "any other threat"."After Afrin, Daesh has revived and has started to expand in the region, and has benefited a lot from the vacuum," Xelil said. "This is a danger we are thinking about, and we are tying to fine the appropriate means to take measures against the expansion of Daesh," he said.President Donald Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting on Tuesday to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.(Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
MOSCOW   Russia\'s World Cup chief says international security cooperation for the tournament won\'t be disrupted by the tense relations with other countries following the poisoning of a former spy.More than two dozen Western allies have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats amid the fallout from the attack on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in England last month."So far we\'ve seen no impact," Alexei Sorokin, the CEO of Russia\'s World Cup organizing committee, told The Associated Press. "There will be law enforcement cooperation on an international level ... it\'s not affected by any changes in the political situation. It\'s a very specific set of actions and measures."Russian and foreign security forces are expected to exchange information on possible threats to the tournament ranging from terrorism to hooligans. That includes "a separate headquarters where police forces from different countries will cooperate on the same premises" to track potential troublemakers, Sorokin said.Countries including Britain and Australia have advised their citizens to be cautious when visiting Russia due to the political tensions, but Sorokin said fans had nothing to worry about. "I see no particular logical reasons for these warnings," he said. "This is Moscow, St. Petersburg, other cities, they are no safer, no (more) dangerous than other major European cities."World Cup organizers do not believe the political tensions have affected ticket sales, he added."This is a clear indication that there is interest and the political situation ... has little or no effect on that," he said.Monkey chants aimed at black players during last week\'s friendly between Russia and France have attracted extra attention to the problem of racism in Russian football.Sorokin rejected criticism that Russian stewards should have done more to stop the chants during the game."I think stewards are receiving enough training. There are multiple hours of training and appropriate examinations," he said. "They are of course aware of the possibility of such a situation. However, if such incidents happen very quickly and they don\'t have time to respond, then it\'s hard to really prosecute that on the spot."Sorokin suggested the chants at the game in St. Petersburg were "a provocation" and the work of individual troublemakers."It\'s not depicting the mood of the society," he added.Sorokin pointed to the Russian Premier League, which has not seen any clubs charged with racism during its games this season. However, Zenit St. Petersburg has faced two UEFA charges from Europa League games, one regarding chants mocking a black Leipzig player, and one involving a banner honoring convicted war criminal Ratko Mladic.
WASHINGTON   The United States plans to sanction Russian oligarchs this week under a law targeting Moscow for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, in what could be the most aggressive move so far against Russia\'s business elite.The action, which could affect people close to President Vladimir Putin, reflects Washington\'s desire to hold Russia to account for allegedly interfering in the election - which Moscow denies - even as U.S. President Donald Trump holds out hope for good relations with Putin.Trump has faced fierce criticism for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling and other actions, and Special Counsel Robert Mueller is probing whether his campaign colluded with the Russians, an allegation the president denies.The sanctions, which two sources said would be announced as early as Thursday, would follow the March 15 U.S. decision to sanction 19 people and five entities, including Russian intelligence services, for cyber attacks stretching back at least two years.While the steps were the most significant taken against Moscow since Trump took office in January 2017, his decision at the time not to target oligarchs and government officials close to Putin drew criticism from U.S. lawmakers in both parties.This week\'s actions will include sanctions against Russian oligarchs, including some with ties to Putin as well as to the Russian government, according to two U.S. officials briefed on the deliberations.Four sources said the sanctions would be imposed under the Countering America\'s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, also known as CAATSA, which was passed by Republicans and Democrats seeking to punish Russia for its 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, involvement in the Syrian civil war and meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.U.S.-Russian ties have worsened with allegations, which Moscow denies, that Russia was responsible for a March 4 nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain. On March 26, the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.The White House and Treasury declined comment on whether they planned to impose sanctions this week. When asked about the issue, a senior U.S. official said:"The administration is committed to implementing the CAATSA law as we have said many times. We published an oligarch designation recently and the secretary of the Treasury said further action would be taken. But at this time we dont have anything specific to announce."Complying with the law, the Trump administration on Jan. 30 published a list of the heads of Russian state-owned companies and "oligarchs," including such prominent figures as Alexei Miller, the chief executive of Gazprom, and Igor Sechin, the chief executive of Rosneft.(Additional reporting by Steve Holland, Arshad Mohammed, Lesley Wroughton, Patricia Zengerle and Phil Stewart; Writing By Arshad Mohammed; Editing by Mary Milliken, Alistair Bell and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON   Facebook isn\'t just a company. It\'s a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It\'s tricky and it\'s going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we\'re going to keep the wild, wild West  I don\'t think it\'s sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook\'s reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia\'s use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital\'s pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it\'s questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress\' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that\'s not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama\'s final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook\'s vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team\'s newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he\'s open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he\'d get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he\'s encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November\'s elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook\'s biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission\'s charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who\'s written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government\'s antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook\'s largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg\'s net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook\'s market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
BERLIN   Over 50 top Artificial Intelligence researchers on Wednesday announced a boycott of KAIST, South Korea\'s top university, after it opened what they called an AI weapons lab with one of South Korea\'s largest companies.The researchers, based in 30 countries, said they would refrain from visiting KAIST, hosting visitors from the university, or cooperating with its research programs until it pledged to refrain from developing AI weapons without "meaningful human control".KAIST, which opened the center in February with Hanwha Systems, one of two South Korean makers of cluster munitions, responded within hours, saying it had "no intention to engage in development of lethal autonomous weapons systems and killer robots."University President Sung-Chul Shin said the university was "significantly aware" of ethical concerns regarding Artificial Intelligence, adding, "I reaffirm once again that KAIST will not conduct any research activities counter to human dignity including autonomous weapons lacking meaningful human control."The university said the new Research Centre for the Convergence of National Defence and Artificial Intelligence would focus on using AI for command and control systems, navigation for large unmanned undersea vehicles, smart aircraft training and tracking and recognition of objects.Toby Walsh, the professor at the University of New South Wales in Sydney who organized the boycott, said the university\'s quick response was a success, but he needed to speak with all those who signed the letter before calling off the boycott."KAIST has made two significant concessions: not to develop autonomous weapons and to ensure meaningful human control," he said, adding that the university\'s response would add weight to U.N. discussions taking place next week on the overall issue.Walsh said it remained unclear how one could establish meaningful human control of an unmanned submarine - one of the launch projects - when it was under the sea and unable to communicate.In an open letter announcing the boycott, the researchers had warned: "If developed, autonomous weapons will ... permit war to be fought faster and at a scale great than ever before. They will have the potential to be weapons of terror."They cited effective bans on previous arms technologies and urged KAIST ban any work on lethal autonomous weapons, and to refrain from AI uses that would harm human lives.AI is the field in computer science that aims to create machines able to perceive the environment and make decisions.The letter, also signed by top experts on deep learning and robotics, was released ahead of next Monday\'s meeting in Geneva by 123 U.N. member countries on the challenges posed by lethal autonomous weapons, which critics describe as "killer robots".Walsh told Reuters there were many potential good uses of robotics and Artificial Intelligence in the military, including removing humans from dangerous task such as clearing minefields."But we should not hand over the decision of who lives or dies to a machine. This crosses a clearmoral line," he said. "We shouldnot let robots decide who lives and who dies."(Reporting by Andrea Shalal; Editing by Alison Williams and Diane Craft)

UNITED NATIONS   U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley warned Wednesday that the U.N.\'s failure to hold Syria accountable for its use of chemical weapons because of Russia\'s opposition has made the world "a far more dangerous place."She told the Security Council that its lack of action on Syria has led others to take notice, pointing to the use of nerve agents against North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s half-brother in Malaysia and the poisoning of a former spy and his daughter in England."This reveals a dangerous trend," she said, urging a renewed commitment by the Security Council to end the use of chemical weapons in Syria and elsewhere in the world.The council met on the first anniversary of a chemical attack using sarin nerve gas on the Syrian rebel-held town of Khan Sheikhoun that killed about 100 people.In a joint statement marking Wednesday\'s anniversary, the U.S., Britain, France and Germany criticized Russia for vetoing the extension of the expert body from the U.N. and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons that blamed the Syrian government for four chemical weapons attacks including Khan Sheikhoun.The four countries condemned the use of chemical weapons anywhere and vowed to ensure that those responsible are held accountable.Haley brought Syrian Dr. Mamoun Morad to the council meeting, saying he was one of the only doctors on duty in Khan Sheikhoun on April 4, 2017.She quoted his words on the attack: "It was like Judgment Day, the Apocalypse. You just can\'t even describe the scene, can\'t even begin to scratch the surface of explaining what happened. We didn\'t have any protective equipment for gas."Haley called the doctor, who treated victims of many other attacks in Khan Sheikhoun as well, "a hero."She accused President Bashar Assad\'s regime of still using chemical weapons "practically every other week," including "credible reports of chlorine gas attacks" in the Damascus suburbs of eastern Ghouta which the government seized recently.Russia\'s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia urged the council to accept Moscow\'s proposal for a replacement for the U.N.-OPCW expert body to assess responsibility for Syria chemical attacks. But the U.S., Britain, France and others oppose it because it would require Security Council approval of the experts\' determination, effectively giving Russia veto power over its decisions.Nebenzia said Russia condemns any use of chemical weapons, "however real ones, not imagined ones.""At the same time as some are running after phantoms of chemical weapons in Damascus, in the region dangerous chemical weapons terrorism potential continues to be masked," he warned without elaborating.Nebenzia then called for an open Security Council meeting Thursday afternoon on the poisoning of the ex-spy and his daughter in the English town of Salisbury. He said Russia was guided in seeking the meeting by the principle it shares that any chemical weapons use "is not acceptable and must be investigated and perpetrators punished, and that impunity is unacceptable."Britain\'s U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce had earlier told the council "there should be no more victims of chemical weapons attacks, whether they take place in the war zone of Syria or in an English country town."She accused Russia of calling a meeting of the OPCW on the Salisbury attack in The Hague, Netherlands, on Wednesday "to pre-empt the findings of the OPCW investigation" of the nerve agent used on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter. She noted that a Foreign Ministry official in Moscow has already rejected the idea that Russia would accept the OPCW\'s conclusions.Pierce also criticized Syria for failing to answer 21 serious issues about "gaps, inconsistencies, and discrepancies" in its chemical weapons declaration to the OPCW.Thomas Markham, the U.N.\'s deputy disarmament chief, told the council that discussions between the OPCW and the Syrian government haven\'t resolved any of these issues."Resolving these outstanding issues will permit shared confidence in Syria\'s declaration, within the international community," he said.

WASHINGTON  President Trump has instructed his military commanders to quickly wrap up the American military operation in Syria so that he can bring troops home within a few months, senior administration officials said on Wednesday. He dropped his insistence on an immediate withdrawal, they said, after commanders told him they needed time to complete their mission.The presidents decision to keep the 2,000 troops on the ground in Syria for the immediate future came in a meeting of the National Security Council in the White House Situation Room on Tuesday, hours after Mr. Trump had told a roomful of reporters that its time to bring American forces home from a conflict that has been a crucial battlefield in the fight against the Islamic State.At the meeting, Mr. Trumps top military advisers told him they had drawn up plans to pull American troops out of Syria immediately. But they also presented a plan for the forces to stay longer to clean out the residual pockets of Islamic State fighters and to train local forces to stabilize the liberated territory so that the group could not regain a foothold.How long do you need to do that? the frustrated president asked Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford, according to an official present for the exchange.They responded that it was difficult to predict a precise timetable, but that it would not take years. As long as the operation lasted months rather than years, Mr. Trump replied, I can support that.After that, discussion in the Situation Room turned to issuing a statement that would reassure Syrian Arab allies that the United States would not cut and run, and would reinforce Mr. Trumps message that Persian Gulf states needed to do more to contribute to the stabilization and reconstruction of liberated areas.The military mission to eradicate ISIS in Syria is coming to a rapid end, with ISIS being almost completely destroyed, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in the statement issued on Wednesday. The United States and our partners remain committed to eliminating the small ISIS presence in Syria that our forces have not already eradicated.It was the latest instance of the president making an unscripted remark with far-reaching implications that prompted a behind-the-scenes scramble by his advisers to translate blunt talk into a workable policy. White House and administration officials also spent Monday and Tuesday trying to translate a series of confusing presidential tweets and comments on immigration into a coherent strategy, including a new legislative push and the deployment of the National Guard to the southern border.The statement on Syria was issued one day after Mr. Trump made plain his eagerness to pull American troops out, arguing that the United States had essentially already won the battle against the Islamic State and saying that sometimes its time to come back home.I want to get out  I want to bring our troops back home, Mr. Trump said on Tuesday during a news conference with leaders of the Baltic nations. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.The White House insisted on Wednesday that the president had not walked back his position on bringing troops home from Syria, nor was he calling for a hasty withdrawal.As the presidents maintained since the beginning, hes not going to put an arbitrary timeline, Ms. Sanders told reporters. He is measuring it in actually winning the battle  not just putting some random number out there, but making sure we actually win, which weve been doing.She said the ultimate decision on when to bring United States forces home will be made by the Department of Defense and the secretary of defense, which the president has given authority to do that. But it remains unclear how long Mr. Trump will be willing to wait for that determination.The president surprised even his own advisers last week when he first said publicly that the United States would soon remove troops from Syria.Mr. Trump was in Ohio delivering remarks on trade policy when he veered off topic and said, Were knocking the hell out of ISIS, and added: Well be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.The next day, Mr. Trump directed the State Department to halt financial recovery assistance for Syria while his administration reconsidered its policy.By Tuesday, he said he was consulting with allies and would soon be ready to announce a new policy. The White House said the president spoke on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia and discussed joint efforts to ensure the enduring defeat of ISIS and counter Iranian efforts to exploit the Syrian conflict to pursue its destabilizing regional ambitions.At the news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Trump gave a sharper account of the conversation, suggesting that the king had pressed him to maintain the American troop presence in Syria and that he had countered by saying, Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe youre going to have to pay.Trumps decision-making on Syria is head-spinningly indecisive  he talks about withdrawal, but is not withdrawing, said Aaron David Miller, a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars who has advised administrations of both parties on foreign policy.At the same time, Mr. Miller added, hes brought a certain clarity to U.S. policy by making it unmistakably clear that U.S. troops are there to deal with ISIS, not Iran or the Assad regime, and indicated that the mission  though not accomplished  wont last forever.But while Mr. Trump has expressed enthusiasm for battling ISIS, he is in a sense reverting to the America First posture he pressed as a candidate, hoping to separate the United States from foreign involvement and military adventures abroad.Pentagon officials arguing against a sudden pullout pointed to the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq after former President Barack Obama withdrew troops from the country as a precedent that they said laid the groundwork for the militant organization to flourish there. And they said that the sacrifices made by the American military in Syria could be washed away if troops left precipitously.A lot of very good military progress was made over the last couple years, Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the head of Central Command, said during a conference in Washington on Tuesday.But again, the hard part I think is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes, addressing the long-term issues of reconstruction and other things that will have to be done, General Votel said.Col. Ryan Dillon, the spokesman for the American-led coalition in Iraq and Syria, said that the Islamic State still held territory in the mid-Euphrates River Valley, and noted that defeating the remaining militants had proved difficult since offensive operations had all but ceased in the area.The slow pace of the campaign stems from losing Syrian Kurds  the American militarys key ally in the fight against the Islamic State  to a new fight against Turkish troops in the northwestern corner of the country.Operations are not happening at the pace it was about a month and a half ago, Colonel Dillon said.
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka   Sri Lanka\'s prime minister comfortably overcame a no-faith vote on Wednesday, strengthening his hand within the unity government formed by parties traditionally opposed to each other.The motion against Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe brought by lawmakers supporting the country\'s former strongman Mahinda Rajapaksa and debated in Parliament received 76 votes in favor and 122 against.Twenty-six lawmakers were absent during the vote and the speaker doesn\'t usually vote.The parties within the unity government are led by Wickremesinghe and President Maithripala Sirisena.The vote is unlikely to resolve intra-government tensions after some Cabinet ministers representing Sirisena\'s party voted for Wickremesinghe\'s ouster.Cabinet spokesman Rajith Senaratne told reporters after the vote that members would not allow some 15 lawmakers  some of them Cabinet ministers who voted for Wickremesinghe\'s ouster  to continue in the government.The main allegation against Wickremesinghe involved his appointment of a Singaporean as the central bank governor who is now accused of leaking inside information to benefit his son-in-law in a treasury bond sale.Sri Lankan police have sought Interpol assistance to arrest Arjun Mahendran, the former bank governor. His son-in-law and another official are already under arrest.According to a presidential commission\'s findings, Mahendran\'s son-in-law allegedly made profits of $72 million from the dealings while the state lost about $55 million.A victory for the no-faith motion would have boosted Rajapaksa\'s push to recapture power.Opposition lawmaker Dinesh Gunawardena opened the debate on the motion, saying Wickremesinghe was responsible for the scam because he appointed a foreigner to head a sensitive institution such as the central bank, and that its impact has been felt in the country\'s economy, with low investor confidence.Government Minister Lakshman Kiriella defended Wickremesinghe, saying two inquiries into the bond scam  one by a parliamentary committee and the other by the presidential commission  found no fault with the prime minister.Minority leader Rajavarothayam Sampanthan, who heads the largest ethnic Tamil party in Parliament, said his party would oppose the motion because it wants the president and the prime minister to implement their pledge to draft a new constitution protecting the political rights of minority Tamils after a protracted civil war that ended in 2009.He said Rajapaksa\'s supporters don\'t want the government\'s pledge implemented."They want to first defeat the prime minister. The next target will be the president; they want the government brought down," Sampanthan said.Rajapaksa was defeated in the 2015 presidential election after Sirisena, who was his health minister, defected and joined Wickremesinghe in an election alliance.After being elected president as a neutral candidate, Sirisena accepted an offer from Rajapaksa to take over his Sri Lanka Freedom Party. Since then, party rivalries have been simmering within the government.Rajapaksa is now leading a splinter Freedom Party group Parliament.
RIYADH/DUBAI   An attack on a Saudi tanker by Yemen\'s Houthis will not hit oil supplies, Saudi Arabia\'s energy minister said on Wednesday, after the Iran-allied group said it had targeted a warship in response to an air strike that killed civilians.The Western-backed, Saudi-led coalition which includes other Sunni Muslim states says the Houthis attacked the oil tanker off Yemen\'s main port of Hodeidah on Tuesday.The Houthis, however, say they targeted a coalition warship in response to an air strike on Hodeidah on Monday that killed at least a dozen civilians, including seven children."The terrorist attack ... will not affect economic activity or stall oil supplies," Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on Twitter.Saudi oil industry sources told Reuters that oil operations and shipments were proceeding as normal and that security around facilities inside the kingdom had not been raised further."It was a minor attack. There was no impact, but the question is will it continue?" one of the sources said.The European Union\'s naval force said the oil tanker was the vessel Abqaiq. Shipping data showed it was Saudi-flagged, carrying more than 2 million barrels of crude oil and destined for Ain Sukhna in Egypt.The tanker, whose owner Saudi shipping group Bahri did not immediately respond to a request for comment, was in international waters when it came under attack at around 1330 local time (1030 GMT), the coalition has said.Spokesman Colonel Turki al-Malki told reporters on Wednesday the coalition had responded to the attack by bombing a facility for making and storing bomb-laden boats and coastal defense missiles.He said a weekend fire at Hodeidah port was sparked by another missile that misfired when the Houthis tried to launch it at a coalition ship. The blaze, which destroyed aid supplies, was blamed by port workers on an electrical short circuit.Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) intervened against the Houthis in Yemen\'s war in 2015 to restore the internationally recognized government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi.The Houthis, who control most of northern Yemen, have launched missiles at Saudi Arabia, including the capital Riyadh, in the past few days. Saudi authorities said they had intercepted the missiles, although debris had killed one person.In April 2017, Saudi forces said they had foiled an attempt to blow up an Aramco fuel terminal in southern Saudi Arabia using a high-speed boat laden with explosives, alleging the Houthis were behind the attempt.The Saudi-led alliance has conducted thousands of air strikes targeting the Houthis, often hitting civilian areas, although it denies doing so intentionally.Saudi Arabia accuses Iran of supplying missiles to the Houthis, who have taken over the capital Sanaa and other parts of Yemen. Tehran and the Houthis deny the allegation.(Additional reporting by Jonathan Saul in London, writing by Maha El Dahan; Editing by Catherine Evans)
ANKARA   Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday he hoped a planned meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog would help to defuse a major diplomatic row triggered by the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England.Britain has blamed Russia for the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia with a military-grade nerve agent in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Moscow denies any involvement and has accused London of whipping up anti-Russian hysteria in the West.The Skripal case has plunged East-West relations into their worst crisis since the Cold War, with Britain and its allies expelling around 130 Russian diplomats and Moscow responding with its own expulsions.At Moscow\'s request, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) will hold a special session on Wednesday in the Hague on the Salisbury poisoning."We have raised 20 questions for discussion (at the meeting). I hope that during this discussion a final line on what has happened will be drawn," Putin told a news conference during a visit to the Turkish capital Ankara.Moscow has said it wants to take part in the official British investigation into the poisoning."We are interested in a full-fledged investigation. We want to be allowed into this investigation and we count on receiving relevant materials as the issue involves citizens of the Russian Federation," Putin said.The OPCW\'s executive council which will meet on Wednesday has 41 members, including Russia and Britain. Any decisions must be approved by two thirds of members, which is generally difficult to achieve.Diplomats say Russia will repeat its wish to be involved in the testing of the Salisbury samples and that it will otherwise not accept the outcome of testing done by the OPCW laboratories.NOVICHOKEarlier on Tuesday, the head of Britain\'s military research centre said it had so far been unable to tell whether the nerve agent, identified as Novichok, had been produced in Russia."I want to add that according to international experts\' data there are around 20 countries capable of producing such neuro-paralytic substances," Putin said.British counter-terrorism police say they believe Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter were poisoned with Novichok - an agent first developed by the Soviet military - that had been left on the front door of their home in Salisbury.Putin, who won another six-year term in a presidential election last month, said he had learnt about the poisoning via the media and had been surprised by the pace of what he called an anti-Russian campaign unleashed by Britain.Putin\'s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, told reporters in Ankara that Britain\'s version of who was responsible for the poisoning "will not be confirmed anyway because it is impossible to confirm it"."Indeed this is a long story, the insanity has gone too far," Peskov added.(Reporting by Denis Pinchuk in Ankara; Additional reporting by Anthony Deutch in Amsterdam; Writing by Andrey Ostroukh; Editing by Gareth Jones)

MATAS ROMERO, Mexico  With a sarcastic half-smile, Nikolle Contreras, 27, surveyed her fellow members of the Central American caravan, which President Trump has called dangerous and has used as a justification to send troops to the border.More than 1,000 people, mostly women and children, waited patiently on Wednesday in the shade of trees and makeshift shelters in a rundown sports complex in this Mexican town, about 600 miles south of the border. They were tired, having slept and eaten poorly for more than a week. All were facing an uncertain future.Imagine that! said Ms. Contreras, a Honduran factory worker hoping to apply for asylum in the United States. So many problems he has to solve and he gets involved with this caravan!The migrants, most of them Hondurans, left the southern Mexican border city of Tapachula on March 25 and for days traveled north en masse  by foot, hitchhiking and on the tops of trains  as they fled violence and poverty in their homelands and sought a better life elsewhere.This sort of collective migration has become something of an annual event around Easter week, and a way for advocates to draw more attention to the plight of migrants.But this particular caravan caught the attention of Mr. Trump, apparently after he heard about it on Fox News. In a Twitter tirade that began Sunday, he conjured up hordes of dangerous migrants surging toward the border. He demanded that Mexican officials halt the group, suggesting that otherwise he would make them pay dearly in trade negotiations or aid cuts.Mr. Trump even boasted that his threat had forced Mexicos government to halt and disperse the caravan participants. But there was no evidence of that on Wednesday.Mexican migration authorities were distributing transit permits that would either give the migrants 20 days to leave the country or 30 days to formally apply for legal immigration status in Mexico.Irineo Mujica, Mexico director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, an advocacy group that is coordinating the caravan, called Mr. Trumps Twitter attacks and promise of a militarized border campaign craziness.There are 300 kids and 400 women, he said. Babies with bibs and milk bottles, not armaments. How much of a threat can they be?After making steady progress for a week through southern Mexico, the group has been camped at the sun-blasted sports complex here since Saturday, before Mr. Trump started tweeting about it, surviving on food and water donated by residents in this rural town. They have slept on the ground, or in the bleachers of a soccer stadium, or under the roofs of a few derelict structures on the property.A stream, shrouded by bushes and trees, is the latrine for the group, which once numbered about 1,500 but now hovers around 1,100, organizers said.The caravan population has declined as participants have received travel papers and departed, though many of the hundreds who remain hope to continue moving north in a large group, which they do for safety from criminals.Organizers said they were seeking buses or other transportation to move the migrants to the city of Puebla, about 250 miles away, to attend planned know-your-rights workshops on immigration law in Mexico and the United States.The group, organizers and advocates said, represented a regional humanitarian problem, not a security crisis for the United States, as Mr. Trump has suggested.What hes attacking is a supremely vulnerable population, said Gina Garibo, projects coordinator in Mexico for Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In response to Mr. Trumps tweets and his plans to militarize the border, the Mexican Senate unanimously passed a nonbinding statement on Wednesday urging President Enrique Pea Nieto to suspend cooperation with the United States on immigration and security matters  as long as President Donald Trump does not conduct himself with the civility and respect that the Mexican people deserve.Caravan organizers also said their intent was never to storm the border, especially not with a caravan of this size. While the original plan included the possibility of escorting the caravan to the northern border of Mexico, organizers had expected the group to mostly dissolve by the time it had reached Mexico City.But now the leaders expect to end the caravan at the capital, owing to the unwieldy size of the group, leaving migrants to decide for themselves what action to take from there.Most caravan members interviewed here on Wednesday said their dream was to reach the United States, though some said that if they were unable to enter legally, they might seek legal status in Mexico.Bayron Cardona Castillo, 27, said he had been traveling with his 2-year-old daughter, Glirian Dayani, from their home in Honduras and was hoping to apply for asylum in the United States. But he did not seem clear on the requirements.The truth is, what were looking for is a way to live in peace, in tranquillity, with employment, he said. In my case, all I ask is an opportunity, a chance to work and help my family.Organizers said that once the migrants consult with volunteer lawyers in Puebla, many will conclude their cases are not strong enough to apply for legal protections in the United States and will choose to remain in Mexico.Even without a wall and the United States military, getting into the United States is tough, Mr. Mujica said.Youre like the waves crashing into the border and bouncing back, he said. And you end up working in Mexico.Mexico has increasingly become a destination for migrants from Central America. Last year, about 14,600 applied for asylum, 66 percent more than in 2016 and 11 times as many as five years ago. Many applicants in recent years have been from Honduras.Some of the increase reflects stronger enforcement on Mexicos southern border because of a United States-backed plan to curb illegal northbound migration. Once stopped by the Mexican authorities, many detainees have come to learn they may be eligible for sanctuary in Mexico.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump suggested that pressure he had applied on the Mexican government had stopped the caravan in Matas Romero. But organizers from Pueblo Sin Fronteras said that the caravans momentum had simply slowed, because of its size and many vulnerable participants, especially young children and infants.Mr. Pea Nietos administration also appeared to push back at Mr. Trumps contention that he had coerced them.In a joint statement, the ministries of interior and foreign relations said the caravan was halted by the participants, and not because of any external or internal pressure.Guillermo Baltazar Rivas, 20, from El Salvador, and his two sisters, were among the scores of migrants who were given travel permits on Wednesday. They slipped the documents into their passports for safekeeping.They said they did not know exactly what they would do next  head out on their own or remain with the group. Eventually, though, they hoped to apply for asylum in the United States, where close relatives lived, on the grounds that gangs murdered their brother and threatened the rest of the family with death.With little access to news or social media among the caravan members, word of Mr. Trumps fixation on their northward journey spread via word-of-mouth.He says we are criminals, that we are assassins, that he isnt going to let us enter, that hes going to send the military, Mr. Rivas said. Its very  how do I say it?  its very selfish that he doesnt let us pass.Ms. Contreras said she knew many caravan participants who had plans to make new lives in Mexico City, Puebla and Tijuana. But she, too, had designs on making it to the United States, as did two travel-mates. Asylum was her goal: She had been threatened with death by a drug trafficker after she had spurned his romantic advances and his efforts to recruit her into his criminal business.The common denominator among caravan participants, Ms. Contreras said, was their agonizing decision to migrate.Who wants to leave their country, the comfort of their home, their families? she asked. Its a very difficult thing.
If there was one broad takeaway from the data leak involving Cambridge Analytica, the voter profiling firm that obtained private information from up to 87 million Facebook accounts, its that you should hesitate before sharing your data with an unknown brand.This lesson applies to just about everything that touches your personal technology, including the apps that you download to your phone or computer and the free online services that you use. And, yes, it also includes those seemingly harmless personality tests run by some unfamiliar organization on Facebook  the kind that helped Cambridge Analytica get the data on users.To make matters worse, the information that can be stolen from you is becoming increasingly personal. Smartphones, for one, are embedded with microphones, motion sensors and cameras that can spy on your every move if corrupted by a bad actor. Home gadgets like internet-connected thermostats, power outlets and audio speakers are capable of collecting information about what you are doing at home, including listening to your conversations, and knowing when you are away from home.Its time to stop using technology and the internet as though you were shopping at a supermarket. In a grocery store, you can reasonably assume that the food labels are accurate and the products safe to eat, because the food industry is heavily regulated. The handling of personal digital information, in contrast, is  loosely regulated. There have been scores of obscure companies baiting you with products that purport to improve your life  but actually capitalize on your data.We dont really know why were trusting that a particular company with access to our data wont do something like sell it or rent it or share it without our consent, said Lee Tien, a lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit that focuses on digital rights.Thats not to say the tech behemoths are innocent. The data leak to Cambridge Analytica was ultimately Facebooks fault because its app platform allowed data to be harvested from peoples friends lists in the first place. About five years ago, Google had to pay a $7 million fine after acknowledging that it had scooped up passwords, email and other personal data with its Street View mapping project.Yet I am recommending taking extra caution with obscure tech brands because it is something under your control. You can take a pause. Dont immediately download every app you see in an app store or on the web just because it looks fun. Dont take every quiz you see on Facebook (even if you are dying to know which Game of Thrones character identifies with you). Dont impulse buy internet-connected devices from unfamiliar brands. Dont do any of this without first doing some research on the reputations of these vendors and their business models.Here are some examples of when unknown brands did us wrong  and the lessons we can learn.Last year, The New York Times revealed that Uber bought information about Lyft, its main ride-hailing competitor in the United States, from Unroll.me, a free email service that offered to unsubscribe people from marketing emails.How did Unroll.me get data about Lyft? Unroll.me scanned users inboxes for information and sold it to other businesses, and Uber paid it for data it found about Lyft receipts. Many consumers found it misleading that a company that promised to rid you of spam from marketers made money by selling your information to marketers and other companies.Heres the kicker: The truth was always laid out in the privacy policy, which said that we may collect, use, transfer, sell and disclose nonpersonal information for any purpose and that data could be used to build anonymous market research products and services.In response to the backlash, Unroll.me said it was heartbreaking to see that people were upset and pledged to be more transparent about its use of data. The app continues to operate.The lessons. Whenever you have the time, read privacy policies before opting to share your data with a brand. This is a daunting task but a healthy exercise, especially when you are unfamiliar and feeling distrustful toward an obscure company. And do the best you can to research a companys business model. When a service or product is free, assume that your personal information is being monetized.We all need to know that whenever youre not paying for the thing, then youre paying for the thing in a nonmonetary way, Mr. Tien said.Last year, an app called Soniac was available for Android phones on the Google Play app store. Soniac marketed itself as a messaging app  and indeed, it included features for sending text messages. The less obvious features: The app was also capable of silently recording audio, taking photos with the camera, placing phone calls and downloading call logs among other features.Lookout, a security firm that follows malicious software for Android devices, alerted Google about Soniacs hidden abilities last year, and the app was quickly removed from the Play app store.Yet Lookout said its researchers had identified over 1,000 spyware apps with many of the same characteristics that Soniac had. Many of those spyware apps were served in third-party app stores that are not authorized by Google.The company that offered Soniac, Iraqwebservice, had published other spyware apps on the Play store. All of its apps have been removed from Play, but Lookout warned that the spyware would probably resurface in the future.The lessons. For one, before you install an app from a company youve never heard of, look at its user reviews and do a web search on the company to see if its services are legitimate. You can also check reputable web publications that review apps, like TouchArcade, CNET and Toms Guide.For another, when installing an app, take a close look at what data it is accessing. Smartphone apps will ask for permission for access to certain data and sensors. If an app is asking for data that is unrelated to the product, dont install it. For example, you can reasonably expect a mapping app to ask for your location data, but it shouldnt need access to your camera.If something seems outside of the scope, like if a calculator app tells you it needs to use your webcam, say, What, why? said Adam Kujawa, the head of malware intelligence at Malwarebytes, a security firm.Third, avoid downloading apps from unofficial app stores and sites that are not affiliated with large brands. And keep in mind that alternative app stores are particularly ripe for malware, because just about anything can be distributed there, similar to a flea market.Parents, beware: A number of internet products have specifically collected data about children. EchoMetrix is a notorious example. In 2009, the company issued a news release bragging that it had predicted the winner of that years American Idol singing competition.How did it do that? By looking at childrens private information. The company started in 2004 with the name SearchHelp, offering a parental control app called FamilySafe for parents to monitor their childrens online activities. Five years later, it rebranded itself as EchoMetrix and released Pulse, a tool for providing insight to third-party marketers on youths, by aggregating data from millions of teenagers chat transcripts and blog posts, among other sources.EchoMetrixs practices attracted the attention of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a privacy rights group, which filed a complaint about the company to the Federal Trade Commission. The group accused EchoMetrix of violating the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act by collecting information on minors without parental consent. In 2010, EchoMetrix reached settlements with the commission and the New York attorney generals office in which it agreed not to analyze or share information about childrens private communications or online activities. EchoMetrix has since rebranded itself as Protext Mobility, a biotech company.The lessons. Be judicious when choosing tech products for your children. Increasingly, toys are beginning to include internet connections  before buying a smart toy, do your homework on what the companies are doing with the data. Common Sense Media, a nonprofit that evaluates content and products for families, is a good place to start your research.Perhaps the most important lesson is to acknowledge that you dont know anything about the vast majority of brands you engage with on the internet. So tread carefully.These threats arent going away, Mr. Tien said. With the expansion of data collection and the expansion of whats possible to collect, its just going to continue to proliferate.
NEW YORK   Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.Those developments came as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly  but doesn\'t actually change what it collects and shares.In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world. He said it isn\'t enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Facebook is facing its worst privacy scandal in years following allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated data mining firm, used ill-gotten data from millions of users through an app to try to influence elections.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports. Facebook is basing the estimate in part on the number of friends each user might have had. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it had data for only 30 million people.On Monday all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.Zuckerberg said fixing the company\'s problems will take years.Besides the privacy scandal, Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media\'s effect on people\'s mental well-being.These are "big issues" and a big shift for Facebook as it broadens its responsibility, Zuckerberg said. He added that he does think that by the end of this year the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of the issues. Zuckerberg has made fixing the company his personal challenge for 2018.As part of the steps it\'s taking to address scrutiny about outsiders\' access to user data, Facebook outlined several changes to further tighten its policies. For one, it is restricting access that apps can have to data about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way. Facebook says it believes most of its 2.2 billion users had their public profile information scraped by businesses or various malicious actors through this technique at some point. Posts and other content set to be visible only to friends weren\'t collected.This comes on top of changes announced a few weeks ago. For example, Facebook has said it will remove developers\' access to people\'s data if the person has not used the app in three months.Earlier Wednesday, Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that seeks to clarify its data collection and use.Although Facebook says the policy changes aren\'t prompted by recent events or tighter privacy rules coming from the EU, it\'s an opportune time. Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee . The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.As Facebook evolved from a closed, Harvard-only network with no ads to a giant corporation with $40 billion in advertising revenue and huge subsidiaries like Instagram and WhatsApp, its privacy policy has also shifted  over and over.Almost always, critics say, the changes meant a move away from protecting user privacy toward pushing openness and more sharing. On the other hand, regulatory and user pressure has sometimes led Facebook to pull back on its data collection and use and to explain things in plainer language  in contrast to dense legalese from many other internet companies.The policy changes come a week after Facebook gave its privacy settings a makeover. The company tried to make it easier to navigate its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings, though the makeover didn\'t change what Facebook collects and shares either.Facebook\'s new privacy policy has a new section explaining that it collects people\'s contact information if they choose to "upload, sync or import" this to the service. This may include users\' address books on their phones, as well as their call logs and text histories. The new policy says Facebook may use this data to help "you and others find people you may know."Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting information about whom they texted or called and for how long, though not the actual contents of text messages. It seemed to have been done without explicit consent, though Facebook says it collected such data only from Android users who specifically allowed it to do so  for instance, by agreeing to permissions when installing Facebook.On Wednesday, Facebook said will delete all logs after a year and in the future, the only information this tool will collect from now on is the data that it needs to operate and "not broader data such as the time of calls."The new policy also makes it clear that WhatsApp and Instagram are part of Facebook and that the companies share information about users. WhatsApp will still have a separate policy as well, while Facebook and Instagram share one.___This story has been corrected to reflect that WhatsApp has its own privacy policy, while Facebook and Instagram share the same one.
The 19th-century lives of Chang and Eng Bunker, the original Siamese twins, were all the more extraordinary for how ordinary they became  at least according to what the times, and their conjoined bodies, would allow. Two boys from Siam, sharing an abdominal ligament and a liver, went from the humiliations of showcased servitude all across Andrew Jacksons America to a life of Southern comfort in small-town North Carolina, fathering at least 21 children between them and at one point owning as many as 32 slaves.Regarded as freaks, the twins would always have to fight to be treated as humans, Yunte Huang writes in Inseparable, his new history of the brothers. That they would eventually identify as part of the white oppressor class that dehumanized others is one of many paradoxes explored by Huang  a professor of English and the author of a book about Charlie Chan  in this contemplative yet engrossing volume.Born in 1811 in a Siamese fishing village to an ethnically Chinese family, Chang and Eng turned 18 about a month into a 138-day journey to Boston Harbor. They had been contracted into service by a Scottish businessman and an American captain, who promised the twins mother they would bring her sons back in five years. Chang and Eng would never see Siam or their family again.What followed their arrival was a decade of touring the United States and England as monstrosities to be gawked at by paying crowds. But showbiz was only part of the attraction.As Huang explains, the twins were also served up as scientific specimens to be inspected, poked, tested and, most important of all, verified by esteemed members of the medical establishment. Examining the twins, the Boston doctor John Collins Warren  who publicly staged the first surgical use of anesthesia (like a peep show, Huang wryly notes)  jabbed their connecting band with a pin, recording the central point at which both said it hurt.Chang and Eng became an immediate national sensation, giving Huang a bounty of sources from which to choose when tracing the contours of their story. Modern writers like Mark Slouka and Darin Strauss have written novels based on the twins lives. A popular biography by Irving and Amy Wallace was published in the 1970s; more scholarly monographs have been published since.But its the contemporaneous accounts that give an unvarnished look at the degradation and disparagement the brothers had to endure. A British visitor recalled grabbing their connecting band, only to have one of the twins say (with what one imagines was barely concealed displeasure), Your hand is cold, sir. Philip Hone, the ex-mayor of New York City and an inveterate diarist, recorded his impressions in his journal: Their faces are devoid of intelligence, and have that stupid expression which is characteristic of the natives of the East.As common as such racism was, Chang and Eng happened to arrive in the United States well before the 1849 gold rush, when the number of Chinese living in the country was still negligible, and before Chinese labor was considered a threat to working-class whites. As a result, the official government census didnt even have a category for Asians until 1870 (when a C for Chinese would stand in for all of them). Before that, Huang writes, the Chinese were considered white for census purposes.The brothers, then, may have been subject to the prejudice of individual bigots, but when it came to American law, they were able to use loopholes  their ability to blend in, legally speaking  to their benefit. In 1832, the year they turned 21, they claimed their freedom from the captain and his wife, using the money they had saved up to declare a very American independence, going boating at Niagara Falls and buying a horse named Bob. (Chang and Eng kept meticulous ledgers, and Huang deduces quite a bit from their purchases.) They became citizens in 1839, even though the 1790 Naturalization Act  which wouldnt be repealed until 1952  was supposed to apply to free white persons only.They were even able to marry white women, despite Americans panic at the time over racial mixing. In 1843, having retired from touring a few years before, Chang and Eng married Adelaide and Sarah Yates, two sisters from Wilkes County, a rural corner of North Carolina. The couples settled down just outside Mount Airy, N.C.  later the inspiration for the town of Mayberry in The Andy Griffith Show  to make room for their sizable families.Huang devotes a short chapter titled Foursome to the question of sex. The couples had to deal with considerable physical and logistical challenges. (According to interviews with their widows, Chang and Eng would alternate weeks as the complete master who dictated how he wanted to go about business, with the other brother blanking out.) But the widespread social disapprobation that greeted their arrangement was beyond their control. The most vociferous indictments came from the abolitionist papers in the North, which declared so bestial a union as this yet another sign of how slavery had corrupted the Southern soul.And the twins did seem determined to be identified as Southern gentry. In addition to owning slaves, they supported the Whigs and became ardent supporters of the Confederacy, sending two of their sons to fight in the Civil War.Huang is right to point out the cruel irony in all of this, but when he characterizes his subjects as two brothers formerly sold into indentured servitude and treated no better than slaves, he inadvertently downplays the incomparable brutality of the slaveholding system in order to heighten the contradictions.As Huang shows elsewhere, Chang and Eng were treated better than slaves; if anything, what really rankled them were instances when they compared themselves to white men and felt they werent given the respect they were due  such as their first trans-Atlantic journey, when they were booked in steerage rather than first class. In the excellent 2014 study The Lives of Chang and Eng, Joseph Andrew Orser argues that the twins deliberately made claims to whiteness.But their intentions were one thing and public perception another. They would always be known as the conjoined brothers from Siam, and after the Civil War rendered their slaveholding assets worthless, they went on tour again, this time with their children, to show the world that their union with two women was able to produce normal offspring.Huang writes movingly about the twins painful end in 1874, when Chang, a heavy drinker, died and the teetotaling Eng perished soon after. But its in the epilogue that Huang unveils one of his most surprising turns.When Huang visited Mount Airy, or Mayberry U.S.A., he learned of a Chang and Eng exhibit kept in the basement of the Andy Griffith Museum. In other words, a shrine to an American myth of old-timey homogeneity was literally built on the more convoluted reality. Huang knew that the symbolism was almost too much to bear: As Sheriff Andy says, If you wrote this into a play, nobodyd believe it.
Just because two people live at the same time, and are engaged in two different worlds, and talk to each other 10 times during the course of their lives, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend cautioned David Margolick, does not make a book.But Mr. Margolick is a stubbornly contrarian journalist. So despite Ms. Townsends skepticism, he was game when the filmmaker Lawrence Schiller suggested that this seductive paradigm of two opposites whose legacies not only intersected but were also bound together would, indeed, make a book. As a journalist himself, Mr. Schiller photographed those two contemporaneous figures  the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy, Ms. Townsends father.Mr. Schiller had envisioned a modest 40,000 words to contextualize a lavishly illustrated volume to memorialize the assassinations of King and Kennedy 50 years ago this spring. Mr. Margolick wrote 120,000 words.Which is why the pictures wound up here, Mr. Schiller said during a recent tour of Rebel Spirits at the New-York Historical Society, where some of the images that didnt make it into the book are on display. The exhibition, featuring stark black-and-white photographs of King and Kennedy as well as faded ephemera, reveals the various ways in which the lives of these two influential figures were juxtaposed.The exhibition includes Kings mug shot after his arrest in 1956 during the bus boycott in Montgomery, Ala.; a bronze bust by the Harlem Renaissance artist Charles Alston; one of the iconic I Am a Man placards carried by Memphis sanitation workers marching on the day King was killed; newsmagazine covers; a commemorative Great Americans first issue postage stamp that features both men; and a Kennedy/King button that memorialized them.For his book The Promise and the Dream: The Untold Story of Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy, released this week by RosettaBooks, Mr. Margolick mined long-buried oral histories and interviewed some of that eras venerable survivors. He weaves together newly discovered nuggets and a polished perspective that vitalizes a twin biography of two people who were closer together and farther apart than most readers might remember.It is the perfect complement to the Historical Society exhibition, which traces the circuitous routes that belatedly pointed Kennedy toward the more incendiary goals regarding civil rights, poverty and the Vietnam War that King set first.Mr. Schiller and the shows two other curators, Cristian Panaite and Marilyn Kushner, have assembled a selection of moving photographs of King and Kennedy (including some of Mr. Schillers own). Among the others on display are scenes eternalized by Bob Adelman, Danny Lyon, Henri Dauman, Jacques Lowe, Spider Martin, Steve Schapiro and Paul Schutzer: rapt audiences at campaign rallies and protest marches; speakers and their supporters animated with promise and dreams.The images are jarring. As visitors follow the exhibitions timeline toward 1968, only they  neither the speakers nor their faithful followers in the photographs  are haunted by the certainty that within months or weeks or days of the events depicted, two gut-wrenching murders would inevitably connect King and Kennedy even as their own dreams and promises were dashed.Representative John Lewis, the contemporary of King and Kennedy as a young civil rights leader and now a Democratic congressman from Georgia, delivers a fitting joint epitaph: When these two young men were murdered, something died in all of us, Mr. Lewis says in the book. We were robbed of part of our future.Mr. Schiller and Mr. Margolick, who met covering the O.J. Simpson murder trial in the mid-90s, had already been bound together themselves by a traumatic event that occurred in 1963, when Mr. Schiller was 26 and Mr. Margolick was 11: the assassination of Bobbys brother Jack.After growing up fearing Hitler and Stalin, Mr. Schiller said he was stunned that unspeakable evil could be committed by someone  the 24-year-old Lee Harvey Oswald  younger than himself. Mr. Margolick was imbued with such a mythical reverence for the slain president that no younger brother could possibly match his promise. To a preteen like Mr. Margolick growing up in suburban Connecticut, Kings association with civil rights confrontations that sometimes turned violent provoked misgivings.Mr. Margolick, who in addition to being an author is a former reporter for The New York Times and a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, has made a career of delving into the stories of societys victims. His books include Elizabeth and Hazel: Two Women of Little Rock and Dreadful: The Short Life and Gay Times of John Horne Burns, which challenged his own commitment to defending the rights of minorities.Those books were tests of my own character, he said.The Promise and the Dream was motivated by Mr. Margolicks warts-and-all approach to biography and his personal need to reappraise King and Kennedy and their relationship. They were not only two people who happened to live at the same time. America demanded a myth that immortalized them inseparably.They were indelibly bound together (with Lincoln and John F. Kennedy) by the fourth verse of Dick Hollers bewildering folk-rock song Abraham, Martin and John. Kennedys tribute to King, delivered as he broke the news to an Indiana crowd of the civil rights leaders assassination, was so poetic that both The Times and The Washington Post were seduced into advancing an enduring revisionist narrative that portrayed them as friends.Except, they werent.Kennedy, Mr. Margolick said, saw King as a potential liability, particularly in the South.King, while a supplicant, was still at the point where any connection to the white power structure was still a plus, he said.King, arguably, jeopardized his base by opposing the Vietnam War. Kennedy expanded his. He began to outgrow his long-held intolerance and insensitivity toward race, though he was baffled early on when a Harlem youth yelled Gimme five, thinking he was demanding money.While he later became close to Cesar Chavez, the farm workers advocate, and other more radical civil rights leaders, he never invited King to his home. As attorney general, Kennedy approved the F.B.I.s request to wiretap King and urged King to abandon the Freedom Riders, because their efforts were corroding the Democratic Partys base in the South.The book delves into this conflict. The exhibition does not. Instead, it emphasizes Mr. Margolicks conclusion that King and Kennedy are linked as no other black man and white man in the history of civil rights have ever been.These guys were ascending to the same peak from different sides of the mountain, he added.The discerning observer will leave this exhibition recognizing a void: Mr. Schiller could not find a single photograph of King and Kennedy together (except in a group). They spoke by phone and met privately but, as Mr. Schiller said, they didnt want to be seen together.What might they say to each other 50 years later?They might laugh a bit together, and commiserate, over how careful they had to be with one another, Mr. Margolick mused.They might even shake hands, he said, and smile for the cameras.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria as he pushes for a quick military withdrawal, Trump administration officials said Wednesday, abandoning plans to stay long-term to stabilize the country and prevent the Islamic State group from re-emerging.Trump has given no formal order to pull out the 2,000 U.S. troops currently in Syria, nor offered a public timetable, other than to say the United States will pull out just as soon as the last remaining IS fighters can be vanquished. But Trump has signaled to his advisers that ideally, he wants all troops out within six months, according to three U.S. officials - a finale that would come shortly before the U.S. midterm elections.In his haste to withdraw from Syria, Trump stands alone. The Pentagon, the State Department and CIA are all deeply concerned about the potential ramifications if the U.S. leaves behind a power vacuum in Syria, as are Israel, Arab leaders and other nations in the U.S.-led coalition that has fought IS in Iraq and Syria since 2014.The president made clear his patience was running out as he met top national security aides on Tuesday. Yet the meeting concluded with no hard-and-fast deadline handed down, leaving Trump\'s team struggling to deduce how fast is fast enough for Trump, according to officials briefed on the meeting who weren\'t authorized to discuss it and requested anonymity.The tense disagreement between Trump and his team has played out in chaotic and increasingly public fashion. On Tuesday, before the Syria meeting, Trump was telling television cameras he wanted to "get out," just as the U.S. special envoy for fighting IS insisted "our mission isn\'t over." And on Wednesday, the White House issued a statement that declared the IS mission is "coming to a rapid end" but avoided specifics altogether."We will continue to consult with our allies and friends regarding future plans," said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Urging him to slow down, Trump\'s aides have been emphasizing that IS fighters remain active in Syria, evidence that Trump\'s own, publicly stated objective - the total defeat of IS - has yet to be met. Officials said the U.S. is tracking two pockets where IS remains viable - one in the Middle Euphrates River Valley region, another along the Iraq-Syria border. And despite the White House\'s insistence that the group is "almost completely defeated," a string of renewed IS attacks in recent weeks has raised fears about a resurgence.Regardless of exactly when the troops leave, the decision to remove them as soon as possible has forced an immediate realignment of long-term U.S. objectives in the country, officials said.With no military presence to ensure security for American personnel, the U.S. will have to call off other planned operations to clear land mines, restore basic services like water and electricity, and create political conditions needed to resolve Syria\'s civil war. Already, Trump has put an indefinite hold on $200 million he pledged previously for those operations.Those efforts by U.S. diplomats and aid workers have been seen as critical to ensuring that Syria\'s territory isn\'t exploited in the future by IS remnants, other extremists or Iran. They formed a key component of Trumps new Syria strategy, laid out by then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in a speech in January declaring it "vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria." But the speech, while formally approved by the White House, angered Trump, officials said, and the president fired Tillerson last month.Instead, Trump will leave stabilizing Syria to other nations, in line with his long-stated view that the United States shoulders too much of global costs and should put "America first.""I want to get out," Trump said. "I want to bring our troops back home. I want to start rebuilding our nation."Trump has asked Saudi Arabia, which is keenly interested in keeping Iran out of Syria, to contribute $4 billion toward reconstruction and stabilization efforts that the U.S. no longer plans to undertake. He came away from a phone call Monday with King Salman confident that the king will agree to give the money, two U.S. officials briefed on the conversation said. The Saudi Embassy in Washington did not immediately comment.Securing foreign dollars while pulling out troops could allow Trump to argue before the November midterms that he\'s shifted the burden of resolving far-flung crises away from America. But ceding influence over Syrian territory could hand more control to countries whose interests in the Middle East are sharply at odds with the United States.As the White House was talking up a U.S. withdrawal on Wednesday, the leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran were meeting in Ankara to hash out their own plans for Syria\'s future, including a continued Turkish operation to oust U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters from northern Syria. The three nations have been pushing their own diplomatic track for resolving Syria\'s civil war, even as the U.S. tries to rejuvenate United Nations-led talks."We have agreed to expand the entire range of our trilateral cooperation in Syria," Russian President Vladimir Putin said in the Turkish capital, claiming credit on the trio\'s behalf for the Islamic State group\'s near-defeat.Russia has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad for years, with increasing help from Iranian-backed Shiite militias such as Hezbollah - to the dismay of U.S. allies such as Israel. A phone call Wednesday between Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu grew tense because of the Israeli leader\'s concerns that the U.S. will withdraw and allow Israel\'s enemies to gain a further foothold in a neighboring country, two U.S. officials said.Nor is it clear that the U.S. has capable local partners lined up to handle basic security and prevent a total collapse following a precipitous U.S. pullout - a prospect that offers unsettling echoes of the 2011 U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. As a candidate, Trump derided President Barack Obama for that decision and argued that the resulting power vacuum enabled the formation of the Islamic State.The Syrian Kurds, the most effective fighting force in Syria aligned with Washington, recently shifted to fighting Turkish forces in the area of Afrin. That forced a pause in operations against the main IS holdout in Syria. The Pentagon has warned that the distraction could give IS the reprieve it needs to regroup after four years of being pummeled.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller, Matthew Lee, Robert Burns, Catherine Lucey and Darlene Superville in Washington and Philip Issa in Beirut contributed to this report.
It took three men two hours to shoot a 63-second overhead instructional video of Laura Rege, a recipe developer, making a cake for Bon Apptit  what people in the food-video industry call a hands and pans.At the Kitchen Studio, Cond Nasts new 7,000-square-foot space in Industry City in Brooklyn, four to six of these hands and pans videos are shot daily. It is the type of video on which Tasty, BuzzFeeds famous recipe offshoot, has built a very large audience. Cond Nasts food brands, Bon Apptit and Epicurious, have heartily embraced the format too.Now, the company wants to double its current video business. To do so, it will have to move beyond whats worked in the age of Facebook video, and make something new.Until now, most of Cond Nasts food videos were made in its test kitchen in the companys headquarters at One World Trade Center or in Airbnb rentals. But business has been growing. Over the last two years, Bon Apptits YouTube subscriber base increased from 34,000 to more than 1 million. In the same period, the number of monthly unique viewers for the videos on its website grew by nearly 2.5 million, according to comScore. Over all, video now makes up a quarter of revenue for The Lifestyle Collection  thats Bon Apptit, Architectural Digest, Epicurious, Cond Nast Traveler and the now digital-only publication Self. All told, these brands produce about 40 to 50 videos per week, and that doesnt include those made for advertisers.At the same time, the company expected significant overall revenue decline from 2016 to 2017. It closed the print edition of Teen Vogue; reduced the print frequency of GQ, Architectural Digest and Glamour; and cut employees across the company. After that crusade of downsizing  and the turnover of big-spending old-guard editors in chief like Vanity Fairs former editor Graydon Carter  there are now rumors of the impending departure of Anna Wintour, the companys artistic director and the editor of Vogue. We emphatically deny these rumors, a spokesman told Page Six this week. She has unexpectedly become the avatar of a right-sized, moderately thrifty Cond Nast.And, rightly or not, Cond Nast is finally looking to digital. In recent years, it has launched additional online verticals; introduced a platform for gay, lesbian and transgender issues called them; and embraced digitally focused leaders like Samantha Barry, the new editor in chief of Glamour, and Phillip Picardi, the chief content officer of Teen Vogue.Perhaps not surprisingly, a significant portion of the companys advertising solicitation is now devoted to video.The idea that video will be a financial savior in the media business is contentious, and often mocked. It is expensive to create, and audiences arent equivalent  yet  to print or even web in their ability to be monetized. (In human terms: One person watching a video is not financially equivalent to what one person paying for a magazine has been worth.)But Vogue the magazine has just over a million paid subscriptions, and Vogue the YouTube channel has more than 2.2 million subscribers.In the next 24 months, I hope that video is half our business, said Craig Kostelic, the chief business officer of The Lifestyle Collection. Its critical. Its the macro trend of content consumption.Cond Nast is not betting everything on hands and pans videos. In fact, it is increasingly looking beyond them as viewers gravitate toward something that is a cross between short social videos and the food programs of yore (you might remember it as cable television). Much of the space is for videos featuring hosts like Claire Saffitz, who is known for videos in which she breaks down complex recipes for foods as varied as Twinkies and soup dumplings, or Brad Leone, the quirky host of Its Alive, a series about fermentation, pickling and more.For so long we were doing those hands and pans videos, and its one of those things you had to do based on internet demand and traffic, said Adam Rapoport, the editor in chief of Bon Apptit. Theyre kind of boring, theyre not stimulating and theyre predictable. It was not creatively rewarding. As an industry, weve gone beyond that and its gone more to the personality videos, to more narrative.Bon Apptit has attracted hundreds of thousands of viewers with human-first series like one in which children react to various foods, for example breakfast items from the last hundred years (the beginning is horrible, so is the middle, so Ill give it a four, said one sophisticated taster about a 1920s breakfast of codfish cakes, hominy and stewed prunes), or another where the magazines deputy editor swaps out his office for 24 hours of hands-on labor at fast-paced casual restaurants like Katzs deli in New York (he is critiqued by one of his temporary co-workers for being a little too nice). Epicurious, while much smaller (it has about 146,000 YouTube subscribers) has similarly attracted audiences with video series like the 50 Person Prep Challenge, in which people attempt basic culinary tasks like slicing a pepper or dicing an onion.To optimize the new test kitchens for filming, they have been outfitted with overhead lights, blackout curtains and acoustic paneling to muffle outside sound. All the stovetops are gas. People want to see the flame, said Eric Gillin, the digital general manager of The Lifestyle Collection. Sponsored product is everywhere. The countertops? Caesarstone. The small appliances? Braun. Furniture? Crate & Barrel. The smart fridges? Samsung. And so on.And though the test kitchen at Cond Nasts headquarters has served well as a shooting location, it will now go back to being primarily a work space for editors who are trying out recipes. Video can be kind of intrusive, said Mr. Rapoport. You have camera people, lights, you have to section off a portion of the kitchen, you dont want people to be too noisy. Shooting interrupts the basic workflow.On YouTube, over half of our audience is under 34 years old. These people are young, theyre really engaged, theyre watching for an average of over five minutes. Its not this 8-second watch time like on Facebook, said Matt Duckor, the executive producer for the Lifestyle Collection.YouTube is a sneaky, over-the-top kind of channel unto itself, Mr. Gillin said.Videos that are somewhere between the length of a social media post and a 60-minute special thrive on YouTube, Mr. Duckor said. A significant chunk of viewers are consuming them not on a cellphone or computer but on a television. Twenty percent of people watched that cheesesteak video on a television, whether on a smart TV, a game console, Roku or Apple TV, Mr. Duckor said, referring to a video in which a Bon Apptit editor ate 16 Philly cheesesteaks in 12 hours. Coming across something in your Facebook feed and stopping on it for three seconds can count as a view, but when we talk to advertisers, they want people who are actually connecting with what theyre doing, not just happening upon it.The Cond Nast teams have embraced the flexibility of the mid-length format. When youre post-cable, its not a half-hour TV show, youre not programming for these ad blocks, youre telling the story for as long as theres a story to be told, Mr. Gillin said.This industry is moving so fast, Mr. Duckor said. The videos were creating now compared to two years ago are really different, but youre always going to need kitchens, youre always going to need the ability to have production space to have people work and sit.For now, the revenue coming in from videos is split between advertising and sponsorships. About half to two-thirds of it is more about traditional ads, like pre-roll, Mr. Kostelic said, referring to the brief advertisements that play before a video. But increasingly Cond Nast makes videos for its clients that it does not promote on its own platforms.Historically, you would have a digital media plan with a set amount of view or impressions, Mr. Kostelic said. More people are coming to us for our content and creative services plans, with distribution being a separate conversation.The greater goal is for the lessons the Lifestyle Collection team will learn with the Kitchen Studio space to trickle out to the rest of the company.The issue that Cond Nast used to have is that it was really siloed out by brand, and the brands didnt speak to each other, they didnt share learnings, Mr. Duckor said. Were at a place now where we can take learnings from Bon Apptit and the success weve had on YouTube and apply them to Architectural Digest, where they havent quite had the investment in that platform that we have. Thats the real opportunity.
JANESVILLE, Wis.  When dozens of high school students from across Wisconsin marched through his hometown, chanting his name and demanding new gun control laws, Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, was not around to hear them, having just wrapped up a trip to the Czech Republic.But Randy Bryce was.Mr. Bryce, for those who dont watch MSNBC, is better known by his Twitter handle, Iron Stache  a nod to his occupation (ironworker) and his thick horseshoe mustache. A Democrat, he has become a liberal media darling of sorts, as he seeks to do the unthinkable: unseat Mr. Ryan in Wisconsins First Congressional District this fall.But Mr. Bryce is not the only candidate hoping to dethrone a congressional king. Another Democrat, a schoolteacher named Cathy Myers, is also running for her partys nomination. She is irked that national Democrats and progressives  including Senator Bernie Sanders, the former presidential candidate  have thrown their weight behind Mr. Bryce.And on the right, Republicans are confronting an embarrassing spectacle: A white nationalist and anti-Semite, Paul Nehlen, who lost to Mr. Ryan by 68 points in the 2016 Republican primary, is running again, this time flaunting his bigotry to gain a national following. His Twitter account was suspended in February after he used it to make racist comments about Meghan Markle, the fiance of Prince Harry.Its a circus, sighed Mark Graul, a seasoned Republican strategist here. You cant make this stuff up.Mr. Ryan, meanwhile, has been coy about his intentions. After passing a landmark tax overhaul that fulfilled a career-long dream, he has not yet announced his candidacy for re-election, saying he will make a decision after consulting with his wife in the spring. That has prompted speculation that he will retire, which his aides have dismissed as nonsense.In another election year, Mr. Bryce and the rest might be little more than a nuisance for Mr. Ryan, who has nearly $10 million in his campaign chest and is one of the most powerful men in Washington. Mr. Nehlen, strategists in both parties agree, is clearly headed for another trouncing.But in an election cycle when Democrats have scored victories in places like Virginia, southwestern Pennsylvania and even deep-red Alabama, some analysts say it would be a mistake for the speaker to coast, especially against Mr. Bryce, who has captured the attention of Washington and Hollywood and had raised $4.75 million by the end of March, according to campaign officials.History shows it is not impossible to knock off a congressional leader. In 1994, when Republicans swept the House during the first midterm election of Bill Clintons presidency, they also swept the Democratic speaker, Thomas S. Foley, out of office.Randy Bryce is a more formidable candidate on the resource side and the notoriety side than any opponent Ryan has faced, said Charles Franklin, director of the Marquette Law School Poll, run out of Milwaukee. And if its a wave election, who knows?At 48, Mr. Ryan has represented this corner of southeastern Wisconsin for nearly two decades. People here still remember him as a fresh-faced young congressman with a compelling personal story. His father died when he was 16, and he saved his Social Security benefits to pay for college. He is viewed as a nice guy and a family man.But Janesville, a blue-collar community that was hit hard when the local General Motors plant shut down in 2009, has never been solid Ryan territory, and some in his hometown say that since he became speaker  and especially since President Trump took the White House  Mr. Ryan has lost his way. He was critical of Mr. Trump during the campaign. He largely holds his tongue now.Im very disappointed in him, Steve Johnson, 69, a former Janesville School District administrator, said while drinking coffee with a friend at Mocha Moment, a local cafe. Mr. Johnson, who says he votes Republican about half of the time, has known the speaker since Mr. Ryan was a student council representative, and has voted for him for years.He always had a good head on his shoulders, a good set of values, Mr. Johnson said. I supported him for all this time, but I wont now, especially since he wont stand up to Trump. Thats a big surprise to me.Others complain that Mr. Ryan no longer holds town-hall-style meetings (his aides say he hosts telephone call-ins where constituents can voice their concerns) and spends more time outside the district than in it.Hes just changed so much from the beginning of his career until now, said Chris Rice, 68, a Democrat who works in health care. I think hes lost his values.But Mr. Ryan retains strong support elsewhere in the district, particularly in rural areas and counties like Waukesha, Walworth and Racine. His Republican backers insist that the speaker will be just fine, especially in the wake of the passage of the landmark tax overhaul, which he has been promoting during carefully controlled visits to businesses here and around the country.Ever since Ive known Paul, tax reform was near and dear to his heart, said Kim Travis, who represents Mr. Ryans district on the executive committee of the Wisconsin Republican Party. So to get that passed is huge. I dont think any of his opponents stand a chance.The most recent Marquette Law School poll found that, statewide, 46 percent of voters approve of Mr. Ryan, while 39 percent disapprove and 15 percent say they have not heard enough about him. And his aides note that the local economy has bounced back. The latest state figures show unemployment in Rock County, which includes Janesville, is at 3.6 percent. It was 13.2 percent in 2009, the year the auto plant closed.Even so, some political observers are seeing cracks in the speakers armor. Stan Milam, a longtime Janesville journalist and former radio host, said that neither Mr. Bryce nor Ms. Myers has what it takes to beat Mr. Ryan this year. But he does see the speaker showing some signs of weakness.Every politician, if they have a lengthy political career, becomes more vulnerable than usual, Mr. Milam said, and I believe thats where Paul Ryan is.Even Democrats concede that capitalizing on that will be an uphill battle. For one thing, they are fighting among themselves. In Washington, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has endorsed Mr. Bryce. But many here see Ms. Myers, who now holds a seat on the Janesville School Board, picking up steam.Her backers view Mr. Bryce as a creation of Hollywood and the national news media, and insist she is the more substantive candidate. They vow a strong grass-roots campaign.No one has been able to answer this for me: Why is Randy Bryce a better candidate to beat Paul Ryan? Ms. Myers asked in an interview. Im talking about his qualifications, not his money.Mr. Bryce, 53, a longtime union activist who has waged three previous unsuccessful bids for local and state office, is pitching himself to voters as a man of the people, a kind of Joe Six-Pack who understands their everyday concerns. An Army veteran and a survivor of testicular cancer, he burst onto the political scene with a video campaign announcement that went viral.In it, he offered to trade places with Mr. Ryan, declaring, You can come work the iron, and Ill go to D.C.The video captured the attention of national Democrats, and some in Hollywood. The liberal comedian Chelsea Handler hosted a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Mr. Bryce, where she was pictured wearing a fake mustache.But he has some baggage, which Ms. Myers and Republicans will undoubtedly try to exploit. He was late repaying a loan to an ex-girlfriend, and for nearly two years he owed $1,257 in back child support, which he paid after launching his campaign.Im looking forward to that coming up; thats why Im running, he said in an interview. Ive busted my rear end for the past 20 years to keep my head above water. Thats proof that I understand what its like to struggle.On the day the students marched last week through Janesville, demanding that Mr. Ryan take strong action on gun control, Mr. Bryce was among hundreds of people who turned up at a rally that was rife with anti-Ryan sentiment. Dressed in jeans, work boots and a paint-splattered, beaten-up brown work jacket, he hung back in the crowd, listening quietly as they shouted Shame on Paul! Shame on Paul!When the speeches were over, he posed for selfies with the students and was mobbed by well-wishers. Among them was Teri Sickels, 59, a former assembly line worker who, like many here, was forced into retirement when the General Motors factory closed down.I love everything you stand for, she gushed.

THE HAGUE   Russia\'s call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England failed on Wednesday when it was outvoted 15-6 at a meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog.Russia had called an emergency meeting of the decision-making executive of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to counter accusations by Britain that it was behind the March 4 nerve agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England.UK\'s security services believe they have pinpointed the location of Russian laboratory that manufactured the nerve agent Novichok used in Salisbury attack, The Times reported on Wednesday. Britain was aware of the existence of the site before  March 4, the report said.It cited an unidentified security source as saying they have a "high degree of confidence in the location".Britain\'s charges of Russian involvement, strongly denied by Moscow, have triggered mass expulsions of diplomats by both Britain\'s allies in the West, including the United States, and similar retaliatory action by Russia.When the meeting convened on Wednesday, Russia proposed a joint investigation into the poisoning as it was not invited to participate in an independent probe being carried out by the OPCW at Britain\'s request, results of which are due next week.Britain called the Russian proposal for a joint investigation a "perverse" attempt to escape blame for the poisoning of the Skripals, and part of a disinformation campaign mounted by Moscow.Russia\'s proposal in the end drew support from China, Azerbaijan, Sudan, Algeria and Iran, a source told Reuters, with U.S. and European members voting against the plan. There were 17 abstentions among members of the organisation\'s 41-member council, only 38 of whose members were present and eligible to vote on Wednesday.Russia\'s ambassador to the OPCW, Aleksander Shulgin, confirmed that the vote had been lost.RUSSIA CALL TO SECURITY COUNCILSeparately on Wednesday, Russia requested a public meeting of the United Nations Security Council on April 5 to discuss the British accusations against Moscow, Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said.British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson welcomed Russia\'s defeat."Russia has had one goal in mind since the attempted murders on UK soil through the use of a military-grade chemical weapon - to obscure the truth and confuse the public," he said in a statement."The international community has yet again seen through these tactics and robustly defeated Russias attempts today to derail the proper international process."The closed-door OPCW meeting itself triggered sharp verbal exchanges between the Britain and Russia\'s representatives.In a tweet, the British delegation called Moscow\'s idea for a joint investigation "a diversionary tactic, and yet more disinformation designed to evade the questions the Russians authorities must answer".John Foggo, Britain\'s acting envoy, said Russian assertions that the attack may have been carried out by Britain, the United States or Sweden were "shameless, preposterous statements".Shulgin, at a news conference, said the vote showed more than half of the OPCW\'s members had "refused to associate themselves with the West\'s point of view" - referring to those who voted in favour of Russia\'s proposal or abstained.He repeated that Russia had had nothing to do with the attack on the Skripals, which he said looked like "a terrorist attack."Britain\'s remarks were "a dirty flow of complete lies ... outright Russia-phobia," he said.Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday the OPCW should draw a line under a case that has triggered the worst crisis in East-West relations since the Cold War.Scientists at the Porton Down biological and chemical weapons laboratory in England have concluded that the toxin was among a category of Soviet-era nerve agents called Novichok, though could not yet determine whether it was made in Russia.TAKING SAMPLESThe OPCW, which oversees the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention, has taken samples from the site of the Salisbury attack and is expected to provide results from testing at two designated laboratories next week.Shulgin said earlier that if Moscow was prevented from taking part in the testing of the Salisbury toxin samples, it would reject the outcome of the OPCW research.Russia\'s request to open a parallel, joint Russian-British inquiry has been portrayed by Western powers as an attempt to undermine the investigation by OPCW scientists.The EU said it was very concerned Moscow was considering rejecting the OPCW findings.Instead of cooperating with the OPCW, Russia had unleashed "a flood of insinuations targeting EU member states ... This is completely unacceptable," an EU statement read to the council session said.Skripal, 66, a former Russian military intelligence officer who betrayed scores of Russian agents to Britain and was exchanged in a Russia-West spy swap, remains in a critical but stable condition. His daughter, Yulia, 33, has shown signs of improvement.(Reporting by Anthony Deutsch in The Hague; Additional reporting by Toby Sterling in Amsterdam and William Schomberg in London; editing by Richard Balmforth and Grant McCool)
MOSCOW   The latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter (all times local):1:00 a.m.Russia\'s envoy to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons says that although Moscow\'s proposal for a joint investigation with Britain was rejected, the number of countries that abstained from the vote shows widespread uneasiness with Britain.Russia called for a session of the watchdog\'s executive council on Wednesday to further its adamant denials of Britain\'s allegation that Russia was involved in the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter.A Russian proposal to conduct a joint investigation with Britain was defeated, getting only six votes from the 41-member executive body.But envoy Alexander Shulgin noted that 17 countries abstained, meaning that "more than half of the members of the executive council refused to support the U.S. and U.K. position."The United States expelled 60 Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain in the poisoning controversy.___12:20 a.m.Britain says Russia\'s proposal for a joint investigation of the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter got only six votes at a special session of the executive council of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Russia requested the Wednesday session in The Hague, Netherlands, to push its vehement denials of Britain\'s allegation that Russia was involved in the March 4 poisonings in England. There are 41 countries on the OPCW\'s executive council.The British government has invited experts from the international chemical weapons watchdog to help investigate the March 4 poisonings of Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia.British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called Russia\'s bid to take part "ludicrous."Johnson said: "The purpose of Russia\'s ludicrous proposal at The Hague was clear  - to undermine the independent, impartial work of the international chemical weapons watchdog." British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said in a statement. ""Russia has had one goal in mind since the attempted murders on U.K. soil through the use of a military-grade chemical weapon: to obscure the truth and confuse the public."___12:10 a.m.Russia\'s Foreign Ministry wants Britain to provide information about the pets that lived in the house of the Russian former spy who was poisoned with nerve agent in England a month ago.Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Wednesday that Russia has reliable information that there were pets in the Salisbury residence of Sergei Skripal."Where are the pets? What is their condition?" she said. "This is about living creatures, and if a toxic chemical agent was indeed used in their house, these living creatures should have been hurt."It is not clear where Skripal and his daughter were exposed to the poison, which Britain has identified as a nerve agent of the Novichok class. Novichok was developed as a chemical weapon in the Soviet Union, and Britain has alleged Russia was involved in the poisoning.___9 p.m.Russia\'s U.N. ambassador has called for an open meeting of the U.N. Security Council Thursday on the poisoning of a former spy and his daughter in Britain.Vassily Nebenzia made the request at the end of his speech Wednesday to a council meeting on chemical weapons in Syria.Nebenzia said Russia requested the council meeting because it shares the principle that the use of chemical weapons anywhere "is not acceptable and must be investigated and perpetrators punished, and that impunity is unacceptable."Kuwait\'s U.N. Ambassador Mansour Al-Otaibi told reporters the meeting is scheduled at 3 p.m. EDT on Thursday.Nebenzia\'s request follows a meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Wednesday requested by Russia on the incident in the English city of Salisbury.___8:40 p.m.Russia\'s envoy to the international chemical weapons watchdog has complained that Britain\'s work with the agency on the poisoning of a former spy has not been transparent.Alexander Shulgin told a news conference Wednesday that "Russia as well as other states that are members of the executive committee have been pushed aside from this investigation."He spoke after a special session of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons called by Russia, which vehemently denies Britain\'s allegations that Moscow was responsible for the nerve-agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter.The two were found poisoned in the British city of Salisbury a month ago."They tell us that they can inform us of the results of this investigation ... only with the good will of Great Britain," Shulgin said. "But, knowing how our so-called partners have conducted themselves, we are not going to count on their good will."___7 p.m.A senior Russian diplomat says a probe into the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain should involve a panel of independent experts.Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov says that Moscow has suggested that the international chemical weapons watchdog set up a group of independent experts to look into the case.Britain has blamed Russia for the March 4 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter. Russia has fervently denied its involvement and pushed Britain to provide evidence to back up its claim.Ryabkov told the Tass news agency Wednesday that the refusal by Britain and its allies to have an independent probe would signal their "intention to sacrifice the truth for the sake of their geopolitical ambitions."___4:30 p.m.President Vladimir Putin says Russia expects Britain and its allies to respect international law to end the simmering diplomatic crisis.Asked Wednesday if Moscow expects Britain to retract its accusations against Russia over the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy and offer an apology, Putin said Wednesday that Russia has no such expectations but hopes that "reason will prevail."Britain blamed Russia for the poisoning of former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, accusations which Russia has fervently denied. More than two dozen Western allies have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain, and Russia responded quid pro quo.Putin said on a visit to Ankara he hopes Britain and its allies will refrain from actions damaging international relations and return to the framework of international law.____4 p.m.The British government is under pressure to reveal more details of its intelligence on the Salisbury nerve agent poisoning, after the country\'s defense research lab said it has not been able to pinpoint the precise source of the poison.The chief executive of the Porton Down laboratory, Gary Aitkenhead, says scientists there have identified the substance used on Sergei and Yulia Skripal as a Soviet-developed nerve agent known as Novichok. But he said Tuesday that "it\'s not our job to say where that was actually manufactured."The British government says it relied on a combination of scientific analysis and other intelligence to conclude that the nerve agent came from Russia. Russia denies responsibility, and has seized on Aitkenhead\'s remarks to support its case.Britain is standing by its assessment, but the Foreign Office on Wednesday deleted a tweet from last month saying Porton Down scientists had identified the substance as "made in Russia."____3:30 p.m.Russia\'s Foreign Ministry says it is expelling one Hungarian diplomat after Hungary joined other Western nations in kicking out Russian diplomats.The United States and many European countries last week expelled a total of over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain, which accuses Russia of being behind the nerve agent poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter last month.Hungary said last week that it was expelling one Russian diplomat who was carrying out intelligence activities.The Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement Wednesday that it has summoned the Hungarian ambassador to Moscow and informed him of Russia\'s decision to expel one diplomat from the Hungarian embassy.____3:15 p.m.Britain is rejecting any possibility of having a joint investigation involving Russia into the nerve agent attack in England\'s Salisbury last month.The British envoy to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons told the executive council of the watchdog on Wednesday that there is no requirement in the body\'s convention that would force a victim "to engage the likely perpetrator in a joint investigation."Acting U.K. Permanent Representative John Foggo said that "to do so would be perverse."Russia had called for a special meeting of the OPCW\'s executive council on Wednesday to access developments in the March 4 nerve agent attack in Salisbury.___1:50 p.m.The British delegation at an international meeting says Russia is asking for a joint probe into last month\'s Salisbury nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and dismissed the offer as "perverse."During a special meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the British delegation called the offer for a UK-Russian investigation "a diversionary tactic, and yet more disinformation designed to evade the questions the Russian authorities must answer."The special council meeting in The Hague was requested by Russia a month after the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.____1:15 p.m.Russia\'s Ambassador to the Czech Republic says his country is set to propose a solution to the crisis over the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy at an emergency meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Talking to reporters at the Russian embassy in Prague, Alexander Zmeyevskiy says Russia will propose "a civilized solution to the problem" but declined to give any details.The closed-door meeting of the OPCW started Wednesday morning.Zmeyevskiy also says his country is not blaming the Czech Republic for being involved in the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury.Russian officials previously suggested the nerve agent used for the attack may have originated in the Czech Republic, Sweden and Slovakia. Acting Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis called it a lie.The Czechs expelled three Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain.____12:30 p.m.The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is holding an emergency meeting at Russia\'s request on last month\'s nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.Russia has said that it will push Britain to provide evidence they might have in their hands about the attack in the English city of Salisbury on March 4 which left former double agent Sergei Skripal in critical condition. His daughter, Yulia, is recovering.The OPCW said the closed-door meeting in The Hague, Netherlands, started in the morning. The Russian delegation plans to brief the media late Wednesday.Britain\'s Foreign Office said the move by Moscow to call for the meeting was a "diversionary tactic, intended to undermine the work of the OPCW in reaching a conclusion" about the nerve agent attack.____11 a.m.Russia\'s spymaster says the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy and his daughter in Britain was staged by U.K. and U.S. intelligence agencies.Sergei Naryshkin, director of Russia\'s Foreign Intelligence Service, the top KGB successor agency, said the March 4 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies."Speaking Wednesday at an international security conference organized by the Russian Defense Ministry, Naryshkin said the poisoning was the latest U.S. effort to undermine Russia and was akin to its practices during the Cold War.Britain has blamed Russia for the nerve agent attack, an accusation that Russia has vehemently denied. Consequently, relations between the West and Russia are at their lowest ebb since the Cold War.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   The Latest on commemorations of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. (all times local):8:30 p.m.Stevie Wonder has released a video featuring celebrities espousing the need to continue the works of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the 50th anniversary of his assassination.Wonder says in the video released online Wednesday night that the teachings of the slain civil rights icon are still alive.Former President Barack Obama, Samuel L. Jackson and Billie Jean King are among the dozens of artists, activists and athletes saying the "dream still lives," and calling for equal rights and peaceful co-existence.At the end of the five-minute video, Wonder asks viewers to post their own dreams online.Wonder was a proponent of creating the King national holiday. The King Center in Atlanta says Wonder in 1980 released the song "Happy Birthday" celebrating King and advocating for the holiday. In 1982, Coretta Scott King and Wonder presented a petition with more than 6 million signatures supporting a King holiday to the speaker of the U.S. House of representatives. The holiday was approved in 1983.___6:05 p.m.Bells in Memphis and Atlanta are ringing to mark the 50th anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination.The crowd gathered outside Memphis\' old Lorraine Motel where King was shot on April 4, 1968, fell silent Wednesday evening as the bell began to ring there. A red and white wreath was placed on the balcony where he had been standing.Moments later, the Rev. Al Green sang "Take My Hand, Precious Lord," the song King had requested moments before he was killed at age 39.In Atlanta, King family members pulled a rope together to ring a bell 39 times at the pool surrounding the crypt of King and wife Coretta Scott King. The family then laid a wreath of multicolored flowers in front of the crypt.___This item has corrected the name of the song "Take My Hand, Precious Lord."___4:35 p.m.A crowd is gathered at the site where the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated 50 years ago in Memphis, Tennessee.Hundreds gathered Wednesday afternoon outside the old Lorraine Motel, which is now the National Civil Rights Museum.A large screen showed excerpts of his final speech, and a 120-year-old, 1,700-pound bell brought to the museum sits ready for ringing. Speakers addressed the crowd from the old motel\'s balcony, where King was assassinated on April 4, 1968.President Barack Obama addressed the crowd by video on the screen. He says progress has been made in civil rights, but more needs to be done.___2:30 p.m.A relative of one of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s chief opponents is honoring the slain civil rights leader on the anniversary of his death.The daughter of former Alabama governor and one-time segregationist George Wallace, Peggy Wallace Kennedy, participated in an event Wednesday commemorating King in Montgomery, Alabama.King got his start in civil rights in Montgomery, where he led a boycott over segregated city buses.Kennedy was among nine people to read from King\'s speeches at Alabama\'s main history museum. Kennedy tells The Associated Press that King\'s teachings are needed now more than ever because "it seems like our country is moving backward."George Wallace survived an assassination attempt while running for president in 1972. He renounced his segregationist views in later years.___1:25 p.m.Thousands are marching through a Tennessee city to honor the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the 50th anniversary of his death.Memphis Police spokesman Louis Brownlee says the department\'s aircraft estimated that as many as 10,000 or so had gathered for the march on Wednesday.The march started in the early afternoon with a mix of emotions and ages. Some marchers were smiling and chanting; others were staring ahead with serious looks on their faces.Some marched arm-in-arm, while others held signs saying "I Am a Man" in honor of a 1968 sanitation workers strike that King was supporting at the time of his death. People sang "We Shall Overcome."The marchers included Martin Luther King III, Al Sharpton, Bernie Sanders and Andrew Young.At age 91, civil rights leader the Rev. James Lawson was also marching. He noted that he has been part of the struggle for 50 years, telling a reporter: "I\'m still anxious and frustrated. The task is unfinished."___12:15 p.m.The rapper Common and pop singer Sheila E have the crowd dancing and bobbing their heads before the start of a march honoring the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.Common performed his poignant song "Glory," which was featured in the film Selma. He finished his performance by raising his fist and bowing his head.Singer Goapele also performed to the crowd of hundreds.The performances took place at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee.King was in Memphis to support a strike by sanitation workers when he was killed in 1968.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump says it\'s up to people, not the government, to achieve the ideals expressed by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.Trump\'s comments came in a White House proclamation issued Wednesday on the 50th anniversary of King\'s slaying in Memphis, Tennessee.Trump proclamation echoes King\'s own words in saying: "We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters lest we perish together as fools." And he says it\'s the people of the United States, not government, who will achieve King\'s goals.Trump proclaimed the anniversary as a day to honor King. He also sent a tweet about King\'s legacy.___10:45 a.m.As part of the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., two lawyers were awarded a prize celebrating his legacy of nonviolence.The Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize was presented Wednesday by King\'s daughter, the Rev. Bernice King, to Benjamin Ferencz and Bryan Stevenson at the King Center in Atlanta.Ferencz, who recently turned 99, prosecuted Nazi war crimes. He cracked jokes before turning serious and urging the audience to never give up on things that are important.Stevenson founded the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Alabama, and has devoted his career to helping the poor, those in prison and death row inmates. He said he\'s always drawn inspiration from King and said it\'s important to continue to demand justice for those who are treated unfairly.___10:30 a.m.Thousands have gathered in Memphis for events to commemorate the anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.One of them was 73-year-old Fredna White from Waco, Texas. She\'s retired from the department of Veterans Affairs.She said the commemoration of King\'s assassination brings the issues he fought for back to the forefront  such as equality and economic justice.She said: "This a good reminder to tell us to get back with it, work it, united for all the causes."She said the diverse nature of the crowd gives her hope that "there may be some coming together of our country, our people, our nation."___10:05 a.m.The daughter of the late Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. is calling him "the apostle of nonviolence" on the 50th anniversary of his assassination.The Rev. Bernice King said Wednesday her father was known as a civil rights leader and great orator, and he was both of those things. But she says his message of nonviolence is a vital part of his legacy.She spoke during a ceremony to award the Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize held at the King Center in Atlanta.The award was being presented to Benjamin Ferencz, a lawyer who prosecuted Nazi war crimes, and Bryan Stevenson, a public interest lawyer who founded and heads the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Alabama.___9:50 a.m.The Indianapolis park where Robert Kennedy called for peace and unity just hours after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. is being designated a National Historic Site.A bill approved by Congress for the designation was signed by President Donald Trump on Tuesday, ahead of Wednesday\'s events at the park marking the 50th anniversary of King\'s death.The park near downtown Indianapolis is where Kennedy was to make an April 1968 presidential campaign speech, but instead told the crowd of King\'s assassination and asked for a nonviolent reaction.Participants in Wednesday\'s event included Georgia congressman and 1960s civil rights activist John Lewis and Robert Kennedy\'s daughter, Kerry Kennedy.Indianapolis Rep. Andre Carson says he hopes the historic designation is a reminder of the need for non-violence and tolerance.___9:05 a.m.Hundreds of people gathered at a union headquarters Wednesday morning hours before a march marking the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in Memphis, Tennessee.Workers at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees office chanted, banged drums and held signs saying "I Am"  one of the slogans for events surrounding the anniversary of King\'s death. One man hauled a cart full of commemorative T-shirts he was selling for $10.Andre Gipson, the local president for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, says about 400 members from other cities are in Memphis for the march. He says the march promised to be a "very special" event for workers.People were bundled up on a chilly yet sunny morning.____For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
WASHINGTON   Before last month\'s special congressional election in Pennsylvania, U.S. President Donald Trump, who ridiculed his rivals in the 2016 election as Liddle Marco, Lyin Ted, and Crooked Hillary, tried it again, tagging Democratic candidate Conor Lamb as Lamb the Sham.This time, the tactic failed.But it illustrated a penchant for often brutally effective nicknames that Democrats are bracing for Trump to employ when he campaigns for Republicans in November\'s congressional elections.All 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives and a third of the 100-member Senate will be up for grabs. A Democratic takeover of one or both chambers could derail much of the Republican president\'s policy agenda.While acknowledging that the tabloid-style strategic branding may have worked for Trump in the presidential election, Democrats insist they will not be baited into fighting back with name-calling of their own."I dont think that we should ever do stuff like that, Representative Keith Ellison, deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee, told Reuters.Ellison is all too familiar with Trumps scorched-earth shorthand. In 2016, he was an early and fervent supporter of Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, or Crazy Bernie, as Trump called him. When they go low, we should go high, Ellison said in a comment echoed by other Democrats.So far, the nicknaming that Trump wielded like a political sledgehammer in the 2016 election has had limited success in congressional races. While Republicans Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz and Democrat Hillary Clinton were all vanquished in the 2016 presidential race, Lamb beat his Trump-backed rival in a result that rattled the Republican establishment.In the widely watched U.S. Senate race in Alabama in December, Trump branded Democrat Doug Jones as Liberal Puppet Jones. But Jones pulled off a major upset over Republican Roy Moore, becoming the first Democrat elected to the Senate from Alabama in 25 years.Still, Trump is showing no inclination to abandon the practice. On Tuesday, he unveiled on Twitter a new handle for former President Barack Obama: "Cheatin\' Obama" - although it was not clear what Trump meant by the moniker.LASTING DAMAGEPolling suggests, however, that Trumps nicknames often work and can inflict long-lasting political damage. Exhibit A: Jeb Bush. After Trump derided his presidential rival as Low energy Jeb Bush, the nickname appeared to stick. A Reuters/Ipsos poll in 2016 found that more than a third of Republican voters believed Bush, a former Florida governor, was a low energy person.He defines his opponents brands, Tim Calkins, a marketing professor at Northwestern University, said of Trump.Dismissing Trumps broadsides as simple schoolyard taunts carries political risk, as Clinton found out. Experts in communications and marketing warn not to underestimate the ability of Trump, a former reality TV star, to define opponents and issues in easy-to-grasp language that resonates with the public.Aides say Trump believes his labels are effective because they can carry a ring of truth.You have to brand people a certain way when theyre your opponents, Trump told a rally in Boca Raton, Florida, in early 2016. At that event, he took the time to make sure that attendees knew that his label for Rubio was spelled L-I-D-D-L-E, which apparently made it more demeaning.The crowd ate it up. A few days later, Trump trounced Rubio in the Florida Republican primary, and Rubio dropped out of the race.In Rubios case, the shot was not just a reference to his height  - he is 5 feet 9 inches tall - but to his relatively brief time in the Senate, amounting to a suggestion he was not ready to be president, said a former campaign adviser to Trump who asked to remain anonymous to discuss the matter.\'DEFINING THE BATTLEFIELD\'The name-calling is juvenile and unpresidential, but theres no doubt it can be effective, said Alex Conant, a top adviser to Rubio at the time. Trump understands the power of branding more than any politician ever has.The danger for Trumps opponents, said Dietram Scheufele, a professor of communications at the University of Wisconsin, was letting him define the battlefield.Some Republicans appear inclined to take a cue from Trump\'s playbook. At a presentation to Republican state senators in California in February, a leading Washington Republican pollster urged 2018 candidates to go negative, saying it would help define the choices for voters.In a PowerPoint slide, the pollster wrote: The best defense is a good offense. Dont be afraid of \'giving your opponent name ID\'  especially if that name ID is of the negative kind.But Ellison said Democrats should not get into a war of insults with Trump, even if it is to their advantage.Even if some really smart person showed that name-calling like that got you an extra percentage point, Im still thinking I wouldnt do it, he said. Its wrong and we dont want our children to do it and we dont think its right.Republican Senator Jeff Flake, a Trump critic often mocked by the president as Jeff Flakey, said Trumps attacks could excite his political base but may not have a broad appeal to voters in congressional races.Its counter-productive if you are trying to maintain a majority and even if you are seeking re-election, said Flake, who is not running again in Arizona.(Reporting by James Oliphant and Caren Bohan; Additional reporting by Sharon Bernstein in Sacramento, Calif., Chris Kahn in New York and Kieran Murray in Washington; Editing by Peter Cooney and Tom Brown)
BAGHDAD   Iran\'s influence is looming large as Iraqis prepare to head to the polls for parliamentary elections in May, with many in the country worried that Tehran may be looking to strengthen its political grip on Baghdad through the ballot box.Iranian support and military advisers helped Baghdad\'s Shiite-led government beat back the Islamic State group. But with IS militants now largely defeated militarily, Iran\'s expanding influence has emerged as one of Iraq\'s most divisive issues ahead of the balloting.That influence has sown fear among Iraq\'s disenchanted minority Sunnis, who bore the brunt of the war\'s destruction, and has also caused concern in Washington. Despite tensions between the United States and Iran, both remain key allies of Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi\'s government.U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis last month accused Iran of "mucking around" in Iraq\'s upcoming elections, telling reporters the U.S. has what he called "worrisome evidence" that Iran is funneling "not an insignificant amount of money" into Iraq to try to sway votes. Baghdad rejected the accusation.Government spokesman Saad al-Hadithi stressed that the use of foreign money in domestic politics "is illegal and unconstitutional.""The government is taking great efforts to hold free and fair elections and prevent the manipulation of election results," he said.Both Iran and Iraq are Shiite-majority counties and share deep economic and cultural ties  as well as a 1,500-kilometer (900-mile) border.The two countries fought a devastating war in the 1980s that left hundreds of thousands dead. But Iranian influence in Iraq has steadily grown since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that toppled Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, marking the start of a prolonged period of sectarian division, extremist violence and political strife.Under Saddam, many of Iraq\'s Shiite political elite spent years in exile in Iran. Since Saddam\'s ouster, Iraqi markets have been stocked with Iranian goods and millions of Iranian pilgrims descend on Iraq each year to visit holy shrines in the cities of Samarra, Baghdad, Najaf and Karbala.When entire divisions of Iraq\'s military disintegrated following the fall of the city of Mosul to IS in the summer of 2014, Iranian influence soared.Weeks before the U.S. began a bombing campaign against IS, Iranian advisers and support for Iraqi Shiite militias, which became known as Popular Mobilization Units, helped halt IS\' advance, which came dangerously close to Baghdad. From then on, the militias became instrumental in the battle against IS.More than 500 members of the paramilitary forces or political figures associated with the militias are now running for parliament.Ahmed al-Asadi is one of the candidates with strong paramilitary ties. An elected member of parliament from Baghdad and former spokesman for the PMU, al-Asadi cut his ties with the force before launching his re-election bid  a formality required by a governing body overseeing the May vote."Iran is the ally of the powerful forces that supported Iraq against terrorism," he said, dismissing concerns that Tehran plays a destabilizing role in Iraq.But other Iraqi politicians worry that if a large number of men like al-Asadi win seats in parliament, Iraq will be even more beholden to its eastern neighbor.Saleh al-Mutlaq, a longtime Iraqi politician and former deputy prime minister, said he expects candidates with ties to the Shiite militias to do well in upcoming elections."These elections will be disastrous for this country," he said. "The PMU will be a key player in the political process and this will give Iran a role and a word in forming the government and in choosing a prime minister."Iran is not the only one trying to influence the May vote, said Joost Hiltermann, a longtime Iraq researcher with the International Crisis Group."Everybody is trying to buy or gain influence, anybody who has a stake in Iraq that is, whether they do it with money or intimidation or other kinds of incentives," he said. "Ever since there have been elections in 2005, there\'s been meddling."The future of American forces in Iraq hinges in large part on who becomes Iraq\'s next prime minister and who gets to lead the country\'s most powerful ministries.While the Shiite militias racked up several early victories against IS, it was U.S.-led coalition airstrikes that allowed Iraqi forces to retake urban areas. Iraq remains deeply dependent on U.S. military aid, training and intelligence sharing.While al-Abadi, who is seeking re-election with his recently formed Victory Alliance party, has said he is open to long-term American training programs for Iraqi forces, some of his opponents have taken a much harder line, describing any U.S. forces in Iraq as occupiers.The U.S. still has more than 5,000 troops in Iraq, supporting its fight against remaining pockets of IS, most significantly along Iraq\'s volatile border with Syria, in western Anbar province and around the city of Kirkuk  areas that have seen an uptick in militant activity."I\'m not going to speculate on anything that could or would happen," coalition spokesman Col. Ryan Dillon said when asked if there is concern that a change in government could affect the U.S.-led coalition\'s presence in Iraq."We are here at the invitation of the government of Iraq to support their operation to defeat Daesh, and we\'ll continue to do so as long as we are invited," he said, referring to IS by an Arabic acronym.
JERUSALEM   A leading Israel human rights group urged Israeli forces in a rare step Wednesday to disobey open-fire orders unless Gaza protesters pose an imminent threat to soldiers\' lives.B\'Tselem said the appeal is a last-ditch attempt to prevent more bloodshed on the volatile Gaza-Israel border.Nineteen Palestinians have been killed by Israeli fire in Gaza since last Friday, including 14 in border protests. More large demonstrations are expected along the border this Friday.B\'Tselem has never before called on soldiers to refuse orders, but believes firing on Palestinians who pose no imminent threat to the lives of Israeli forces is "manifestly illegal," said spokesman Amit Gilutz."As long as soldiers in the field continue to receive orders to use live fire against unarmed civilians, they are duty-bound to refuse to comply," the group said.The Israeli military has said its tough response is justified because the protests were organized by Hamas, an Islamic militant group sworn to Israel\'s destruction.It said soldiers only targeted "instigators" who burned tires or threw stones and firebombs toward the border fence. The military accused Hamas of using the large crowds as cover to carry out attacks.In one instance, a pair of gunmen approached the border, and the army said protesters also tried to plant explosives along the fence in several instances.But in other incidents, some caught on video, those shot appeared to have been unarmed and not actively involved in violence at the time they were struck.B\'Tselem said that while Israel has the right to defend its border, it is still bound by international norms for the use of live fire. The group said that simply approaching the fence, and even damaging it, does not provide grounds for using lethal force, and that Israel had other options for dispersing the crowds."The provisions limit its use to instances involving tangible and immediate mortal danger, and only in the absence of any other alternative," the group said. "Israel cannot simply decide that it is not bound by these rules."Israel\'s military is the country\'s most respected institution, and such criticism, even from a dovish group, is relatively rare. B\'Tselem said it would be publishing newspaper ads and take other steps to publicize its campaign.The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment.But the country\'s defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman, said Tuesday that the military will not change its tactics and warned that anyone who approaches the border is risking his life. The tough comments raised the possibility of more bloodshed this Friday, when another mass protest is expected.On Wednesday, the head of the Arab League called on the International Criminal Court in The Hague to investigate the deaths of Palestinians killed in Gaza since Friday. Ahmed Aboul-Gheit also said he supports a call by U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for an independent investigation of the events on the border.Hamas is organizing six weeks of on-and-off border protests in what it says is a campaign to draw attention to a crippling border blockade.Both Israel and Egypt have maintained a blockade since Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007 in an attempt to weaken the militant group. But the measures have devastated Gaza\'s economy, while failing to oust Hamas.Israel said Wednesday it has arrested 10 Palestinians suspected of planning an attack against a navy ship off the Gaza coast.The Shin Bet security service said the interrogation of the cell\'s alleged leader revealed a plan to send a decoy boat from Gaza to distract the navy ship while another would fire a rocket at it. The plan called for militants to then try to abduct wounded sailors and keep them as bargaining chips for future prisoner swaps.Amin Jamaa was being indicted Wednesday at a court in southern Israel.The Shin Bet identified him and his cohorts as members of the Islamic Jihad militant group and said they were abusing the easing of Israeli restrictions on Gaza fisherman to collect intelligence on Israel\'s naval operations along the coast."This is proof of the true intentions of the terror groups in Gaza who are trying to hide their murderous plans by staging provocations along our border whose sole purpose is to provide cover for terrorists to carry out their attacks against Israel," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said.Daoud Shehab, an Islamic Jihad spokesman, said he had no information about the Israeli announcement but that his group was involved in "open confrontation" against it."It\'s also our right to look for suitable ways to force Israel to release Palestinian prisoners," he added.Protests are planned to continue until May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel\'s founding. The date is mourned by Palestinians as their "nakba," or "catastrophe," when hundreds of thousands were uprooted in the 1948 Mideast war over Israel\'s creation. Most of Gaza\'s 2 million people are descendants of Palestinian refugees.
MELBOURNE, Australia  In pockets of suburbia all across Australia, electronic gambling machines known as pokies await their many customers in pubs, hotels and sports clubs, as common a fixture as A.T.M.s in a shopping mall.But the unremarkable machines contribute to an extraordinary level of gambling. Government statistics show that they account for more than half of individual Australians annual gambling losses, a gargantuan 24 billion Australian dollars, or about $18.4 billion. On a per-capita basis, Australians lose far and away the most in the world: more than 1,200 Australian dollars every year (or $920). Australias gambling losses per adult are more than double those in the United States, and around 50 percent higher than second-placed Singapore, according to H2 Gambling Capital, an analytics company.As those figures swell, a public war is brewing between venue operators and people against gambling, with each trying to win the hearts and minds of state governments that rely on revenue from the machines.Known colloquially as pokies, the electronic gaming machines are similar to slot machines seen in casinos elsewhere. Pokies arent the only major form of gambling in Australia  casinos account for around 20 percent of gambling losses here  but they remain by far the most profitable for operators and most damaging for gamblers, gaming opponents say. And they permeate small towns with a prominence that is unmatched around the world.What makes Australia unique is that weve allowed these machines to be embedded in our local communities, said Angela Rintoul, a research fellow at the Australian Gambling Research Center, a government-financed organization. We havent contained them just to casinos, where many jurisdictions in the world have.In Australia, the pubs, clubs and hotels that house the machines usually resemble typical English pubs, replete with a bar and dining area but with the addition of a dedicated gaming room.Often, Australians dont realize it, she said of the ubiquity of the machines. Its like being a fish in water.Their operators are often prominent community entities: Woolworths, one of Australias largest supermarket chains, is the biggest operator of pokies in the country, controlling about 12,000 machines through its majority stake in the Australian Leisure and Hospitality Group, a large company that encompasses bars, restaurants and wagering.Though the Woolworths Group doesnt distinguish liquor sales from gambling revenues in its annual report, estimates suggest that it pulls more than 1 billion Australian dollars, or $770 million, in revenue from the machines each year.Other community mainstays also operate machines. In Victoria, the heartland of Australian Rules Football, 90 percent of Australian Football League teams operate their own pokies, generating more than 93 million Australian dollars in revenue last year.Pokies are regulated on a state-by-state basis, instead of by the federal government. Western Australia is the only state or territory that bans the operation of pokies outside casinos.State budgets are increasingly made up of revenues from the machines, and legalized gambling, including from pokies, accounted for 7.7 percent of total tax revenues for Australian states and territories in 2016. In some parts of Australia, gamers can deposit 7,500 Australian dollars into a machine in one transaction, and can lose more than a thousand dollars per hour.A study conducted by Dr. Rintoul comparing two regions outside Melbourne found that the less wealthy one had twice as many pokie machines, and more than three times the per capita losses.The people who can least afford to be losing large sums of money are losing the most, she said.Dr. Rintoul described the casino-like methods used by venues to maximize revenue, including rewarding patrons with free food and drinks, and hiring part-time models as wait staff.A visit to one gaming floor at a venue in Sunshine, the region Dr. Rintouls study focused on, revealed a busy gaming floor one recent Wednesday night. Gamblers placed RESERVED signs under their machines of choice, which Dr. Rintoul said reflected how frequent gamblers come to relate to the machines: picking favorites, and believing that a particular one can get hot or due for a win.A few hours later, in Balaclava, a suburb on the opposite side of Melbourne, patrons filled the gaming room at an Australian Leisure and Hospitality Group venue open until 6 a.m. A large Woolworths supermarket across the road keeps foot traffic in the area high.We regularly had people tell us that they often ended up in a gambling venue even when they werent intending to gamble when they left the house, Dr. Rintoul said.In February, Andrew Wilkie, an independent Australian politician, published leaked documents from two whistle-blowers at Australian Leisure and Hospitality revealing that the company had been secretly collecting data on frequent gamblers, including their favorite sporting teams, their relationship statuses and when they had the most money to spend.Gordon Cairns, the chairman of Woolworths, said that the company was very concerned about the revelations and that the matter was being reviewed by external auditors.In a country that has confronted other powerful industries by mandating graphic warnings on cigarette packages and cracking down on guns, some wonder why gambling has escaped tougher regulation. Critics say politicians are increasingly afraid to confront the growing influence of the gambling lobby.The Rev. Tim Costello, a spokesman for the Alliance for Gambling Reform, compares pro-gambling bodies to the National Rifle Association in the United States in their ability to sway politicians.Australians, he said, say Americans have a blind spot on guns.Here, we have a blind spot on pokies, he added.Pro-gambling groups frequently refer to Mr. Costello and other gambling opponents as prohibitionists, and are quick to point to support services they have developed for frequent gamers. They also argue that tighter regulation of pokies would lead to huge job losses at the venues that operate them.The groups have increasingly flexed their muscles in state elections. Anti-gambling candidates who ran in Tasmania and South Australia this year faced a barrage of negative advertising from pro-gambling bodies.In the run-up to the South Australian election, the Australian Hotels Association  which counts Australian Leisure and Hospitality as a member  donated to several opponents of Nick Xenophon, an independent whose new party, S.A.-BEST, vowed to cut in half the number of pokies per venue, and institute smaller betting limits. After positive early campaign polling, Mr. Xenophon and his party ultimately failed to win a single lower-house seat. It was the first election loss of Mr. Xenophons 20-year career.How much influence they wield, its unhealthy, said Frank Pangello, Mr. Xenophons media adviser in the recent election.They bought an election in Tasmania, they bought one in South Australia, Mr. Pangello added. Theyre like the N.R.A. in America: You take them on, theyll crush you.The Australian Leisure and Hospitality Group declined to comment for this article or discuss whether it spent money on the Tasmanian and South Australian state elections. The hotels group did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Costello said that with governments so dependent on gambling revenues, it may be difficult to pass tighter regulation of pokies.The states are Dracula in charge of the blood bank, he said.
To paraphrase Gloria Swanson, the pictures keep getting smaller. Netflix threatens to move the movie business onto our television screens and laptops. Film attendance in the United States is at its lowest level in 23 years. Only the occasional superhero makes real money.But dont tell that to the intrepid programmers of New York, who somehow keep the citys multiplexes, art houses, archives, film societies and cultural centers awash in festivals and specialty series. Fighting the twin tides of online streaming and comic-book blockbusters, theyre the real heart of the New York moviegoing experience. As a snapshot of their efforts, were highlighting one film from each of nine festivals or series taking place in the city this month alone.Havana Film Festival New York, Indestructible: The Soul of SalsaThe Spanish flamenco singer Diego el Cigala, known for blending European and Afro-Cuban traditions, travels to Havana; San Juan, P.R.; Miami; New York; and Cali, Colombia, to talk about the past and (shaky) present of salsa, perform with collaborators like Gonzalo Rubalcaba and the Fania All-Stars, and perhaps snare some of the Buena Vista Social Club audience. Typical of its genre, this celebratory documentary balances infomercial tendencies with potent nostalgia and infectious music. April 11 and 13, AMC Loews 34th Street. Fashion in Film, Voyage to the End of the UniverseThree years before Star Trek, five years before 2001: A Space Odyssey and nine years before Solaris, the Ikarie XB-1 set out to find life in the Alpha Centauri system. This 1963 Czech rarity, based on a novel by (who else) Stanislaw Lem, presents space travel as a contemplative affair punctuated by swinging cocktail dances. Crises along the way include an encounter with a ghost ship carrying that 20th-century blight, nuclear weapons. And the sets and costumes, dating from a brilliant period in Eastern European design, are groovy. April 22, Museum of the Moving Image.Kino!, When Paul Came Over the SeaFilming among migrants camped in the Moroccan forest outside the Spanish enclave of Melilla, the German filmmaker Jakob Preuss meets Paul Ren Nkamani, a smart, personable Cameroonian who educates him about the lives of the Africans desperately trying to enter Europe. Thus begins a partnership in which the unofficial rules of documentary-making, as well as the immigration laws of several European countries, are sorely tested. The result is educational, problematic, occasionally tense and consistently buoyant, a quality thats not abundant in this annual festival of new German films. April 8-9, Landmark at 57 West. Kazuo Miyagawa: Japans Greatest Cinematographer, The Rickshaw ManMiyagawas credits read like the greatest hits of classic Japanese cinema  this collaboration between the Museum of Modern Art and Japan Society includes Ozus Floating Weeds, Mizoguchis Street of Shame and Sansho the Bailiff, Kurosawas Rashomon and Ichikawas Odd Obsession, some in new restorations. One of the lesser-known entries is this 1943 work by Hiroshi Inagaki starring the silent-film legend Tsumasaburo Bando as an illiterate, exuberant brawler and rickshaw puller who becomes a father figure to the son of a young widow. (Inagakis own remake, starring Toshiro Mifune, won top prize at the Venice Film Festival in 1958.) Its an engaging melodrama with an interesting take on class divisions and hypermasculine cultural norms. April 14, Japan Society.Beyond Morricone: Piero Piccioni and Friends, The 10th VictimAnthology Film Archives eclectic celebration of post-World War II Italian film composers goes high (Jean-Luc Godards Contempt, Francesco Rosis Salvatore Giuliano) and low (Emilio P. Miraglias The Night Evelyn Came Out of the Grave). In between is this startlingly prescient 1965 satire directed by Elio Petri and scored by Piccioni. Ursula Andress and a blond Marcello Mastroianni play contestants for the million-dollar prize in a televised hunt-to-the-death game, run by a global bureaucracy as a safety valve for humanity. (The game is easiest to play in America, where anyone can shoot where and when they want.) April 15, 19, 21, Anthology Film Archives. The Puppetmaster: The Complete Jiri Trnka,  The HandAn artists studio is continually invaded by a giant hand, which insists on turning all his works into portraits of itself. This despairing 17-minute allegory from 1965  the last film by Trnka, the Czech stop-motion animation pioneer  is a highlight among the 20 shorts and eight features in this series, the first complete retrospective of his work in the United States. April 22 and 25, Walter Reade Theater, Film Society of Lincoln Center.Tribeca Film Festival, O.G.Picking a single film from the Tribeca lineup  96 features alone, plus offerings in television, digital, virtual reality and other media  is a fools errand. Well play it safe and go with Jeffrey Wright, who stars in this unassuming drama as an inmate about to be released from prison, and is joined in the cast by William Fichtner and Mare Winningham. Its the first fictional feature by the documentarian Madeleine Sackler (Dangerous Acts Starring the Unstable Elements of Belarus, The Lottery), and one of 44 of those 96 features directed by women. April 20-22 and 27, various theaters.Mahamat-Saleh Haroun: Modern Griot, A Season in FranceAn eight-film retrospective of the Chadian director of Dry Season and A Screaming Man includes the New York premiere of his most recent feature, the first of his movies set in France (where hes lived for 30 years). Eriq Ebouaney and Bibi Tanga play teachers from the Central African Republic who now work menial jobs in the less picturesque parts of Paris while petitioning for asylum. Mr. Harouns quiet, slice-of-life drama sketches their despair, isolation and wounded pride, which complicates matters with their French girlfriends (Sandrine Bonnaire and Lonie Simaga). April 20, Brooklyn Academy of Music.New Nordic Cinema,  Framing MomAn uncertain Norwegian bride flees to the restroom during her wedding reception and finds an abandoned newborn. Sixteen years later, a surly teenager shows up at her door, looking for her mother. Sara Johnsens comic tear-jerker has a wobbly tone and sketchy plot, but Ruby Dagnall as the girl and Tuva Novotny (Annihilation) as her rescuer are terrific. April 11 and 13, Scandinavia House.
LIVERPOOL, England  They started arriving in the late afternoon, three hours before kickoff. They filled every spare inch of space they could find. When there was no room left on the ground, they clambered up traffic signal poles and scurried onto walls.Where Arkles Road turns into Anfield Road and Liverpools stadium suddenly looms up into the sky, they unfurled their banners and draped their flags, and they sang their songs.Two hours earlier, they had set off so many flares and smoke bombs already that the smell of cordite was wafting down Lower Breck Road, half a mile from the stadium, and the sky seemed to have been dyed red, as if something was burning.Then, a little over an hour before the opening whistle, their moment came. First, Manchester Citys team bus turned the corner and began its slow, nervous progression toward Anfield, guarded by mounted police. Thick red smoke clogged the air. Firecrackers exploded. Pyrotechnics sputtered into life, their sodium light cutting through the fog. Bottles and beer cans flew, a handful clattering off the sides of the bus. And from the top of the traffic signals and the walls came a wave of sound, a war cry.Then there were a couple of minutes of peace, before Liverpools bus came trundling through. More smoke, more flames, more noise, but celebratory this time  jubilant, a hymn of praise.It lasted no more than a couple of minutes: then the bus, and the players it contained, disappeared into the peace of the stadium. The job was done. The flags came down and the flares sputtered out. The electricity, though, remained.Ever since Liverpool was drawn against Manchester City for the quarterfinals of the Champions League, those few minutes, long before the start of the game, had been the focus of intense debate, a convenient shorthand for what seemed to be the great unknown in the two-game tie.City is clearly technically superior to Liverpool: Its position atop the Premier League, where it may be crowned champion as soon as this weekend, is conclusive proof of that.But Pep Guardiolas City squad is not yet as emotionally wedded to the Champions League as Liverpools is. It does not have the weight of history in European soccer behind it. It has not yet accrued immunity to the sort of atmosphere, the high-stakes hostility, that this competition can generate, in certain places at least. How it coped under the lights and in the bear pit of Anfield, the theory ran, would decide how the tie would go, and the test would start on the corner of Arkles and Anfield Road.Not that City was especially happy about that. The club expressed concern to the Merseyside Police, the local constabulary, about the risk of disobedience. But rather than cancel the welcome, the police decided to reroute it, in the hope of controlling it.It did not work. Those projectiles did enough damage to the bus that City had to call for a replacement for the ride home. The original, Guardiola said, was destroyed, and in no condition to make the journey of about an hour back to Manchester. Jrgen Klopp, Liverpools manager, immediately apologized for the behavior of a handful of his teams fans, and the club released a condemnatory statement, too. The police said they would comb through video footage to identify the perpetrators.In that context, it would be wrong to romanticize those few minutes, to shrug off a few smashed windows as a price worth paying for a decent bit of noise at a soccer game.Similarly, it would be inaccurate to portray it as a spontaneous, organic expression of an inherently superior fan culture. These welcomes are common in Europe  Real Madrid often sees much larger crowds greet its arrival to Champions League games  and, as ever, there were far more with cameras recording the event than partaking of it; this is 2018, after all, where everything that might be shared is in some way performative. It was the same on the bus: the players, inside, were on their phones, filming the people filming them outside.But that does not justify the scorn the display generated, particularly in the anticipation of it. Soccer is now too scientific, too professional, too driven by the quantifiable for the actions of fans to count for anything, ran one strand of logic: The players are deaf to the jeers, inured to intimidation.Besides, went another, the fabled Anfield atmosphere has faded in recent years. This Manchester City team has been to Naples, to San Paolo. It has played in the Bernabu, Camp Nou and the Allianz Arena in Munich. Anfield would hold no fears, no matter how many gathered on the corner of Arkles Road.Correlation is not causation, but it would be foolish to separate the atmosphere on Wednesday night from the outcome. Manchester City, the best team in England and perhaps in Europe, crumbled, losing by 3-0, swept aside by Liverpool in a breathtaking first half and then resisted in a tense, anxious second.Guardiola scotched the idea that his team might have been affected by the atmosphere  it was good to live a Champions League game at Anfield, he said  but it certainly looked a little like that. Strange things happen at this stadium in this competition: Thomas Tuchel said as much after Borussia Dortmund lost here in the Europa League two years ago. It was as though the crowd knew what was going to happen, he said.City did all it could to stifle the noise, forcing Liverpool to play toward the Kop in the first half, rather than the second, and then spending the first few minutes in calm possession of the ball, hoping to quiet the crowd.None of it worked. Anfield crackled all night. It roared Liverpool on as it attacked, again and again, in the 15- or 20-minute spell that Guardiola later said cost his team the game, and it lifted the team up as it rocked back on its heels in the second half, desperately keeping City at bay.That, surely, is why fans go to games and sing, and shout, and sometimes scream: in the belief that it has some intangible effect on their team, and the opposition.And that it worked  or appeared to work, for now  is, in a way, heartening. Soccer is indeed more scientific now, more coolly professional, more dismissive of the intangible. Anfield, on one night only, offered a reminder that, sometimes, the chaos takes over, that everything is up for grabs, and that the obvious and the logical does not have to happen. That is why they gathered, hours before kickoff, where Arkles Road meets Anfield Road: to do all they could.
Fifty years ago, Senator Robert F. Kennedy climbed onto the back of a flatbed truck to deliver the news to a largely African-American crowd in Indianapolis that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had been assassinated.Kennedy was running for the Democratic nomination for president, but he scrapped his prepared remarks after hearing that King had been killed on April 4, 1968.In their place, he delivered a largely improvised speech that might have become a footnote to history had the tumult of 1968 not soon taken his life, too.Tensions were running high that night in Indianapolis. The first three months of the year had been turbulent, and the year before had been a violent one. Days earlier, faced with growing dissent over the war in Vietnam, President Johnson had shocked the nation with an announcement that he would not seek re-election, leaving the Democratic field open.The authorities in Indiana had warned Kennedy not to address the crowd. But he did.The audience gasped and wailed in anguish at the news that King had been killed. Then, in an emotionally frank speech, Kennedy eulogized the civil rights leader, called for an end to violence and social injustice and addressed, for the first time in public, the assassination of his brother President John F. Kennedy five years earlier.For those of you who are black and are tempted to be filled with hatred and distrust at the injustice of such an act, against all white people, I can only say that I feel in my own heart the same kind of feeling, Kennedy said. I had a member of my family killed, but he was killed by a white man.[Read and listen: Robert F. Kennedys speech in Indianapolis.]Kennedys speech on the death of King has been credited with defusing tensions in Indianapolis, which was one of the American cities that did not see riots that night.Look at all those other cities, William Crawford, a member of the Black Radical Action Project who was there, told The Indianapolis Star in 2015. I believe it would have gone that way had not Bobby Kennedy given those remarks.The sincerity of Bobby Kennedys words just resonated especially when he talked about his brother, he said.The speech has also been hailed as one of the great political orations of the late 20th century, as much for what Kennedy said as for the tense environment in which he said it.It was really that he went there, thats the most remarkable thing, said David Margolick, the author of The Promise and the Dream: The Untold Story of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy.[Read more: David Margolick on The Power of Bobby Kennedys Eulogy for Martin Luther King]There was no other American politician remotely in sight who could have done that, Mr. Margolick said. He was the only white man who had the credibility and the courage to go into the black community and talk about Martin Luther King and acknowledge what he represented and mourn for him.Kennedys progressive politics and history of personal tragedy were the source of that credibility. Richard Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, said Kennedys rare reference to his brother helped give him standing to then deliver this powerful message of racial reconciliation.Kennedys speech that night was a plea for compassion and a rallying cry against the spiral of enmity and violence that had torn at the country for much of that decade, but its impact was limited.Indianapolis remained calm that night, but riots tore through dozens of other cities. Those in Washington, D.C., devastated large parts of downtown, which remained damaged for decades.Kennedys daughter, Kerry, and Representative John J. Lewis commemorated the speech on Wednesday morning in Indianapolis.The drumbeat of unrest continued unabated for the rest of the year. Just 68 days after Kings death, Kennedy himself was shot by an assassin in Los Angeles soon after winning the California Democratic primary. He died the next day, on June 6, 1968.Kings assassination was a shocking blow to the country and, coupled with the murder of Kennedy just two months later, was seen by many as a violent end to an idealistic time.When the two of them were assassinated we lost leaders who were articulating a very different path for American liberalism and for America as a whole, Mr. Kahlenberg said. He said both leaders had argued that we should look for common ground among black and white people who are struggling economically.King was buried in Atlanta and his remains were moved to a tomb on the grounds of the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, a memorial and nonprofit education center founded in 1968 by his widow, Coretta.[Read more: How The Times covered Kennedys speech on Kings death.]Kennedy was buried at Arlington National Cemetery near his brother. A memorial installed on the site in 1971 includes passages from his improvised speech in Indianapolis on the night that King was killed:
KHUZAA, Gaza Strip   Palestinian activists chanted "death is better than humiliation" as three-wheelers stacked with old tires drove into a tent camp in a barley field near Gaza\'s border. The tires are to be burned at a mass protest on Friday, in hopes clouds of black smoke will shield demonstrators from Israeli snipers.For some of the young Gaza men hanging around the camp, the chant wasn\'t just rousing hyperbole. They have been throwing stones and burning tires near the border in recent days, despite new warnings by Israel\'s defense minister that anyone getting too close to the fence risks getting killed.It\'s not an idle threat  19 people were killed by Israeli fire since last Friday, including 14 in border protests, and many more were wounded.Nahed Qudih, a 17-year-old high school student, said he has nothing to lose by joining his peers in the seemingly futile and dangerous act of running toward armed soldiers who fire from behind a fence, some perched on high earthen berms providing cover."If I was wounded or became a martyr, my family would be proud," he said.Qudih\'s family would like to see him realize his dream of becoming an engineer, but "not an idle engineer," he said, referring to bleak job prospects amid rising Gaza unemployment, now at 48 percent, according to the Palestinian statistics bureau.Such desperation has helped drive what Gaza\'s Islamic militant Hamas rulers hope will be several weeks of border protests, with the largest crowds expected on Fridays.The idea was initially floated by social media activists, but has since been coopted by Hamas, with the backing of smaller militant factions.Employing its organizational prowess, Hamas set up five tent camps near border points as a magnet for protesters, offering bus shuttles and monitoring developments from an operations room.For Hamas, it\'s perhaps the last chance to break a Gaza border blockade enforced by Israel and Egypt since seizing the territory from its rival, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, in 2007.The blockade has devastated Gaza\'s economy, made it virtually impossible for people to enter and exit the territory and left residents with just a few hours of electricity a day. Tap water is undrinkable and the Mediterranean coastline has been polluted with untreated waste.Other blockade-busting tactics by Hamas have failed over the years, including three cross-border wars with Israel and repeated rounds of unsuccessful power-sharing talks with the West Bank-based Abbas. The last round collapsed last month, in part because Hamas refused to disarm.Hamas leaders have billed the final protest, set for May 15, as the "Great March of Return" of Palestinian refugees and their descendants, implying they would try to enter Israeli territory. But they have stopped short of specifically threatening a mass breach of the border fence.It\'s a risky plan.Three senior Hamas official said the group wants to avoid another devastating war with Israel, but border tensions could quickly escalate  especially if Israel makes good on threats to target Hamas positions deeper inside Gaza unless the protests stop.The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were discussing confidential strategy, acknowledged they don\'t have a Plan B if the blockade remains in place after May 15.At a minimum, Hamas hopes to draw international attention to Gaza and improve leverage if Egypt brokers a new round of talks with Abbas, the officials said. In a sign that the pressure is working, the Egyptian intelligence met with Abbas this week to try to prevent a Gaza escalation.Israel has accused Hamas, which it considers a terrorist group, of cynically exploiting Gaza\'s civilians for its political gains by sending them to the dangerous border area.It argues that it has a right to defend its border, alleging that Hamas used last week\'s protest as cover for trying to damage the border fence, plant explosives and, in one incident, fire on soldiers. Military officials believe Hamas is encouraging people to break through the border.Israel has rejected criticism of open-fire orders that allowed soldiers last Friday to target the "main instigators" of protests and those approaching the fence. Rights groups have said firing at protesters who don\'t pose an imminent threat to the lives of soldiers is "blatantly unlawful."Israel argues that Hamas could have ended the suffering of Gaza\'s 2 million people by disarming and renouncing violence. Hamas has refused to give up its weapons  even at the cost of derailing talks on getting Abbas to assume the burden of governing Gaza, a prerequisite for opening Gaza\'s borders.Critics say the closure policy has backfired by largely harming Gaza civilians, while leaving Hamas solidly in control. They also accuse Israel of using the blockade to advance political aims, such as deepening a separation of Gaza from the West Bank, both sought for a future Palestinian state.In a protest camp near the village of Khuzaa in central Gaza, about 500 meters (yards) from the border fence, organizers were busy preparing for the next round of marches.Musab al-Qasas, 26, unemployed and supervising tire collection Tuesday, said the protests gave him and his friends a sense of purpose. He said he has been injured twice in protests near the border since President Donald Trump recognized contested Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital in December.Al-Qasas said desperation over bleak job prospects and economic hardship isn\'t the sole motive for continuing to risk his life. "I love my homeland and I\'m ready to sacrifice for it," he said.Israel has alleged that the protests are led by militant groups, saying at least 11 of those killed belonged to armed factions, including two who opened fire on Israeli soldiers Friday.Organizers have portrayed those affiliated with militant groups as fellow protesters who left weapons and faction insignia at home.By sunset Tuesday, thousands of people, including families with children, had flocked to the Khuzaa encampment, which has become a center of nightly entertainment.Patriotic songs played over loudspeakers, and people performed folk dances in small circles. Vendors sold falafel and ice cream. Those who wanted more calm spread their prayer rugs and mats on a drying barley field behind the camp and sat there, sipping coffee and tea they from thermos bottles.The camp was equipped with portable toilets, floodlights and internet service. Earthen berms between the border and the camp provided additional protection. Ambulances were on stand-by to ferry the wounded to hospitals."People come here out of frustration," said Qudih, the high school student. "If the situation is good, you won\'t see anybody here."___Associated Press writer Mohammed Daraghmeh in Ramallah, West Bank, contributed.
MOSCOW   The international chemical weapons watchdog on Wednesday rejected Russia\'s call for a joint investigation with Britain of the nerve-agent poisonings of an ex-spy and his daughter in England.But Russia said the number of countries that abstained from the vote suggested many have doubts about Britain\'s allegations that Moscow was behind the attack and now plans to take its denials of involvement to the U.N. Security Council.Britain said Russia\'s proposal for a joint investigation received only six votes at a special session of the executive council of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The council has representatives from 41 countries.Russia requested the session in The Hague, Netherlands, to push its repeated rejection of Britain\'s claim that Moscow orchestrated the poisonings of Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia. The British government has invited experts from OPCW to help identify the substance that sickened the Skripals on March 4."The purpose of Russia\'s ludicrous proposal at The Hague was clear  to undermine the independent, impartial work of the international chemical weapons watchdog," British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said in a statement.Russia\'s OPCW envoy Alexander Shulgin said the 17 abstentions from Wednesday\'s vote meant "more than half of the members of the executive council refused to support the U.S. and U.K. position."The United States and more than two dozen British allies have expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity over the attack. Moscow has responded in kind.Russia\'s U.N. ambassador called for an open meeting Thursday of the U.N. Security Council about the case. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia made the request at the end of his speech Wednesday to a council meeting on chemical weapons in Syria.Russia requested the Security Council meeting because it shares the principle that the use of chemical weapons "is not acceptable and must be investigated and perpetrators punished," Nebenzia said.Kuwait\'s U.N. ambassador, Mansour Al-Otaibi, told reporters the meeting is scheduled at 3 p.m. EDT Thursday.At the special meeting in The Hague, Russia and Britain traded accusations of duplicity and untrustworthiness.The British envoy said that a joint investigation, as proposed by Russia, would force "a victim to engage the likely perpetrator.""To do so would be perverse," acting U.K. Permanent Representative John Foggo said, adding that Moscow\'s demand showed "disdain."But Russia complained that Britain\'s work with the agency has lacked transparency."Russia, as well as other states that are members of the executive committee, have been pushed aside from this investigation," Shulgin told reporters."They tell us that they can inform us of the results of this investigation ... only with the good will of Great Britain," Shulgin said. "But, knowing how our so-called partners have conducted themselves, we are not going to count on their good will."The United States and many of Britain\'s European allies have supported the U.K. in assigning blame for the poisonings to Russia. Moscow has worked strenuously to undermine the allegation and pressured Britain to provide evidence backing its claim that Russia was responsible.A spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry said Wednesday that Britain needed to provide information about the pets that lived in Sergei Skripal\'s house in Salisbury, England.Wednesday that Russia has reliable information that there were pets in the Salisbury residence of Sergei Skripal."Where are the pets? What is their condition?" ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said. "This is about living creatures, and if a toxic chemical agent was indeed used in their house, these living creatures should have been hurt."The chief of Britain\'s defense research lab, the Porton Down laboratory, acknowledged Tuesday it has not been able to pinpoint the precise source of the nerve agent.Gary Aitkenhead said scientists there identified the substance used on Sergei and Yulia Skripal as a Soviet-developed nerve agent known as Novichok. But he added "it\'s not our job to say where that was actually manufactured."The British government says it relied on a combination of scientific analysis and other intelligence to conclude that the nerve agent came from Russia.Britain is standing by its assessment, but the Foreign Office on Wednesday deleted a tweet from last month saying Porton Down scientists had identified the substance as "made in Russia."Still, Russian President Vladimir Putin had quickly seized on Aitkenhead\'s comments as proof that British accusations against Russia were baseless. He noted that at least 20 other nations now have the capacity to produce Novichok.Asked Wednesday if Russia expects an apology from Britain, Putin said "we are not expecting anything like that.""We are just expecting reason to prevail so that international relations don\'t sustain damage like what we have seen recently," he said after a summit in Ankara, Turkey."This not only concerns the assassination attempt on Skripal, but also all other aspects of international relations," he said. "We need to work within the framework of sound political processes, founded on fundamental norms of international law, and this will make the world a more stable and predictable place."Skripal, a former Russian military intelligence officer, was convicted of in Russia of spying for Britain. He was released from a Russian prison as part of a spy swap with the West.His poisoning has plunged relations between the West and Russia to their lowest ebb since the Cold War.In Moscow, Russia\'s spymaster claimed U.K. and U.S. intelligence agencies "staged" the attack.Sergei Naryshkin, director of Russia\'s Foreign Intelligence Service, said the poisoning was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies."Meanwhile the 28-nation European Union, of which Britain is still a member, lamented Moscow\'s refusal to give information to Britain that would shed light on who wanted to kill Skripal."Instead, we witnessed a flood of insinuations" targeting several EU member states, envoy Krassimir Kostov of Bulgaria said at the meeting in The Hague.  Bulgaria currently holds the EU\'s rotating presidency,___Raf Casert in Brussels, Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations, Nataliya Vasilyeva in Moscow, and Jill Lawless and Danica Kirka in London contributed.


BEIRUT   The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):6:35 p.m.U.S. President Donald Trump the past week has spoken of pulling out of Syria "very soon." But American forces have been setting up new front-line positions outside the strategic northern town of Manbij, west of the Euphrates River.The area is the scene of a tense standoff where U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces who hold Manbij face Turkish-backed Syrian fighters. Turkey has vowed to retake Manbij and other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border; the U.S. troops stationed here are a key reason why they are holding back.The U.S.-led coalition in Syria had said there are no U.S. bases in the area and that U.S. patrols were not static. There was no immediate comment from the coalition Wednesday.___5:35 p.m.The leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran have urged the international community to provide more aid for war-ravaged Syria.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Russian President Vladimir Putin called for bigger humanitarian aid supplies, as well as assistance in clearing land mines and aid to help restore the destroyed infrastructure.Speaking after Wednesday\'s summit in Ankara, Erdogan pointed at the EU\'s failure to deliver 3 billion euros in assistance he said it promised for helping restore Syria\'s north. He added that Turkey will continue to invest its own funds in rebuilding Syria.Putin also issued a strong call on other nations to participate more actively in Syria\'s restauration efforts.___5:20 p.m.The leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran say they stand against "separatist" agendas that would undermine Syria\'s sovereignty and territorial integrity.In a joint statement released at the end of their summit meeting in Ankara, Russia\'s Vladimir Putin, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Turkey\'s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday they "rejected all attempts to create new realities on the ground under the pretext of combating terrorism."They reaffirmed their commitment to working toward achieving cease-fires between conflicting parties in Syria and emphasized commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Syria.The statement said the countries reaffirmed determination to continue cooperation " in order to ultimately eliminate" the Islamic State group and other entities associated with al Qaida.The leaders said their next summit meeting would take place in Iran.___5:15  p.m.Iran\'s President Hassan Rouhani says the United States\' pullout from Syria is an excuse for soliciting money from countries that want them to remain there.During a trilateral summit with Turkish and Russian Presidents, Rouhani said: "One day they say they want to pull out of Syria ..., then it turns out that they are craving money. They have told Arab countries to give them money to remain in Syria."___4:40 p.m.The United Nations says up to 100,000 people have returned to the Syrian city of Raqqa after a devastating air campaign by a U.S.-led coalition to drive out Islamic State group fighters.Jan Egeland of the U.N. Syria envoy\'s office estimated Wednesday another 100,000 are waiting outside Raqqa to return. He recounted findings of a Sunday visit by a 25-member U.N. team to Raqqa, the first of its kind since the city was freed in October.Egeland said team members described devastation "even worse" than in Homs and Aleppo, cities that were recaptured by Russian-backed Syrian government forces.Local leaders say 70 percent of Raqqa\'s buildings are destroyed or damaged and the city is riddled with unexploded bombs, grenades, and explosive traps set by IS.___3:40 p.m.Syrian state-run media says a Syrian rebel group has released five prisoners as part of a deal with the government and its Russian backers over surrendering their town in eastern Ghouta.Syrian TV says the release of the five  four women and a man  is part of "efforts by the Syrian government to secure the release of all prisoners in Douma."The five had been abducted by the Army of Islam rebel group in Ghouta in 2013 along with many other civilians, it said.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed Wednesday\'s release. It says the rebel group, which has been accused of abducting human rights activists and others, has several thousand prisoners.Some rebels from the group have started exiting Douma as part of the agreement.___11:45 a.m.The Russian military says it expects a rebel evacuation from the suburbs of the Syrian capital to be completed in the coming days.The Russian Defense Ministry and Syrian rebels struck a deal on Sunday for the Army of Islam, the biggest opposition group in the Damascus suburbs of eastern Ghouta, to leave the area for the rebel-controlled north.Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy of the Russian General Staff told a conference on Wednesday that the rebels are still leaving the town of Douma, but he expects the evacuation to wrap up in the coming days.The Defense Ministry said earlier Wednesday that more than 3,000 rebels and their family members have evacuated Douma since Sunday.The evacuation comes after a blistering five-week government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds of people and caused catastrophic damage in the besieged suburbs.___10 a.m.The leaders of Russia, Iran and Turkey are meeting in the Turkish capital for talks on Syria\'s future.The leaders are expected to reaffirm their commitment to Syria\'s territorial integrity and the continuation of local cease-fires when they meet Wednesday.The three countries have been working to try and resolve the conflict, which is now in its seventh year. Russia and Iran have provided crucial support to President Bashar Assad\'s forces, while Turkey has backed the rebels seeking to overthrow him.They have sponsored a series talks in the Kazakh capital, Astana, and have set up "de-escalation zones" aimed at reducing the fighting.
Nancy Shipley was working in a news office in Nashville, Tennessee, when the call came 50 years ago. Gene Herrick was in Chicago routing photos to newspapers when his phone rang. Jack Thornell got the call in New Orleans; Kathryn Johnson heard the news in Atlanta.Together, over the next few days, the four helped The Associated Press inform the world about the stunning news that the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. had been assassinated in Memphis, Tennessee.Shipley broke into AP\'s national wire with the original bulletin that King had been shot, and Herrick later stood in the sniper\'s perch to witness the killer\'s view of the hotel balcony where King was slain. Thornell made a heart-wrenching photo of King\'s widow and children standing beside his open coffin; Johnson spent days inside the King family home in Atlanta and greeted another famous widow, Jackie Kennedy, at the door.Here are the stories of four people who helped shape AP\'s coverage of King\'s death in the minutes and days after that lone shot rang out in Memphis:THE BULLETINNancy Shipley was alone writing stories for radio and television stations the evening of April 4, 1968, when AP reporter Doug Stone called from Memphis with word that King had been shot.News flowed slowly before the internet age; teletype machines clacked out stories at 66 words per minute. Shipley first filed that news by ordering a machine operator to break into the AP\'s main national news wire; she later got confirmation from Stone and another AP reporter, Jay Bowles, that King had died."It was frantic in those first few minutes between the confirmation of the shooting and then the confirmation of the death," Shipley, now-retired, said during a recent interview in her home in Dayton, Tennessee.With the initial news out, other reporters returned to the office from dinner and jumped in to help. Shipley took a break."I remember standing up and going into the ladies\' room and just melting into tears," she said. "It was such a sad, stunning moment."Shipley, 75, went on to become a broadcast executive for AP before becoming only the second woman to be named chief of bureau for the news agency. She retired in 1996.A SNIPER\'S PERCHAP photo editor Gene Herrick found a commercial flight from Chicago to Memphis, but still had to talk the pilot into landing  the airport was closed because of martial law.The next morning, Herrick stood outside the low-rent boarding house where police said James Earl Ray fired the fatal shot as King stood on the balcony of the nearby Lorraine Motel. Herrick ascended creaky wooden stairs to the second floor, where Ray had been."It was kind of ominous," Herrick, 91 and retired, said recently in an interview at his home in Rocky Mount, Virginia. "And there was, you know, little old rooms there and one bathroom for the whole floor. And the killer had stood in the bath tub and looked out the window right next to the tub. And that was his view of Martin Luther King on the balcony."Herrick covered the Korean War, and he covered presidents. He also covered King during the early days of his civil rights leadership in Montgomery, Alabama. That memory of standing in the killer\'s perch has stuck with him."It was very strange ... to sit there and just climb into the bath tub and put my arms on the windowsill just like the killer," he said.A GRIEVING FAMILYPointing his camera toward the front of a chapel adorned with flowers, Jack Thornell pressed the shutter. His photograph showed the pain of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination like few others: It was a scene of his widow and children viewing the body of the slain minister in an open wooden casket.It wasn\'t Thornell\'s first landmark photo of the civil rights era. He\'d already won a Pulitzer Prize for a photo made nearly two years earlier of activist James Meredith screaming in pain after he was shot while making a one-person march in Mississippi.But the circumstances of the King photo were different.Thornell, 78, had covered the sanitation worker\'s strike that preceded King\'s assassination in Memphis, and he was later told to rush from New Orleans to Atlanta after the killing. His first assignment was to photograph the family viewing King\'s body at the Spelman College\'s Sisters Chapel, and he was late.Thornell said he dashed around another photographer and climbed atop a pew, clambering toward the casket by stepping over pew after pew. He made that picture of the family but then felt all eyes upon him."I was shaken when I left there. I had my eyes on the floor because I knew everyone was looking at me for my despicable behavior," Thornell said in a recent interview at his home in Kenner, Louisiana. "But I didn\'t leave without the picture.""LET KATHRYN IN"Kathryn Johnson was a young AP reporter in Atlanta when the civil rights movement began, and she wound up on the civil rights beat partly because older, male reporters didn\'t want it.Johnson had been covering King and his wife for years by the time she stood outside their home with other journalists on a rainy night in Atlanta following the assassination. From inside, widow Coretta Scott King called out."Let Kathryn in," she said. That invitation began a remarkable period in which AP was alone in having a reporter with the King family for five days following the killing.Johnson called in details for the funeral plans. She watched TV coverage of the assassination with the family, acted as a chauffeur for King\'s grieving father, cooked breakfast for the family and then greeted former first lady Jackie Kennedy when she arrived on the morning of the funeral."I had an apron on and a towel over my hand and she made a beeline for me and she shook my hand to my astonishment," Johnson said in a recent interview in Atlanta. "To this day, I think she thought I was the King\'s white maid. I was the only white person in the house."Like many white Southerners of her time, Johnson grew up knowing blacks mainly as people who worked around the homes of whites as cooks or yard help. Her work changed that; she came to see the effects of racism and segregation and the nobility of the cause of freedom."It was a life-transforming experience for me," Johnson said.___Associated Press journalists Allen G. Breed in Rocky Mount, Virginia; Robert Ray in Atlanta and Gerald Herbert in Kenner, Louisiana, contributed to this report.___For AP\'s complete coverage marking 50 years since Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
Today in HistoryToday is Wednesday, April 4, the 94th day of 2018. There are 271 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 4, 1968, civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., 39, was shot and killed while standing on a balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee; his slaying was followed by a wave of rioting (Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Chicago were among cities particularly hard hit). Suspected gunman James Earl Ray later pleaded guilty to assassinating King, then spent the rest of his life claiming he\'d been the victim of a setup.On this date:In 1818, Congress decided the flag of the United States would consist of 13 red and white stripes and 20 stars, with a new star to be added for every new state of the Union.In 1841, President William Henry Harrison succumbed to pneumonia one month after his inaugural, becoming the first U.S. chief executive to die in office.In 1859, "Dixie" was performed publicly for the first time by Bryant\'s Minstrels at Mechanics\' Hall in New York.In 1864, President Abraham Lincoln, in a letter to Kentucky newspaper editor Albert G. Hodges, wrote: "I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me."In 1917, the U.S. Senate voted 82-6 in favor of declaring war against Germany (the House followed suit two days later by a vote of 373-50).In 1933, the Navy airship USS Akron crashed in severe weather off the New Jersey coast with the loss of 73 lives.In 1949, 12 nations, including the United States, signed the North Atlantic Treaty in Washington, D.C.In 1958, Johnny Stompanato, an enforcer for crime boss Mickey Cohen and the boyfriend of actress Lana Turner, was stabbed to death by Turner\'s teenage daughter, Cheryl Crane, who said Stompanato had attacked her mother.In 1975, more than 130 people, most of them children, were killed when a U.S. Air Force transport plane evacuating Vietnamese orphans crash-landed shortly after takeoff from Saigon. Microsoft was founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen in Albuquerque, New Mexico.In 1983, the space shuttle Challenger roared into orbit on its maiden voyage. (It was destroyed in the disaster of January 1986.)In 1988, the Arizona Senate convicted Gov. Evan Mecham (MEE\'-kuhm) of two charges of official misconduct, and removed him from office; Mecham was the first U.S. governor to be impeached and removed from office in nearly six decades.In 1991, Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa., and six other people, including two children, were killed when a helicopter collided with Heinz\'s plane over a schoolyard in Merion, Pennsylvania.Ten years ago: Texas authorities started removing the first of more than 400 girls from a compound built by a polygamist sect. Lisa Montgomery was sentenced to death in Kansas City, Missouri, for killing Bobbie Jo Stinnett (STIN\'-net), a mother-to-be, and cutting the surviving baby from her womb. (Montgomery remains on death row.) Pirates seized the French luxury yacht Le Ponant and its 30 crew members off the coast of Somalia. (The crew was released a week later; six alleged pirates ended up being captured.) Beyonce and Jay-Z were married during a private ceremony in New York.Five years ago: Connecticut Gov. Dannel P. Malloy signed into law sweeping new restrictions on weapons and large capacity ammunition magazines similar to the ones used by the young man who gunned down 20 children and six educators in the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre. At least 72 people were killed in the collapse of an eight-story residential building being constructed illegally near Mumbai, India\'s financial capital. Pulitzer Prize-winning film reviewer Roger Ebert, 70, died in Chicago.One year ago: A chemical attack on an opposition-held town in northern Syria left about 100 people dead; a joint investigation team made up of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and U.N. experts concluded that the Syrian government was responsible. A federal appeals court ruled for the first time that the 1964 Civil Rights Act protected LGBT employees from workplace discrimination; the 8-3 decision by the full 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago concerned the case of an Indiana teacher who charged that she wasn\'t hired full-time because she was a lesbian.Today\'s Birthdays: Former Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., is 86. Recording executive Clive Davis is 86. Author Kitty Kelley is 76. Actor Craig T. Nelson is 74. Actor Walter Charles is 73. Actress Christine Lahti is 68. Country singer Steve Gatlin (The Gatlin Brothers) is 67. Actress Mary-Margaret Humes is 64. Writer-producer David E. Kelley is 62. Actress Constance Shulman is 60. Actor Phil Morris is 59. Actress Lorraine Toussaint is 58. Actor Hugo Weaving is 58. Rock musician Craig Adams (The Cult) is 56. Talk show host/comic Graham Norton is 55. Actor David Cross is 54. Actor Robert Downey Jr. is 53. Actress Nancy McKeon is 52. Actor Barry Pepper is 48. Country singer Clay Davidson is 47. Rock singer Josh Todd (Buckcherry) is 47. Singer Jill Scott is 46. Rock musician Magnus Sveningsson (The Cardigans) is 46. Magician David Blaine is 45. Singer Kelly Price is 45. Rhythm-and-blues singer Andre Dalyrimple (Soul For Real) is 44. Country musician Josh McSwain (Parmalee) is 43. Actor James Roday is 42. Actress Natasha Lyonne is 39. Actor Eric Andre is 35. Actress Amanda Righetti is 35. Actress-singer Jamie Lynn Spears is 27. Actress Daniela Bobadilla is 25. Pop singer Austin Mahone (muh-HOHN\') is 22.Thought for Today: "The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy. The true neighbor will risk his position, his prestige and even his life for the welfare of others."  Martin Luther King Jr. (1929-1968).
In the eyes of many of his peers, Alfred W. Crosby was the father of environmental history, and he owed that distinction in large part to his childhood infatuation with Christopher Columbus. He revered him as much as he did his comic strip hero Superman.That fascination led him, as a scholar, to delve into the biological and cultural impact of Columbuss voyages to the Americas. And to purse that investigation he expanded the historians toolkit.In groundbreaking feats of interdisciplinary research, he incorporated studies of biology, ecology, geography and other sciences in his efforts to chronicle and understand human events  work that introduced sweeping explanatory concepts like the Columbian Exchange and ecological imperialism.For historians, Crosby framed a new subject, the historian J. R. McNeil, author of several books on environmental history, wrote.Professor Crosby died at 87 on March 14 on Nantucket island in Massachusetts. His wife, Frances Karttunen, said the cause was complications of Parkinsons disease, which he had lived with for almost 20 years.In The Columbian Exchange: Biological and Cultural Consequences of 1492, a wide-ranging book published in 1972, Professor Crosby examined in pithy, sometimes wry prose how disease had devastated indigenous populations after Columbus landed.He also described a parallel development that transformed global ecology forever: the transoceanic movement of plants and animals, in which Europeans shipped staple crops like wheat, oats and fruit stock along with horses, goats and pigs to the Americas, where they were not known, and transported back to Europe New World cultivars like maize, potatoes and beans.On Oct. 12, 1492, the two worlds on opposite sides of the Atlantic, which were so different, began on that day to become alike, Professor Crosby wrote.That trend toward homogeneity, he concluded, is one of the most important aspects of the history of life on this planet since the retreat of the glaciers.When asked in an interview in 2011 with Smithsonian magazine why his scholarly approach had not been pursued before, he said, We were thinking politically and ideologically, but very rarely were historians thinking ecologically, biologically.He had expanded on that idea in 1994 in Germs, Seeds and Animals: Studies in Ecological History, a collection of essays. He wrote that a venture into epidemiology had led him to a more general subject: ecological history, the history of all organisms pertinent to human history and their (our) environment.Yes, germs were important, he continued, and so, it turned out, were insects, fungi, weeds, crops and domesticated and wild animals. Humanity turned out to be the purposeful but often drunken ringmaster of a three-ring circus of organisms.In 1986, with Ecological Imperialism: The Biological Expansion of Europe, 900-1900, Professor Crosby, in his words, took The Columbian Exchange up another notch in scope and abstraction.In this book he posited the existence of neo-Europes, areas and countries where Europeans settled, especially between 1820 and 1930, after they had leapfrogged across the globe. These settlers became so successful at food production and food export that they easily dominated indigenous cultures and then nearly decimated them.He traced the rise of these neo-Europes to a kind of environmental competition that the invading Europeans won. Flora and fauna native to the Americas were so different from the plants and animals that Europeans brought with them, and so acclimated to specific growing conditions, that they couldnt compete biologically. What Professor Crosby called the companions of the conquistadors conquered as well.At the same time, catastrophically, native peoples increasingly died of diseases, usually smallpox, that had moved from domestic animals to humans. Descendants of the European settlers, by contrast, had acquired immunity.The books had wide impact. The author Charles Manns well-regarded 2011 best-seller, 1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created, was an effort, encouraged by Professor Crosby, to update Ecological Imperialism.Al was an exceptionally independent thinker whose work pioneered half a dozen new genres, Mr. Mann wrote in an email. Scores, if not hundreds of writers  me among them  have scribbled their works in the margins of The Columbian Exchange and Ecological Imperialism. Alfred Worcester Crosby Jr. was born in Boston on Jan. 15, 1931, and grew up in Wellesley, Mass., to Alfred Sr. and the former Ruth Coleman. He graduated from Wellesley High School.He told an interviewer in the journal The Americas in 2015 that comic strip superheroes and historical events like rockets vaulting the English Channel during World War II, and then rockets on their way to the Moon and Mars, had seized his imagination when he was young. But he nevertheless concluded, he said, that Columbus stumbling on an unexpected continent seemed more suitable an object for my focus than even the all-powerful Clark Kent.He graduated from Harvard in 1952 with a degree in history and then served in the Panama Canal Zone as a sergeant in the Army, becoming exposed to a Latin American culture that he had known little about, he said. After the service, he obtained a doctorate in history from Boston University.Professor Crosby taught at the University of Texas in Austin for 22 years and retired in 1999 as professor emeritus of geography, history and American studies.Before that, while teaching at Washington State University, he was involved in a student strike that led to his becoming a co-founder, with the anthropologist Johnetta Cole, of the schools first black studies department. He taught there for 11 years.He also came to know the labor and civil rights leaders Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta when Professor Crosby pitched in to help build a medical center for the United Farm Workers in California.In addition to his wife, Ms. Karttunen, his survivors include his son, Kevin; his daughter, Carolyn Crosby; his stepdaughters, Jaana Karttunen and Suvi Aika; and two grandchildren. His previous marriages, to Anna Bienemann and Barbara Stevens, ended in divorce.Professor Crosbys other books include The Measure of Reality: Quantification and Western Society, 1250-1600 (1997), which he called an essay on the essential characteristic of civilization: mathematics, and Children of the Sun: A History of Humanitys Unappeasable Appetite for Energy (2006).The Columbian Exchange might not have been published at all if Greenwood Press, a small publisher of academic books in Westport, Conn., had not agreed to take it on. Dr. Crosby had found no takers among mainstream publishersIn the preface to The Columbian Exchange, Professor Crosby addressed his interdisciplinary method and what may be considered his scholarly legacy. He expressed hope that the book was an unpretentious one, but I am the first to recognize that historians, geologists, anthropologists, zoologists, botanists and demographers will see me as an amateur in their particular fields.He said he would partly agree with them if they thought so, but he also concluded that although the Renaissance is long past, there is a great need for Renaissance-style attempts at pulling together the discoveries of the specialists to learn what we know, in general, about life on this planet.

TEL AVIV, Israel   Halofom Sultan went from being jailed in his native Eritrea for opposing the oppressive government to detention in Israel, where he is seeking asylum after fleeing for his life.So when Israel\'s prime minister announced a deal with the United Nations on Monday to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants, Sultan was hopeful."There was a little light," he said. But hours later, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu backtracked, canceling the deal and casting Sultan\'s future, and those of thousands of others, once again into uncertainty.Netanyahu\'s stunning reversal was just the latest twist in a policy that has careened from detentions to deportations as Israel struggles with how to deal with the migrants. The country\'s 35,000 African migrants have been at the receiving end of those decisions, and the scrapping of the U.N. deal means they must now wait for the next decree by Israel\'s government to know their fate."It feels like a balloon thrown to the ocean that goes to any direction when the wind blows," the 38-year-old Sultan said. "All the time a new law, a new amendment, changes every time. So I have no clear option or plan or clear vision of what will happen next."The migrants, along with much of Israel, watched in disbelief as Netanyahu went from proudly announcing the U.N. deal live on national TV to shelving it hours later.In laying out what he described as "a good agreement" that "enables us to solve this problem," Netanyahu said Israel agreed to cancel the planned expulsion of tens of thousands of African migrants. Instead, he said the deal called for sending half of the migrants to Western nations and allowing the rest to remain in Israel.After an outcry from hard-line members of his coalition and residents of the poor neighborhoods in southern Tel Aviv where many of the Africans live, Netanyahu suspended the agreement. Then, following a meeting Tuesday with Tel Aviv residents, he nixed the deal entirely."After I weighed the pros and cons, I decided to cancel the agreement," Netanyahu said. "We will continue to work determinedly to exhaust all the options at our disposal to remove the infiltrators."The Africans, mainly from war-torn Sudan and dictatorial Eritrea, began arriving in Israel in 2005 through its porous border with Egypt after Egyptian forces violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel. Tens of thousands crossed the desert border, often after enduring dangerous journeys, before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx.Since then, Israel has wrestled with how to cope with those already in the country. Many took up menial jobs in hotels and restaurants, and thousands settled in southern Tel Aviv, where Israeli residents began complaining of rising crime.Hawkish Israeli politicians have labeled them infiltrators, with one calling them "a cancer" threatening the country\'s Jewish character. Israel has gone from detaining them in remote desert prisons to purportedly reaching a deal with a third country, believed to be Rwanda, to have them deported. All the while, Israel has faced legal challenges, with the U.N. deal offering a potential solution to a yearslong saga that has divided the country.Critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the earlier plan to deport the migrants to a third country unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants. Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, Holocaust survivors, rabbis, poets and pilots all appealed to halt the plan.Israel considers the vast majority of the migrants to be job-seekers and says it has no legal obligation to keep them. The Africans say they are asylum-seekers who fled for their lives and face renewed danger if they return.Dror Sadot, spokeswoman for The Hotline for Refugees and Migrants advocacy group, said the fate of the asylum-seekers remains unclear since Netanyahu himself acknowledged that there is no deal with Rwanda and has yet to come up with any alternative policy."Of course we will continue our struggle and consider all our legal options until every last asylum-seeker gets the status they deserve," she said.On Tuesday, migrants milled about southern Tel Aviv, shopping in stores carrying African goods and ducking into shops selling phone cards. Competing posters hanging from balconies carried messages for and against deporting the migrants.Sultan, the Eritrean migrant, said he left his homeland in the Horn of Africa because he was in danger. He had been jailed several times for his opposition to the government and feared his life was at risk if he stayed any longer.He left on a perilous journey, leaving his wife and young children in Eritrea while he sought safety. He hasn\'t seen his family, now in an Ethiopian refugee camp, since he fled in 2010.He has worked in Israeli coffee shops and construction sites to make ends meet. Last year, he was sent to Israel\'s Holot detention facility, where he was held for a year as part of Israel\'s migrant policy. Now unemployed, he spends his time as a community organizer working to better conditions and seek a solution for his fellow migrants.He accused Netanyahu of playing politics and urged Israel to find a solution. "I want to make clear this is a humanitarian case, not a political issue," he said.Following up on a demonstration last month that drew thousands, the migrants responded to Netanyahu\'s announcement Tuesday that he was scrapping the deal by protesting outside his office in Jerusalem and in central Tel Aviv."As an asylum seeker, as a human being, I\'m continuing to fight," said Sultan. "I hope with the help of the Israeli society there will be a solution."
WASHINGTON  A little over a year ago, when news surfaced of a Trump administration memo that proposed mobilizing as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up unauthorized immigrants at the southern border, a White House spokesman quickly denounced the reports as irresponsible.That is 100 percent not true, Sean Spicer, the press secretary at the time, told reporters aboard Air Force One. There is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.At the Pentagon, where officials had greeted the news grimly, there were sighs of relief: Military leaders have long opposed sending National Guard troops to the border.There is a significant opportunity cost, said James G. Stavridis, a retired four-star admiral who commanded United States forces in Europe and Latin America and is now dean of The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, adding that troops sent to the border with Mexico  ostensibly an American ally  would miss important training opportunities for their real primary mission  combat.But the idea that Mr. Spicer called inconceivable a year ago is back in play.On Wednesday, White House officials said that President Trump planned to mobilize the National Guard to the southern border. The announcement came a day after Mr. Trump surprised some of his top advisers by saying that he wanted to send in the military to do what the immigration authorities, in his view, could not: secure the border from what he characterized as a growing threat of unauthorized immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Wednesday that her department and the Defense Department would work with governors to deploy the Guard to assist the Border Patrol. But beyond that, officials had few details about how many troops would go, when they would arrive or in what capacity they would serve.Ms. Nielsen said she hoped the deployment would begin immediately, but administration officials said the formal agreements with governors that would allow the troops to mobilize were still being negotiated.At the Pentagon, several officials privately expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries  the Islamic State, North Korea, Russia, Syria  to contend with. Massing American troops at another countrys border, several current and former Defense Department officials said, would send a message of hostility and raise the chances of provoking an all-out conflict.We are so lucky here in this country when you look at our borders, said Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, a retired veteran of the Iraq war. Weve got the Pacific on one side, the Atlantic on the other and allies to the north and the south. Mexico is not an adversary. Why would you present this offensive barrier to a friendly country?Frustrated that his promised border wall remains a long way from being built, Mr. Trump said he had been discussing deploying the National Guard to the border with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who sat next to him on Tuesday as the president complained about what he called Americas weak immigration laws.Despite the historically low number of apprehensions at the border last year, data released on Wednesday by Customs and Border Protection showed a steady uptick since the beginning of the year. Last month, 37,393 individuals were caught by the Border Patrol, up from 26,662 the month before and 25,978 in January.Defense Department officials say that Mr. Mattis backs the proposal if it mirrors deployments made under Mr. Trumps predecessors, when troops were sent in a support, but not enforcement, role. The active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border. But President Barack Obama sent 1,200 troops in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006 to act in support roles for border authority officials.But military officials worry that Mr. Trump may not be satisfied with the Bush- and Obama-level deployments. Even limited deployments, Pentagon officials said, have come with their share of trouble.In 1997, Esequiel Hernandez Jr., an 18-year-old American student, was killed by a group of  United States Marines on a drug surveillance mission in Redford, Tex., while he was herding goats. Mr. Hernandez was the first American civilian to be killed by active-duty military troops since the Kent State massacre in 1970, and the episode led the Clinton administration to suspend troop patrols near the border.That kind of encounter, or worse, could erupt if Mr. Trump sends a large number of National Guard troops to join the high number of other personnel already guarding the border, Defense Department officials said.Homeland security has more than 16,000 Border Patrol agents on the southwest border, along with 6,500 customs officers at the ports of entry. Customs and Border Protection has several drones flying along the border, as well as 12,000 sensors, nearly 700 miles of fencing and other technology including infrared cameras. Immigration and Customs Enforcement runs several task forces that involve personnel from other agencies, including the Defense Department, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Treasury Department.As Mr. Mattis unveiled the Pentagons National Defense Strategy and Mr. Trump his National Security Strategy in recent months, the two men took different routes. Mr. Mattis stuck to a framework that has accompanied past administrations foreign policy doctrines and talked about the importance of strengthening, not weakening, American alliances with other countries. Mr. Trump, in contrast, peppered his speech with references to building a wall along the border with Mexico.Even if Mr. Mattis tried to steer Mr. Trump toward the limited border deployment used by his predecessors, the president would want it to be visible, said Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagons top financial officer during Mr. Bushs first term. He would want to have troops literally patrolling the border. It wouldnt be enough to have drones.But if Mexico responded by putting troops on its side of the border, Mr. Zakheim said, the situation could deteriorate quickly.All it takes is one mistake, he said. Somebody fires. And then what?
Tom Hollander is nervous. When he took the part of Henry Carr, the very civil servant at the swirling center of Travesties, Tom Stoppards 1974 Zurich-set brainteaser, he worried he couldnt learn it. Then he worried he couldnt pull it off.He did. First at Londons Menier Chocolate Factory, then in the West End, earning career-best reviews. The production, directed by Patrick Marber and presented by the Roundabout Theater Company, opens April 24 on Broadway.Acting a role more than a hundred times might relax some men. Not Mr. Hollander. I dont know an actor living who isnt in a state of anxiety before a show opens, he said.Tucked into a corner of a theater district bistro a few days before previews began, Mr. Hollander, 50, worried about memory, about mortality, about Americans understanding the crucial difference between trousers and pants (this fun new fear is my fault) and mostly about whether the little finger on his left hand, broken in a cringingly funny skiing accident, would heal before the first performance.He wouldnt dream of wearing the cast onstage. It would change the meaning of the play, he said. Obviously.Obviously? It isnt always easy to tell when Mr. Hollander is joking and thats a lot of his appeal. He is vitally funny in dramatic roles, wrenchingly somber in comic ones. Mr. Stoppard, speaking by telephone, called him a comedian, as well as a tough cookie, a tough egg. He is someone, the novelist and screenwriter Julian Fellowes said, who can play and suggest many different truths and emotions at once.One more thing: The Daily Mail, playing on Mr. Hollanders 55 frame, has named him a sex thimble. So he has that to work with, too.In the last several years hes played an overburdened inner-city vicar in Rev., a brash aide-de-camp in The Night Manager, a compassionate country medic in Doctor Thorne and a periwigged baddie in Pirates of the Caribbean, so if he has a type, hes keeping it quiet.But in Henry Carr, a soldier and a dandy and a lover and a prig, who moves through the play sometimes in his sprightly 20s and sometimes in his fuddled 60s, Mr. Hollander has one of the great roles and one of the great monologues, a five-page tongue-twirler that begins the play. Good thing it has come to him now and not a minute later.An actors failing powers get you in the end, he said mordantly. His glass was half empty. A waiter poured more Perrier.He grew up in Oxford, the younger child of schoolteachers. Mr. Marber, the director of Travesties, remembered seeing a teenage Mr. Hollander acting in a student production of Volpone.I thought, Who is this cherub? Mr. Marber recalled. He was an angelic youth. Very sparkling, very confident.Mr. Hollander is sparkling, he is confident. He is irrepressibly charming and as his friend Ralph Fiennes, who has already seen Travesties four times said, He is very, very, very, very clever. Olivia Colman co-starred with him in Rev. Her encapsulation: Hes magic.But he is also self-deprecating and punishingly self-aware. He starts and stops his sentences, notes when something is a bit of a clich, narrates himself. He petered out, hell say. He attacked his chicken with renewed vigor, hell say. The lunch was book-ended by espressos, suggesting that Mr. Hollander does not ease up without a fight.Hes been acting from Volpone on, except for a dry spell after Cambridge when he worked in a toy shop and he still seems a little surprised that hes made it his lifes work. Is it a reasonable life? A useful one?Doctors, engineers, schoolteachers like his parents, theyre the ones doing the useful work, he said. People in the entertainment industry shouldnt take themselves too seriously. Still, telling stories, that has an ancient function, thats being human, isnt it? he asked. He didnt seem sure.Acting is useful to Mr. Hollander anyway. Liam Neeson, who starred with Mr. Hollander on Broadway 20 years ago in David Hares The Judas Kiss, wrote, Hes small in stature, yet when he performs he becomes huge.Mr. Hollanders self-consciousness rarely follows him onstage. A good role, he said, is like taking a paid vacation from himself. Each television show, each movie, each play, its a chance to disappear into a character. Its like going on holiday without having to get on an airplane, he said.Obviously  obviously?  the Zurich of Travesties is a nice place to land. A minor consular official, Carr meets up with the Dadaist Tristan Tzara, the novelist James Joyce and the Leninist Vladimir Lenin, all of whom actually traipsed through Switzerland in 1917.Mr. Hollander compared the play to a disco ball. Its like a shower of brilliance, he said. Will audiences understand it? Once youve given up the attempt it becomes very, very enjoyable, he said.John Wood created the role of Henry Carr, winning a Tony Award for his pains; Antony Sher played it a generation later. When Mr. Hollander and Mr. Marber discussed the revival, they knew they wanted to make Carr a more poignant figure, his younger self haunted by the war that wounded him, his older hassled by senility. Its a comic role, but Tom is able to make it a tragic role as well, which is what I wanted, Mr. Marber said.Carr is always dreaming up titles for his memoirs: Further Recollections of a Consular Official in Whitest Switzerland, Memories of Dada by a Consular Friend, Zurich by One Who Was There. Does Mr. Hollander, who has written teasing columns for The Spectator (Im partial to the one about Joan Collins), ever plan on writing a memoir? Does he have a title? Not yet. I feel  it might be premature, he said. I hope its premature.There are a lot of not yets in Mr. Hollanders life. For decades hes told interviewers that hed like to marry and have children. Hes never managed it. I always thought it would happen. It didnt happen. I cant blame anyone but myself, he said. Then he made the joke about attacking the roast chicken.Mr. Marber has wondered if some kind of wound, some kind of loneliness enables Mr. Hollanders acting. But Mr. Hollander denies it. I have the same wounds as everyone else, he said. There isnt a particular trauma that Im employing on this one, just other than general trauma of being a human being.With lunch ended, at least he could put the particular trauma of slicing a roast chicken with a broken finger behind him. After finishing his second espresso and paying the bill, he collected his coat from the rack. The matre d noticed his hand. Tom, what happened? Did you punch someone, he asked.If only Id done something so macho, Mr. Hollander replied. (The real story: He failed to exit a Swiss ski lift in a timely fashion.)He walked a few blocks of what he called the miracle that is Manhattan and stepped down into the subway, swiping his MetroCard. It didnt take. He swiped it again.That should be the title of my memoir, he said resignedly. Insufficient Fare.
WEDNESDAY PUZZLE  If you have spent enough time admiring those who twist words and bend them to their punny wills, you have probably stumbled upon the brilliant work of Weird Al Yankovic.And if you have listened to enough of Mr. Yankovics song parodies, festooned with wordplay, you most likely have given this idea a fleeting thought: Who would be more perfect for the cruciverbal arts than the man who turned Robin Thickes song Blurred Lines into a song about bad writing? Why has the man never made a crossword puzzle?Our long national nightmare is over. Today, Mr. Yankovic makes his New York Times crossword debut, ably abetted by the constructor Eric Berlin. This is Mr. Berlins 40th puzzle for The Times.The theme today is cheese; yummy, delicious cheese and lots of it.We have four unique theme entries, and each one is a cheesy pun on a movie title. No, really. It involves actual cheese, not just things that are CORNy, although thats in the puzzle, too.As an example, the clue at 20A, Cheesy military drama? hints at A FEW GOUDA MEN, a pun on the film A Few Good Men. Now you go partake of the rest of the cheese board.This might have made the clues too long, but I felt that a puzzle like this cried out for punnier clues. For example, at 28As FETA ATTRACTION, a pun on the film Fatal Attraction, I think a clue like Thriller about an obsession with Greek cheese? would have been fun.In nontheme news, I liked some of the fill that seemed like a nod to Mr. Yankovic, like Tom LEHRER and John CLEESE, in addition to the shout-outs to memories from his and Mr. Berlins childhoods, like Wile E. Coyote (TNT) and Star Trek (HES dead, Jim).7A: The entry space for Shouts made with the waving of white hankies was too short for WE SURRENDER, so it had to be OLS, as in the cheering people do in a corrida during a bullfight, right before they give up.42A: Tricky one! In its molten form, LAVA is a rock that rolls.32D: I like these double meaning clues because they really stretch your brain. Coach  or what a coach is part of is TRAIN, because to coach someone is to train them, and the coach is part of a railroad train.35A: What a coincidence. The singer SARA Bareilles is in the puzzle just days after her performance as Mary Magdalene in the electrifying televised concert, Jesus Christ Superstar Live. If you missed it, you can watch it in its entirety on NBC.com.48D: Were you tricked by the subtlety of the clue, Acres land? In todays puzzle, Acre isnt a measurement, its a city in ISRAEL. Youve just been fooled by a veiled capital clue, which is when a proper name is stashed at the beginning of a clue so you dont notice that there is an alternative reason for using a capital letter.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
AUGUSTA, Ga.  Tiger Woods was on the driving range Tuesday at the Masters after playing nine holes in a foursome that included Phil Mickelson when Rory McIlroy sidled up and made him laugh. McIlroy said he had told Woods, I never thought Id see the day: Tiger and Phil playing a practice round at Augusta.Yes, it was hardly practice as usual at Augusta National when Mickelson and Woods, the games great rivals who had circled each other like birds of prey for more than two decades, played nine holes together ahead of a major for the first time in their storied careers.It was Mickelsons idea, and Woods embraced it. We enjoyed it, Woods said.This very public thawing of their relationship proved an irresistible attraction at Augusta National, where, strangely, birdsong is heard but birds are rarely seen. Thats what made the sight at the 13th hole doubly surreal. As Mickelson and Woods were playing the 510-yard par 5, a large crane strutted across the fairway.The crane joined the huge gallery in time to see Woods hit his second shot to within 40 feet of the pin. The roar after Woods stepped up and sank the eagle putt was deafening. The crowd erupted again after he made a much shorter attempt for another eagle at 15. When the noise quieted to a loud murmur, one patron remarked, It sounds like Sunday and its only a practice round.Mickelson and Woods beat the other half of the foursome, Fred Couples, the 1992 Masters champion, and the Belgian Thomas Pieters, in a contest that wasnt close. It was very loud and very fun and they hit some real good shots, Couples said. Wow.Mickelson wore a long-sleeved, button-down shirt that inspired a joke from his playing partner. The only thing that was missing was a tie, Woods said.Woods has gotten the better of Mickelson on the course many more times than not, but according to their peers, it is a tossup as to who is ahead in the war of wit.Its pretty even, said Jordan Spieth, who has heard them up close at Ryder Cups and Presidents Cups.He added, Tiger has more accolades than just about anybody in the sport  you know, nobody wants to go out there and just say, Ive won this or this or this or this, and Phils kind of better at getting under peoples skin.Woods, 42, is an introverted only child. Mickelson, five years his senior, is an extroverted firstborn with two siblings. The one important thing they have in common  a burning desire to win  is probably the primary factor behind their lack of closeness all these years. Remember: Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer became fast friends only after they stopped banging heads on the golf course.Oh, man, hes very, very, competitive, Woods said of Mickelson. Hes feisty. Hes determined. He always wants to win.Woods, of course, could have been describing the man in the mirror. Justin Thomas, whom Woods mentored while on the mend from multiple back surgeries, played a practice round with him on Monday. Thomas noted a change in Woodss demeanor as they prepared to compete with each other. Woods, he said, was a little harder to get stuff out of than when he was hurt and I was asking him questions.Mickelson has tour victories in four decades, but younger players like Thomas, the reigning P.G.A. champion, almost universally looked up to Woods when they were growing up.He was winning about every other tournament he played in, Thomas explained.In some ways, though, Mickelson had the more auspicious start to his career, winning his first PGA Tour title when he was still an amateur. He has won 43 Tour titles, including five majors, while Woods has 79 tour wins, including 14 majors.If Mickelson hadnt played in the same era as Woods, he might have 10 to 12 majors, Couples said.Mickelson isnt so sure. Its very possible that thats the case, he said, and its also possible that he brought out the best in me and forced me to work harder and focus to ultimately achieve the success that Ive had.Six golfers in their 40s have won a Masters title. Led by Mickelson and Woods, at least a half-dozen here this week have a chance to become the seventh. The others include the 2007 champion, Zach Johnson, 42; Charley Hoffman, 41, who led after the first two rounds last year; Paul Casey, 40, who has top-six finishes in each of the past three years; and Ian Poulter, 42, who secured the final berth with a playoff victory Sunday in Houston.After Mickelson won the World Golf Championships event in Mexico City last month in a playoff against Thomas, Woods described Mickelsons first victory since 2013 as very, very cool to watch.Woods tied for second a week later at the Valspar Championship outside Tampa, and Mickelson said he sent Woods a text message after he played his way into contention. Mickelson said he had told Woods that it felt like it was a different time continuum, because I found myself pulling so hard for him.This week they are less rivals than two men united against Father Time, a much more formidable opponent than Couples and Pieters combined.I find that I want him to play well, Mickelson said, and Im excited to see him play so well.At the start of the practice round, Woods teed off first. Someone asked how the group had decided who got that honor. An impish smile creased Mickelsons face.We just went right in order, he said. He has four jackets, I have three jackets, Fred, then Thomas.Mickelson winked. Its a respect thing.
Starting at noon on Feb. 23, the town of Arlee, Mont., evacuated. Most of its 600-odd residents drove 70 miles south through Missoula and then into the Bitterroot Valley, a river corridor full of subdivisions, trailers, exclusive private communities and ammunition stores. The crowd filtered into the gymnasium at Hamilton High School, wearing red shirts and pins bearing the faces of the Arlee Warriors basketball team, who that evening would be playing the Manhattan Christian Eagles.Manhattan Christian is a faith-based private school near Bozeman. Arlee is a public school on the Flathead Indian Reservation; about half the town is Salish, descendants of the people forced out of the Bitterroot in the 19th century. Manhattan Christians boys were tall and muscled; most of Arlees players were well under six feet and on the thinner side. Manhattan Christian arrived in a sleek black bus with aerodynamic curvature and tinted windows; Arlee came in a yellow Blue Bird. The Feb. 23 game would be a rematch of the previous years Class C state championship, which the Warriors won. On one wall of the gym, Manhattan Christian had hung a banner reading #unfinished. Arlee had their own banner, but they did not need it. They had Phillip Malatare.Phil is 18 and six feet tall. He claimed to be 167 pounds, but that seemed generous. His normally angular face was especially gaunt that afternoon, a result of a nasty cold. But he had a reputation in the state: for his routine triple-doubles, his no-look passes thrown around his back at a dead sprint, his unguardable pull-up jump shot, the speed and body control that made it all possible. His parents, John and Becky, arrived at 9 a.m. to watch the days earlier games and to stake out seats. The Malatares never sat together at games. It just works better, Becky said. I like to kind of breathe. John wore a red T-shirt adorned with a Salish phrase that translates as Im proud of my warriors.Ten minutes remained before warm-ups. Normally, at this point, the boys would be making fart jokes or talking about video games. Now, though, the Warriors left the locker room and gathered in a hallway. A cameraman lined the players up. They were silent. The light on the camera blinked, and Phil spoke.We, the Arlee Warriors, he said, are dedicating this divisional tournament to all the families that have lost a loved one due to  um  He tripped up, and the cameraman asked for another take.We, the Arlee Warriors, he said, are dedicating this divisional tournament to all the families that have lost a loved one due to the pro  due to the pressures Phil tried again: We, the Arlee Warriors, are dedicating this divisional tournament to all the families that have fallen victim to the loss of a loved one due to the pressures of life.We want you all to know, said Greg Whitesell, one of Phils co-captains, that you will be in our hearts and in our prayers as we step onto the floor to represent our school, community and our reservation.Lane Johnson, the power forward, spoke: As a team, we rely on each other to get through the challenges on the court or in life. Then Isaac Fisher, the 6-foot-9 center, said, To all the youth on the Flathead reservation, we want you to know that we stand together with you.Darshan Bolen, the sixth man and Phils cousin and foster brother, said, Remember, you are the future. Phil wrote that line. Then Will Mesteth, a co-captain and the teams only other senior, closed it: Please help us share this message and join our team as we battle against suicide.Only about half the Warriors could legally drive, and many struggled academically. But as state champions, they were kings on the Flathead reservation. They came into the season hoping to defend their trophy; Phil and Will also wanted a chance to play in college. But by the evening of the Manhattan Christian game, the season had transformed into something else entirely.The videographer turned off his camera, and the Warriors retreated into the locker room. The boys could hear the gym rippling with noise. Then the drumming started.Highway 93 connects Missoula, a booming college town, with Polson, on the south shore of Flathead Lake. Driving north out of Missoula, you pass a few gas stations, then wind through tight timber. A large casino emerges on the left, and then, just north of an overpass for migrating wildlife, the land yawns open to reveal a spectacular landscape. A timbered ridge rises to the east, out of which flows the Jocko River, fat with snowmelt in the spring. The highway curves through ranchland, then briefly splits to accommodate Arlees five-block downtown. Tourists who stop at the charming huckleberry-themed restaurant or the coffee shop and art gallery dont always realize theyre guests of a sovereign nation: the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes. One mile later, Arlee is gone.The town is named for a Salish subchief. In 1871, Arlee, a Nez Perc by birth, acquiesced to the U.S. governments demands that the Bitterroot Salish relocate. This put him at odds with the head Salish chief, Charlo, who stayed in the Bitterroot Valley until 1891, when he marched north under military escort. Embittered, he had called Arlee that renegade Nez Perc. On the reservation, the Salish were forced together with the Pend dOreille, their historical allies, and the Kootenai, a northern tribe with a different language. Government officials assigned them Anglicized names, and in 1909 Congress passed legislation opening the reservation to settlers. Many tribal members sold their allotted land, and Chief Charlo died in 1910; Native youth were forced into a Catholic boarding school, where nuns told the children that the devil was in them. The town of Charlo, 30 miles from Arlee, is now almost entirely white. Arlee is not. The towns most popular gathering places are Wilsons, a grocery store; a community center full of basketball courts; and the gleaming gymnasium that looms over the one-story public high school.Because of its size, Arlee competes in Class C, the division representing Montanas smallest schools, most of them in mining and ranching towns or communities in Indian Country. The states seven reservations  home to members of the Salish, Pend dOreille, Kootenai, Blackfeet, Gros Ventre, Sioux, Crow, Northern Cheyenne, Assiniboine and Chippewa-Cree tribes  share a deep passion for basketball. In 1904, just 13 years after James Naismith invented the game, a team of Native girls at a boarding school near Great Falls competed in a tournament at the Worlds Fair in St. Louis and were proclaimed world champions. In 1936, a team from the Fort Peck Reservation won a state high school championship; its stars, three brothers, went on to anchor a group that beat the Harlem Globetrotters.Indian ball, as it became known, was characterized by full-court-press defense and high-scoring, improvisational fast breaks. The game is predicated on speed and cooperation. Its not very individualized, says Don Wetzel Jr., a Blackfeet Nation descendant who manages the Montana Indian Athletic Hall of Fame. Youre not taught to be like that. To make your people happy is one of the greatest things you can ever do. High school stars from the past remain celebrated today: Names like Jonathan Takes Enemy, Sharon LaForge, Elvis Old Bull, Malia Kipp and Mike Chavez remind people of on-court triumphs and, in many cases, off-court trials.Montanas best-known reservation teams have come from the plains east of the Rocky Mountains: from Lodge Grass, on Crow Nation, and from Browning and Heart Butte, on Blackfeet Nation. But for the past decade, the basketball program in Arlee, which is in the foothills of the Mission Range, has touched the hem of this elite. In 2005, a group of parents, including John and Becky Malatare, started a youth basketball clinic. Between 2009 and 2013, Arlees boys went 88-34; the girls went 105-39 between 2011 and 2016. During that time, both teams secured divisional titles but fell short at the state level. Zanen Pitts, a 32-year-old rancher and Pend dOreille first descendant, took over as the boys coach in 2013. He installed a system that combined the freewheeling speed of Indian ball with defensive strategies borrowed from college programs. There is a structure to our chaos, Pitts says.In 2014, Phil Malatare entered high school. He had dedicated most of his young life to two pursuits: horn hunting  searching for the freshly shed antlers of bull elk  and playing basketball at the community center. His arrival turned the Warriors defense into something terrifying. During his freshman year, the team lost in the state semifinals; during his sophomore year, they reached the championship; last year, they went 25-1, and Phil played nearly every minute of the championship run. Just before the end of the game, someone in the crowd called him a redskin. Then, in the final seconds, he jumped for a rebound that clinched the victory. In his bedroom, he hung news clippings of his victories and defeats, for motivation, along with the cleaned skull of a buffalo he killed.After last year, Phil was the only Class C player named to the ALL-USA Montana Boys Basketball team. This fall, when The Great Falls Tribune previewed the states best high school players, it listed Phil first. Watching Phil on the court, Wetzel got to thinking about Old Bull and Takes Enemy, each of whom he played against. Hes more like Elvis, he says. Elvis was deceptively quick. Phillip is flat-out quick. Don Holst, a former head coach for the University of Montana and a principal of Arlees elementary school, saw it differently. Old Bull was a shooter; Phil, he says, has this innate ability to see things. Pitts earnestly compared him to the N.B.A. star Russell Westbrook. I like Russells pull-up jumper a little better, he once said. Whenever Phil arrived at basketball camps, kids flocked to him. At one game, his father heard a boy scream: Phillip Malatare touched me!John Malatare, a Salish and Cree wildland firefighter, wanted Phil to cash in his ticket to leave the reservation while it was still good. A lot of these colleges in Montana, John says, will give a Native kid one chance. On reservations, basketball stars become symbols of hope, but many have struggled to replicate their high school success in college. Wetzel played at Montana State University at Billings, but he left the team after having a child in his sophomore year. He went on to a career in public education. Not everyone has been so fortunate. In 1991, Sports Illustrateds Gary Smith wrote about the Crow stars Takes Enemy and Old Bull, who both struggled with alcohol. Others have gone to college, only to leave after feeling homesick.Pitts says that in five years as head coach, he has had three college coaches ask if prospects are Native, openly worrying that they might not last in school. Women from Montanas reservations have carried a similar weight. In 1992, Malia Kipp, from Blackfeet Nation, entered the University of Montana, starring with the Lady Grizzlies for all four years. I felt if I didnt succeed, she once said, others wouldnt get the opportunity.According to Pitts and Wetzel, the skepticism Native recruits face is owed to cultural misunderstanding, and the inadequate support systems in place as a result. Those coaches need to do a better job of sustaining em, Pitts says. They need to understand what theyre coaching. That meant recognizing the gravitational pull of home for players from reservations, but also the genuinely distinct sports culture incubated there. Kids who grow up playing Indian ball on the reservation, whether or not they are themselves Native  the Arlee Warriors are Salish, Navajo, Sioux, Pend dOreille and Blackfeet, but also white, black and Filipino  can find the college game as alienating as campus life. For Wetzel, the businesslike nature and slower pace of college ball was challenging. Its conformity, he says. Wetzel thinks schools should recruit multiple reservation players at once, the way the Lady Grizzlies did a decade ago, following Kipps success. I rarely see two Natives on the court at the same time at a college level, Wetzel says. It does bring some magic.Pitts, for his part, just wanted his players to get the opportunities they deserved. That meant a lot was riding on Phil. A good student with a supportive family, he was covered by local newspapers with headlines like unstoppable. Pitts thought he had been touched by God. Sometimes he found himself pleading with him to thrive in college. Youre doing this for every kid in the world, he says, thats ever looked up to a basketball player coming off the rez.On Nov. 15, the evening before the seasons first practice, 13 boys sat anxiously in a small classroom in Arlees gym. It was 5 p.m. and already dark outside, signaling the beginning of western Montanas long winter. Coach Pitts stood at the front of the room in baggy jeans, a baseball cap covering his sandy hair, dried manure on his boots.Were here for a purpose, Pitts said. That purpose is to win a state championship. Im going to chew on you, Im going to break you down, Im going to build you back up. He said he was going to change their lives. This is so much bigger than you. He outlined the rules. Guys who disrespected teachers would not play. Guys whose parents complained about court time would not play. Latecomers would not play. Exceptions would be made only in extreme circumstances: If you want to go hunting, youve got some huge buck figured out, call me.Pitts cued up a highlight reel from last years championship season and left the room. Will Mesteth often watched the tape at night; it made him feel all warm inside. But it just made Phil sad, because his two best friends had graduated, and he wanted another championship. He also wanted, desperately, to make it as a Division 1 college player.When the tape finished, Phil walked to the front of the room in a camouflage hoodie and a backward hat. Everybodys going to be intimidated, he said. And we got to make them intimidated. And that is going to be how its going to be.The first game of the season was on Dec. 8, against a larger school from the Rocky Boys Reservation. A couple of thousand fans filled the gym at a tribal college 40 miles north of Arlee. Wills hair was shining in a double braid courtesy of his mother. Phil was wired even though he had spent the morning deer hunting.Were not nervous, Pitts said.Im nervous, Phil said. His teammates appeared relieved.On the mirror behind Pitts was a flier for a suicide-prevention hotline; all but three of the tags on the bottom had been ripped off. He opened a box, revealing sleek, hooded warm-up shirts. The boys nerves melted away in a chorus of hollering. Pitts choreographed the teams entrance, instructing the boys to fan out onto the floor once Wills grandfather, father and uncles hit the drum and started the honor song. I want everyone to know, he said: The champs are here. The boys fell silent, and Pitts prayed:Before the previous seasons championship game against Manhattan Christian, David Whitesell, Arlees superintendent, spent long hours considering what might follow a loss. In the event, Whitesell was planning to increase counseling both for the community and the team. It was a lot, he said, to place on the shoulders of a bunch of adolescent boys.The cause of his concern was a proliferation of suicides that had swept the Flathead reservation in recent months. It started in the fall of 2016, with a few teenagers. Then in the winter, just before the 2017 divisionals, the Malatares awoke to discover that a close friend had taken her own life  a woman Phil considered to be like an auntie, and an aunt of Wills by blood.Pitts and John Malatare told the boys that when people came to see the Warriors play, they briefly escaped their worries. But the suicides continued; they had become what public-health professionals call a cluster. In April, a former Warrior who quit the team shot himself after attending the funeral of a friend who committed suicide. The former teammate survived, but Pitts was haunted. The adversary is so strong, he said. Its just there.Between November 2016 and November 2017, there were 20 deaths by suicide on the reservation, according to Anna Whiting Sorrell, an official with the tribal health department. Phil said he had known a few people who had died by suicide. Asked to clarify, he said, Twenty or thirty.In 2016, the Centers for Disease Control released a study examining suicide rates among Americans by race and ethnicity. In 2014, the last year for which the researchers compiled data, non-Hispanic Native women between the ages of 15 and 24 committed suicide at a rate of 15.6 deaths per 100,000, or three times the rate of non-Hispanic white women and five times the rate of non-Hispanic black women of the same age. Young Native men had a rate of 38.2 deaths per 100,000 people. Among young people, the suicides often come in clusters, as happened in 2013 and 2014, on Arizonas Gila River Indian Reservation; in 2015, on South Dakotas Pine Ridge Indian Reservation; and last year, on the Flathead reservation. Some there, like Pitts, blamed technology, social media and bullying. Others looked to the boarding schools that removed a generation of children and created a cycle of abuse. Whiting Sorrell had come to think of suicide  along with alcoholism and drug abuse  as a symptom of intergenerational trauma, the inherited grief among indigenous communities resulting from colonization. Whitesell said that the communitys kids needed to learn to survive their past and their present.Part of that, he thought, was getting kids to talk openly about mental health. Upon taking the superintendent job in 2015, Whitesell sent the school staff to prevention training and had them take whats called an adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) quiz, a 10-question test to assess trauma. According to ACEs data the C.D.C. collected in 2010 from more than 53,000 people in 10 states and the District of Columbia, 40.7 percent of participants reported no adverse childhood experiences, while 14.3 percent reported four or more, scores that were linked to increased health and behavioral risks. I scored a seven, Whitesell says. Many kids in Arlee, he says, would most likely register right around there. That trauma can manifest in many ways. Suicide, Whitesell says, was an option. It cant be an option.In the fall, Whitesells son Greg, the Warriors co-captain, got a concussion playing football, his fifth, and had to stay home from school for three weeks. He struggled to eat and felt depressed. That confused him, because he was a star and a state champion. He almost felt as if he had no right to be sad, and that just made it worse. Greg didnt hunt like Phil and Will; off the court, he loved video games and hanging out with his friends. Now Greg started to isolate himself and to sleep a lot. I was tired of being depressed, he says. You just get tired of everything.One night he sent a despairing text to a couple of friends. He was considering climbing out his window to start running when he saw headlights in the driveway. It was two teammates, Lane Schall, a gregarious ranch kid, and Darshan Bolen, Phils cousin and foster brother. Greg told them he didnt want to live anymore.Dar sat with him while Lane went to get Gregs mother, Raelena. She spoke with her son for about 45 minutes, then took Greg to a hospital in Missoula, where Whitesell met them. (He and Raelena are divorced.) Greg spent that night in a bare room with scratches on the wall. I felt like I didnt belong there, he says.The hospital staff determined he wasnt an immediate risk and sent him home. For weeks Raelena woke up every couple of hours to check on her son, and Greg regularly saw a counselor. Then basketball season started. He kept his experience private until he learned that a younger teammate was battling depression, at which point he told the kid he had been through similar struggles. Lane and Dar never talked publicly about that night. But, Greg said later, if they didnt show up, I dont think Id be here now.In December, in a game against a team from Seeley-Swan, Phil racked up 48 points, 16 rebounds and nine assists in 24 minutes of play. Afterward, Adam Hiatt, the head coach from Montana Tech, a college in Butte that competes in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics conference, texted Phil, hoping that he would enroll.But Phil had other ideas. Sometimes he envisioned going to a powerhouse program like Oregon, but the idea of leaving Arlee caused an almost physical discomfort. He had been approached by a Division 1 school in Washington, and a small California school had offered him a full scholarship, but he brushed them off. The path to reconciling his athletic ambitions with his desire to stay close to home ran through Missoula: the college town just 24 miles south of Arlee, home of the Division 1 University of Montana Grizzlies. But the Griz had offered Phil only an invitation to walk on, meaning hed have to try out and pay his own way.Tech, on the other hand, was offering a full scholarship. Phil was the teams No. 1 recruit. Becky liked the idea. But Phil said he needed more time, and sure enough, soon a coach from the Griz reached out again. Theyre dangling that carrot, Becky said.By Jan. 9, the Warriors were 8-0 and had outscored their opponents by an average of more than 40 points per game. That evening they played Mission, a larger high school in St. Ignatius and a rival, just up Highway 93 from Arlee. In the stands, Becky sat next to Hiatt. Hes the best player in the state, the coach said of Phil. John Malatare sat a couple of rows away, calling out traps.Sitting with Hiatt, Becky digressed, as is her habit, talking about her sons dietary preferences  Phil doesnt eat salad; he eats chicken  and how he and John would leave in the middle of the night to hunt buffalo.Thats crazy, Hiatt said.But mostly Becky discussed Will Mesteth and how much Phil loved playing with him. They grew up together, she said. A few minutes later, Will carved his way to the basket. Will, No. 3, Becky said suggestively. There he goes. And then, a few minutes later: No. 3, his grandma is a Malatare. So theyre related. But Wills shot was off. In the stands, his dad, Big Will, yelled, Get him the ball!Wills parents had him when they were in high school, and he was largely raised by his tupye, his great-grandmother. Will got into powwows as a boy, singing and dancing; his grandfather gave him the claw of a black bear for protection, and he kept a collection of more than 20 pairs of Air Jordans. Wills mother, Chasity Haynes, is Salish and Navajo, and now works in the Salish and Kootenai Tribes enrollment department. Big Will  no one calls him Will Sr.  was a Sioux and Salish football star who went to play at the University of Montana but got kicked out before he played a game. Now he was a cop on the tribes drug task force. Big Will desperately wanted his son to complete college. But Wills college prospects depended on the intensity of his defense and the accuracy of his three-pointer.Will struggled early in high school, compiling a string of Fs and skipping class, sometimes to care for his tupye. But a teacher named Jennifer Jilot helped him, and he raised his grades enough to be academically eligible by his junior year. Then he made the all-state team for Class C. He didnt say much, but when he spoke, teammates and opponents alike listened closely. When it came to basketball, Will said, pretty much everyone in the state knows who me and Phillip are. But in Jilots classroom, Will curled up on her couch and hugged a pillow like a child. Jilot was deeply proud of his academic progress. She thought she might cry when he graduated.Arlee beat Mission by 18 points, but in Pittss and the other coaches estimation, it was a lackluster night; the Warriors played selfishly. At the next practice, an assistant named Francis Brown-Lonebear accused the boys of playing Missoula ball. That was about as exciting as watching Flathead Lake freeze. I want to be gone, Brown-Lonebear said. If you dont understand that, you dont understand about Indian ball.John Malatare sat in his friend T.J. Hayness truck, hurtling through the darkness. T.J. wore a wool cap with elk teeth affixed to the brim. A tribal cop who worked with Big Will, he grew up with John. Now each was a foster parent; it was T.J.s wife who committed suicide the previous February, before the state tournament. He was raising nine kids.John and T.J. had heard that buffalo were moving out of Yellowstone National Park, so they had loaded up T.J.s trailer with snowmobiles and rolled south at 2 a.m. In the 1870s, the Salish moved a few calves into the Flathead reservation, building up a herd that was later used to revive the flagging Yellowstone population. Now the Salish are one of six tribes with treaty rights allowing them to hunt Yellowstones bison when they move out of the park.On the ride down, the men rubbed their hands and whistled in anticipation. Sometimes the hunters just stood in line waiting for the bison to cross onto Forest Service land, and sometimes animal rights protesters tailed them. Even so, John would rather hunt buffalo than anything else. The first time I shot one of these, it was a whole different feeling, he said. It was just the respect. He and T.J. talked about their disdain for trophy hunters who sell the hides. Phillip, he sleeps on his, John said. Got to keep the fan on just cause he stays so warm!He considered his sons college prospects. He wanted Phil to get back to the Montana Tech coach. He knew Phil wanted to play for the Griz, but he didnt know what to do. Should he go knock down the coachs door and ask what it would take? He thought of a friend who had played college ball. The coach had given him a hard time. I said, Theyre testing you out, John recalled. Theyre seeing how tough your willpower really is. But his friend quit. John said, Proven point right there. Native kids got one shot.A track star in high school, John always wished he had pursued athletics more seriously; Terry Pitts, Zanens father, a retired coach and former tribal councilman, thought he could have been an Olympian. John met Becky, who was a descendant of European settlers and played basketball against his sisters, at age 22. Becky went on to work for a Missoula hospital, handling accounts, while John was hired by the Forest Service, digging breaks around wildfires. When he started out, We heard a lot of, What are you Indians doing here? he recalled. I had to work extra hard to prove that I could do the job. John became a supervisor, earning a good living, and when Phil was in sixth grade, four of his cousins, including Dar, came to live with the Malatares and their three children. After that the Malatares kept getting calls from the tribe, asking them to foster more kids. They came and came, sometimes for days at a time, sometimes more. Mounds of laundry piled up in the kitchen.When Phil was 6, he told his parents he was going to be a professional athlete. By the time he was a freshman, he said he wanted to be the best basketball player Montana had ever seen. John realized he hadnt considered his own life once his sons career ended. What are we going to do if he doesnt continue and play through college? he asked. I dont know. I dont know if Ive thought that far.Dawn revealed a blue, snowed-in landscape. T.J. and John parked at a pull-off, stepped out of the truck and fired up their snowmobiles. A wolf ran past. The men hopped on the sleds and tore off into the lodgepole. They wound up a long curving track to an overlook from which they could see wide plains and craggy peaks, but no buffalo. They descended into low timber and split up. T.J. wound his way a bit farther, then stopped. A herd of bison moved slowly through the trees, followed by hunters on foot and, behind them, a group of animal rights campaigners documenting the kills. Shots rang out, and the herd split up, some moving toward private property, some back toward the park boundary.An hour or so later, John and T.J. met back at the truck. John hadnt caught the herd. Everyone without sleds killed em, John said.Them protesters must have pushed em all onto that private property, T.J. said.Over dinner that night at a sports bar, they joined a group of Salish hunters, who talked basketball and hunting and foster-parenting. At one point, one of the men tried to imagine life with endless buffalo. Used to be a perfect world, he said.Sure aint now, T.J. said.On the way home the next day, John considered the state championship in Butte, six weeks away. With seven games remaining in the regular season, the Warriors were undefeated. John had already booked his hotel room. Stars are going to have to start falling out of the skies, he said, for us not to be there.By early February, Phil was averaging 23 points, 10 rebounds, seven assists and six steals a game. He needed to decide about Montana Tech, but he didnt have a clear feeling. Then one day he was driving out to one of his horn-hunting spots, hoping to clear his head, when he received a text from a coach at the University of Montana. Phil called the coach right away, and the coach asked if he wanted a spot on the team. Phil pumped his fist and politely said that yes, hed like that very much. In a follow-up call with Phils parents, the Griz offered Phil a preferred walk-on spot, meaning he was guaranteed a place on the team but would have to pay his own way. Phil told the coach he was in. (Rachi Wortham, an assistant coach at the University of Montana, said, We can confirm recruitment, but he declined to comment further.)After the call, John sat down in his leather recliner and exhaled. Becky was still partial to Tech  the school had great academics, and the free ride wouldnt hurt, given that the Malatares still had two more kids to put through high school and college. But Phil had made up his mind. He called Adam Hiatt to relay his decision, but he asked his parents not to share the news widely. He didnt want to disrupt the Warriors playoff run.The season came down to three weekends in late February and early March: the district championship, the divisional championship and state. By this point, Will had rediscovered his shot, and the Warriors played with devastating joy. In the last regular-season game, Phil and Will combined to score 72 points.Pitts called a coach from a Montana college, gushing that Will had a 35-foot shooting range, defense that cant be taught, strong grades. The coach wanted to know about Wills family. Pitts said that Wills father was a cop and that if the coach gave him a chance, his mother would have him there tomorrow. Assuming his most authoritative sales voice, Pitts declared that Will would make it: Id stick my job on the line for him. The coach said hed think about it. Pitts hung up and shook his head.On Tuesday, Feb. 20, just before divisionals, word spread of a suicide: a teenage basketball player from Two Eagle River, a competing team on the Flathead reservation. Pitts was worried. The next week or two, another kid might do it, he said.The divisional tournament was held in Hamilton, in the Bitterroot Valley, the ancestral homeland of the Salish. On the bus ride down before the first game, Pitts asked the players if they wanted to make a statement about the suicide. The boys thought it was a good idea and settled on a video as the way to do it. They decided that Phil would speak first and Will last, but when the camera rolled, Phil got nervous. One player didnt: Greg. His voice was calm and resolute. I was focused on helping these people, he later said. It felt awesome.In the locker room, after the camera turned off, Phil and Will coughed violently. After catching his cold, Phil had gone out to check some cows on a cousins ranch in subzero temperatures earlier in the week. Will, meanwhile, had some as-yet-undiagnosed illness that had caused him to lose 25 pounds since the beginning of the season. In recent weeks, blood had showed up in his urine. He sought medical attention only after his mother, his coach and Pittss wife, Kendra, an emergency medical technician, insisted. If you tell me I cant play, Will recalled telling a doctor, Im going to play.Will and Phil had carried two pillowcases into the locker room. In them were a pair of war bonnets adorned with golden-eagle feathers, which Wills grandfather, who worked at the Salish language school, had made by hand. When the boys put on the bonnets, their teammates stared. Then Wills grandfather hit the drum and started the honor song, and the cousins sprinted onto the floor.The Arlee crowd stood, everyone scrambling for their smartphones to capture the moment. Phils grandparents, Bear and Irma, werent sure about the bonnets; if a feather fell out, they might have had to do a ceremony on the court. But it was different for John. He hadnt always felt that his son had fully embraced Salish culture. Now, seeing Phil in the war bonnet, shaking the opposing coachs hand, he thought his heart might burst through his rib cage.A couple of minutes into the game, Phil sprinted into the locker room, where he threw up. Then he checked back in, and the team ran an isolation play pitting Phil against Manhattan Christians best player, Caleb Bellach, a 6-foot-5 junior and the coachs son. Phil dribbled between his legs three times as he approached Bellach, then feinted a hard crossover to the left but brought the ball back to the right and was gone. Another defender came to meet Phil, but he spun and jumped to his left, rising toward the rim with two hands, then pulled the ball down and scooped it to the right. His body moved one way but the ball went the other. The defender followed his body, and Phil softly laid the ball in.At halftime, Arlee was up 39-30, and Phil threw up again. So did Will. In the third quarter, Manhattan closed the gap. Then, in the span of a minute, Will hit a three-pointer, made a layup, stole the ball and threw an around-the-back pass to Greg for two points, at which point the crowd detonated. Arlee won, 69-60. The announcer, a white man, marveled at the noise. You think this many people lived in Arlee? he chuckled, out of range of the microphone. Nobodys guarding the stores tonight.The next day, the Warriors released their suicide-prevention video on Facebook. As the team warmed up before the divisional finals, Anna Whiting Sorrell, who helped oversee the tribes response to the 2017 suicide cluster, was sitting in the stands. She considered the video in the context of the teenagers who, after the Parkland shooting, advocated gun control. Maybe, she said, its kids saying: enough. She continued: Maybe these kids can. I want them to just be happy and enjoy their lives. They chose to engage. Theyve all been there. They say enough.The team hoped a few thousand people might view their video. But within 24 hours, it had been watched nearly 86,000 times. On Monday, the team, inspired by the reception, skipped practice to make another, this one an elaborate production with alley-oops and war bonnets. As they were finishing, a coach from Two Eagle River arrived in a black suit. He had come from the wake for the boy  his player  who committed suicide the week before divisionals. I just wanted to say thank you, guys, he said in halting breaths. His chest heaved, and he told the Warriors to bring home the trophy.A long silence followed. Then someone asked: Can we hug him?Phil embraced the man, and everyone else followed.Im not scared one bit! Phil screamed. It was halftime of the state semifinal game, and the Warriors were losing by six to Scobey, a fast team from near the Canadian border. In the locker room, Phil coughed rapidly. I like it when were down! he yelled. When we come back and beat their ass, thats going to be better! Then he threw up and took the court.In the third quarter, Pitts unveiled a brutal press. The teams defense was designed to tire the opponent out until, all at once and in a great rush, the boys unleashed. With less than three minutes remaining in the quarter and Arlee losing by four, Pitts hopped up and down on the sideline and screamed. In a moment, the boys were everywhere. The next 60 seconds passed in a blur of steals and turnovers. Greg and Will each hit a long three-pointer, the second giving Arlee its first lead. Then, as Scobey brought the ball up, Greg and Phil smacked the floor. Phil took off in a straight line for the ballhandler, who looked terrified; he ripped the ball away and flew off for a layup. He sprinted back down the court, beckoning to the crowd. The cheers sounded like the inside of a breaking wave.In just over two minutes, Arlee had scored 14 unanswered points. After the game, Pitts teared up, thanking the boys. Then the Warriors watched Manhattan Christian win, setting up one last rematch. A couple of hours earlier, in a hallway of the Butte Civic Center, the father of one of Manhattan Christians players said he just wanted everyone to have fun. Its not life, he said.The following morning, Becky and John Malatare staked out their seats for the final by 11 a.m., nine hours before tipoff. By game time, Senator Steve Daines, whose son previously attended Manhattan Christian, was in the crowd. Shortly before tipoff, Chasity did Wills hair by center court. Phil got an IV of fluids, his third of the week. Then he joined his teammates in a practice gym, where Pitts told the boys to enjoy the moment and prayed to God and the Creator. Then Phil spoke.It was a pretty short year, wasnt it? he said to his teammates in a dry, cracking voice. He turned to Lane Johnson, who would be guarding Bellach: Hound that guy! Then he turned to Isaac. Dunk it. Rip that rim off! Will, Greg, freaking rip that net off! He told them, Dont get down if we go down by two points. Weve been down. All right, boys? Come out, battle for me. Battle for Will. Battle for each other. Lets make that crowd happy.Now the long, slow cadence of Phils voice changed. It got small and rushed, and he started to cry. Normally the team ended these huddles by chanting brothers and family. Now, though, Phil said, Love you on three. He counted  one, two, three  and his team chanted: Love you. Then Big Will and Wills grandfather and uncles hit the drum, and Phil and Will sprinted onto the floor in war bonnets, Greg trailing them in a Navajo headband. On the east side of the Civic Center, the town of Arlee rose as one.Bear and Irma Malatare sat in the second deck. Nearby, David Whitesell held up a smartphone, filming the game. Down below, Becky, sitting near Adam Hiatt, looked on calmly. Chasity sat courtside with her five other kids. She knew Will was risking his health, but rest was not an option: It would kill him. Nearby, Wills tupye sat in a wheelchair, wearing a pin showing her great-grandsons face. John Malatares jaw rotated in small movements, a beaded Warriors medallion around his neck.Manhattan Christian won the opening tipoff, and Bellach hit a three-pointer. Then Phil threw a no-look pass off Isaacs hands, Will missed a three and the game turned ugly. Phil missed his first five shots; Will made only one of four. At the end of the first quarter, Bellach blocked Phils shot, and the game was tied at 10.In the second quarter, Will missed two more three-pointers, and Manhattans boys began to nod their heads. With a few seconds remaining in the first half, Phil dropped the ball to Will about 10 feet behind the three-point line. Will eyeballed the waning clock and fired a wild shot toward the rafters. The ball ripped through the net, the buzzer sounded and Will pumped his fists and screamed. He made two more three-pointers in the third quarter, and the score was 40-36 Arlee going into the fourth. Then Phil took over.He rebounded a missed three-pointer and bullied in for a layup. While nearly lying on the floor, he tossed the ball to Isaac for a basket. When Manhattan closed to within two, Phil drove, scored and was fouled. With a four-point Arlee lead and less than one minute left, Phil whipped the ball to Isaac for another layup. But in the seasons final moments, it was Will who stood at the free-throw line, preparing for two shots to seal the state championship. In the stands, Jennifer Jilot whispered to Will: Just breathe. Twice the ball rolled through the net, and Jilot wept.On Sunday, the Warriors returned to Arlee led by a fire-truck and tribal police escort. Afterward, the team gathered on the bus to listen to an elder. She said that the kids would crash, and that a time would come when they would feel alone. She asked them to forgive themselves. Its temporary, she said. Its like the breeze. It will be gone.The next day most of the boys called in sick to school. The second prevention video was on its way to reaching one million views. Pitts started receiving congratulations from public officials: a call from the governors office and letters from all three members of Montanas congressional delegation. Senator Jon Tester released a video saluting the Warriors efforts alongside Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. The team was arranging to speak with the Tribal Council and younger students at neighboring schools. Pitts called it the Warrior movement.Becky Malatare received a gracious message from Manhattan Christians coach, Jeff Bellach, thanking her for the opportunity to compete against Phil. On Wednesday, Will went to the hospital, where he discovered he had been playing with walking pneumonia and an enormous kidney stone. He elected to delay its removal until after three all-star tournaments. College recruiters had reached out to him following the championship, and he needed one more push to get into school.That night, Big Will went on a difficult call. He arrested one of the players from the previous years championship, a freshman at the University of Montana. The police said the boy had been present at a shooting, and he would later be charged for accountability to attempted deliberate homicide. Big Will apologized to the boys parents before driving him to Missoula.One afternoon that week, Phil got his spotting scope and drove his red Chevy toward one of his horn-hunting spots, a ridge from which gullies descended to a river. He pulled over and fastened his scope to the open passenger window. The snow was still deep up top. He scoped until he found a herd of about 100 elk. Cant hide forever! he said. Ill walk all this even if it dont melt. If I know theyre dropping, Ill go in there. But the herd was mostly dark: cows. He was looking for the big, tawny bulls.As he scanned the hills, Phil thought about this summer. He figured it would be his last as a kid. He planned to be starting for the Griz by the time he was a sophomore. He wondered about the temptations of college. After a big win, am I going to want to go be dumb? he asked, as if it were a question he couldnt possibly answer.He thought about his father and T.J., who could walk these hills for a full day without eating. Phil couldnt do that. He discoursed on the supremacy of brown antlers  which are fresh with blood  to white ones. Whites old, browns new, he said. Put it this way: You rather have a Lamborghini or a Subaru?A Subaru, I said.But if you lived in California?Phil didnt want to live in California. Everyones like Oh, you need to get out of here, he said. Which I believe. But if you love where you live, why not live there? No use movin.Once I asked him about the pressure of making it with the Griz. He said that he was all in, but that if it didnt work out, that would be O.K. Its my life, he said. What did that mean, anyway, to make it? Was it a jersey entombed in glass? Phil couldnt take that with him when he died. He was going to play ball as long as he could, but when it ended, he wanted to be a game warden, like T.J.s father, Tom Haynes, so he could work in the mountains.As chance would have it, Tom drove by just then. Maybe he was out busting someone for illegal firewood cutting. Phil went back to scoping; he had found three bulls bedded down in the snow. He was hoping one would drop its antlers right there. Thats my dream, he said  to see one shed through the lens of his scope. It had never happened. Come on, guy, he said to the elk. Lose your horns. His right eye affixed to the scope, the boy in constant motion was absolutely still. Only his left eyelid fluttered. I wish I could sit here all day, he said. He stared into the wilderness, wondering what would happen.On Sunday, March 11, Arlee hosted a syulm, a dance celebrating warriors returning from a victorious battle, for the team. About 350 people showed up to the community centers basketball court. The gym smelled of turkey, fry bread, spaghetti and meatballs. Irma and Bear Malatare arrived early. Irma was thinking of buying a 15-passenger van so she could take the whole family to Phils college games. She went inside while Bear stood out front in an Arlee Warriors state-championship jacket, long arms dangling at his sides.Bear had been reading a history of the Cree. He normally didnt dwell on the past. He never told Phil about his time at the boarding school, when teachers beat him for speaking his language. We cant constantly sit and cry about what they done to us, he once said. But the book made him think about his grandparents migration from Canada, and his own father, for whom Phil was named, and his time with the nuns; the constant efforts at assimilation and extermination.Were not supposed to be here, he said, his face turning momentarily dark, his immense hands clenching. Then his hands released, and a great smile worked its way across his face. Were still here, he said.He walked inside, where mothers danced around the laughing boys, shoving them playfully down to the court. The world is never so hopeful as when the old honor the young.
