BEIJING  Chinas leaders sound supremely confident that they can win a trade war with President Trump.The state news media has depicted him as a reckless bully intent on undermining the global trading system, while presenting the Chinese government as a fair-minded champion of free trade. And Chinas leader, Xi Jinping, has used the standoff to reinforce the Communist Partys message that the United States is determined to stop Chinas rise  but that it no longer can. China is already too strong, its economy too big.China is not afraid of a trade war, the vice minister of finance, Zhu Guangyao, declared at a news conference to discuss possible countermeasures. More than once, he cited the history of the new China  which began its extraordinary economic revival four decades ago  as evidence that it would never succumb to external pressure.Missing in the bluster and the propaganda are the questionable methods that China has adopted to squeeze foreign companies out of key technology markets  and the fact that in the cold-eyed calculus of economics, China is more vulnerable to a trade war than officials admit.Exports account for a big share of Chinese economic growth. Because the United States buys so much from China, Washington has many more ways to hit Chinese manufacturers. By contrast, the retaliatory tariffs Beijing has proposed already cover more than one-third of what China buys from the United States, leaving it fewer options to strike back.In the political realm, however, Mr. Xi enjoys advantages that may allow him to cope with the economic fallout far better than Mr. Trump can. His authoritarian grip on the news media and the party means there is little room for criticism of his policies, even as Mr. Trump must contend with complaints from American companies and consumers before important midterm elections in November.The Chinese government also has much greater control over the economy, allowing it to shield the public from job cuts or factory closings by ordering banks to support industries suffering from American tariffs. It can spread the pain of a trade war while tolerating years of losses from state-run companies that dominate major sectors of the economy.My impression is that there is in Washington an exaggerated sense of how painful these tariffs might be in China, said Arthur R. Kroeber, managing director of Gavekal Dragonomics, a research firm in Beijing.At worst, he estimated, the American actions could shave one-tenth of a percentage point off Chinas economic growth  hardly enough to force a drastic reversal of policies, given the enormous benefits that Chinese leaders see in the state-heavy economic model they have relied on in recent decades.At the same time, Chinese officials seem to believe they can take advantage of what they consider vulnerabilities in the American political system.The American agricultural sector is quite influential in the Congress, said Wang Yong, a professor of economics at Peking University, explaining why China has targeted farm products such as soybeans with possible retaliatory tariffs. China wants the American domestic political system to do the work.The president and his administration have sent drastically different messages this week.Hours after Chinas announcement on Wednesday, administration officials sought to calm fears that a trade war was imminent, suggesting that they might not pull the trigger on a plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods.But late Thursday, Mr. Trump said he would consider levying an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in response to its unfair retaliation. In a statement, he said, Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers.Mr. Zhu, Chinas vice minister of finance, this week had thanked American soybean farmers and the association that represents them for declaring their opposition to the Trump administrations plan.In addition to soybeans, China threatened to retaliate with tariffs on American cars, chemicals and other products. The 106 goods, many produced in parts of the country that have supported Mr. Trump, were selected to deliver a warning that American workers and consumers would suffer in a protracted standoff.If anyone wants to fight, we will be there with him, Mr. Zhu said, more or less outlining the terms for an American surrender: the removal of unilateral tariffs and a resolution of any grievances through the World Trade Organization. If he wants to negotiate, the door is open.Globally, Chinas strategy has been to isolate the United States, splitting it from allies in Europe and Asia who otherwise share American concerns about heavy-handed Chinese trade policies intended to protect key markets and to acquire technology from foreign firms.Mr. Kroeber said a united front against China would be more effective than American tariffs alone, but so far Mr. Trump has not managed to build one.Instead, Mr. Xi has largely succeeded in occupying the high moral ground on the world stage, projecting China as the sober-minded steward of international agreements on issues  from global trade to climate change  that Mr. Trump has been eager to walk away from.The American side is ready to launch a trade war at the slightest pretext, the partys flagship newspaper, Peoples Daily, wrote in a blistering editorial on Thursday, condemning Mr. Trumps tariffs as totally against the trend of economic globalization.Today, it targets China, and tomorrow may take aim at other countries, it said.The party has also seized on the trade dispute as new evidence that the United States is intent on undermining Chinas rise as a global power, a central narrative used to justify the partys, and Mr. Xis, rule.In December, the state news media also highlighted the new National Security Strategy unveiled by the Trump administration, which declared that China sought to displace the United States in the Indo-Pacific region, expand the reaches of its state-driven economic model, and reorder the region in its favor.The document signaled a bipartisan shift in Washingtons posture toward China after decades of economic cooperation and concessions. The party has argued that the United States is only now challenging China because it fears losing its privileged place in the world order.The latest U.S. measures against China carry a sense of containment, which purportedly is commonplace among U.S. politicians, said an editorial in Global Times, a nationalist state-run tabloid. But they have overlooked the fact that China has grown to be another economic center of the world.It went on to note that Chinas market was now no smaller or less attractive than the American one  a bit of an exaggeration perhaps, but not as big as it would have been a decade ago. And that makes the country a more formidable opponent than Mr. Trump may have anticipated.To take China down, the editorial said, would mean an unimaginably cruel battle for the U.S.

LONDON   British shares rose on Thursday as the threat of a trade war between the United States and China appeared to fade and a   relief rally spread from Wall Street and Asia to Europe.In addition, a number of analysts now believe that current valuations make British stocks worth buying. Citing "recent underperformance and cheap valuations", Citi upgraded UK equities to "overweight".Cit said it expects returns of 10 percent or better to the end of 2018 "unless a Brexit or global shock drives a sharp deceleration in growth".At 0810 GMT, the blue-chip FTSE 100 was up 1.3 percent. The mid-caps index rose 0.9 percent.In that segment, shares in Sophos skyrocketed 19 percent after the cybersecurity firm said billings growth for the year would be towards the top end of guidance.Electrocomponents briefly topped the Stoxx 600 with a 6 percent rise after the company reported better-than-expected margins. The shares later retreated to a gain of about 3 percent.British casino operator Rank posted the worst performance of the midcap universe, down 14 percent. The company said it expected lower profit for the full year and remained cautious about consumer outlook in the UK.Shares in BTG also suffered, losing about 12 percent as the British healthcare group announced that its 2017/2018 results would be hit by a 150 million-pound impairment charge.Just Eat posted one of the worst performances among larger players, down 3.2 percent after JP Morgan downgraded the rating of its stock. The broker said it has turned more cautious and foresees a much bigger issue for its UK operations.Britain\'s Hammerson rose 1.9 percent after it said  it did not intend to complete shareholder documents related to its proposed acquisition of Intu Properties, because it was waiting for clarification on a bid from France\'s Klepierre.(Reporting by Julien Ponthus, editing by Larry King)

(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The Islamic States paper trail, Beijings Bible ban and sexism at the sumo ring. Heres what you need to know: Five trips to Iraq. More than 15,000 documents. One collapsed caliphate.We published the results of a yearlong investigation, in which Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State that were abandoned by the militants.It shows that ISIS fighters, known for their brutality, were also effective administrators.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which followed our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covered the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here.The U.S. military, meanwhile, is spending about $1 million on makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners in Syria, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid._____ China is not afraid of a trade war. That was a senior Chinese finance official who also said that the new China would never succumb to external pressure.Some of that is believable: Beijing has a strong grip on banks, the news media and politics. It also seems willing to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the U.S. political system. (China also has some unconventional weapons to make life harder for American companies.)Even so, our veteran correspondent writes that in the cold-eyed calculus of economics, China is more vulnerable to a trade war than officials admit. Heres blow-by-blow account of what has transpired so far.And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers worry about the effect on U.S. agriculture._____ Beijings strong grip is also evident in the religious sphere.The government has banned online retailers from selling the Bible, a move in step with recent efforts to limit the influence of Christianity.The recent reorganization of Chinas governmental agencies put a hard-line faction in charge of the Communist Partys religious policy, and there are concerns that a broader crackdown may be looming._____ Its not quite twilight for fossil fuels.The world added more power from solar than any other energy source last year, and the price is dropping. But solar still accounts for a tiny fraction of total electricity  coal is still the king.The same country that leads the world in renewable-energy investment  in solar, wind, biomass and geothermal  also leads the coal consumption. Yes, China (by far)._____ Sumo wrestling, which does not allow women in the ring, is under scrutiny in Japan after a nurse doing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and others were shooed away from a mayor who collapsed while giving a speech.In a country that consistently ranks low among developed countries on gender equality in health, education, the economy and politics, the episode was seen as a metaphor for how Japan regards women  even if theyre trying to save a life. Plaintiffs in a lawsuit against Harvard are demanding that the university publicly release admissions data, saying that the records show a pattern of discrimination against Asian-Americans going back decades. Myanmar slammed Mark Zuckerberg. Civil society groups said the Facebook chief mischaracterized his companys effectiveness at quashing hate speech in the country. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. A judge has made the settlements public. Bumble and Tinder, two of the worlds most popular dating apps, are not compatible. U.S. stocks were up. The Shanghai stock exchange is closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before she went to YouTubes headquarters, shot three people and killed herself. [The New York Times] India is finalizing the $6 billion purchase of a Russian missile defense system, a deal that would force the Trump administration to choose between punishing India for violating U.S. sanctions on Russia  or granting an exemption to preserve their relationship. [The New York Times] A South Korean university is seeking to end a boycott by some of the worlds top artificial intelligence experts, insisting that its partnership with an arms company would stop short of making autonomous lethal weapons. [BBC] The Bollywood star Salman Khan was sentenced to five years in prison and fined for killing rare antelopes. Mr. Khans lawyers said they would appeal, extending a 20-year legal battle. [The New York Times] Vietnam sentenced Nguyen Van Dai, a human rights lawyer, to 15 years, along with five other activists who were given prison terms between seven and 12 years. [Reuters] Spain is aghast after footage of what appeared to be a public spat between Queen Sofa of Spain and her daughter-in-law, Queen Letizia, spread on social media. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: This weekend, plan to make a batch of one-pot meatballs and sauce. Can coffee  rev up your workout? Distracted by  Facebook Messenger, or just worried about its intrusions into your phone? Heres how to uninstall. The question at the Masters: Will Tiger Woods be the golf champion of old? We have live scores, updates and analysis. Inseparable is Yunte Huangs history of the original Siamese twins, from their childhood in Asia to their servitude in America to their eventual life of Southern comfort. (They fathered at least 21 children.) And  the pairing of astronomers algorithms for star-hunting with drones equipped with infrared cameras offers a new way to aid conservation and fight poaching.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Admiral Robert Peary, above, claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.Mr. Peary would go down in the history books as the first man to set foot at the North Pole.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it was his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Correction:  Thursdays briefing misstated Arthur Murrays birthday. It was April 4, 1895, not April 5._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Tariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating.ESWAR PRASAD, a professor of international trade at Cornell University, on the danger that tit-for-tat tariffs could escalate into a damaging full-blown trade war between the United States and China.
The United States ground war in Syria started in late 2015, when the Obama administration ordered a small deployment of roughly 50 troops. The American public saw little of the engagement: a few photos of familiar-looking soldiers in familiar-looking armored vehicles. The White House and the Pentagon stressed that the war in Syria against the Islamic State was being waged by Kurdish and Arab allies  small groups that American commandos were just advising and assisting. The American war, it seemed then, was primarily fought from the sky, taking the form of thousands of airstrikes.[The Times is reintroducing the At War blog, a forum for the firsthand experiences of global conflict.]As the months passed, the number of American troops on the ground increased.Today roughly 2,000 American troops live in Syria. The Islamic States de facto capital, Raqqa, is littered with rubble and explosives, and some of the Islamic States holdouts occupy a small slice of the Euphrates River Valley. President Trump has said he wants the Pentagons forces to leave.I want to get out  I want to bring our troops back home, Trump said on Tuesday during a news conference with leaders of Baltic nations. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.Trumps statement ran almost directly opposite Pentagon plans, which were communicated at roughly the same time Tuesday by Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the top officer at the militarys United States Central Command. On Wednesday, Trump adopted the Pentagons view. The White House released a statement saying that the American military was going nowhere until the Islamic State was eradicated in Syria.Amid all the mixed messaging, images of newly built American bases in the Syrian city Manbij had already started appearing online. They showed armored vehicles, watchtowers and a fluttering American flag  above outposts that no longer look so hasty.The Associated Press reported Wednesday that United States troops were building new positions near the front line close to the Syrian-Turkish border, a corridor no longer bordered by the Islamic State. This is now terrain held by Turkish-backed militants and Turkeys uniformed military, which is threatening a new offensive into the city to rid it of United States-backed Kurdish militias. The American forces now must deal with the remnants of the Islamic State in the region and also act as a main deterrence against advancing Turkish forces.Neither the apparently expanding network of American outposts nor their occupants look aligned with the war that was supposed to be waged by only small groups of Special Operation forces. The structures look much like the fighting positions once seen in Iraq and Afghanistan, which projected a clear message: Were here for a while.Photos from Manbij show American bases, marked by their flags, camouflage netting and armored vehicles, including M-ATVs and MRAPs  troop transports, designed to withstand roadside bombs, that became common sights on the roads in Iraq and Afghanistan.A tweet posted Tuesday by StrategicNews1 shows a male service member, shirtless and in shorts, near a mortar pit. Behind him was a bunker with ammo crates inside. Its walls were built with sandbags, and the roof was made from what looked like an Air Force cargo pallet. To his right was an Emtas, an enhanced 120-millimeter mortar system with a range of four miles.At the far corner of the screen was a wheeled mortar system, still stored.Behind the soldier was a pink lawn chair. He looked ready to settle in.

BEIJING   The trade dispute rumbling between China and the U.S. has raised the possibility consumers in Beijing may end up paying higher prices for American beef, liquor and tobacco if Beijing goes ahead with hikes on tariffs for such products.Below are thoughts shared with The Associated Press by a few Beijing residents.___THE INVESTORYang Shumei, 29, a freelance worker from southwestern China\'s Guangxi province: "I think this (the threat of a trade war) does influence my life and other areas to a certain extent. I invest in stock markets, and shares have fallen sharply as the risk is high."___THE OPTIMISTFeng Weifeng, 36, a salesman from Beijing: "I believe imposing extra tariffs from both sides is just a temporary measure and a win-win situation is the trend."___THE PRICE-SENSITIVE BUYERWang Xiaoyu, 20, student from Beijing, Higher prices "Will definitely influence my decisions. For daily necessities, mobile phones or electrical products, I am more likely to choose domestic brands or choose products with prices the same as those of U.S.-made products before the price hike."___THE ANTI-TARIFFS STUDENTLiu Boshu, 18, a student from central China\'s Zhengzhou, in Henan province: "Actually I\'m against the measures from either side. Because trade barriers like this will harm both countries in the long term."
WASHINGTON   The U.S. trade deficit increased to a near 9-1/2-year high in February, with both imports and exports rising to record highs in a sign of strong domestic and global demand.News on Thursday of the worsening trade deficit came as the United States and China were embroiled in tit-for-tat tariffs which escalated trade war fears and rattled financial markets.President Donald Trump\'s administration is pursuing import duties to eradicate the deficit and protect domestic industries from what he says is unfair foreign competition. But economists say the trade penalties will not reverse the deficit."The U.S. continues to expand faster than most other industrialized countries, so it should not surprise anyone that the trade deficit is worsening," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pennsylvania."Tariffs may sound like a good way to change the pattern of trade, but they tend to raise prices rather than modify the trade fundamentals."The Commerce Department said the trade gap increased 1.6 percent to $57.6 billion in February, the highest level since October 2008. The deficit has now increased for six straight months. Most of the rise in the trade deficit in February reflected commodity price increases.Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the trade gap widening to $56.8 billion in February. The goods trade deficit was the highest since July 2008 and the surplus on services was the lowest since December 2012.While the politically sensitive goods trade deficit with China fell 18.6 percent to $29.3 billion in February, it has increased 20.2 percent so far this year.The Trump administration on Tuesday targeted 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products, to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices. China swiftly retaliated on Wednesday with a list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicalsTrump, who claims the United States is being taken advantage of by its trading partners, has already imposed broad tariffs on imported solar panels and large washing machines. He has also slapped 25 percent import duties on steel and 10 percent on aluminum.While these actions may prove politically popular with Trump\'s working class political base, especially in states hard-hit by factory closures and import competition, analysts warn they could undercut economic growth and raise prices for both consumers and producers.The dollar rose to a two-week high against a currency basket amid signs the United States was looking to resolve the trade dispute with China. Stocks on Wall Street were trading higher while prices for U.S. Treasuries fell.DEFICIT WILL WORSENThe trade deficit is expected to widen further, thanks to an accommodative fiscal policy stance at a time when the economy is operating very close to full capacity. A $1.5 trillion income tax cut package came into effect in January and government spending will increase this year.The economy\'s strong fundamentals were underscored by a report from the Labor Department on Thursday showing the number of Americans on unemployment benefits falling to its lowest level since December 1973 during the week ending March 24.When adjusted for inflation, the trade deficit slipped to $69.11 billion from $69.96 billion in January. The so-called real trade deficit average for the first two months of 2018 is above the fourth-quarter average of $66.8 billion.This suggests trade would subtract from first-quarter gross domestic product. Trade sliced 1.16 percentage points from fourth-quarter GDP growth. The economy grew at a 2.9 percent annualized rate during that period. Growth estimates for the first quarter are mostly below a 2 percent rate."We suspect widening trade deficits and resulting subtractions from GDP growth will be a persistent feature of GDP this year as domestic demand outpaces the economy\'s supply potential," said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York. "Tariffs will do nothing to lessen this trade imbalance, unless there is a retaliatory escalation that leads to an economic downturn."In February, exports of goods increased 2.3 percent to $137.2 billion, boosted by shipments of crude oil, natural gas, motor vehicles, civilian aircraft, and drilling and oilfield equipment. Exports to China were unchanged in February.Goods imports jumped 1.6 percent to $214.2 billion in February, lifted by food, civilian aircraft, computers and crude oil. Imports of services rose to a record $47.8 billion from $46.8 billion in January, boosted by royalties and broadcast license fees related to the Winter Olympics.Imports from China declined 14.7 percent in February.(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
LONDON   European stocks jumped to their highest level in more than two weeks on Thursday as investors bought back into risky assets as concerns over trade tensions ebbed.The STOXX 600 rose 2.4 percent, scoring its best day since June 2016, buoyed by financials and industrials stocks, riding a wave of gains across global equity markets.Germany\'s DAX, the market most exposed to China, jumped 2.9 percent. After the FTSE 100, the top German stock index has been the worst-performing in 2018. https://tmsnrt.rs/2q7NMsfAfter a retaliatory blow from China against U.S. tariffs drew conciliatory noises from Washington, some investors calculated a full-blown trade war would be averted.Citi strategists said it was too early to call a bear market and stuck with an estimate for global equities to rise 8 percent by year-end. They forecast the STOXX to rise 13 percent.Basic resources and tech stocks, the sectors seen as most vulnerable to higher trading costs, led gains on Thursday. Chipmakers Infineon and ASML, telecom equipment maker Nokia, and software company SAP, were the top performers, up 1.8 to 4.5 percent.Heavyweight financials, a bellwether of investors\' perception of global market risks, added the most points to the index. Top gainers included HSBC, BNP Paribas and Santander.Big industrial exporters Siemens, ABB, and Airbus rose 2.2 to 3.5 percent. Airbus could benefit from Chinese tariffs on U.S. aircraft imports, which could hurt arch-rival Boeing.Trade concerns aside, dealmaking and results continued to drive individual stock moves.Telecom Italia shares gained 5.2 percent after sources told Reuters that Italian state lender CDP was set to buy a stake in the telecom company.Telecom Italia\'s biggest shareholder Vivendi rose 3.6 percent. Both companies declined to comment.French payments specialist Ingenico jumped 5.8 percent after a report by Mergermarket said the firm\'s share price weakness meant it was likely to attract takeover interest from bidders such as Atos.Video games maker Ubisoft jumped 10.8 percent. Traders pointed to the success of its latest video game Far Cry 5, which broke franchise sales records according to one analyst.Global equity strategists at Citi downgraded continental European equities to "neutral" and upgraded UK equities to "overweight", arguing recent underperformance and cheap valuations made the UK market relatively more attractive.Slowing momentum in economic indicators has sparked concern among investors in European equities whose holdings had been boosted by a "Euroboom" trade last year when the region delivered strong growth.The economic surprise index for the euro zone has fallen to its lowest in nearly two years.(Reporting by Helen Reid and Danilo Masoni, editing by Julien Ponthus, John Stonestreet and Andrew Bolton)

WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is off, way off, on the U.S. trade deficit with China. He repeatedly uses an inflated number for the trade gap as the world\'s two largest economies escalate their dispute over imports and exports.He\'s also taking liberties as he makes his case for a new crackdown on the southern border to stop illegal immigration, including requesting the deployment of the National Guard.Here\'s a look at his recent comments:TRUMP: "Because of the Trump Administrations actions, Border crossings are at a still UNACCEPTABLE 46 year low. Stop drugs!" - tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump\'s numbers are dated, and he\'s taking credit for a reduction in apprehensions at the southwest border that began before he took office.The detentions tend to follow a predictable pattern: The numbers begin to rise around January, peak in the spring, and fall as temperatures rise in the summer.But fiscal year 2017, which lasted from Oct. 1, 2016, to Sept. 30, 2017, was an anomaly, with numbers dipping after the 2016 election and plummeting after Trump took office, through April 2017, which logged the fewest arrests in a single month since the Homeland Security Department was created in 2003. Indeed, thanks to that drop, the 2017 fiscal year logged the fewest Border Patrol arrests in 45 years.But  and this is a big but  the numbers have been slowly ticking up since that banner month of April. And since the fall of 2017, the numbers have stabilized, returning to the typical arrest rates seen in the 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 fiscal years.The Department of Homeland Security released new statistics this week that show 50,308 arrests in March  a whopping 203 percent increase from March 2017, when there were only 16,588 arrests, and up 37 percent from the previous month. Trump has called the spike a "crisis," though the numbers are on par with years prior.Apprehensions at the border are a useful but imperfect gauge of illegal crossing, since nobody knows exactly how many people cross without being detected.___TRUMP: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!" - tweet WednesdayTRUMP: "When you\'re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can\'t lose!" - tweet WednesdayTHE FACTS: He overstates the trade deficit by $163 billion.He does this by counting Americans\' purchases of goods from China as a loss for the U.S., while ignoring what China buys from the U.S. He also ignores another big part of the equation  trade in services.Last year, Americans bought about $505.6 billion in goods from China while China bought about $130.4 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was just over $375 billion.Factor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion.As for intellectual property theft, it\'s not clear where Trump gets his figure of $300 billion, though it may be a plausible estimate.Illicit activities such as counterfeit goods, pirated software, theft of trade secrets and copyright and trademark infringement cannot be precisely measured. An independent bipartisan U.S. commission estimated that U.S. interests lost $300 billion from global intellectual property theft in 2013, with China the main culprit. The commission, in a 2017 update, gave a wide-ranging estimate, $225 billion to $600 billion, with thefts led by "thousands of Chinese actors."The Trump administration this week announced planned tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports; Beijing responded with plans to penalize imports from the U.S. by the same amount. This followed an opening salvo of U.S. penalties on steel and aluminum imports from overseas, including China, and Beijing\'s retaliatory taxes on $3 billion of U.S. products.___U.S. Customs & Border Protection southwest border apprehension statistics: https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/stats/sw-border-migration2017 U.S. trade statistics: https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/Press-Release/current_press_release/exh20.pdfIntellectual property theft report: http://www.ipcommission.org/report/IP_Commission_Report_Update_2017.pdf___Associated Press writers Christopher Rugaber, Josh Boak and Elliot Spagat contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
BERLIN   German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit U.S. President Donald Trump on April 27, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday, as differences over a nuclear deal with Iran and trade cast a shadow over the transatlantic relationship.Merkel\'s trip, three days after French president Emmanuel Macron\'s state visit to the U.S. capital, will come just before the expiry of an exemption for the European Union from U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum.The twin visits would give the European Union\'s two leading national leaders the opportunity to lobby for the bloc to be exempted permanently from the steel and aluminum tariffs. The tariffs are suspended for the EU until May 1.Merkel\'s visit to the United States, first reported by mass-selling daily Bild, will also take place shortly before a May 12 deadline that Trump has set to improve an international deal to curb Iran\'s nuclear program.Her office had no immediate comment on the planned visit.Merkel, in a telephone call with Trump last week, urged  dialogue on trade policy between the EU and the United States, "taking into account the rules-based international trade system".Merkel\'s relationship with Trump got off to a frosty start after his November 2016 election.Before a phone conversation on March 1 to discuss the war in Syria and Russian nuclear arms, the two leaders had not spoken to each other for more than five months.Trump has threatened to withdraw the United States from an accord between Tehran and six world powers, signed in 2015 before he took office, unless France, Britain and Germany help to agree a follow-up pact by that date. Trump does not like the deal\'s limited duration, among other things.(Reporting by Steve Holland in Washington and Rene Wagner and Andreas Rinke in Berlin; Writing by Thomsa Escritt and Paul Carrel; Editing by Andrew Bolton)

NEW YORK   The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4 p.m.Stocks closed higher as traders became more optimistic that the U.S. and China will be able to resolve their trade differences without too much damage.Some of the biggest gains Thursday went to retailers, technology companies and banks.Amazon climbed 2.9 percent, Facebook rose 2.7 percent and JPMorgan Chase added 1.3 percent.Safe-play stocks like real estate companies lagged the market, a sign that investors were more comfortable taking on risk.The S&P 500 rose 18 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,662.The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 240 points, or 1 percent, to 24,505. The Nasdaq composite added 34 points, or 0.5 percent, to 7,076.Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.84 percent.___11:45 a.m.Stocks in the U.S. are rising and major indexes in Europe are surging as global markets continue a rally that began late the previous day.Some of the biggest gains Thursday went to technology companies, retailers and banks.Facebook rose 2.6 percent, Amazon climbed 2.9 percent and JPMorgan Chase added 2 percent.Investors are becoming more optimistic that a trade dispute between the U.S. and China will be resolved without too much pain.Safe-play stocks like utilities lagged the market, a sign that investors were more comfortable taking on risk.The S&P 500 rose 25 points, or 1 percent, to 2,669.The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 325 points, or 1.3 percent, to 24,588. The Nasdaq added 58 points, or 0.8 percent, to 7,100.___9:35 a.m.Stocks are opening higher on Wall Street as the market builds on a solid gain from late in the day before.Technology companies and banks put up solid gains early Thursday. Facebook climbed 3 percent and JPMorgan Chase rose 1.6 percent.Stocks rose late in the day Wednesday and fears eased that the U.S. and China were headed for a trade war.Safe-play stocks like utilities lagged the market, a signal that investors were more comfortable taking on risk.The S&P 500 rose 14 points, or 0.5 percent, at 2,658.The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 167 points, or 0.7 percent, to 24,436. The Nasdaq added 48 points, or 0.7 percent, to 7,092.Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.82 percent.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on $100 billion (71.3 billion) more Chinese imports, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world\'s two largest economies.The further tariffs were being considered "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade actions, which included a proposed $50 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods, Trump said in a White House statement."This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start," said National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay."We are on a dangerous downward spiral and American families will be on the losing end," Shay added in a statement, urging Trump "to stop playing a game of chicken with the U.S. economy."Financial markets, roiled for days by the trade fight and Trump\'s management of it, whipsawed again on the new threat. After a bullish regular trading day, U.S. equity futures sold off sharply in after-market-hours trading.U.S. stock futures <ESc1> slid 1 percent and the dollar dipped against other major currencies, while Asian shares flitted in and out of positive territory. Chinese  markets were closed for a holiday. [MKTS/GLOB]Doug Kass, who runs hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management Inc, added: "Our president is going to make market volatility and economic uncertainty great again."In his statement, Trump said the U.S. Trade Representative had determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."The tit-for-tat escalation of tariff announcements, which have stirred fears that trade unfolded surprisingly rapidly . They have stirred fears that the two countries will spiral into a trade war that will crush global growth.Chinese state media slammed Trump\'s threat of more trade action against China as "ridiculous"."This latest intimidation reflects the deep arrogance of some American elites in their attitude towards China," the state-run Global Times said in an editorial.On Tuesday, USTR proposed 25 percent tariffs on more than 1,300 Chinese industrial and other products from flat-panel televisions to electronic components. China shot back 11 hours later with a list of proposed duties on $50 billion of American imports, including soybeans, aircraft, cars, beef and chemicals. "Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers," the Republican president said.Republican lawmakers from Western and Midwestern states have voiced worries about a big hit to U.S. farming exporters.\'THIS IS NUTS\'On the new tariff threat, Republican Senator Ben Sasse said in a statement: "Hopefully the president is just blowing off steam again but, if he\'s even half-serious, this is nuts."Lets absolutely take on Chinese bad behaviour, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this," said the lawmaker from the farm-belt state of Nebraska.The U.S. Department of Agriculture is looking for ways to assist farmers affected by China\'s tariffs, USDA undersecretary Bill Northey told Reuters, but did not offer specifics.White House officials have suggested throughout the week that talks with the Chinese could help resolve trade issues between the two countries. China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017. Trump has demanded that China cut the trade gap by $100 billion.A senior U.S. official who requested anonymity told Reuters no formal negotiating sessions had yet been set, but that the United States was willing to negotiate with China.The U.S. tariffs are aimed at forcing changes to Chinese government policies designed to transfer U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies and allow them to seize leadership in key high-technology industries of the future.The USTR\'s "Section 301" investigation authorizing the tariffs alleges China has systematically sought to misappropriate U.S. intellectual property through joint venture requirements that often cannot be negotiated without technology transfers, something China denies.TARIFF TARGETS NOT YET CHOSENA USTR spokeswoman said that the $100 billion second-round of potential tariffs had not been determined yet and would be selected by USTR career staff - not political appointees - along with economists and trade experts.The new list will be proposed in the same manner as the first round and will go through a similar public comment period before any of them are activated, the spokeswoman said.A further $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods would likely expand the scope of Trump\'s attack to more consumer goods. The first round of $50 billion in tariffs mostly targeted industrial goods and electronic components.The two biggest categories of U.S. imports from China last year were communications and computer equipment, totalling $137 billion according to U.S. Census data. Cellphones and computers, key portions of these categories, were spared from the initial tariffs list.Apparel and footwear, both labour-intensive industries in China, made up a combined $39 billion in U.S. imports.Dean Garfield, chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, a tech industry lobbying group in Washington, said the additional tariffs were "irresponsible and destabilising.""We need the U.S and China to come to the table and identify solutions to these serious problems," he added.(Reporting by Steve Holland and David Lawder; Additional reporting by Eric Beech, Ginger Gibson and Caren Bohan in Washington and Jennifer Ablan, Caroline Valetkevitch, Trevor Hunnicutt and Daniel Bases in New York; Writing by Chris Sanders; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh, Peter Cooney & Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON  After months of fraught negotiations and stalled talks, the Trump administration is aiming to announce a preliminary deal on the North American Free Trade Agreement this month, moving to resolve one trading conflict as a separate clash with China looms.A final agreement is far from guaranteed, but the White House is revising some of its more aggressive demands, particularly related to automobiles, which had been a source of tension with Canada and Mexico. A new proposal would require an automobile to contain components made by workers earning a specific wage level to qualify for Naftas preferential tariffs. The administration had previously demanded that vehicles contain a large percentage of auto parts produced in the United States.The new proposal is aimed at stopping United States automakers from shifting production to Mexico in search of cheap labor, according to people familiar with the plan.President Trump, who earlier this week called Nafta an embarrassment, said at an event in West Virginia on Thursday that a deal could be announced shortly. Were working very hard on Nafta with Mexico and Canada, he said. Well have something I think fairly soon.Mr. Trump said that his aides were pushing to have something concrete finished before next weeks Summit of the Americas in Peru but that a quick deal was not assured.They said, Oh, lets have Nafta before. I said, Dont rush it. Well take it nice and easy, get it done right or well terminate it, the president said.The talks, which appeared to be on the brink of collapse just a few months ago, kicked back into gear in recent weeks as political and practical realities prompted a newfound urgency among American negotiators. For a revised Nafta to be approved by the current Republican-controlled congress, the Trump administration would probably have to finalize it before the end of May to allow time for congressional review given the House and Senate calendar.Other trade tensions helped jump-start the discussions, including the administrations new steel and aluminum tariffs. The White House temporarily exempted Canada and Mexico from the tariffs through May 1, saying it would make those exemptions permanent if the three nations could agree to a revised Nafta. The administration must now make good on that promise and negotiate a deal that would allow key allies to continue importing metals into the United States. Canada is a top supplier of metal to the United States military.A quick resolution would also allow negotiators to bypass complications stemming from the upcoming Mexican elections on July 1, which appear likely to usher in a left-leaning president who has sharply criticized Mr. Trump over his broadsides against Mexico. And the White House could promote a revised Nafta as a political win ahead of the congressional midterm elections in November, while giving the presidents top trade advisers room to turn their attention to resolving a potential trade war with China, which has  fired back against American trade actions with punitive measures of its own.White House trade advisers are meeting with their Mexican and Canadian counterparts in Washington this week to try to hammer out areas of consensus on the most difficult issues of the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland of Canada and Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo of Mexico were expected to kick off trilateral talks on some of the pacts thorniest issues over dinner in Washington on Thursday night.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada struck an optimistic note on Thursday, saying the countries were having a very productive moment, a sharp change in tone from previous comments about a Nafta resolution.We are in a moment where we are moving forward in a significant way,, Mr. Trudeau said. Hopefully there will be some good news coming.He is expected to attend the two-day Summit of the Americas in Peru next week, alongside Mr. Trump and President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico.Yet hurdles remain, including how far the United States is willing to go in surrendering many of its negotiating goals, given Mr. Trumps frequent and vocal criticism of Nafta. Negotiating partners are still waiting to see whether the United States will compromise on the tough requests it has made over the past eight months of negotiations. Many of those demands, including those linked to American auto production, have angered business groups and lawmakers, who say such requirements would actually hurt companies and workers by shifting more manufacturing out of the United States.A quick resolution would necessitate concessions from the Trump administration, potentially resulting in a deal not significantly different from the one Mr. Trump has denounced as a travesty and embarrassment.Unless the United States is quite a bit more flexible, I dont see how its possible to have a quick agreement, even just an agreement in principle, said Antonio Ortiz-Mena, a senior vice president at the Albright Stonebridge Group and a former Mexican diplomat in the United States.Some concessions appear to be in the offing. The United States has now backed away from a proposal that would require half of the value of an automobile to be manufactured in the United States to qualify for Naftas preferential tariffs. Instead, it is proposing a system that would require a certain proportion of auto parts to be made by workers earning certain wages.That proposal is likely to be more palatable to Canada and could also encourage Mexico to ultimately pay higher wages. And it could help Mr. Trump court the votes of congressional Democrats, who complain that Mexicos low wages are the reason companies have relocated auto production from the United States.Still, the proposal is likely to face opposition from Mexican negotiators, given that their current wage scales are too low to qualify. And some auto executives also criticized the new proposal, saying it would be nearly as difficult for companies to comply with as earlier ideas, and could ultimately push manufacturing out of North America to cheaper areas.Other key areas of dispute also remain: Negotiators have so far concluded work on only six of the trade agreements roughly 30 chapters, and little progress has been made on contentious issues like mechanisms for settling trade disputes or rules for government purchases.Yet the renewed push to revise Nafta could usher in an agreement that until recently seemed at risk of collapse. Both supporters and critics of the Trump administration have pointed to the trade deal that the United States recently concluded with South Korea at the end of March as a possible precedent. Mr. Trump fiercely criticized that pact, but in the end his administration declared victory after renegotiating fairly modest changes.Labor unions, which have backed Mr. Trumps plan to dramatically remake trade policy, were disappointed with that deal, which did not include changes to labor standards, investment rules or content requirements for automotive manufacturing.You see what you get if your priority is speed over quality, said Celeste Drake, trade and globalization policy specialist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A quick deal thats not a good deal  is that what the administration wants to sell in these next few months? Or is it really looking to take the time it needs to get a good deal?Even an agreement in principle would not rule out the possibility of months or years of wrangling over an eventual deal. Patrick Leblond, senior fellow at the Center for International Governance Innovation, noted that Canada and Europe signed an agreement in principle for a trade pact in the fall of 2013, but that the final deal did not come into effect until September 2017, after almost being derailed.As trade negotiators repeatedly point out, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, Mr. Leblond said.
WASHINGTON   The United States and China, the world\'s two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other\'s goods.The United States on Tuesday said it would impose 25 percent duties on $50 billion of imports from China, and China quickly retaliated by listing $50 billion of products that it could hit with its own 25 percent tariffs. Earlier in the week, Beijing announced separate import duties on $3 billion of U.S. goods in response to the Trump administration\'s duties on all steel and aluminum imports, including from China.U.S. officials sought to downplay the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. Even so, economists warned that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could escalate."The seeds of a more serious conflict are there," said Adam Slater, lead economist at Oxford Economics, a consulting firm.Some of the largest American brands, from Apple to Boeing to Kentucky Fried Chicken, are increasingly intertwined with the Chinese market. They either sell billions of dollars of goods there or make some of their products in China, or both.So h did we get here, and what might the impact be?:__WHY DID THIS DISPUTE BLOW UP?President Donald Trump says Beijing is violating its free-trade commitments by pressuring foreign companies to hand over technology to potential Chinese competitors in exchange for market access.A U.S. trade official said Wednesday that the administration was moved by concerns that China is increasing its use of unfair trade practices, expanding them from industries such as steel to high-tech industries where U.S. companies dominate.A key irritant is Beijing\'s long-range industry plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025." It calls for establishing Chinese global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields. Foreign companies complain that the initiative will limit or outright block their access to those industries.Trump has also pledged to narrow the U.S. trade deficit with China, which Washington estimated at $337.2 billion last year, a record for any country.__WILL U.S. CONSUMERS END UP PAYING MORE?Not yet. The United States plans to impose tariffs on mostly machinery and high-tech goods typically purchased by businesses. The duties would mostly steer clear of the billions of dollars of consumer goods that the U.S. imports from China, such as iPhones, toys, and shoes. Only about one-tenth of China\'s goods exports to the United States would be affected.Still, economists say many companies might try to pass their extra costs from the tariffs onto consumers. Prices would rise, though likely only slightly. Kathy Bostjancic, an economist at Oxford Economics, estimates they could raise inflation by just one-tenth of a percentage point.__WILL THE DISPUTE HURT U.S. ECONOMY?The steps taken so far shouldn\'t have much of an impact. Only about 2.5 percent of all U.S. imports are affected by the tariffs. And imports from all countries amount to just 15 percent of the economy.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody\'s Analytics, estimates that the tariffs threatened so far could slice U.S. growth by just one or two-tenths of a percentage point this year."So far, at least, this is relatively minor," he said. "It\'s going to take a lot to derail this economy."Still, specific industries would feel some pain if threats of higher tariffs are carried out. China is the top overseas market for U.S. soybeans. And China has included soybeans on its list of 106 products that would be hit by retaliatory tariffs.Automakers such as Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz would also be hit. BMW exports 89,000 cars a year from the U.S. to China, while Mercedes-Benz sends 65,000 cars, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein. Tesla expects to sell about 15 percent of its Model S and Model X cars in China this year.__WHAT WILL LIKELY HAPPEN NEXT?So far, no tariffs have actually been imposed. And some U.S. officials say they\'re at least partly intended as a negotiating ploy. U.S. officials say they\'ll hold hearings on the administration\'s proposed target list of 1,300 products in mid-May and haven\'t set a deadline for when the tariffs would take effect.Nor has China set a date for imposing tariffs on the 106 products it has targeted."It will be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented, and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said.___Associated Press Writer Joe McDonald in Beijing contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   White House trade adviser Peter Navarro on Thursday defended U.S. trade action toward China, saying it ultimately would lead to free trade after imbalances are corrected and that the Trump administration would help American farmers who could take an economic hit in the process."We have the backs of farmers in this administration ... and we will do everything that we can to help them," Navarro told CNBC in an interview.(Reporting by Susan Heavey; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. trade deficit rose for the sixth straight month in February, reaching the highest level since October 2008 and defying President Donald Trump's efforts to rebalance America's lopsided trade with the rest of the world.The Commerce Department said Thursday that the trade gap  the difference between what America sells and what it buys in foreign markets  widened to $57.6 billion in February from $56.7 billion in January. Exports of goods and services hit a record $204.4 billion; imports set a record $262 billion.The news comes amid a U.S. trade dispute with China that has rattled global financial markets and raised fears among U.S. farmers and businesses that depend on access to the Chinese market. The trade deficit in goods with China narrowed in February to $29.3 billion from $36 billion in January.The United States ran a $77 billion deficit in the trade of goods in February, the highest level since July 2008. That was partially offset by a $19.4 billion surplus in services such as education and banking, lowest since December 2012. The services surplus was dragged down $1 billion in payments for broadcast rights for the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, which count as a services import.Exports of cars and auto parts posted big increases in February as did imports of pharmaceuticals, crude oil and civilian aircraft.Trump campaigned on a pledge to take aggressive action to reduce America's massive trade deficits. In March, he slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum but exempted most major countries except China and Japan. China counterpunched this week with tariffs on $3 billion in U.S. products.On Tuesday, the U.S. proposed slapping tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports, and Beijing responded within hours with plans to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft. The two countries have signaled that they will seek to settle their differences before the tariffs take effect.The president views trade deficits as a sign of economic weakness and as the result of bad trade agreements and unfair practices by America's trading partners. Most economists say they are caused by bigger economic forces, mainly the fact that the United States consistently spends more than it produces.The trade gap has continued to rise since Trump entered the White House partly because the U.S. economy is strong and American consumers have an appetite for imported products and the confidence and financial wherewithal to buy them.____
BRASILIA   Brazil\'s agriculture minister Blairo Maggi said on Thursday that the country has yet to evaluate if there will be any benefits to its exports due to the trade dispute between the United States and China.Analysts and traders are betting that Brazilian producers will reap benefits from the recent Chinese duties on U.S. soy and other agricultural commodities. Maggi said Brazil has been "a reliable food supplier to China", adding that there were no serious trade issues between the two BRIC countries.(Reporting by Lisandra Paraguassu; Writing by Marcelo Teixeira)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump, engaged in an escalating confrontation with Beijing over trade, will urge Latin American leaders next week to work with the United States - not China - on trade, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday.Trump\'s trip to Lima, Peru for the Summit of the Americas has been prefaced by aggressive moves on trade and immigration.In a telephone briefing with reporters ahead of the trip, the U.S. official, who declined to be named, said China\'s trade policies had "not been productive for the hemisphere and that the United States should remain the partner of choice" for Latin American countries.Just 11 hours after the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products, China shot back with a list of similar duties on U.S. imports, including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.The dispute has roiled financial markets and angered U.S. lawmakers in agricultural states who worry about the economic impact of retaliatory tariffs on crops.Trump has also been sparring with Mexico and Canada on an overhaul of the North American Free Trade Agreement. In addition, his administration is arguing with Argentina over biodiesel and had threatened tariffs on imports of steel from top supplier Brazil.But in his address to the Summit of the Americas, Trump will suggest that the United States is a better trade partner than China, which is the top trade partner for Latin American countries ranging from Brazil, the region\'s largest economy, to Uruguay.Substantive discussions on NAFTA are not expected at the summit, the official said.It was also unclear how much emphasis Trump would place on stopping illegal immigration from the region into the United States, a major pledge of his presidential election campaign.Leading up to the summit, Trump has announced he wants to post National Guard troops along the southern border with Mexico, and has ramped up tough rhetoric against illegal immigration from Honduras and other parts of Central America.Trump also plans to address the crisis in Venezuela with regional leaders, the official said, adding that the U.S. government was still examining next steps on sanctions, with new announcements not expected for several months.Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has in recent weeks said he would attend the summit, despite being told not to by Peru\'s government.But on Thursday he played down plans over his possible attendance."We\'re evaluating it, for me it\'s not a priority," Maduro said in a televised news conference, in response to a reporter\'s question. "You know that those Summits of the Americas are a terrible waste of time."(Reporting by Roberta Rampton and Lisa Lambert in Washington, additional reporting by Vivian Sequera in Caracas; editing by Caren Bohan, David Gregorio and Rosalba O\'Brien)
SEOUL   South Korea\'s finance minister said on Thursday the trade tussle between the United States and China was being closely watched and that the country had prepared measures for various scenarios."There are unofficial talks going on between the two countries (the United States and China) regarding the trade issue and (South Korea) is closely watching how the situation is going to unfold," Kim Dong-yeon told reporters on Thursday.Kim also said there was no change to the ministry\'s stance that it would take smoothing measures to stabilize foreign exchange markets in cases of sharp volatility.South Korea, along with China, avoided the currency-manipulator label in twice-yearly U.S. Treasury report, but was kept on a currency "monitoring list".(Reporting by Shinhyung Lee, Dahee Kim; Editing by Michael Perry)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration\'s recent trade actions toward China were not intended to punish any industries or the markets, but Beijing should shoulder the blame for any hit to the U.S. economy, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Thursday."Our intention is not to punish anybody. Our intention is to open markets and investments and lower barriers -- that\'s the deal," Kudlow told reporters at the White House. "Any damage to our economy comes from China\'s restrictive practices ... blame China, don\'t blame Trump."(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
FRANKFURT   German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to diversify production of their sports utility vehicles (SUVs) outside of the United States as a result of Washington\'s growing trade tensions with China.Beijing\'s proposed 25 percent tax on U.S. car factory exports will hit nearly 270,000 vehicles, with German carmakers accounting for $7 billion of the $11 billion total."This is a tax on Southern Germany, not the U.S.," analysts at Evercore ISI said on Thursday. "A 25 percent additional auto tariff would represent a $1.73 billion negative tariff impact directed at Southern Germany by China."BMW, the largest vehicle exporter from the United States in terms of value, has its largest factory in Spartanburg, North Carolina and faces a $965 million impact from tariffs, with Daimler exposed to a $765 million hit, Evercore ISI said.The company makes its X3, X4, X5, X6 and X7 sports utility vehicles in Spartanburg, and the trade dispute will only add pressure to move production of volume sellers like the X5 to markets outside the United States, a senior BMW source said.But any switch from one factory to another costs millions of euros, takes months to implement, and is taken with a long-term view, BMW board member Peter Schwarzenbauer said last month."We have to make decisions, like about factories in Spartanburg or factories in Mexico, which are based on a horizon of 20 to 30 years. If we were to change our strategy whenever a tweet comes out, we would get crazy," he told Reuters.HARMFUL FOR ALLAround 18 percent of all BMWs sold in the world\'s largest car market were exported from Spartanburg last year, a total of 100,203 cars and the carmaker warned that a further escalation of the trade row "would be harmful for all stakeholders".China has threatened to double tariffs to 50 percent on imported automobiles and other U.S.-made goods to retaliate against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s proposed tariffs on products including vehicles and automotive parts."The BMW Group stands for free trade worldwide: Our company has a global production network and a global sales market," it added in a statement late on Wednesday.BMW this year quietly stopped exporting the X3 from the United States to China amid escalating trade tensions, moving the production footprint of the X3 to a plant in Rosslyn, South Africa and another in Shenyang, China."Thirty-five percent of those (vehicles) exported to China were the BMW X3, which is no longer exported from Spartanburg to China," BMW said.The move to ramp up production capacity in China also stems from tightening requirements by Chinese regulators to increase sourcing of components from local suppliers.Daimler, parent company of Mercedes-Benz, declined to provide specific export figures from the United States to China and said: "We dont speculate about ongoing negotiations. We are of course monitoring the situation closely."Other companies that will be affected include Tesla, which ships an estimated 15,000 cars a year to China from its California plant and Ford.Decisions on whether and where to shift vehicle production could be complicated by moves to significantly revamp or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement that allows tariff-free shipments of vehicles to the United States from Mexico and Canada.BMW shares were trading up 0.55 percent at 87.9 euros at 1047 GMT, while Daimler stock was up 1.47 percent at 69.12 euros. Both lagged Germany\'s blue-chip DAX index, which was 1.9 percent higher.(Editing by Alexander Smith)
SPOKANE, Wash.   Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year in farm products, is also certain of the result."It\'s a strategy that\'s working," he said.If farmers are worried, so are Republican politicians, who depended on small-town America to hand them control of Congress and know how quickly those voters could take it away. Just seven months before the 2018 midterm elections, Trump\'s faceoff with China over trade has exposed an unexpected political vulnerability in what was supposed to be the Republican Party\'s strongest region: rural America.The clash with China poses a direct threat to the economies in both red and blue states, from California\'s central valley to eastern Washington through Minnesota\'s plains and across Missouri and Indiana and into Ohio.They are regions in which the GOP\'s quest to retain its House and Senate majorities this fall is tied directly to Republican voters\' views about their pocketbooks and Trump\'s job performance. The signs of fear and frustration about both are easy to find.In southwestern Minnesota, soybean farmer Bill Gordon says the volatility in the markets makes it harder for farmers like him to market their crop and lock in profitability. The state is the country\'s fourth-largest exporting state, and the state\'s top farm export market is China.A Trump voter, Gordon said right now he\'s disappointed, not angry, over what\'s happening. But the trade tensions could affect his vote in the open race for the region\'s congressional seat, where the farm vote is significant."I vote for the people who represent rural America," he said. "It\'s not a party line."Trump says he\'s simply fighting against unfair business practices with a geopolitical rival.After the Trump administration announced plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports Tuesday, China lashed back within hours, matching the American tariffs with plans to tax $50 billion of U.S. products, including soybeans, corn and wheat.Trump escalated the standoff further on Thursday by asking the U.S. trade representative to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, which had previously released plans to impose retaliatory tariffs on frozen pork, nuts and wine in response to Trump\'s intent to apply duties to imported aluminum and steel.The soybean industry, perhaps more than any other, illustrates the potential harm to Republican candidates in the fall.Soy production is concentrated in the Midwest. Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Indiana and Missouri account for over half of all soy produced in the United States. And more than 60 percent of U.S. soy exports have been sent to mainland China in recent years.Trump won 89 percent of America\'s counties that produce soy, according to an Associated Press analysis of Agriculture Department and election data. In those counties, on average, two out of three voters supported Trump in 2016.Many Republican candidates who represent rural areas Trump won in 2016 are being forced to choose between his trade policies and community interests. Vulnerable Republicans are walking a tightrope.In eastern Washington, seven-term Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers had already found herself in an unexpectedly tight race. She has urged the White House to "reverse course" on the Chinese tariffs in recent days.Jared Powell, a spokesman for McMorris Rodgers, said her office had asked the Trump administration for clarification on the effects of the tariffs."She is doing what she can to speak out publicly," Powell said.Overall, an estimated 2.1 million jobs could be affected by the trade dispute nationally, with a majority coming from counties that Trump won, according to an analysis by Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution."We\'re in kind of a farm crisis," said Bob Worth, who grows soybeans, corn and spring wheat with his son on 2,200 acres (3.4 square miles) near Lake Benton in southwestern Minnesota. He wouldn\'t say how he voted in 2016, but he offered kind, if measured, words for Trump."I\'m going to believe in the man," added Worth, who\'s also on the board of the Minnesota Soybean Growers Association. "He\'s doing this for business reasons only. I don\'t know if he knows how much he\'s hurting agriculture."Matt Aultman, a grain salesman and feed nutritionist in Greenville, Ohio, west of Columbus, said farmers there are keeping a close watch on the talk in Washington. Farmers pay attention to two things: prices and weather. And a trade fight that affects prices won\'t go unnoticed."It directly affects our pocketbooks and the way we plan for the following years," he said. "Are we going to pay all the bills this year? Are we going to buy a new piece of equipment? Do you get your kids a couple new pair of shoes?"In California\'s central valley, Republican Rep. Jeff Denham has avoided the issue altogether in recent days. His opponent, Democrat and longtime family farmer Michael Eggman, said Trump\'s trade policies would shatter his community.The district is home to Blue Diamond Almonds, among smaller nut producers, who send much of their product to China and suddenly face the prospect of 15 percent tariffs."We all know how hard it is to make ends meet as a small family farmer, and Trump is not making it easier," Eggman said. "Jeff Denham, who claims to be a local farmer, hasn\'t said one word about it. Where\'s the outrage?"Denham, through a spokeswoman, did not address the president\'s moves directly but said the congressman supports "free and fair trade" and a plan that\'s "carefully thought out."___Peoples reported from New York. Karnowski reported in Minneapolis. AP data journalist Larry Fenn in Seattle contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is hoping to counter Chinese efforts to bolster its economic influence in the Americas during his inaugural trip to Latin America next week amid an escalating trade fight and his harsh rhetoric on immigration.The White House said Thursday that Trump is set to attend the Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru, and will travel to Bogota, Colombia, to promote good governance and democracy in the Western Hemisphere. The trip will bring the president face to face with the targets of some of his fiercest ire and follows his announcement that he will direct the deployment of National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border.The deployment has sparked widespread outrage in Mexico, which had already been enraged by Trump\'s pledge to construct a border wall.Trump is also set to face scrutiny over his recently announced tariffs on steel and aluminum  though exporters to the U.S. who will be in attendance have been granted temporary waivers.Administration officials said no news is expected at the summit on the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement or any on new sanctions on the Venezuelan government. Trump will hold meetings with several regional partners, though the final roster was still being finalized. Trump will meet with Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos in Bogota.Trump is not expected to hold a meeting with Cuban leader Raul Castro, who will be attending the summit in one of his final acts before stepping down from office later this month.As China has sought to make inroads in the region by funding infrastructure works and investing in businesses, the White House said Trump will argue that the U.S. should be the "partner of choice" for the region. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross will also travel to Lima to participate in an associated summit for business leaders, the White House said.
After Hannah Grey of Pittsburgh earned an undergraduate degree in interior design, she spent several years working for an architectural firm as a commercial interior designer. I enjoyed it, she said, but it was definitely more of a desk job.Then she participated in a workshop for architects and designers. The basis of the program was to show us how the blueprints we design actually translate to real life, said Ms. Grey, 38. It kicked in her memories of growing up in Bedford, Mass., in a mansard-style house built in 1840 and learning from her father how to repair and restore woodwork.It was a fun thing I did with him, working with my hands and helping him fix things, she said.So in 2014 she decided to pursue a career as a carpenter, and she is now on the cusp of completing her fourth year in a carpentry apprentice program at the Keystone Mountain Lakes Regional Council of Carpenters in Pittsburgh. Her skills fit the job: She is detail-oriented, which is crucial to making accurate cuts. She is adroit with hand-eye coordination and is at ease with the math skills required to gauge measurements.Switching from a white-collar position to learning a trade is a path that is getting more traction these days. I have met a lot of people in the program who have college degrees, worked in office jobs and have decided to do this, Ms. Grey said.A report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics said that growth in the economy and population would increase demand for new buildings, roads and other structures, which would create new jobs in construction and extraction occupations. That translates to a need for workers who have these skills in many regions across the country.In Western Pennsylvania, for example, nonresidential construction is booming, and there is no sign of lessening, said Jeff Nobers, executive director of the Builders Guild of Western Pennsylvania. And starting in 2022, were going to begin losing some 15,000 people over a five-year period to retirement.Mr. Nobers said that he was seeing more people who had graduated from college and started a white-collar career moving into the trades. They got out and worked for a few years and determined they didnt like what they were doing, or realized there was no real upside future, he said.Most transitioning workers learn the trade through an apprenticeship. These programs generally run from three to five years, based on a 2,000-hour year. That breaks down to 10 percent in the classroom, or 200 hours a year, where apprentices learn specific trade skills along with local building codes, blueprint reading, mathematics and more. The bulk of their time, 1,800 hours, is on the job, Mr. Nobers said.There are people at all ages going through a career with a mundane job who have been unexcited about going into work and are looking at these skilled-trade jobs with increasing interest, said Bryan Kamm, a work force consultant who is leading an apprenticeship initiative in Floridas Cape Kennedy area called the Space Coast Consortium Apprenticeship Initiative.These manufacturing apprenticeships are no longer blue-collar work, Mr. Kamm said, but require highly technically advanced skills that include a great command of mathematics, physics, hydraulics, robotics and information technology.American employers have been saying for years that they have a tough time finding workers to fill many skilled blue-collar jobs. A 2015 report from the Manufacturing Institute, for example, found that seven out of 10 executives reported shortages of workers with adequate technology, computer and technical training skills.By 2025, nearly three and a half million manufacturing jobs will likely need to be filled and the skills gap is expected to result in two million of those jobs going unfilled, according to the analysis. Factors contributing to the gap: baby boomer retirements and economic expansion.Employment of plumbers, pipefitters and steamfitters, for instance, is projected to grow 16 percent from 2016 to 2026, much faster than the average for all occupations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. New construction, building maintenance, and the repair of homes and offices are expected to drive demand for these workers.There is not a lot of hard data to suggest a big shift from white-collar workers into blue-collar jobs, but there is a strong push to recruit them.If you talk to manufacturers, they will tell you they are working hard to change the image of manufacturing jobs from dirty, dangerous jobs to being quasi-white collar, said Paul Osterman, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and co-director of the M.I.T. Sloan Institute for Work and Employment Research. And today many of these workers need to be skilled with computers and statistical quality control processes. In some sense, manufacturing looks a lot more white-collar-ish than it used to.Anthony Carnevale, director of the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce, said there was not a clear pathway to go from white collar to blue collar. Youve got to have some transferability between the skills you did in one job that transfer to the next job, Mr. Carnevale said. For most people, there is very little transfer between white-collar work, and say, plumbing. There is some transferability, but its rare.Scott Lacerra, 37, of Rockford, Ill., is another rare one. He has a bachelor of science degree from Drake University, where he majored in finance. After college he worked as a credit analyst, but he said he was miserable crunching numbers on a spreadsheet all day and sitting in a cubicle.Three and a half years ago, he walked into a local manufacturing shop looking for new opportunities.He landed the job at RG Manufacturing and Machining in Machesney Park, Ill., and soon enrolled in the employer-sponsored apprenticeship program. He takes classes each weeknight in topics such as blueprint reading and AutoCAD at Rock Valley College, along with 20 other apprentices in the Rock River Valley Tooling & Machining Association program.Mr. Lacerra started as a part-time operator running a computer numeric controlled heavy machine. Soon he was driving a fork lift, making steel deliveries and training apprentices. I didnt have any experience, but I showed up every day and after a couple of weeks, I realized I really enjoyed it, he said.In May, he will complete his apprenticeship and be awarded a journeyman certificate as a C.N.C. precision machinist. We pay for the classes and the books, which run $650 a class for 10 classes, said Ed Schroeder, the owner of RG Manufacturing and Machining. He already had a college education, and people who have that can see the value in it and of striving to do more.Ms. Grey said that as a college graduate and someone who had a job at an architecture firm, she was now very proud to tell people that this is what a woman in construction looks like. Its not Bob the Builder, she said.
WASHINGTON   White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Thursday said he expects the United States and China to work out their trade differences over time and that trade barriers likely "will come down on both sides.""There is a process here. There\'s going to be some back and forth, but there\'s also some negotiations," he said in an interview on Fox Business Network. "I think we are going to get a deal over a period of time."(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
In the escalating economic showdown between the United States and China, President Trump is trying to put American shoppers first. The administration did not place tariffs on necessities like shoes and clothes, and mostly spared smartphones from the 25 percent levy on Chinese goods announced this week.But by shielding consumers, Mr. Trump has put American manufacturers  a group he has championed  in the cross hairs of a potential global trade war. If the measures stand, along with Chinas retaliatory tariffs, they could snuff out a manufacturing recovery just beginning to gain steam.If you want to spare the consumer so you dont get this massive backlash against your tariffs, then there goes manufacturing, because thats whats left, said Monica de Bolle, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The irony is, you cannot spare manufacturing from anything because manufacturing is globally integrated. The sector sources its parts and components from all over the world.That intricate supply chain often runs directly between the two countries, sometimes in both directions. Chinese factories make wing panels and doors for Boeings Next Generation 737 planes, which are assembled by union workers in Renton, Wash. General Motors makes its Buick Envision, a sport-utility vehicle, in Shandong Province, and sells it to American consumers. Construction workers in Denver use building materials manufactured in China, made in part from ethane gas produced in Texas.A central aim of Mr. Trumps America First agenda is to bring back pieces of the supply chain lying outside the country. The tariffs announced this week are just a bargaining point in a broader negotiation between the United States and China over trade.They are trying to force end-product manufacturers here to use more American content by making it more expensive for them to use Chinese content, said William Reinsch, a trade expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.The United States trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has said that the administration carefully conceived the tariffs using an algorithm that would maximize the impact on China and minimize the impact on U.S. consumers.The result is a list of more than 1,300 targets, many of them obscure products that may not deliver a direct hit to consumers wallets. The victims include industrial robots, chemicals, medical devices and heavy machinery used in everything from processing food to crushing rock.Such industries have been a vibrant piece of the economy, adding 224,000 jobs in the past year, the strongest growth since the recession ended nearly nine years ago. But underpinning that rebound has been a strong global appetite for American goods  demand that could now be weakened.This is a pretty tenuous recovery, and employment is still at much lower levels than it was before the crisis, said Mark Muro, an economist at the Brookings Institution. This is not a super dynamic, healthy industry.Recent job growth has been concentrated in industries that could be affected by American tariffs on China, Chinese tariffs on the United States, or both.Some of the strongest gains in the past year have come from makers of metal products, industrial machinery and transportation equipment. All those industries rely heavily on steel and aluminum, goods that Mr. Trump hit with tariffs earlier this year in a move aimed indirectly at Chinas production.In the latest salvos, the United States took aim at a multitude of technical components  items like circuit breakers, consoles and touch screens. Those tariffs could raise costs for electronics manufacturers, who have been hiring more aggressively lately and whose supply chains run through China.Beijing, for its part, zeroed in on an array of American products, including plastics, a fast-growing export. Chinese companies imported $3.2 billion worth of plastic resins from the United States in 2017, according to the American Chemistry Council, a trade group. Chinese factories turn those resins into building materials, automobile instrument panels, eyeglasses and thousands of other products, many of which end up back in the United States.The plastics tariffs alone could send ripples deep into Trump country. In recent years, companies have announced billions of dollars of investments seeking to capitalize on the boom in American natural-gas production. Some of those investments were to go into new plants in Pennsylvania, Ohio and other states to turn gas into chemicals and plastics, much of it bound for China.Companies arent likely to abandon those plans overnight, said Calvin M. Dooley, president of the American Chemistry Council. But if the trade barriers persist, projects could be in jeopardy. That is going to impede our ability to capitalize on that competitive advantage, Mr. Dooley said.Even with the flurry of measures and countermeasures between the United States and China, the moves so far have touched only a fraction of their $650 billion in annual trade. But they are beginning to signal how much damage could be caused, and who would suffer most.In some cases, the tariffs seem intended to deliver a message rather than a fatal blow. The United States said it would impose tariffs on aircraft parts  an important and high-profile American industry, but not one facing much competition from China. Beijing said it would impose tariffs on cars and S.U.V.s, the third-largest American export to the country. But the move may not hit American automakers as hard as it might seem.China already has a 25 percent tariff on imported cars, so General Motors, Fiat Chrysler and Ford have all agreed to manufacture inside the country as joint ventures with domestic producers, to avoid the extra charge to consumers. Foreign carmakers operating in the United States  Daimler and BMW  do send vehicles to China from factories in the Southeast. A report by analysts at Evercore ISI suggests that those companies, rather than the Detroit automakers, would bear the brunt of the Chinese levies.Tesla might have the most to lose. The electric-car company had been lobbying hard for permission to produce cars in Shanghai, but hasnt reached a deal. It sends vehicles to the Chinese market from its plant in Fremont, Calif., and its chief executive, Elon Musk, has expressed frustration even at the existing duties.Aircraft and their parts are the largest single category of American exports to China, making Boeing a big target. For now, though, Beijing seems to be moving slowly. It said it would impose tariffs on planes between 15,000 and 45,000 kilograms, which includes some older models that Chinese buyers have ordered from Boeing. But it seemed to stop conspicuously short of whacking the companys newer 737 MAX 8, which weighs 45,070 kilograms empty.That near miss is meant to convey to Boeing, and Mr. Trump, what China is capable of, said Richard L. Aboulafia, a longtime aviation and aerospace analyst at the Teal Group.Their attitude toward a trade war assumes that the other side will lie down and stay horizontal, Mr. Aboulafia said. Im not sure the easy and fun approach to trade wars holds up against return fire.
HOLDEN BEACH, N.C.   A North Carolina man says he captured some unique images of a Civil War-era shipwreck off the coast.Forty-two-year-old Brent Garlington of Fayetteville told Fox News he spotted a wrecked blockade steamer at an inlet between Holden Beach and Oak Island.Garlington flew a drone at low tide this week and recorded the video. He says his brother-in-law had seen the wreckage last year while flying a helicopter over the area.Michele Walker with the North Carolina Department of Natural and Cultural Resources says the wreckage is one of three vessels known to have gone down in the area.Walker says the wreckage occasionally shows up because of the movement of sediment.Holden Beach is about 30 miles (50 kilometers) southwest of Wilmington.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherMany farmers across the Midwest voted for Donald J. Trump in the 2016 election but hoped he would never follow through on his threats to impose tariffs on China. They feared that they would suffer if China imposed its own tariffs as payback.Now, Beijing has done just that, proposing tariffs on 106 types of American goods  including soybeans, corn and pork  in retaliation for President Trumps plans to penalize Chinese trade practices.On todays episode: Eldon Gould, a farmer in Illinois who voted for President Trump.Background reading: The Midwest, which accounts for roughly half the nations agricultural output, is a prime target for any tit-for-tat response to American tariffs. That worries rural voters. Trying to calm those fears, American officials held out the possibility that tariffs outlined this week might never go into effect.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
ALBANY  The announcement, in retrospect, was probably the easy part.On Wednesday afternoon in his Manhattan office, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo sat between two formerly sworn Democratic rivals  Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins and Senator Jeffrey D. Klein  and declared a truce in their seven-year civil war, one that has intensified since the election of President Trump.We cant take another two years like the past two years, said Mr. Cuomo, a second-term Democrat seeking re-election  and facing a challenge from the left. This is eroding the progressive soul of New York.Under the agreement, Ms. Stewart-Cousins will become leader of the reunified Senate Democrats, and Mr. Klein, formerly the leader of the renegade Independent Democratic Conference that had collaborated with the Republicans to rule the Senate, will be demoted to serving as her deputy.And while both leaders thanked the governor for brokering the peace  under which the I.D.C. had dissolved in the course of an afternoon, like a jellyfish on a hot beach  neither Ms. Stewart-Cousins nor Mr. Klein seemed particularly ecstatic as their new partnership debuted.Lets see how well we do, Ms. Stewart-Cousins said.Sometimes you have to take a step back before you can take two steps forward, said Mr. Klein.Indeed, despite the governors carefully staged kumbaya moment, there are many logistical, political and practical questions about what the future holds for the reunited Democrats and what changes might be afoot.The most immediate answer, of course, is not much: Despite the I.D.C.s eight senators joining with Ms. Stewart-Cousinss 21 members, the Democrats are still short of a majority in the 63-seat chamber, something that Republicans who control the chamber were quick to note, and mock, on Wednesday.Simple math tells you that 29 out of 63 is not a majority, said Senator Rich Funke, an upstate Republican, who also called Mr. Cuomos announcement worst deal to take place in New York City since the Yankees 10-year deal with A-Rod.The possible addition of two more Democrats through special elections on April 24 will still leave the party just shy of the magic 32 needed for a majority because of the continued defection of State Senator Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat who caucuses with the Republicans. On Wednesday, Mr. Felder, too, seemed to tamp down expectations, repeating that while he had no loyalty to any party, he seemed happy enough with the G.O.P. I think its fair to say that I would have to feel a compelling reason to leave, he said.Still, there are some indications that things will be different  particularly for members of Mr. Kleins now-defunct faction  when the Legislature returns to Albany on April 16. Thanks to their agreement with the G.O.P., members of the I.D.C. had enjoyed the perks of committee chairmanships, which come with the power to steer legislation and handsome bonuses (known as lulus in Albany parlance). Two members of Mr. Kleins conference had also been paid as vice-chairs of committees, a practice the state comptroller ruled improper in recent weeks.But those chairmanships are likely to be taken away by the Republican leader, State Senator John J. Flanagan of Long Island, who is said to have only heard about the pending reunification early Wednesday from Mr. Klein, his longtime political partner. The I.D.C. also had enjoyed other benefits, including larger staffs and offices; the status of those perks is still under discussion, according to Scott Reif, a spokesman for Mr. Flanagan.In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Klein himself seemed to confirm this, saying, Clearly, things are going to change.At the same time, the governors election-year embrace of Democratic unity does not seem to have quelled opposition to the I.D.C., which has worked with the Republicans for most of Mr. Cuomos time in office. On Thursday, at Foley Square in Manhattan, a succession of Democratic primary challengers to I.D.C. members blasted the deal as too little, too late, particularly because it came after the passage of the states $168 billion budget, during which time Mr. Klein  then regarded as one of four leaders in top-level negotiations  was still cooperating with Republicans.Were going to remember those who were in bed with the Republicans  the party of Trump, said Allan Roskoff, the president of the  Jim Owles Liberal Democratic Club, which advocates for gay, lesbian, transgender and bisexual rights.Others  including Mr. Cuomos Democratic challenger, the actress Cynthia Nixon  have also suggested that the timing of reconciliation was orchestrated to inoculate the governor and the I.D.C. from primary challenges, a theme picked up by Republicans as well. (One speaker at the Foley Square event called the I.D.C. deal the Democratic Primary Discouragement Act.)Lets be honest, said Mr. Reif. The only reason that any of this is happening now is because Andrew Cuomo is scared to death of Cynthia Nixon.Mr. Cuomo and his surrogates rejected this narrative, saying they had been working on a deal between Ms. Stewart-Cousins and Mr. Klein since last summer, and had fostered a tentative deal in November. It had nothing to do with it, the governor said on Wednesday, in response to a question about Ms. Nixon.The governor has also emphasized that the deal he announced is actually secondary to efforts in the fall to elect a wave of Democrats at every governmental level.How the Senate might operate on a daily basis is also an open question. Under rules adopted for this session, the I.D.C. is regarded as a separate conference in the chamber and part of a ruling coalition. Indeed, even if Mr. Felder were to side with Democrats, Republicans argue that rules might not allow a change in majority leadership, because rules cannot be changed without 38 votes, beyond even unified Democrats. Democrats disagree, but legal battles could follow.The uncertainty surrounding the Senate  and its now shifting loyalties  has also led to speculation that little, if anything, will get done between now and the end of the legislative session in June.On Thursday, no physical changes were visible in Albany; Mr. Kleins suite of offices, on the top floor of a legislative office building, were intact. Mr. Klein said he expected to conference with his fellow Democrats in the Senate when the Legislature returns to work. He said he would also dip into the I.D.C.s campaign funds  some $1.2 million as of January  to support Democrats, as well as fending off primary challenges to his fellow I.D.C. alumni.Mr. Klein said he remained proud of what the I.D.C. had accomplished  voting to pass things like paid family leave, a raise in the minimum wage and same-sex marriage  over its seven years of dissidence.I still believe, at the time, he said, it was a good thing.
NEW DELHI  Indias defense minister is visiting Moscow this week to finalize the purchase of a Russian missile defense system, Indian officials say, in a weapons deal that would violate American sanctions against Russia.The potential $6 billion deal comes at a time when the Trump administration is both weighing more extensive sanctions against Russia and trying to forge a military alliance with India. Indian officials say the agreement could be finalized as soon as this week, with India purchasing five S-400 Triumf systems, an antiaircraft missile array that can also intercept missiles.If the purchase goes through, the Trump administration would have to choose between punishing India for violating the sanctions or granting an exemption to avoid souring the relationship.The United States has been trying to cultivate India as a strategic ally and a hedge against Chinese military expansion. Washington has typically dangled defense deals as a way to improve military ties with countries, and it has courted India aggressively. Lockheed Martin offered last summer to move the production of F-16 fighter jets from Texas to India if India agreed to buy the plane.In the past few years youve seen a massive transition where more equipment is being bought from the U.S. Thats because the U.S. wants a closer relationship with India, and defense deals are essentially diplomatic deals, said Shailesh Kumar, the Asia director of the Eurasia Group, a geopolitical risk consulting firm.My suspicion is that America will not deem the S-400 purchase as sanctions-worthy, Mr. Kumar said. Theres too much at stake for bilateral relations. If the U.S. goes for sanctions, it will undermine the good will the U.S. has been trying to build up with India over the last two decades.Washington is increasing pressure on Moscow over its meddling in American elections and over the poisoning of a Russian spy in Salisbury, England, last month. American officials told Reuters that additional sanctions on Russia could be announced this week, expanding on a previous round that passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress in August.We are engaging with a range of countries to avert future defense acquisitions, and the secretary of state will take appropriate action when and if we determine sanctionable activity has occurred, a spokeswoman from the State Department said in an emailed response to questions. The spokeswoman did not specify what action Washington would take if the deal went through.Indias purchase of the S-400 had been stalled over the past year by pricing concerns, and an official at the Ministry of Defense said Thursday that negotiations in Moscow were ongoing.The potential purchase of the Russian missile system, also referred to by NATO as the SA-21 Growler, demonstrates Indias continued reliance on Russian military hardware at a time when the United States is trying to increase its arms sales to the country.Washingtons military sales to India went from nearly zero a decade and a half ago to some $15 billion today. Over the past five years, the United States has edged up to become Indias second largest arms supplier, just behind Russia. Russia accounted for 62 percent of arms sales to India over the past five years, down from 79 percent from 2008 to 2012, according to the Stockholm International Peace Institute, which tracks military spending.American officials acknowledge that Indias large stock of Russian equipment is a fact of life. But the pending S-400 deal is alarming to the Americans because it is a relatively new and state-of-the-art weapons system, not just an agreement to service existing equipment.The Russians are angry at India for going to the Americans for a lot of equipment, because India was their backyard as far as military purchases went, said Rahul Bedi of Janes Information Group, which tracks defense sales and is based in London. The Indians are scrambling to curry favor again with Russians and the S-400s are a way to do it.India will be hosting a defense exhibition next week, inviting global weapons manufacturers to showcase their hardware. The United States and Russia are both sending official delegations.Indias pending deal is also another potential setback to the United States struggling Patriot missile defense system, produced by Raytheon. Turkey, despite being a NATO ally, signed an agreement to buy the Russian S-400 system in December, ignoring American concerns.American officials have also tried to sway India to purchase Patriot missile systems instead of the S-400. But the Patriot system has faced recent scrutiny after it failed to protect Saudi Arabias capital from missiles fired by Houthi militants in Yemen.India wasnt very impressed with the Patriot compared with the S-400, which wins hands-down in capability, in its availability, service availability. Its a more efficient system, said Mr. Bedi of Janes.But, he added, India requires so much, theres enough food on the table for everyone to eat and have a go at it.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods on Thursday in a dramatic escalation of the trade dispute between the two countries.Trump\'s surprise move came a day after Beijing announced plans to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.And it intensified what was already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle since World War II. Global financial markets had fallen sharply as the world\'s two biggest economies squared off over Beijing\'s aggressive trade tactics. But they had calmed down Wednesday and Thursday on hopes the U.S. and China would find a diplomatic solution.Instead, the White House announced after the markets closed Thursday that Trump had instructed the Office of the United States Trade Representative to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate and, if so, to identify which products they should apply to. He\'s also instructed his secretary of agriculture "to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests.""China\'s illicit trade practices  ignored for years by Washington  have destroyed thousands of American factories and millions of American jobs," Trump said in a statement announcing the decision.The latest escalation comes after the U.S. on Tuesday said it would impose 25 percent duties on $50 billion of imports from China, and China quickly retaliated by listing $50 billion of products that it could hit with its own 25 percent tariffs. The Chinese list Wednesday included soybeans, the biggest U.S. export to China, and aircraft up to 45 tons (41 metric tons) in weight. Also on the list were American beef, whiskey, passenger vehicles and industrial chemicals.Earlier in the week, Beijing announced separate import duties on $3 billion of U.S. goods in response to the Trump administration\'s duties on all steel and aluminum imports, including from China.U.S. officials have sought to downplay the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. But economists warn that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could escalate. And already, tensions between the world\'s two biggest economies have rattled global stock markets.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer called China\'s move "unjustified" and said Trump\'s proposal was an "appropriate response to China\'s recent threat of new tariffs.""Such measures would undoubtedly cause further harm to American workers, farmers, and businesses," he said in a statement. "Under these circumstances, the President is right to ask for additional appropriate action to obtain the elimination of the unfair acts, policies, and practices identified in USTR\'s report."The clash reflects the tension between Trump\'s promises to narrow a U.S. trade deficit with China that stood at $375.2 billion in goods last year and China\'s ruling Communist Party\'s development ambitions. Trump says China\'s trade practices have caused American factories to close and lead to the loss of American jobs.Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said earlier Thursday in an interview with Fox Business Network that negotiations were ongoing. But, he said, "at the end of the day, China\'s unfair and illegal trading actions are damaging to economic growth, for the U.S., for China and for the rest of the world."He also called Trump "the first guy with a backbone in decades ... to actually go after it. Not just whisper it, but to go after it with at least preliminary actions."One trade policy expert said he doubted that Trump\'s rhetoric would help forge any deal with China."Mr. Trump is upping the ante, but the lack of a clear game plan and an incoherent messaging strategy from the administration is setting this up for an all-out trade war rather than a fruitful negotiation," said Eswar Prasad, professor of trade policy at Cornell University.Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., a frequent Trump critic, called the escalation "the dumbest possible way" to punish China."Hopefully the President is just blowing off steam again but, if he\'s even half-serious, this is nuts," Sasse said in a statement. "Let\'s absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us."Any additional tariffs would be subject to a public comment process and would not go into effect until that process is complete.___Associated Press writers Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak contributed to this report.
HONG KONG   Most Asian stock markets turned higher Friday as investors brushed off initial worries about the Trump administration\'s latest threats of yet more tariffs on Chinese imports, indicating concerns were easing about a brewing trade battle between the world\'s two biggest economies.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index edged 0.1 percent higher to 21,672.94 while South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 2,427.21. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 crept 0.1 percent higher to 5,783.40 and Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng jumped 1.1 percent to 29,852.93 after trading resumed following a holiday as investors caught up with the previous day\'s global gains. Singapore\'s share index rose while Indonesia\'s fell. Mainland Chinese markets remained closed for a holiday.TRADE TIFF: In an announcement that came after U.S. stock trading closed Thursday, President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an extra $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods. The surprise move was a further escalation of the deepening trade dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies, which just days earlier announced plans for $50 billion in import duties on each other\'s goods. The tariff threats had roiled financial markets but they had rebounded by Thursday on investor hopes the U.S. and China indicated would find a diplomatic solution.MARKET INSIGHT: The latest Trump tariff announcement means the "trade war rhetoric is unlikely to leave the picture anytime soon," said Stephen Innes, head of Asian trading at OANDA. "With the seismic shifts in sentiment this week the last thing this market needs is more confusion."WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended higher. The S&P 500 index climbed 0.7 percent to 2,662.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1 percent to 24,505.22. The Nasdaq composite added 0.5 percent to 7,076.55.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude fell 34 cents to $63.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 17 cents to settle at $63.54 a barrel on Thursday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost 31 cents to $68.02 per barrel in London.CURRENCIES: The dollar slipped to 107.25 yen from 107.40 yen The euro rose to $1.2245 from $1.2241.
LONDON   Nobody wins a trade war, International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde said in March. But for some European companies, a bit of friction couldn\'t hurt.European producers of aircraft, telecoms equipment and whisky could stand to benefit if U.S.-China trade tensions allow them to chip away at their American rivals\' share of the massive Chinese market.Traders and investors have begun looking at which European stocks could reap rewards if the two countries impose tariffs on a long list of each other\'s goods."A trade war is a battle that could create opportunities," said Hans Ulrich Jost, European value equities portfolio manager at GAM.China\'s tariff list targets U.S. aircraft imports, hurting Boeing and potentially opening the way for European arch-rival Airbus to fill the gap.Boeing is the main proxy in any trade war plays, according to a trader at Northern Trust Capital Markets, who said he had seen some investors short the stock in the past weeks.China accounts for 10 percent of all U.S. aircraft exports and all U.S. auto exports, according to UBS.Boeing\'s shares were punished on Wednesday but recovered at the close, while Airbus was among the best performers.UBS analysts said in a note "the impact should be marginal for Boeing, with limited upside for Airbus." Several traders who spoke to Reuters were pushing the "Buy Airbus vs Boeing" play.(GRAPHIC: April 5 Airbus Boeing - https://reut.rs/2GAsCOv)SPORTSWEAR AND WHISKYThe consumer sector could also see some rotation of Chinese demand away from big U.S. names and into European brands. German sportswear brand Adidas, for example, could make inroads to the detriment of U.S. rival Nike.Investors emphasized that Nike, which makes most of its products in China, would likely see little price change from the tariffs, however. Any impact would likely come from Chinese consumers actively turning away from U.S. brands.One portfolio manager said he was short Nike shares as he expected Chinese consumers to shun the brand in favor of European names.U.S. companies producing to export to China, like the maker of Jack Daniels whisky in Kentucky, could be more directly impacted.European drinks makers\' shares rose on Wednesday on speculation Chinese demand may switch to European equivalents such as Martell cognac and Chivas Regal whisky, produced by Pernod Ricard, or Remy Martin cognac.(GRAPHIC: Adidas overtakes Nike year to date 2018 - https://reut.rs/2q7pVtF)Nokia was singled out by traders and analysts as a likely beneficiary of tariffs drawing more Chinese demand to European mobile equipment makers. Its shares were steady during Wednesday\'s sell-off and were up 1.9 percent on Thursday.Europe\'s biggest export to China is telecommunications equipment, according European statistics office Eurostat.Big exporters of industrial machinery, such as ABB and Siemens, could also be relatively favored by higher U.S.-China trade costs because they compete directly with U.S. firms such as Honeywell, said Roland Kaloyan, European equity strategist at Societe Generale.ABB and Siemens enjoyed strong price gains on Thursday.Investors also pointed to European chipmakers such as ASML and Infineon as likely to benefit from China switching away from U.S. semiconductor suppliers.Semiconductor stocks, which have led the rally in tech over the past year, are highly liquid and therefore easy for investors to short as a proxy to the trade war theme, the Northern Trust trader said."A TAX ON SOUTHERN GERMAN AUTO"The complicated nature of global supply chains means tariffs on U.S. imports could also negatively impact European companies.Chinese tariffs on auto imports from the United States, for example, could disproportionately hurt European carmakers which export their products to China from U.S. plants."If China passes an incremental 25 percent tax on U.S.-specific auto exports into China (on top of the existing 25 percent tariff for all global auto imports into China), then this is essentially a tax on southern German auto," Evercore analysts led by Arndt Ellinghorst said, pointing specifically to BMW and Mercedes SUVs built in America and exported to China.Asked about the Chinese tariffs, Daimler said it would not speculate about ongoing negotiations.Companies with manufacturing sites in China could also get hurt.Goldman Sachs analysts pointed to the healthcare sector, where medical technology companies GN Store, Sonova and Philips have big Chinese manufacturing facilities.They mainly sell their products domestically, elsewhere in Asia and in Europe, however, so the impact would likely be limited, they said in a note.(GRAPHIC: Most traded goods globally - https://tmsnrt.rs/2uMHRhI)(Reporting by Helen Reid, Danilo Masoni and Julien Ponthus; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall)
SEOUL   Oil prices fell on Friday along with equities as U.S. President Trump\'s threat of new tariffs on China reignited fears of a trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies.President Trump said on Thursday he had ordered U.S. trade officials to consider an additional $100 billion tariffs on China, escalating tensions with China.Brent crude <LCOc1> for June delivery was down 38 cents, or 0.6 percent, at $67.95 per barrel by 0143 GMT.U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude for May delivery <CLc1> was down 43 cents, or 0.7 percent, at 63.11 a barrel.Shanghai September crude futures <ISCc1> were untraded due to public holidays in China, after falling 0.8 percent on Wednesday. Shanghai trading will resume on Monday.While oil market watchers were wary of the brewing trade war between the United States and China, they did not expect to see steep falls amid signs of tightening supplies."The most recent rumblings from President Trump have seen oil prices fall convincingly, but given the supporting narrative, it should attract some dip buyers," said Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia/Pacific at futures brokerage OANDA in Singapore.The Energy Information Administration (EIA) reported a 4.6 million-barrel draw in U.S. crude inventories last week, compared with analysts\' expectations for an increase of 246,000 barrels. [EIA/S]"U.S. oil inventories remain a volatile gauge, but they still provide a good litmus test for the short-term," Innes said.Meanwhile Saudi Arabia said on Thursday it would raise its official selling price for May crude for Asian customers."The move...suggests that Saudi Arabia is not looking to remove production curbs anytime soon," ANZ bank said in a note.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  and some non-OPEC producers including Russia are committed to cutting output by around 1.8 million barrels per day through the end of 2018 in a bid to clear a global overhang and support prices.Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the oil cartel, has said production cuts could be extended in one form or another.OPEC and its allies should keep the cuts to ensure healthy price levels as a way to boost investment in the industry and avoid a supply and price shock in the long run, Qatar\'s Energy Minister Mohammed al-Sada told Reuters.(Reporting by Jane Chung; Editing by Aaron Sheldrick)
NEW YORK   U.S. stock futures fell more than 1 percent late on Thursday after U.S. President Donald Trump said he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China.S&P 500 e-mini futures <EScv1> were down 1.4 percent in trading for the overnight session. Dow futures <1YMcv1> were down 1.7 percent.Trump, in a statement, said he proposed the additional tariffs "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. actions that included $50 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods."These potential trade wars are not good for the market," said Stephen Massocca, senior vice president at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. "I don\'t think the market will perceive them as good for the economy, so therefore they\'re not good for the market. It doesn\'t surprise me that as the rhetoric heats up, the market is weak."Hedge fund manager Doug Kass, who runs Seabreeze Partners Management Inc, said he was shorting the Standard & Poor\'s 500."The hastily crafted policy like we have seen from Trump over the last two, three days and now tonight in a world that is flat and ever-more interconnected is dangerous."The probabilities of a recession in the last half of 2019 and early 2020 are increasing in odds and maybe quite dramatically, Kass added, saying: "The bottom line is that our president is going to make market volatility and economic uncertainty great again.During the regular session, the Dow and the S&P 500 posted gains for a third day in a row, the longest streak in about a month, as investors\' worries of an escalating trade conflict between the United States and China began to ease.On Wednesday, Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the administration was involved in a "negotiation" with China rather than a trade war.Bob Smith, president and chief investment officer at Sage Advisory Services Ltd Co in Austin, Texas, said the markets were going to react adversely to Trump\'s latest statement."Anything thats twice as large as the last number is going to elicit a response, and I think that were just going to be going on this hayride for a while until they get themselves around the table and start talking turkey ... at some point the markets going to get fed up with it."(Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch and Trevor Hunnicutt; Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Peter Cooney)
NEW YORK   Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Thursday:Conn's Inc., down $5.12 to $30.73The retailer reported disappointing revenue and forecast weak sales in the current quarter.Deere & Co., up $2.77 to $151.34Shares in the farm-equipment maker recovered losses as investors grew less fearful about a trade war between the U.S. and China.J.M. Smucker Co., up 30 cents to $124The maker of jams, jellies and packaged foods said it will buy pet food maker Ainsworth for $1.9 billion.Facebook Inc., up $4.24 to $159.34Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said he doesn't think the company has lost users in the wake of its ongoing privacy scandal.Navient Corp., up 82 cents to $13.66Investment firm Canyon Capital Advisers disclosed a 7.8 percent stake in the student loan servicing company.Ollie's Bargain Outlet Holdings Inc., down $1 to $59.45The retailer's stock gave up some of its recent gains following its fourth-quarter report.Marathon Oil Corp., up 91 cents to $16.80Energy and basic materials companies rose Thursday as the dollar gained strength.Welltower Inc., down 43 cents to $54.73High-dividend stocks including real estate investment trusts declined Thursday as investors got more comfortable tasking risks.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: During five trips to Iraq, Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State, gathering more than 15,000 pages of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Weve just published the results of our yearlong investigation. It shows that ISIS, known for its brutality, was also effective at wielding power through paperwork. Heres a closer look at some of the documents we collected, including tax collection forms, religious edicts and the will of a suicide bomber.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which follows our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covers the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here. Separately, President Trump wants to bring home the 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria. He dropped plans for an immediate withdrawal, but instructed military commanders to wrap up the mission within a few months. The latest dispute between the U.S. and China has been defined by reciprocity, with each side announcing matching tariffs.But if things continue to escalate, Beijing will have less room to maneuver and could resort to more unconventional measures, our senior economics correspondent writes.For now, the White House is trying to calm fears of a possible trade war. Administration officials hinted on Wednesday that tariffs outlined earlier in the week might never go into effect, but reiterated that China must stop what President Trump calls unfair trading practices. Heres how the showdown could affect U.S. manufacturers. Our correspondent in Mexico spoke with some of the Central American migrants cited by President Trump to justify sending troops to the southern border. (The caravans have also excited the conservative news media.)The group of more than 1,000 people, mostly women and children, is fleeing violence and poverty, but its members face an uncertain future. Who wants to leave their country, the comfort of their home, their families? one asked. White House officials confirmed plans on Wednesday to mobilize the National Guard to the border with Mexico, but gave few details about timing, the number of troops or their mission there. The countrys top court ruled today that former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva can be sent to prison while he appeals his conviction on corruption and money laundering charges.Mr. da Silva, 72, who was president from 2003 to 2011, was sentenced last year to almost 10 years in prison. His chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff, was removed from office in 2016. Mr. da Silva is the front-runner in the presidential election in October, and the courts decision raises questions about the legitimacy of the vote. Facebook said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm, far more than an earlier estimate of 50 million.The companys chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is scheduled to testify to Congress next week. Heres a guide to our coverage of the Cambridge Analytica story. Thousands of Google employees are urging their chief executive to end the companys involvement in a Pentagon program to improve the targeting of drone strikes. You cant be serious! That was the response of Sinclair Broadcast Groups chairman to criticism of a script about media bias that dozens of TV anchors at its stations were instructed to read out. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly and his lawyers worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. Now a judge has made the settlements public. U.S. stocks were up on Wednesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Flying somewhere? Take advantage of the changes at airports. How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry, with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Cambridge Analyticas parent company apparently helped Rodrigo Duterte win the Philippine presidential election, our former Europe Morning Briefing writer, Patrick Boehler, noted on Twitter. [South China Morning Post] As a onetime employee of Blockbuster Video, I was tickled to learn that a video store in Bend, Ore., is still operating under the name of the chain.Its the last one in the lower 48 states (there are six others in Alaska), and how they continue to do business is fascinating. [GeekWire] Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science Putting out a yearbook after a school shootingAfter the deadly attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High in February, the staff of the Aerie, the schools yearbook, had to decide how to honor the 17 people who died.This has to be remembered for the rest of our lives, one of the yearbooks editors told our reporter. Best sellers, via the Oval OfficePresidents past, present and future are represented on the latest hardcover nonfiction best-seller list.It includes a collection of Obama-era photographs, an inside account of the Trump White House, a book about the meaning of faith by former President Jimmy Carter, and an open letter to whoever becomes the first female president. Are you a teacher?We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think about the protests over pay and benefits, and what conditions are like at your school. Best of late-night TVMike Myers  in the form of his Austin Powers character Dr. Evil  told Jimmy Fallon that the wall between the U.S. and Mexico was actually his idea. Except, I wanted it to be a moat, filled with spiky blowfish. Quotation of the dayTariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating. Eswar Prasad, a professor of international trade at Cornell University, on the risk of a full-blown trade war between the U.S. and China. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. His mission, he said, was to use dance to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.As a tall, gangly boy from the Bronx, he discovered in high school that he had a flair for dancing and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night. He eventually turned the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming, and he had a weekly variety TV program, The Arthur Murray Party. That way, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, he  once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
 Good Thursday. Heres what were watching: Jamie Dimon chafes under liquidity rules. Mark Zuckerberg has disclosed more on how much Facebook user data may have been accessed. The White House is still talking tough on trade with China. Blackstones infrastructure fund isnt doing so well.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.On Wall Street, theres been a running parlor game about whether Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chases chief executive, would try to run for president in 2020. His annual letters, filled with commentary on U.S. policy, have only increased the chatter, and this years letter, released Thursday, is no different. It touches on everything from trade to immigration. While Mr. Dimon, who once called himself barely a Democrat, says he plans to stay at the bank for the next five years, the question among political prognosticators is whether Mr. Dimons policy views could ever find a home among voters in this politically polarized environment.Mr. Dimons sensible letter was seemingly supportive of some of President Trumps policies, while taking the opposing side on others. Mr. Dimon particularly applauded the corporate tax cut and deregulation efforts. On China trade, Mr. Dimon writes: It is not unreasonable for the United States to press ahead for more equivalency, and that one of the administrations best arguments is that negotiation alone has not worked. However, he said he would like to see more cooperation with U.S. allies on talks with China and added that the U.S. should revisit the Trans-Pacific Partnership.On immigration, he called for tougher border control, writing, American citizens have the right to complain that we have not successfully protected our borders since the last immigration reform in 1986. He also said, People immigrating to this country should be taught American history, our language and our principles. At the same time, he also advocated for a path to legal status and citizenship for Dreamers and improving merit-based immigration programs so that immigrants educated here can stay.Mr. Dimon made a point of saying that part of the problems facing the country is that too many people are talking past each other.When people argue as if there are binary solutions, the argument is almost always wrong, he wrote, advocating that people try to look at all sides of a situation. I tell my liberal friends to read columnists like Arthur Brooks and George Will. And I tell my conservative friends to read writers like Tom Friedman.If Mr. Dimon were to run, he would likely have to do so as an independent. It is hard to see how liberal Democrats would embrace much of his deregulatory positions. And yet many of his positions  and especially some of his social positions not enunciated in his letter  may not be far right enough to capture the interest of Republicans.Maybe the country needs someone in the middle, but history has not been kind to third-party candidates. Andrew Ross SorkinJamie Dimon, in his annual letter to JPMorgan Chases shareholders, had much to say about political issues like trade and immigration.But he also addressed a policy area much closer to home  bank regulation. Mr. Dimon often has expressed skepticism about aspects of the banking overhaul that took place in the wake of the financial crisis. But his remarks on regulation arguably carry more weight now. Congress is closer to modifying the post-crisis rules than at any point since Dodd-Frank was signed into law in 2010. An important regulatory requirement Mr. Dimon criticized, therefore, might become a focus for those wanting to roll back the rules.Mr. Dimon in this years letter zeroed in on regulations that require banks to have a certain amount of liquidity, the financial term for access to cash or low-risk assets that can be easily sold for cash.In 2008, some large financial firms were crippled when customers, depositors and creditors withdrew their money. The Federal Reserve and taxpayers had to step in to support the banks. To help prevent a repeat of this, post-crisis rules require that banks hold a certain amount of liquid assets to cover a theoretical level of outflows. Mr. Dimon is in favor of banks having more liquidity than before the crisis, but in the letter, released Thursday, he wrote:Notably, legislation currently in Congress would tweak liquidity rules. If it passes, bankers may press for more loosening. And, as they have before, bank lobbyists may deploy Mr. Dimons main argument here  that regulation can lead to less lending. But there are flaws in this line of attack, especially when it comes to liquidity rules.First, a bank that lacks liquidity is in no position to lend. When a banks creditors and customers fear it doesnt have enough cash in reserve, they will most likely withdraw their money. This not only deprives the bank of the money it needs to lend, it also sharply reduces its chance of survival. Or as Gregg Gelzinis of the left-leaning Center for American Progress puts it, You wont be able to take this action if you fail.Perhaps more importantly, Mr. Dimon leaves out some crucial context. Congress designed the whole post-crisis overhaul to ensure that banks have the funds on hand to lend during a downturn. Dodd-Franks architects saw that when banks stop lending, it makes a recession far worse. And that is one reason why banks now have much higher levels of capital. Regulators expect that they will use up some of that capital to keep lending through the economic tumult. This is why the Federal Reserve said after its last bank stress tests:Andrew Gray, a JPMorgan spokesman, followed up with more material on Mr. Dimons thinking on liquidity.He re-emphasized Mr. Dimons point about having to tie up funds that could be used to make loans. Mr. Gray noted that a bank facing outflows would be expected to keep refilling its pool of liquid assets to be in compliance with a liquidity regulation. This would leave fewer funds for lending and making markets, Mr. Gray asserted.He also addressed the argument that higher capital levels, not liquidity, will largely determine the extent to which banks will lend through a downturn. Mr. Gray asserted that liquidity rules play an important role in ensuring banks have the resources to participate in wider financial markets. Rules forcing the hoarding of liquidity may, thus, crimp that activity. Peter EavisMick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has complained that the regulator engages in wasteful spending. He even submitted a quarterly budget request recently of $0.That attitude apparently didnt apply to two of his recent hires.Mr. Mulvaney appointed two senior staff members who are paid salaries far above what they had been earning in their previous government jobs in Washington, according to agency documents obtained by The New York Times through a public records request. Kirsten Sutton was hired in January to be the agencys chief of staff. Mr. Mulvaney agreed to pay her $259,500 a year. Her salary is the highest allowed under the consumer bureaus pay scale and represents a raise of more than 50 percent working for one of the C.F.P.B.s fiercest critics, Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. It is also 22 percent more than her predecessor. Brian Johnson is another new deputy. In late December, Mr. Mulvaney signed paperwork that awarded Mr. Johnson a salary of $239,595. Mr. Johnson previously worked on the House Financial Services Committee. In his most recent job there, as policy director, he earned about $170,000 a year, according to LegiStorm. Of the 20 people at the bureau with the title of senior adviser, Mr. Johnson is the second-highest paid. (Another adviser, whose name wasnt disclosed in the public records reviewed by The Times, is paid $240,000.)ContextThe consumer bureau, as well as fellow financial regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is allowed under federal law to pay employees significantly more than other government agencies can pay. The rationale is that the higher salaries are necessary to recruit skilled employees who otherwise might land jobs on Wall Street.As a result, the C.F.P.B. is stocked with employees who earn more than the average Washington bureaucrat. Of the agencys 1,600 employees, 219 make more than $200,000, according to the records reviewed by The Times. Stacy CowleyBlackRock, the worlds largest money manager, plans to offer a series of new products allowing individuals and institutions to invest in market indexes without putting money into manufacturers and retailers of firearms.They include: a new exchange-traded fund that will track the performance of the MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index, composed of small stocks with favorable environmental, social and governance standards, while specifically excluding producers and large retailers of civilian firearms. a similar credit-focused ETF that eschews the debt of gunmakers and distributors. an option to take the guns out of institutional strategies tracking major market indexes, including the S&P 500, the Russell 2000 and three others.Critics cornerRob Cox of Breakigviews writes:What emerged from Facebook yesterday  in Mark Zuckerbergs conference call with reporters and in a company blog post  were revelations that users public data was more compromised than previously thought. Facebook said Cambridge Analytica harvested the data of 87 million users, not 50 million. A vulnerability in search and account recovery functions may have exposed most of Facebooks 2 billion users to unauthorized harvesting of their public profile information.Mr. Zuckerberg, ahead of his testimony to Congress, struck a conciliatory tone. But regulators in Australia, the U.S. and elsewhere are investigating whether the company broke privacy rules.Facebook also outlined steps to prevent misuse of its platform. Among the most significant: restriction of access to so-called A.P.I.s that let developers plug into its network. The Verges take: Effectively, Facebook has put a nail in the coffin of its app platform.The most immediate effect: Tinder users couldnt log in.A brighter note for Facebook: Its shares are up in premarket trading today, after Mr. Zuckerberg said that #DeleteFacebook didnt appear to be having much effect.The Facebook calendar April 9: Alerts should start popping up for users whose information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica. April 10: Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees. April 11: He will testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Elsewhere in tech and regulation: A closer look at Margrethe Vestager, the public face of Europes tech clampdown. And the privacy advocate Max Schrems says the fight over user data has just begun.President Trump and the White House insist that the U.S. isnt in a trade war with China. But it hasnt backed off from its tariff threats, and the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said the U.S. may feel a little bit of short-term pain.More from behind the scenes, by Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT:Calming the markets has mostly fallen to Larry Kudlow, the White Houses national economic adviser of less than a week.Peter Eaviss take: We can take lessons on the U.S.-China trade skirmish from Brexit. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to that seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system.And Greg Ip of the WSJ, who says China started the trade fight, had an informative tweetstorm about each sides vulnerabilities:But Neil Irwin of the Upshot warns that China has other ways of retaliating.The United States trade deficit rose 1.6 percent to $57.6 billion, its highest level since October 2008. The deficit has now risen for six straight months, the longest such streak since 2000.The merchandise-trade gap with China narrowed to $34.7 billion in February from $35.5 billion. The Trump administration wants to cut $100 billion, or about 25 percent, from the annual deficit with China, Bloomberg points out. During President Trumps first year in office, the United States trade deficit with China rose to $375.2 billion in 2017, a record high.Last May, Blackstone announced with great fanfare that it planned a $40 billion fund with Saudi Arabia to invest in U.S. infrastructure: up to $20 billion from the Saudis, who would match commitments by other outside partners. But as of now, Blackstone has secured just $575 million in such commitments  and missed two fund-raising deadlines.Whats happened, per Kate Kelly and Andrew: The Saudis wanted the fund overseen by an investment committee, with a seat for them. Blackstone refused. Many potential investors balked at committing money until an investment team was in place, a process that took some time.In other infrastructure news: D.J. Gribbin, the Trump administrations infrastructure point person, is leaving the White House, which looks to have delayed its investment plan until after the midterms. The E.P.A. chief Scott Pruitt, the subject of some unhappy rumblings from the White House, has begun a media pushback against claims about his spending. (Politico) George Nader, the U.A.E.-connected businessman cooperating with Robert Muellers investigation, has links to Russia, too. (NYT) President Trump plans to deploy National Guard troops to help guard the U.S.s southwestern border. Hed previously said it would be our military. (NYT) John Kasich is eating at diners in New Hampshire, for some reason. (NYT) Amalgamated Bank became the latest restrict gun sales by its business customers, following guidelines published by the Mike Bloomberg-backed Everytown for Gun Safety. (Amalgamated)More than 3,100 Googlers have signed a petition protesting the tech colossuss A.I. work with the Defense Department.More from Scott Shane and Dai Wakabayashi of the NYT:The company line: Were actively engaged across the company in a comprehensive discussion of this important topic.In other defense tech news: Oracles Safra Catz reportedly argued to Mr. Trump over dinner Tuesday night that the Pentagons process for choosing a cloud services contractor was tilted toward Amazon. (Oracle is also bidding.)The tech flyaround On balance, the U.S. Postal Service probably does pretty well out of Amazon. Its real problem, Barry Ritholtz argues, is Congress. Spotify shares ended down yesterday at $144.22, but still up on private stock trades earlier this year. One big winner was Sony, which sold 17.2 percent of its stake. Meet Fin7 (or Carbanak or Cobalt Spider), the criminal group suspected of many prominent data thefts. And a cyberattack on a natural gas pipeline servicer raised questions about the U.S.s energy system. Apple is reportedly working on touchless gestures and a curved screen for iPhones. (Bloomberg)The woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself had become angry with the companys policies. Police did not say which ones, but she had posted about YouTube pulling ads from videos that it said did not meet its standards.The woman, Nasim Najafi Aghdam, was a social media video star in Iran and had called YouTube a dictatorship because she was making less money from her posts.Also of note: The attack highlighted the tension between Silicon Valley giants love of big, open campuses and their security needs.As the two corporate siblings jostle over a potential union  Viacom has reportedly rejected CBS's offer and is preparing a counter bid  who would run the combined company remains a sticking point. Rich Greenfield of BTIG offered a contrarian case against it being Mr. Moonves of CBS, one of the best-regarded media executives around.The future of a combined Viacom and CBS is going to be driven by an increasing focus on international and scaling up, he wrote  an agenda better suited to Viacoms C.E.O., Bob Bakish. Investor withdrawals at Bill Ackmans Pershing Square Capital Management are huge. (WSJ) Starboard Value plans to continue pressing its proxy fight at Newell Brands. Carl Icahn, who has settled on that one, is off trying to replace the board at SandRidge Energy. The judge overseeing the Justice Departments lawsuit to block AT&Ts takeover of Time Warner asked about settling it through arbitration. (WSJ) Broadcom is officially a U.S. company now. It still cant go after Qualcomm. (Broadcom) Some big drug makers are regretting their deals of 2015 and 2016. (FT) J.M. Smucker will pay $1.9 billion for Ainsworth Pet Nutrition, which makes Rachael Rays dog food brand, and will consider selling its U.S. baking brands like Pillsbury. (Reuters) SS&C of the U.S. is reportedly trying to top Temenoss 1.4 billion bid for the British trading software maker Fidessa. (FT) Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan, in his firms latest annual letter, where he also talks taxes, deficits and public policy. Michael Doppelt has rejoined Irving Place Capital as the investment firms head of fund-raising and limited partner relations. (Reuters) Britains requirement that companies with at least 250 staff disclose measures of gender pay gaps is forcing a reckoning at many companies. (NYT) David Smith, chairman of Sinclair Broadcast Group, says the media is getting his company all wrong. (NYT) Settlement agreements between Bill OReilly and two of his accusers were made public for the first time, offering details about his tactics against sexual harassment allegations. (NYT) Nikes top human resources executive told employees the company had failed to gain traction in hiring and promoting women and minorities. (WSJ) Why bond kings love Southern California. (Bloomberg) A guide to the long war between Bumble and Tinder. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va.   Tossing his "boring" prepared remarks into the air, President Donald Trump on Thursday unleashed a fierce denunciation of the nation\'s immigration policies, calling for tougher border security while repeating his unsubstantiated claim that "millions" of people voted illegally in California.Trump was in West Virginia to showcase the benefits of Republican tax cuts, but he took a big and meandering detour to talk about his tough immigration and trade plans. He linked immigration with the rise of violent gangs like MS-13 and suggested anew that there had been widespread fraud in the 2016 election."In many places, like California, the same person votes many times. You probably heard about that," Trump said. "They always like to say, \'Oh, that\'s a conspiracy theory.\' Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people. And it\'s very hard because the state guards their records. They don\'t want us" to see them.While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., past studies have found it to be exceptionally rare.Trump initially claimed last year that widespread voting fraud had occurred in what appeared to be a means of explaining away his popular-vote defeat. Earlier this year the White House disbanded a controversial voter fraud commission amid infighting and lawsuits as state officials refused to cooperate.In recent weeks, Trump has been pushing back more against the restraints of the office to offer more unvarnished opinions and take policy moves that some aides were trying to forestall. His remarks in West Virginia, like so many of his previous planned policy speeches, quickly came instead to resemble one of his free-wheeling rallies."This was going to be my remarks. They would have taken about two minutes," Trump said as he tossed his script into the air. "This is boring. We have to tell it like it is."As he has done before, Trump conjured images of violence and suffering when he described the perils of illegal immigration, though statistics show that immigrants commit crimes at a lower rate than citizens. He dubbed MS-13 gang members "thugs" and said his administration\'s crackdown on the group was "like a war.""MS-13 is emblematic of evil, and we\'re getting them out by the hundreds," said Trump, who sat on stage at a long table in a gym draped in American flags and decorated with signs that read "USA open for business." \'\'This is the kind of stuff and crap we are allowing in our country, and we can\'t do it anymore."Invoking the lines of his June 2015 campaign kickoff speech, in which he suggested that some Mexican immigrants were rapists, the president mused about the threat of violence among immigrants and appeared to make reference to a caravan of migrants that had been working its way north through Mexico toward the United States."Remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower when I opened? Everybody said, \'Oh, he was so tough,\' and I used the word rape," he said. "And yesterday it came out where this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before. They don\'t want to mention that."It was not clear what Trump was referring to. White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said Trump wasn\'t talking about the caravan but rather about extreme victimization of those making the journey north with smugglers in general. And press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders later said that she was "not sure why the media is acting like this isn\'t a well-established fact  women and young girls are brutally victimized on the journey north."Trump also defended his proposed tariff plan, which many of his fellow Republicans fear will start a trade war with China. He criticized West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat who has expressed openness to working with the White House, for opposing the GOP tax plan. He praised attendees Rep. Evan Jenkins and state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, both running in the Republican primary for Senate next month, suggesting an applause test between the two. And, of course, he reminisced about his 2016 electoral victory in the Mountain State.All of that overshadowed any time spent promoting the tax plan.It underscored the frustration of many congressional Republicans with the president\'s frequent indiscipline. Many members of his own party have blamed the president\'s lack of focus for helping to stymie their agenda, and they are eager for him to focus on the tax cut, the most significant legislation achievement on which to run in the upcoming midterm elections.While Trump went off script, the attendees an assemblage of state politicians, local business owners, workers and families  stayed dutifully on task, talking about how the tax cuts have helped them.One woman, Jessica Hodge, tearfully told Trump: "I just want to say thank you for the tax cuts. This is a big deal for our family." Jenkins said that "West Virginians understand your policies are working" and that Trump was "welcome to come back any time."___Lemire reported from New York.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey
SAN FRANCISCO   As a stock rebound on Thursday put the S&P 500 on track for its strongest three-day performance since 2016, a look at the recent performance of most of the index's components paints a different picture, illustrating signs of weakness in Wall Street's health.Cooling fears that Trump is starting a trade war with China helped the S&P 500 rebound 0.8 percent on Thursday and 2.9 percent over the past three sessions. But the S&P 500's recent volatility has left the index trading down 7 percent from its record high on Jan 26, and most of its components have fallen even further from their own recent highs as investors worry about high valuations and likely interest rate hikes.Nearly 18 percent of S&P 500 components have fallen 20 percent or more from their own one-year highs, according to Thomson Reuters data, putting them in bear-market territory. Another 41 percent of S&P 500 stocks are down between 10 and 20 percent from their year highs, a range that investor consider correction territory.(GRAPHIC: S&P 500 Bears - https://reut.rs/2JnINfK)Within the Dow Jones Industrial Average, General Electric has slumped 56 percent from its year high in April 2017, while Walmart is down 20 percent from its year high in January. Another 12 of the Dow's 30 components  have declined between 10 and 20 percent from their year highs.(GRAPHIC: Dow Bears - https://reut.rs/2JnINwg)The two largest U.S. companies by stock market value weathered Wall Street's recent volatility better than most, helping limit the S&P 500's loss in 2018 to under 1 percent. Apple and Microsoft are down 2.6 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively since the end of February, better than the S&P 500's 6 percent loss in that time. The two technology behemoths are down about 5 percent each from their own previous record highs.Amazon.com has fallen 5 percent in the past month but remains up 24 percent year to date, as investors continue to bet the online retailer and cloud computing behemoth will expand further into food retail and other markets.(Reporting by Noel Randewich)
MANILA   Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said on Thursday he had accepted the resignation of his justice secretary, the eighth member of his cabinet to leave since last year, and had picked the heads of the country\'s security forces.Duterte gave no reason for letting go staunch loyalist and former university classmate Vitaliano Aguirre, but it came at a time of rampant media speculation he would be sacked over his performance.The president made the announcement during a speech, calling Aguirre "my fraternity brother". He was replaced by Menardo Guevarra, a lawyer who was the deputy executive secretary in the president\'s office.Duterte named Metro Manila police chief Oscar Albayalde as the new head of the 175,000-member national police force, replacing the tough-talking Ronald dela Rosa, whose extended tenure ends soon.Presidential spokesman Harry Roque had earlier said there were no indications Duterte would fire Aguirre, who attended a monthly cabinet meeting late on Wednesday.Roque also announced the appointment of Lieutenant-General Carlito Galvez, who led troops in a five-month-long battle in a southern city last year, as the new military chief.Albayalde and Galvez will assume their positions next week after the president returned from trips to China and Hong Kong, Roque added. The changes will trigger changes in security forces\' leadership.He said Aguirre\'s replacement had taken his oath as the new justice secretary.Rumours about Aguirre\'s departure from cabinet went into overdrive in recent weeks after his justice department, due to insufficient evidence, dropped charges against several drug kingpins who had admitted their involvement in the drug trade.Duterte has vowed to jail or kill what he calls "drug lords" as part of a bloody war on drugs in which small-time peddlers and slum dwellers have borne the brunt of a crackdown in which police have killed thousands of people.Aguirre was also dragged into a controversy over an attempt to bribe two officials of the immigration bureau, which comes under his remit, and a proposal to make a businesswoman embroiled in a bribery scandal a state witness.Aguirre was in the same law school fraternity as Duterte in Davao City, and he was the lawyer for a police officer accused of carrying out killings at Duterte\'s behest during the 22 years Duterte was mayor of the southern city.He is the latest in a series of top officials who have either resigned or been sacked from the Cabinet, or to have been rejected by lawmakers during confirmation hearings.(Reporting by Manuel Mogato; Editing by Martin Petty, Robert Birsel, Kim Coghill)
___China-US tariff spat: Mostly losers, but some winners tooBEIJING (AP)  China\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. goods could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers. Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft targeted for possible retaliation in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.___Stock market is its old, volatile self again after long calmNEW YORK (AP)  Volatility is the name of the game in the stock market this year. Big swings in price are the norm, not only on a day-to-day basis but also hour to hour. Wednesday\'s turnaround from big early losses to solid gains is just one example. Traders pin part of the blame on Washington, D.C., but they also see this rise of volatility as a return to normalcy following an unusually calm 2017.___As Trump tweets, Amazon seeks to expand its business empireWASHINGTON (AP)  Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting. Amazon relies on an in-house lobbying team as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success. Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017.___Long-term US mortgage rates fall; 30-year at 4.40 percentWASHINGTON (AP)  Long-term U.S. mortgage rates fell this week, benefiting potential homebuyers with the spring buying season underway. Mortgage buyer Freddie Mac says the average rate on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages dipped to 4.40 percent from 4.44 percent last week. The average rate on 15-year, fixed-rate loans declined to 3.87 percent from 3.90 percent last week.___US trade gap rises 6th straight month to 9 -year highWASHINGTON (AP)  The U.S. trade deficit rose for the sixth straight month in February, reaching the highest level since October 2008 and defying President Donald Trump\'s efforts to rebalance America\'s lopsided trade with the rest of the world. U.S. exports and imports both set records.___YouTube shooter\'s bizarre videos key to suspected motiveMENIFEE, Calif. (AP)  Police say the videos posted by the woman who wounded three people in a shooting at YouTube headquarters are central to the motive. Police and relatives say Nasim Aghdam was angry with YouTube\'s policies. She was virtually unknown in her native Iran, where people expressed shock that she would lash out violently in a country that has more social media freedoms.___Delta: Data of \'several hundred thousand\' customers exposedATLANTA (AP)  Delta Air Lines now says that payment-card information about "several hundred thousand" customers may have been exposed by a malware breach last fall. The airlines says that the malware attack may have exposed customers\' names, addresses, credit card numbers, card security codes and expiration dates. Delta offered the additional details about the attack on Thursday, a day after saying that only a "small subset" of customers was affected.___Obama-era clean-air rule on methane emissions blocked againWASHINGTON (AP)  An on-again, off-again effort to restrict harmful methane emissions on federal lands is off  again. A federal judge in Wyoming has halted the clean-air rule indefinitely. The judge says it "makes little sense" to force oil and gas companies to comply with the Obama-era rule when the Trump administration has moved to roll back the 2016 regulation. The Interior Department rule forced energy companies to capture methane gas burned or wasted at drilling sites on public lands.___Gov\'t: Goodyear tires may have caused 95 deaths or injuriesDETROIT (AP)  The U.S. government\'s road safety agency says it has received allegations that defective Goodyear motor home tires caused crashes that killed or injured 95 people during the past two decades. The allegations were revealed in an information-seeking letter sent to Goodyear by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Late last year, the agency began investigating whether Goodyear\'s G159 tires are unsafe. Goodyear says it\'s cooperating with the investigation.___Stocks jump as trade war fears ease; Amazon, Facebook rallyNEW YORK (AP) Global stock indexes kept climbing Thursday as investors around the world grew more optimistic that a trade dispute between the U.S. and China, the two largest economies in the world, will resolve without too much damage. In the U.S., banks rose along with interest rates, retailers and consumer-focused companies kept rising, and industrial and technology companies turned higher.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index climbed 18.15 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,662.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 240.92 points, or 1 percent, to 24,505.22. The Nasdaq composite added 34.44 points, or 0.5 percent, to 7,076.55. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks rose 11.26 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,542.93.Benchmark U.S. crude added 17 cents to $63.54 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 31 cents to $68.33 per barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline and heating oil both remained at $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas fell 4 cents to $2.68 per 1,000 cubic feet.
SOFIA   Bulgaria's authorities reported an outbreak of the highly pathogenic H5N8 bird flu virus on a duck farm in the southeastern region of Yambol, the food safety agency said on Thursday.Authorities will cull all birds at the duck farm in the village of Zimnitsa and have set up a three-km protection zone around it. A ban on the trade and movement of domestic, wild and other birds and trade on eggs has been imposed, the agency said.(Reporting by Tsvetelia Tsolova; editing by Jason Neely)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said in a statement on Thursday that he has instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. tariff actions.The statement said the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   For more than a year, Wall Street has largely ignored the unpredictability and chaos that has plagued Donald Trump\'s administration, confident that the businessman-turned-president\'s policies would juice the economy and that a team of mainstream advisers would keep more controversial proposals at bay.Now the financial markets are showing that their patience with Trump has its limits.A triple whammy of tariffs, Twitter threats against one of the nation\'s largest companies and high-level staff shake-ups have rattled Wall Street in recent weeks. The S&P 500 has fallen 1 percent amid turbulent daily price swings since March 1, the day Trump said he intended to levy tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Wednesday was another roller coaster day for Wall Street amid back-and-forth tariff threats by the U.S. and China. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 501 points after the opening bell but made it all back, and more.The repercussions of a jagged drop in the stock market are both economic and political. If the market fluctuations continue, they could dampen business and consumer confidence and ultimately slow U.S. economic growth. For Trump and the Republican Party, that could be a devastating development in a midterm election year, when the party is largely pinning its hopes of keeping control of Congress on economic success and Americans seeing a benefit from the tax overhaul the president signed in December.Republican leaders have been urging Trump, both publicly and privately, to spend the year selling the merits of the new tax law, which permanently slashed corporate tax rates and included big rate cuts for wealthy individuals, alongside more modest cuts for the middle class. Instead, Trump has aggressively pursued tariffs that may initially satisfy his supporters\' desire to crack down on China and other nations, but risk sparking a trade war that could devastate some of the American industries that Trump has pledged to protect."Farmers and ranchers shouldn\'t be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country," said Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, whose state depends on agriculture exports. "It\'s not fair, and it doesn\'t make economic sense."White House officials scrambled Wednesday to calm both the markets and Republicans, leaving open the possibility that some tariffs ultimately won\'t be implemented if China lowers barriers to U.S. exports."Don\'t overreact, we\'ll see how this works out," said Larry Kudlow, Trump\'s new chief economic adviser. "At the end of this whole process, the end of the rainbow, there\'s a pot of gold."That still left plenty of investors on edge.Companies surveyed for the Institute for Supply Management\'s services index released on Wednesday said that while they\'re still expanding, they\'re worried about the tariffs and volatile swings in prices for lumber, steel and aluminum that make planning difficult."If there is follow-through on both sides to go ahead with higher tariffs, clearly there will be negative implications everywhere," said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets. "As of now, the impact is on confidence, and uncertainty is never a good thing for the economy."Wall Street\'s fluctuations could be particularly problematic for Trump given how closely he\'s tied his own success to stock market gains. Unlike most of his predecessors, who rarely commented on Wall Street\'s highs and lows, Trump has frequently cast market highs as a direct result of his presidency and policies. He notably hasn\'t tweeted or commented on the recent volatility, though his spokeswoman said he wasn\'t rattled."We may have a little bit of short-term pain, but we\'re certainly going to have long-term success," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters.Beyond Trump\'s tariff threats, investors have also been put off by the sudden departure of senior administration officials with close ties to Wall Street and the business community. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, the former CEO of Exxon, was ousted last month. White House economic adviser Gary Cohn, the former president of Goldman Sachs, also announced that he was resigning. The morning after Cohn\'s resignation, the Dow Jones industrial stock average opened roughly 1 percent lower.Adding to the market uncertainty: Trump\'s tweets about Amazon. He\'s spent the last several days misleadingly saying that the online retailer doesn\'t pay taxes and has hurt the finances of the U.S. Postal Service. Amazon shares have lost nearly 14 percent of their value since the middle of March.So far, Trump\'s trade strategies and taunting have done little to derail the economy as a whole. Employers are expected to have added a healthy 185,000 jobs in March, according to estimates for the monthly jobs report being released Friday. This would come after a strong gain of 313,000 jobs in February.But lurking beneath that growth is a rising sense of uncertainty about what might happen next in Trump\'s economy.David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer for Cumberland Advisors, said investors are now pricing in the risks of a trade war and other issues stemming from Trump\'s words and actions. He said he has yet to see a proper analysis showing that tariffs help the economy, although he said "I hope" the White House turns out to be correct that a showdown with China won\'t damage the U.S. economy.Kotok then paused and added, "But hope is not a strategy."___Editor\'s note: Washington Bureau Chief Julie Pace has covered the White House and politics for the AP since 2007. AP Economic Writer Josh Boak has covered the U.S. economy for AP since 2013.
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.   President Donald Trump\'s promise to use the National Guard to secure the U.S.-Mexico border isn\'t a new concept and is something the U.S. has done in the past for varying reasons.Both Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the border when they were in the White House. And throughout the history of the borderlands, the military or armed militias have been dispatched there to keep black slaves from fleeing, remove Native Americans from ancestral lands and suppress Mexican-American revolts stemming from anger over white mob violence.Here\'s a look at how the U.S. has used the military and armed militias along the border:SLAVERY AND CHINESE EXCLUSIONAfter the U.S. seized Texas and American Southwest following the U.S-Mexico War, armed militias patrolled the border looking for runaway black slaves. The traditional Underground Railroad to the north was too far for slaves to travel so thousands attempted the journey south to freedom. Soon, a guerra sorda, or cold war, developed between the nations.According to historian James David Nichols, Texas slaveholders took matters into their own hands and sent armed militias to the border and into Mexico to search for runaway slaves. Often Mexico refused to turn over slaves and the conflict sometimes resulted in violent skirmishes.In the late 1800s and early 1900s, mounted watchmen who patrolled from El Paso, Texas, to California were dispatched largely to look out for Chinese immigrants trying to illegally enter the U.S.Kelly Lytle Hernandez, a University of California, Los Angeles history professor and author of "Migra!: A History of the U.S. Border Patrol," says initially there were no restrictions on Mexican immigration at the time because U.S. growers wanted a steady stream of agricultural workers.___REVOLUTION AND REVOLTTensions remained high between white settlers, Mexican-Americans and Native Americans in the newly acquired territory following the U.S-Mexico War.Miguel Levario, a Texas Tech history professor and author of "Militarizing the Border: When Mexicans Became the Enemy," said the U.S. government erected military bases such as Fort Bliss in El Paso, Texas, for the sole purpose of removing Native Americans from lands. "It had little to do with immigration," Levario said.As the Mexican Revolution began in Mexico around 1910, white settlers feared Mexican-Americans might take up arms on behalf of Mexican Revolutionary leader Pancho Villa.When Villa soldiers in northern Mexico killed 19 white engineers and staff from an American mining company, drunken U.S. soldiers sought revenge in El Paso and attacked Mexican-Americans in poor El Paso neighborhoods, sparking a riot in 1916. El Paso police also are believed to have sought revenge and set fire to Mexican inmates in the El Paso jail, killing 27, Levario said. The inmates were doused with coal oil and gasoline as a crude disinfectant, he said.What happened at the jail helped push Villa to raid the small town of Columbus, New Mexico. The violent raid angered whites and President Woodrow Wilson, who ordered Gen. John J. Pershing to invade Mexico to arrest Villa. The U.S. Army never caught him.National Guard units from around the country were called up and more than 100,000 troops were sent to the border.___IMMIGRATION AND DRUGSCongress created the U.S. Border Patrol in 1924 and the agency slowly grew in size as its mission changed. At first, the agents sought to keep out Asian immigrants and later worked to stall alcohol trafficking in the Prohibition era. Slowly, it evolved into stalling unwanted migration from Mexico.Occasionally, U.S. presidents have sent the military or the National Guard to the border region to help the Border Patrol stem a crisis amid controversy with border residents.In 1997, camouflage-clad U.S. Marines ordered to patrol the border for drugs in West Texas shot and killed 18-year-old Esequiel Hernandez Jr. while he was herding his family\'s goats near the tiny village of Redford, Texas, along the U.S.-Mexico border. Authorities say Hernandez had no connection to the drug trade and was an honor student.That shooting sparked anger along the border and ended the President Bill Clinton-era military presence along the border. After Sept. 11, President George W. Bush sent unarmed National Guard units to the border for support, Levario said.In 2010, President Barack Obama deployed National Guard troops to the border over fear of increasing drug-trafficking violence.Today, there are more than 20,000 Border Patrol agents along the U.S.-Mexico border, and a number of other federal agencies have a presence as well.___Associated Press writer Russell Contreras is a member of the AP\'s race and ethnicity team. Follow Contreras on Twitter at http://twitter.com/russcontreras .
TOKYO   U.S. stock futures slid and the yen rose against the dollar on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump proposed additional tariffs on China, aggravating trade tensions and smothering a revival in broader investor risk appetite.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan lost 0.25 percent. The index has spent the week swinging wildly in and out of negative territory amid the back-and-forth of the U.S.-China trade dispute.Australian stocks slipped 0.35 percent and South Korea\'s KOSPI lost 0.3 percent. Japan\'s Nikkei fell 0.15 percent.The S&P 500 E-mini futures were down 1.2 percent , pointing to a lower start for Wall Street later in the session.The Dow and the S&P 500 posted gains for a third day in a row on Thursday, the longest stretch of gains  in about a month, as investor fears of an escalating trade conflict between the United States and China abated, turning the focus to upcoming earnings.Trade tensions, however, returned to the fore after Trump said late on Thursday that he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China, fuelling the trade dispute between the world\'s two  economic superpowers.Trump said in a statement the extra tariffs were being considered "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade measures."Trump\'s order to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate, and recent trade actions and rhetoric in recent weeks, is an example of how battles can turn to wars," said Dan Ivascyn, group chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co (PIMCO)."This is another reason investors should be reducing risk."The dollar, which had risen to a one-month high against the yen on Thursday on an earlier easing of trade fears, slipped against its Japanese peer after Trump\'s latest trade offensive.The greenback was down 0.3 percent at 107.080 yen , pulling back from 107.490, its highest since March 1. It was up 0.8 percent on the week.The dollar had risen to a one-month peak versus the yen, bolstered by Wall Street\'s bounce on Thursday when the United States appeared to signal a willingness to resolve the trade dispute.The yen, a perceived safe-haven currency, is often sought in times of market turmoil and political tensions.The dollar dipped 0.15 percent to 0.9621 Swiss franc, another safe-haven currency.The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2248 .The dollar index against a basket of six major currencies was down 0.1 percent at 90.359. The index has risen 0.4 percent this week.Treasury debt prices gained and yields declined as investors sought the safety of government bonds.The 10-year Treasury note yield fell 2 basis points to 2.811 percent, pulling back from Thursday\'s nine-day high of 2.838 percent.Crude oil prices fell as risk aversion gripped the broader markets.U.S. crude slipped 0.6 percent to $63.14 a barrel and Brent was down 0.55 percent at $67.94 a barrel. Oil had gained on Thursday, helped by higher equities and Saudi Arabia\'s unexpected hike in crude prices.Beyond the trade turmoil, financial markets are focused on Friday\'s U.S. non-farm payrolls report, which could determine the pace of future Federal Reserve interest rate rises and consequently the dollar outlook.The U.S. March employment report is expected to show non-farm payroll growth of 193,000 jobs versus 313,000 in the prior month, according to the latest Thomson Reuters poll of economists. The unemployment rate is expected to drop to 4.0 percent from 4.1 percent in February.(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Additional reporting by the New York markets team; Editing by Eric Meijer)
NEW YORK   Like a good thriller, you can\'t be sure where the stock market is headed these days until the very end.The market has become so volatile that big swings are happening not only day to day but hour to hour as investors react to a mix of hard news, fear and speculation.Take Wednesday, for example. What seemed like a terrible day for stocks ended up being quite a good one after the Dow Jones industrial average swung from a 500 point loss to a 230 point gain. The opposite has occurred in recent weeks, too, with early rallies turning into routs after stocks plunged in the last hour or so of trading.The turnaround from last year\'s procession of gradual, effortless gains has been dizzying. Traders pin much of the blame on Washington, D.C., where the Trump administration has stirred up worries about a possible trade war and the Federal Reserve has embarked on a course of interest rate increases. But they also see the rise in market volatility since February as the pendulum swinging back to normal, and perhaps overshooting it, following an unusually calm 2017."On those days where we saw the headlines of the Dow down 600 points, 700 points, 800 points, and the velocity of it where people hadn\'t finished processing the initial headline that we\'re already down 100 points, that felt a lot like the crisis days" of 2008 when the financial system seemed to be collapsing, said Justin Wiggs, senior equities trader at Stifel."But overall, there still hasn\'t been that sense of panic. Maybe that\'s because given the gains of the broader market, people are almost playing with house money," he said.There may not be panic, but there certainly has been a sense of whiplash.For all of last year, the S&P 500 had eight days where it finished with a gain or loss of 1 percent, a traditional marker for a "big" move in stocks. Already this year it\'s had 26. At that pace, the index would end the year with about 100 such days. Over the last 50 years, the index has typically had only half that number of days with big moves.The intraday trading movements have been even wilder. On Wednesday, the S&P 500 was down 1.6 percent minutes after trading started, as investors worried about tit-for-tat tariffs announced by the United States and China. But the index was break-even by midday and then ended with a 1.2 percent gain. Such daily swings from high to low have been commonplace since volatility returned to the market and wider than historic norms.Since early February, the S&P 500 has moved 1.7 percentage points from its low to its high on the typical day. That\'s more than triple last year\'s median of just 0.5 percentage points. Over the prior 30 years, the median has been 1 percentage point. That means half the days over that span had a swing of less than 1 percentage point, and half had a bigger move.The choppiness has been particularly acute in the last hours of trading when, according to an old market adage, the action is driven by the "smart money," such as big institutional investors. The early-morning hours, meanwhile, are supposedly dominated by mom-and-pop investors trading on their gut instincts and reactions to the news that occurred overnight.The worst half-hour of the trading day has been from 3 p.m. Eastern time to 3:30 p.m., when the market is approaching its 4 p.m. close. Since the stock market started its run of volatility on Feb. 2, the S&P 500 has lost an average of 0.15 percent during that half hour. That\'s twice as big as the next-largest drop, from 1 p.m. to 1:30 p.m.The quick moves can make things dicey for investors trying to time their trades. Anyone who sold an S&P 500 ETF Wednesday morning at the low point locked in a loss of 1.6 percent for the day, for example. But investors selling S&P 500 index mutual funds had to wait until after the day ended, because traditional mutual funds trade only once each day. They would have ended up with a gain for the day, even if they put in their sell order at the same time as the S&P 500 ETF investor.For now, investors seem to be stomaching the increased volatility just fine. At Brouwer & Janachowski, an advisory firm that manages $1.4 billion, CEO Stephen Janachowski said he has received surprisingly few calls from panicked clients since market volatility surged higher in February."People will take this in stride because they\'ve been making money for nine years," he said. For instance, a $10,000 investment in a S&P 500 index fund after the stock market bottomed in March 2009 has grown to more than $45,000."Everyone knows what goes on in Washington can flip-flop on a day-to-day basis. I think people have gotten used to the volatility more so than the market has."
SHANGHAI   China\'s commerce ministry said on Thursday it has initiated a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute resolution procedure over U.S. tariffs on its import of steel and aluminum.The move follows a back and forth dispute between the two countries over free trade, that has escalated from an investigation by the United States into China\'s intellectual property practices to imposing tariffs on imports.The Ministry of Commerce said the U.S. measures  against its steel and aluminum were not for maintaining national security, but rather were in aid of trade protectionism.The ministry said in a statement posted on its website the U.S. action were a "serious violation of the non-discrimination principle of the multilateral trading system", and violated its tariff-reduction commitments under the WTO.After the United States failed to negotiate compensation, China had to initiate the dispute settlement procedure to defend its rights and interests, the ministry said.The U.S. Trade Representatives office said earlier that the tariffs were put in place on national security grounds and objections were "baseless".WTO rules include an exemption for measures related to national security.(Reporting by Engen Tham in Shanghai and Michael Martina in Beijing; Editing by Robert Birsel)
FREETOWN   Sierra Leone\'s new president, Julius Maada Bio, on Thursday called on the rival he defeated in an election run-off to drop a legal challenge against the result, and hinted he might offer him a role in government.Bio was declared winner late on Wednesday with 51.81 percent of votes and was sworn in hours later, but the ruling All People\'s Congress (APC) candidate, Samura Kamara, who polled 48.19 percent, said the vote was marred by fraud and he would challenge the result."I\'ll very much encourage him to move away from that path and come," Bio told Reuters in an interview."He is a resource. He has the expertise and the experience. And I think we can put those to work in addition to all that we have to make sure that Sierra Leone is a better place."Though he stopped short of saying so, Bio\'s remarks suggested he sought to bring Kamara, a former foreign affairs minister, into his government in order to placate him.While he won the presidential poll, in a parliamentary election held at the same time, Bio\'s Sierra Leone Peoples Party won only 47 of the 132 seats. Kamara\'s APC got 67, a slim majority."There are certain institutional restraints that are not just going to let me do things the way I want to do them," Bio said. "This is not a military government and I do acknowledge that and accept the limitations."Bio briefly ruled Sierra Leone as head of a military junta in 1996. He declined to comment on accusations of abuses by that junta, which was accused of executing soldiers from the previous regime, saying he had addressed this in the past.Interviewed later by Reuters, Kamara also sounded conciliatory, though he declined to say whether he would work with Bio, and insisted the litigation would go ahead.But he recalled when he had briefly worked with Bio, when the latter was head of the junta."Julius Maada Bio and I have worked ... together," he said, adding: "I have a passion to serve Sierra Leone at any time."The vote to replace Ernest Bai Koroma, who could not run again for president due to term limits, was largely peaceful - a relief for a country of 7 million people which suffered a civil war in the 1990s that was fueled by the diamond trade and notorious for its mutilations and drugged-up child soldiers.But Bio will have to work fast to reverse years of economic decline. Just as Sierra Leone was booming in the early part of this decade, the world\'s deadliest Ebola epidemic and a global slump in commodity prices, particularly for its main export, iron ore, torpedoed the economic recovery.Bio said he would seek to make Sierra Leone less reliant on natural resources, investing instead in "human capital" - in particular by introducing universal free primary education."You ask a Sierra Leonean \'what do we have?\', they talk about diamond, gold. They\'ve never seen it, never benefited from it," he said."We have to, as a state, be responsible to make sure that those who can\'t afford it at least can have the basic education."(Additional reporting by Olivia Acland in Freetown; Writing by Tim Cocks; Editing by Robin Pomeroy and Matthew Lewis)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump continued his attacks on Amazon.com on Thursday, targeting the newspaper, owned privately by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, as the company\'s "chief lobbyist" in a Twitter post.Trump, who regularly lashes out against what he perceives as critical articles in the Post and other prominent U.S. news outlets, took issue with a trade story headline on China retaliating with trade penalties against U.S. products."The Fake News Washington Post, Amazon\'s "chief lobbyist," has another (of many) phony headlines," Trump wrote.(Reporting by Washington newsroom;Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
LONDON   Friends say Israel Ogunsola was a bubbly young man with a knack for making people laugh.This week the 18-year-old was stabbed to death, becoming London\'s 53rd murder victim of 2018. The British capital is being shaken by a spike in deadly violence, much of it involving young people with knives caught up in gang feuds.The causes are disputed and so are the solutions. But the pain is raw."I\'m still in disbelief, because I don\'t understand why," said 19-year-old Nella Panda, standing beside a police cordon in the east London borough of Hackney, yards (meters) from where Ogunsola collapsed on Wednesday evening. Police and an off-duty paramedic battled to save him, but he was pronounced dead 25 minutes later."He was just a nice bubbly person," Panda said Thursday. "He made friends with everybody ... it was always a good time when you was with him."Ogunsola was the 12th teenager to die violently in London since January. Many of those arrested for the killings are also in their teens and 20s.Most of the city\'s murder victims were stabbed to death. Guns are tightly restricted in Britain and shootings are relatively rare.If the bloody trend continues, London will far surpass the 130 murders in 2017 and reach a number not seen since the early 2000s.In February and March, London hit the unwanted milestone of recording more homicides than New York. The cities are roughly the same size, with more than 8 million people, and have similar extremes of poverty and wealth, but London has never recorded more murders in a year than the U.S. metropolis. New York had 290 homicides in 2017, the lowest number in decades.Police and community workers say London\'s surge in violence is partly driven by battles over control of the illegal drug trade and a "postcode war" between street gangs. Some victims were targeted, while others may have been in the wrong place at the wrong time  such as 17-year-old Tanesha Melbourne, killed in a drive-by shooting on Monday as she hung out with friends.As well as multiple causes, there are multiple candidates to blame for the city\'s rising homicide rate.Some have criticized London Mayor Sadiq Khan, who oversees London\'s Metropolitan Police. But most of the police budget comes from the British government, which has cut funding to police forces by more than 20 percent since 2010.Khan said Thursday that rising crime is a national problem and "I can\'t solve it by myself.""Since I first became mayor, I have been saying to the government that it\'s not sustainable to make the level of cuts they have been making to London," he said.The deficit-cutting Conservative government has also slashed funding to local councils, which run many social services, leading to the closure of youth clubs, libraries and programs for young people.Money is not the only concern. Some argue that crime-fighting has been hampered by curbs to police stop-and-search powers  a decision made by then-Home Secretary Theresa May, who is now prime minister.Metropolitan Police Chief Cressida Dick has blamed social media for allowing disputes to escalate rapidly, taking young people "from slightly angry with each other to \'fight\' very quickly."Labour Party lawmaker David Lammy, whose Tottenham constituency in north London has seen four murders this year, blamed international gangs supplying the multi-billion dollar cocaine trade that he said made Britain "the drugs market of Europe.""Drugs are prolific," Lammy told the BBC. "It\'s like (food-delivery service) Deliveroo. They\'re as prolific as ordering a pizza. You can get them on Snapchat, WhatsApp. That in the end is driving the turf war and it\'s driving the culture of violence."Former police officer John Carnochan has seen a city in the grip of violence, and thinks he knows how it can be turned around.In the early 2000s, the Scottish city of Glasgow was known as the murder capital of Britain. In 2005, Carnochan co-founded the Violence Reduction Unit, which decided to treat violence as a public health issue, rather than simply as a law-and-order problem."It gave us a new language. We could start to speak about prevention," said Carnochan. "Because law and order, criminal justice, didn\'t think about prevention. Our idea of prevention was an alarm, or bars on your windows."In Glasgow, prevention meant police working alongside teachers, social workers and others to "share the problem out" and find solutions. It also meant going to the young men involved in violence and offering alternatives  something many eagerly seized."When you say it out loud it seems so obvious," Carnochan said. "If you are a young man leaving home every night and you feel you have to put a knife down the waistband of your trousers to go out, that can\'t be a good thing."Between 2005 and 2015, the number of murders in Glasgow fell by half. Carnochan thinks a similar approach would work in London.But solutions seem a long way off in Hackney, an area of poverty and gentrification, where public-housing blocks stand alongside million-pound ($1.4 million) Victorian houses and fashionable boutiques. Police have arrested two 17-year-olds in Ogunsola\'s death, but young people worry that more tit-for-tat violence will follow."People are just angry with life, and with this it\'s just going to make more people angry and it\'s just a continuous cycle of anger," said Panda, the victim\'s friend.She is mourning a friend she ran into just a few hours before he died and asking unanswerable questions. What if he had not been on that spot at that time? What if medical help had come sooner?"His mum and his dad could have been holding their son today in the hospital, instead of getting ready to bury him six feet under," she said.___Follow Jill Lawless on Twitter at http://Twitter.com/JillLawless
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Five trips to Iraq. More than 15,000 documents. One collapsed caliphate.We published the results of a yearlong investigation, in which Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State that were abandoned by the militants. It shows that ISIS fighters, known for their brutality, were also effective administrators.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which followed our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covered the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here.The U.S. military, meanwhile, is spending about $1 million on makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners in Syria, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid.____2. China is not afraid of a trade war.That was a senior Chinese finance official, who also said that the new China would never succumb to external pressure. But our correspondent says China is more vulnerable than officials admit.Heres a blow-by-blow account of what has transpired in the U.S.-China trade conflict so far. And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers like Eldon Gould, above, worry about the effect on American agriculture.____3. President Trump was in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., to promote his tax overhaul. But he tossed aside his prepared remarks  literally threw them  and instead went on a lengthy tirade about immigration.He boasted about calling immigrants rapists during his election campaign and said that female migrants are raped at levels theyve never seen before as they travel north through Mexico. Our reporter is in Mexico with the migrant caravan he referred to.Aboard Air Force One on the way back to Washington, Mr. Trump denied knowing of any hush money paid to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who claims she had an affair with him.____ 4. Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, above, is under increased White House scrutiny.Ethics questions have threatened his good standing with the president and driven away some senior staff members. For instance: the arrangement to pay $50 a night for a room in a Capitol Hill apartment  owned in part by the wife of a top energy lobbyist.At least five officials at the agency were reassigned or requested new jobs after they raised concerns about Mr. Pruitts spending and management.____5. Brazils top court ruled that former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva can be sent to prison while he continues to appeal his corruption conviction.Its an explosive decision that appears to quash Mr. da Silvas bid to return to power. The 72-year-old is a towering and divisive figure in his countrys politics  with a considerable lead in the polls for Octobers presidential election. Above, a No prison for Lula poster in Rio de Janeiro.Mr. da Silva has called his prosecution a ploy to keep him off the ballot.____6. Women who worked for the world-famous architect Richard Meier say his history of sexual misconduct was common knowledge at his firm  but no one had the power to stop it.We first revealed the accusations against Mr. Meier last month. He has since taken a leave of absence from his firm and said that while our recollections may differ, I sincerely apologize to anyone who was offended by my behavior.Meanwhile, four more women who used to work for him, above, have come forward to accuse him of sexual misconduct.____7. More middle-class families are sending their offspring to two-year colleges as a way to keep costs down. Many plan to transfer to four-year institutions later on.Byria Hamblin, above, graduated from Lone Star College near Houston, then transferred to Tulane University in New Orleans, which costs more than $50,000 a year.She said that when she tells her new friends there where she spent her first two years, she often hears, I really should have done that.____8. Were doing an open casting call for the new season of our illustrated web video series, Conception. We will choose some accounts for the second season of the series, which will explore parenting today.We want to hear from all types of parents  from all over the world and all points on the political spectrum  about the issues affecting your families. Were interested in stories from those who have chosen not to become parents, too.____9. After a long absence because of back injuries, Tiger Woods is back at the Masters as one of the early favorites. The toll his training regimen took on his body serves as a cautionary tale.The question now: Will he be the golf champion of old? We have live scores, updates and analysis.____10. Finally, a new EP called Universal Love: Wedding Songs Reimagined features covers of pop hits  with a same-sex twist. The artists, above, include Bob Dylan, who recorded the 1929 song Shes Funny That Way, from the Great American Songbook catalog, as Hes Funny That Way.If we view music as something that brings people together, shouldnt these popular songs be open to everyone? the albums co-producer asked.On the late-night shows, Dr. Evil, of Austin Powers fame, dropped by Jimmy Fallons show to announce that hes running for president under the slogan Make the World Evil Again.He said his running mate would be the only man whos more hated right now than Donald Trump: Mark Zuckerberg.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

GENEVA   China has sought consultations with the United States, the first step in a WTO dispute, over its announced tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese imports on grounds of alleged theft of U.S. intellectual property, the World Trade Organization said on Thursday.The notification to the Geneva-based watchdog triggered a 60-day deadline for the two sides to settle the complaint or face litigation at the WTO by a neutral panel of arbitrators.China has already condemned the U.S. announcement and said on Tuesday it would "take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products" and that it would resort to the WTO dispute settlement mechanism.The U.S. tariff plan is based on Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act.China, in its notice to the WTO, said it was seeking consultations "concerning the proposed tariffs measures that the United States accords to certain goods in various sectors including machinery, electronics, etc. originating in China".China claimed the tariffs would exceed the United States\' bound rates and appeared to violate provisions of WTO agreements, some dating back to its predecessor body, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).The complaint does not put a value on alleged trade damage.Earlier on Thursday, China\'s commerce ministry said it has initiated a WTO dispute resolution procedure over U.S. tariffs on its import of steel and aluminum.That separate request has yet to be posted by the WTO.(Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay; Editing by Catherine Evans)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the effects of recent tariff increases on April 12, its chairman said on Thursday."In enforcing our trade laws, we should always take a targeted approach to address unfair practices while avoiding harm to U.S. workers and job creators," chairman Kevin Brady said in a statement.Brady said witnesses would discuss how their businesses would be impacted by the tariffs that were recently announced by President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, and possible retaliation by other countries.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Lisa Lambert)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Following the paper trail of ISIS, railing against Emmanuel Macron and relaxing with monkeys. Heres the latest: The ISIS files.On five trips to battle-scarred Iraq, New York Times journalists scoured old Islamic State offices in 11 cities and towns, gathering thousands of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Following a paper trail that led through booby-trapped streets near the front lines of battle, they found suicide bomber forms, birth certificates, tax records, school books teaching English words like gun and martyr, and papers from the Ministry of War Spoils. (Heres a closer look at the documents.)The records reveal how the terrorist group combined brutality and paperwork to wield power over territory that at one point was the size of Britain, with a population estimated at 12 million people.Above, papers littered a room in the bombed-out remnants of the Directorate of Agriculture in Mosul, Iraq, last September._____ Nearly 10 months after the deadly fire in Grenfell Tower, above, in London, many of the survivors left homeless are still living in limbo.While local officials have spent about $280 million on new housing, almost 100 displaced families remain in hotels and other temporary accommodations.The delays are adding to public fury over the disaster, which killed at least 71 people, and traumatized residents have accused the authorities of ignoring their needs._____ Millions of frustrated travelers.A rail strike in France is testing the limits of public anger as union workers face off against President Emmanuel Macron and his efforts to overhaul Europes second-largest economy  starting with cuts to their cherished job benefits.But whether French commuters, including those above in Paris on Tuesday, blame the union or Mr. Macron is the big question._____ Last month, we visited a charity food bank in the German city of Essen that had decided to turn away migrants, a move that set off a national debate about refugees and poverty.But now, non-Germans will be welcome once again, after the pantry agreed to give priority to older people and families with young children, regardless of nationality._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad sectors of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced._____ Anger that YouTube was censoring her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, above, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ Japans famed snow monkeys have long been the picture of hot-springs bliss.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.)_____ On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a U.S. military program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes. Facebook said the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm connected  to President Trump and the Brexit campaign, far higher than previously cited estimates. (Heres how we covered the revelations that spurred an uproar on both sides of the Atlantic.) Name and shame: Britain is hoping to narrow the pay gap by forcing companies to publicly air salary discrepancies between men and women. The governments role model? Other Western countries, like Germany, Iceland and Australia. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to immediately bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home. [The New York Times] The Victoria and Albert Museum in London offered to return to Ethiopia treasures taken by British troops 150 years ago, but only as a loan. [The New York Times] In The Hague, a jihadist fighter from Mali was brought before the International Criminal Court to face charges of rape, torture and sexual slavery. [The New York Times] Austrias new right-wing government has proposed a ban on head scarves in schools for girls under 10 years old. [BBC] Skripal poisoning: Emboldened by a series of blunders by the British government, Russia will convene a special meeting of the U.N. Security Council in an attempt to undermine allegations that Moscow was behind the nerve agent attack against a former Russian spy. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. The British comedian and transgender activist Eddie Izzard has acted in Hollywood movies, run 43 marathons in 51 days (for charity) and campaigned against Brexit. Now for his next challenge: Hes joined the governing body of Britains Labour Party, just as its struggling to tackle an internal crisis over anti-Semitism. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. Scottish dinosaurs? Aye, say paleontologists who discovered dozens of giant-size footprints on the Isle of Skye. But dont get too excited; the prints were left about 170 million years ago.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party. Now, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
BERLIN   German industrial orders rose less than expected in February due to weak domestic demand, data showed on Thursday, but the economy ministry said demand should pick up later this year as the world economy remains on a growth path.Contracts for "Made in Germany" goods rose by 0.3 percent after falling by an upwardly revised 3.5 percent in January, data from the Federal Statistics Office showed.The reading undershot a Reuters poll of analysts who had predicted a 1.5 percent increase."Despite the subdued demand so far this year orders should remain on an upward course," the economy ministry said in a statement. "The global economy remains in upswing which should keep demand for German industrial goods on a high level."But the DIHK Chambers of Commerce and Industry struck a cautionary tone, saying that an escalation of a dispute between China and the United States over import duties could harm the global economy and dampen demand for German goods and services."The future development of orders largely depends on how the trade dispute develops," said Sophia Krietenbrink of the DIHK. "The U.S. is the most important market for German companies and China is the third most important market. Should growth in both countries slow down this could harm German companies."A breakdown of the data showed that domestic demand fell by 1.4 percent. Foreign orders rose by the same amount and a 4.5 percent hike in demand from the euro zone offset a 0.6 percent fall in orders from outside the single currency bloc.\'ZENITH REACHED\'Private consumption has been a growth driver in recent years as consumers benefit from rising wages, record-high employment and strong job security but foreign trade propelled Germany\'s fourth-quarter expansion of 0.6 percent.The manufacturing sector is brimming and remains a solid pillar in an economy seen as an export champion.The statistics office said last month that German manufacturers are sitting on orders that will take them nearly six months to complete, cushioning them against future shocks resulting from a worsening trade dispute between the world\'s two largest economies.The data showed that the manufacturers\' so-called order range was 5-and-a-half months in January, meaning they could carry on producing for nearly half a year even if they received no new orders.In a further sign of the health of the sector, engineering orders jumped 13 percent in February from a year ago, the VDMA industry group said on Thursday, saying however that a worsening of the trade dispute could spoil the party."Demand for high quality machines and plants by our clients all over the world remains high," said VDMA chief economist Ralph Wiechers. "We can only hope that the trade dispute between the U.S. and China doesn\'t cause lasting damage to this investment drive."Alexander Krueger of Bankhaus Lampe said that weaker orders were not necessarily bad news given that manufacturers have hit full capacity and cannot meet higher demands."Capacities are fully stretched and time is needed to process orders," he said in a note. "The growth zenith has been reached."(Writing by Joseph Nasr; Editing by Caroline Copley)
CAIRO   Qatar\'s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.Trump met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House on March 21 and his meeting with Qatari Emir will be followed by a meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed.The White House said Trump would meet al-Thani to discuss ways to advance "common security and economic priorities" between the United States and Qatar.Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut off travel and trade ties with Qatar last June, accusing it of backing their archrival, Iran, and supporting terrorism. Qatar has denied the charges and has said the boycott was an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty and rein in its support for reform.(Reporting by Mohamed El-Sherif; Editing by Toni Reinhold)

MENDOZA, Argentina   As the trade dispute between the United States and China was gaining steam last month, a half-dozen Chinese dancers and a person in a panda bear suit paraded across a stage inside a hotel lobby in the heart of Argentina\'s wine country.The March 24 ceremony celebrated the Washington-based Inter-American Development Bank\'s (IDB) choice to hold its next annual meeting in Chengdu, China, a decision criticized by the United States, whose regional influence has been increasingly challenged by the Asian economic superpower.Just over a week later, China imposed tariffs on a range of U.S. products from frozen pork to wine in response to U.S. President Donald\'s Trump\'s decision to place tariffs on steel and aluminium from countries including China.The trade fight, which escalated further on Wednesday with China targeting key American imports including soybeans, planes and cars in retaliation for proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, has left Latin America in the middle, analysing risks and opportunities."The U.S. is forcing countries in the region to choose between the U.S. and China," said Margaret Myers, director of the Latin America and the World programme at the Inter-American Dialogue. "It\'s putting Latin American countries in a very challenging position while at the same time not offering a particularly attractive policy."China, whose demand for raw materials increased during rapid economic growth the past two decades, is already the top trade partner for countries ranging from Brazil, Latin America\'s largest economy and the world\'s top soybean exporter, to tiny Uruguay.Rather than celebrating a chance to gain market share, Brazil and Argentina responded cautiously to the tariffs on Wednesday. Brazil\'s Agriculture Ministry declined to comment. Argentina, the world\'s No. 3 soy exporter, said it was "analysing the situation."Analysts in both countries said, however, the tariffs could force China to purchase more soybeans and soy-based products from South America.CHINESE LOANS, INVESTMENTLatin American countries\' turn to China for financing has alarmed Washington even as its own policy towards the region shifts.Trump\'s December 2017 national security strategy said China was seeking to "pull the region into its orbit through state-led investment and loans."David Malpass, the U.S. Treasury Department\'s undersecretary for international affairs, said at a March conference in Buenos Aires that China\'s hosting of next year\'s IDB meeting "does not serve the interests of the Western Hemisphere."In response, IDB President Luis Alberto Moreno noted that the IDB would hold a special meeting for the bank\'s 60th anniversary in Washington next year, saying: "We have found the best of all worlds."Trump\'s trade policies and rhetoric about immigration have disturbed even the most U.S.-friendly governments in Latin America.Before the United States temporarily exempted Brazil from planned steel tariffs, a Foreign Ministry official said trade relations between the two countries were in "uncharted waters."Argentina is threatening to take Washington to the World Trade Organization over biodiesel import tariffs. While the United States is the IDB\'s largest shareholder, it backed out last year of one of the bank\'s key funds.Still, China\'s perceived disregard for projects\' social and environmental costs has generated opposition within Latin America.Civil society groups from Ecuador, Argentina and Peru set up an alliance to present information on "multiple human rights violations" linked to Chinese investments to the United Nations, according to a February statement from global nonprofit alliance Civicus.MORE CHINESE PLAYERSChinese foreign direct investment, or FDI, in the region has increased by $70 billion since 2012, according to the Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center. While the United States remains the largest source of FDI, its share fell to 20 percent in 2016 from 25.7 percent in 2015 and 24 percent in 2012, according to the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean.Data from the Inter-American Dialogue and Boston University show lending from Chinese state-run banks to countries in the region exceeded $20 billion in 2015 and 2016. Since 2005, those loans have exceeded combined financing to the region from the IDB, World Bank and CAF, a Latin American development bank.Commercial banks like ICBC are becoming increasingly active, Myers said, and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) - a 2-year-old Beijing-based multilateral lender - is seeking to partner with the IDB on projects in the region, such as roads, railways, ports or tunnels that could improve connectivity with Asia.Seven Latin American countries including Argentina have been approved to join the AIIB, although none have yet paid in to become full members.(Additional reporting by Maximilian Heath in Buenos Aires, Anthony Boadle in Brasilia, Jose Roberto Gomes in Sao Paulo and Daniela Desantis in Asuncion; Editing by Caroline Stauffer and Peter Cooney)
CAIRO   Qatar\'s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.Trump met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House on March 21 and his meeting with Qatari Emir will be followed by a meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed.The White House said Trump would meet al-Thani to discuss ways to advance "common security and economic priorities" between the United States and Qatar.Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut off travel and trade ties with Qatar last June, accusing it of backing their archrival, Iran, and supporting terrorism. Qatar has denied the charges and has said the boycott was an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty and rein in its support for reform.(Reporting by Mohamed El-Sherif; Editing by Toni Reinhold)
OTTAWA   The United States, Mexico and Canada are "moving forward in a significant way" at talks to modernize the NAFTA trade pact, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday.Trudeau\'s remarks to reporters in Quebec City were the latest in a series of upbeat comments by officials in the three countries about the chances of striking some kind of deal soon on the North American Free Trade Agreement."I believe we\'re in a moment where we\'re moving forward in a significant way. Hopefully there will be some good news coming," Trudeau said."We know these negotiations, there are good moments and there are slower moments. But right now we\'re having a very productive moment of engaging with the United States and Mexico," he added.Mexican officials say that with enough progress, the leaders of the three nations could make an announcement at a regional summit in Peru next week.The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump is pressing for a deal in principle to avoid clashing with Mexican presidential elections on July 1.Any such agreement would likely tackle a main issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, officials say.Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland will hold talks in Washington on Friday with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo, said a Canadian government source.Freeland said on Wednesday that there was still work to do before the talks could be wrapped up.Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday criticized Trump\'s plan to send National Guard troops to the border.But Moises Kalach, head of the international negotiating arm of Mexico\'s CCE business lobby, insisted NAFTA negotiators are not entering into that debate."We are staying away from those things," he said on local radio.Uncertainty over the future of the $1.2 trillion pact  rattled markets earlier this year but that concern appears to be abating. Bank of Montreal is confident that the talks will result in a positive outcome, Chief Executive Darryl White said on Thursday.That said, only six of the roughly 30 chapters have been closed and wide differences remain on topics such as dispute resolution and government procurement.Canadian officials feel the three governments could produce "a symbolic agreement in principle that signaled they had reached a consensus on five or six key issues," a source familiar with Canada\'s negotiating position said on Wednesday.(Reporting by David Ljunggren; additional reporting by Matt Scuffham in Toronto and Julia Love in Mexico City; editing by Grant McCool)
An airline trade group says it's setting safety standards for pets shipped on planes.The move follows several recent incidents including the death of a puppy in an overhead bin on a United Airlines flight.The International Air Transport Association said Thursday it's starting a program in which airlines will be able to certify that they meet standards for safe handling of animals.The group says airlines ship millions of animals safely every year. When things go wrong, however  as when a United flight attendant told a passenger to put her dog carrier in the overhead bin last month  it hurts the industry's image.The Transportation Department says that of about 500,000 animals shipped as cargo on U.S. planes last year, 24 of them died, including 18 on United.
BOSTON   Former first lady Michelle Obama is in Boston to address a forum devoted to empowering women to become leaders in their fields.Obama is scheduled to participate in a moderated conversation at Thursday\'s closing session of the 39th annual Simmons Leadership Conference. The event is the longest-running women\'s leadership event in the U.S.Organizers say they invited Obama because she\'s "a passionate and tireless champion of women, families and young people."Other participants include news anchor and women\'s rights advocate Gretchen Carlson and former CIA operative and author Valerie Plame.This year\'s conference is being held at Boston\'s Seaport World Trade Center with the theme "Disrupt the Ordinary." More than 3,400 people have registered for the event.Past speakers have included Madeleine Albright, Hillary Clinton, Billie Jean King and Oprah Winfrey.

WASHINGTON   Long-term U.S. mortgage rates fell this week, benefiting potential homebuyers with the spring buying season underway.Mortgage buyer Freddie Mac said Thursday the average rate on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages dipped to 4.40 percent from 4.44 percent last week. The benchmark stood at an average 4.10 percent a year ago.The decline followed scant movement in long-term rates last week and a months-long stretch of increases in January, February and early March as interest rates generally rose.The average rate on 15-year, fixed-rate loans declined to 3.87 percent from 3.90 percent last week.As trade tensions have escalated in recent weeks between the U.S. and China, investors have been switching into safer assets like bonds. That has pushed bond prices higher and suppressed their yields, which move in the opposite direction and tend to influence mortgage rates. The yield on the closely watched 10-year Treasury note fell this week amid trade anxiety, then steadied Wednesday at 2.80 percent, the same as last week. The 10-year note was back up at 2.82 percent Thursday morning.Reflecting the demand for homes, applications for new mortgages fell 3.3 percent in the week ended March 30 from a week earlier, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported.To calculate average mortgage rates, Freddie Mac surveys lenders across the country between Monday and Wednesday each week.The average doesn't include extra fees, known as points, which most borrowers must pay to get the lowest rates. The fee on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages averaged 0.5 percent, unchanged from last week. The fee on 15-year fixed-rate loans fell to 0.4 percent from 0.5 percent last week.The average rate for five-year adjustable-rate mortgages eased to 3.62 percent from 3.66 percent last week. The fee held steady at 0.4 percent.
MOSCOW   The Russian Foreign Ministry on Thursday said it wanted the United States to immediately halt all military activity on the Korean Peninsula, the RIA news agency reported.The United States and South Korea this month resume joint military drills.RIA cited the foreign ministry as saying such war games did not help reduce tensions on the Korean Peninsula.(Reporting by Andrey Ostroukh; Editing by Andrew Osborn)

(Reuters) - A weakening currency and rising inflation rate have made the Philippine equity market Asia\'s worst performer so far this year, and a rash of downgrades in earnings forecasts could prolong that underperformance.Philippine stocks hit a record high in January, extending 2017\'s 25 percent rise on the back of optimism over the government\'s tax reform and infrastructure spending plans.But the rise in capital imports due to infrastructure investment has also seen the country\'s trade deficit widen and put pressure on the peso.Since the start of February, Philippine shares have dropped 9 percent, making them the worst performer in Asia after Hong Kong and China.In dollar terms, the stock market is down 10 percent this year and is one of Asia\'s worst performers. Foreign institutions and hedge funds have been withdrawing money from the local stock markets."The depreciation of the peso against the dollar is one of the major factors which dragged down sentiment in the market," said Manny Cruz, an analyst with Asiasec Equities Inc in the Philippines.The peso is also Asia\'s worst performer, having declined more than 4 percent against the dollar this year.Historically, the fall in the peso has affected corporate earnings as it tends to put pressure on input costs and lower profit margins, analysts said.Change in peso and earnings - https://reut.rs/2q4m6VTThe country\'s widening trade deficit is likely to undermine the peso further.The trade deficit expanded to $3.32 billion in January from a gap of $2.47 billion a year ago, spurred by a sustained surge in the imports of construction materials and capital goods.Also, rising inflation rates could dampen consumer demand and increase raw material costs.Data showed inflation quickened to 3.9 percent in February, the fastest pace in more than three years under a revised price index."We expect that 1Q-2018 earnings may disappoint as both revenues and margins could be impacted by rising inflation," Nomura said in a report.Philippines inflation - https://reut.rs/2J29yq8Taking these concerns into account, analysts have slashed their 2018 earnings forecasts by 2.3 percent over the past three months - the biggest cut in Asia after India.Asia earnings revision - https://reut.rs/2ElvAAjPhilippine shares\' lofty valuations are also not helping them either. Thomson Reuters data showed the forward 12-month price-to-earnings ratio was 19.3 at the end of March, compared with a 10-year average of 16.3.Philippine valuation - https://reut.rs/2GfWgnYForeigners have turned net sellers this year, offloading over $600 million Philippine equities after purchasing more than $1 billion in 2017.Foreign flows into Philippine equities - https://reut.rs/2uNrOArMark Baker, a fixed income portfolio manager at Aberdeen Standard Investments in Hong Kong, said he is pretty cautious on the Philippine market and needs to see the central bank (BSP) turn decisively hawkish and deliver rate rises."Domestic yields have gone up a lot in the last six months,  so we aren\'t that far away from good entry levels on the rates side. On the currency, we think we do need that more forceful BSP action to come through before the peso can be considered a potential outperformer," he said.Nomura analysts say they believe higher capital imports will improve the long-term productive capacity of the economy, unlike those that are used to finance more consumption imports."I still feel that Philippine stocks are worth looking at, considering the fundamentals of the economy remain intact. It will continue to post one of the highest GDP (growth) in the region this year," said Asiasec Equities\'s Cruz."We still feel the market will be able to surpass its all-time high. If not this year... next year."(Reporting By Patturaja Murugaboopathy; Editing by Vidya Ranganathan and Subhranshu Sahu)
Global stock indexes kept climbing Thursday as investors around the world grew more optimistic that a trade dispute between the U.S. and China, the two largest economies in the world, will resolve without too much damage. In the U.S., banks and retailers made some of the biggest gains.On Thursday:The S&P 500 index jumped 18.15 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,662.84.The Dow Jones industrial average picked up 240.92 points, or 1 percent, to 24,505.22.The Nasdaq composite advanced 34.44 points, or 0.5 percent, to 7,076.55.The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks rallied 11.26 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,542.93.For the week:The S&P 500 is up 21.97 points, or 0.8 percent.The Dow is up 402.11 points, or 1.7 percent.The Nasdaq is up 13.11 points, or 0.2 percent.The Russell 2000 is up 13.50 points, or 0.9 percent.For the year:The S&P 500 is down 10.77 points, or 0.4 percent.The Dow is down 214 points, or 0.9 percent.The Nasdaq is up 173.16 points, or 2.5 percent.The Russell 2000 is up 7.42 points, or 0.5 percent.
OSLO   Norwegian oil firm DNO has again increased its stake in Britain\'s Faroe Petroleum, it said on Thursday, boosting its holding to 27.7 percent the day after it bought its first shares.DNO on Wednesday purchased 25.4 percent of Faroe, adding it would become a long-term strategic owner while insisting it did not plan a full takeover.Britain\'s takeover code dictates that a firm publishing a "no intention to bid statement" must refrain for at least six months from crossing the 30 percent ownership threshold, at which an obligation to make a mandatory offer is triggered.DNO returned to the North Sea last year after years of expansion in the Middle East, with the aim of growing via acquisitions and other investments.Faroe Petroleum\'s shares rose 3.2 percent in early trade to 1.216 pounds, just shy of the 1.25 pounds paid by DNO, while the Norwegian company\'s shares rose by 1.6 percent.DNO\'s transactions supported the view that Faroe\'s shares are undervalued, brokers DNB Markets said in a note to clients, reiterating a Buy recommendation for the British firm and a share price target of 1.45 pounds.(Reporting by Terje Solsvik, editing by Gwladys Fouche)
SEOUL   South Korea has designated the city of Gunsan an 'industrial crisis zone', expanding its support for the area following plans by General Motors to shut down a plant as well as the closure of a shipyard last year.The new designation provides broader financial support to workers and businesses, and is one notch above its previous designation given in February of a 'crisis zone for industry and employment' which focused on measures to tackle unemployment.It was the first time that the new designation has been used since the category was first introduced in June last year, the trade ministry said.The move comes on top of central bank plans to grant 40 billion won ($38 million) in aid to mid-to-small sized companies that have been hit by the planned shutdown of the GM plant.The government has also said it would offer about 240 billion won in loan guarantees and low-interest loans to regions hit by corporate restructuring, including the Gunsan area.(Reporting by Jane Chung; Editing by Edwina Gibbs)
RIYADH   The United Kingdom opened a permanent military base in Bahrain on Thursday, Bahrain's state news agency BNA reported.The ceremony formally opening the UK Naval Support Facility was attended by Bahraini Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa and Britain's Prince Andrew.Britain announced in 2014 it had sealed a deal to expand and reinforce its naval presence in Bahrain, allowing it to operate more and bigger ships in the Gulf.The U.S. Navys Fifth Fleet is also based in Bahrain.The Gulf is a major trade route for oil tankers, its waters shared by Sunni Muslim Arab states and their Shi'ite rival Iran.Iran and Saudi Arabia support opposite sides in conflicts in Syria, Iraq and Yemen. Bahrain is a close ally of Britain, the United States and Saudi Arabia.Last year, U.S. Navy commanders accused Iran of jeopardizing international navigation by harassing warships passing through the Strait of Hormuz and said future incidents could result in miscalculation and lead to an armed clash. Iran denied the accusations.(Reporting by Aziz El Yakoubi and Sarah Dadouch; editing by Andrew Roche)
MEXICO CITY   Avengers star Mark Ruffalo says his dual roles as Dr. Bruce Banner and the Hulk in the upcoming "Avengers: Infinity War" shows the duality of anger.He told reporters Thursday that "our anger can open us to outrage, or anger can open us to do great things for people. Anger can be a positive motivating force."Ruffalo was in Mexico City to promote the movie, which will open in late April.The Marvel story line starts when Dr. Banner is exposed to radiation during an experiment and turns into the green Hulk.
MOSCOW   The foreign ministers of Russia and China jointly denounced what they described Thursday as the unilateralism of the United States, criticism that underlined their growing rapport on global issues.Speaking in Moscow after talks with his Russian counterpart, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi strongly criticized Washington\'s move to hike tariffs on Chinese products."If the U.S. thinks that it can get advantages through protectionism, its calculus is wrong," Wang warned.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, when asked about Russia\'s view of the U.S.-Chinese trade conflict, said the U.S. action reflects the Trump administration\'s unilateralist approach to international concerns.He cited as examples the U.S. push to renegotiate a nuclear deal with Iran and the terms of an international climate agreement."It has nothing to do with diplomacy. It\'s an attempt to enforce its own interests while completely ignoring the interests of others," Lavrov said.Russia\'s recently reinvigorated support for China reflects its disappointment with Washington after the Kremlin hoped for improved relations under President Donald Trump.Trump has approved higher duties on Chinese telecoms, aerospace and other technology goods, but left time to negotiate by announcing a comment period through May 11.Chinese regulators made a $50 billion list of items on which the country could increase tariffs to retaliate, including soybeans and small aircraft.Wang warned that Washington\'s move would hurt the global economy and international trade, denouncing it as "typical unilateralism and an undisguised attempt at hegemony.""The international community must jointly oppose such unilateralism and violation of rules," he said.Wang\'s trip to Russia follows a Moscow visit earlier this week by new Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe, who said it was a signal to the U.S. of increasingly close Russia-China military ties.As part of their burgeoning military cooperation, Moscow and Beijing have conducted joint drills, including exercises in the South China Sea and joint navy maneuvers in the Baltics.Moscow\'s hopes for warmed Russia-U.S. ties under Trump have withered amid the investigations of alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and myriad other disputes, most recently the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain."We in Russia stand for direct dialogue to solve any outstanding issues," Lavrov said. "We never dodge negotiations. It\'s our American partners who do."He pointed to the last-minute cancellation of a meeting of Russian and American cybersecurity experts and Washington\'s refusal to hold a meeting on cultural issues."Unilateralism is always bad and particularly so when it becomes the main foreign policy tool," Lavrov said. "China and Russia have repeatedly shown their readiness to search for reasonable compromises based on taking interests of all interested parties into account."Moscow and Beijing have forged what they describe as a "strategic partnership," expressing their shared opposition to the "unipolar" world  the term they use to describe the United States\' perceived global domination.Russian President Vladimir Putin has developed warm personal ties with Chinese President Xi Jinping, and the two leaders regularly exchange visits. Putin is set to go to China in June for a meeting of the security grouping dominated by Moscow and Beijing.While greeting Wang on Thursday, Putin hailed the Chinese legislature\'s unanimous decision last month to reappoint Xi as president with no limit on the number of terms he can serve. Wang conveyed Xi\'s congratulations on Putin\'s re-election, also last month."I would like to express hope that after the Russian presidential election and important political events in the People\'s Republic of China, we will continue our course aimed at further strengthening bilateral ties," Putin said.

NEW YORK   JPMorgan Chase & Co Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon complimented the administration of President Donald Trump in an annual letter to shareholders on Thursday, saying tax cuts and deregulatory efforts were helping his bank make more money.Dimon, who runs the biggest U.S. bank, drew a contrast between Trump\'s moves and those of other elected officials who he said had not struck the right balance for the economy between regulation and free commerce.He praised the Trump administration for insisting that "rules around cost-benefit analysis be properly applied" and for trying to give regulators "the proper authority to use common sense."Using nearly half of the 46-page letter to promote his views on public policies, Dimon played to his roles as the public face of Wall Street and the chairman of the Business Roundtable, a CEO lobbying group.Dimon said new federal tax law and "a more constructive regulatory environment" adopted since the 2016 presidential election give him hope that JPMorgan will be able to invest more of its excess capital to grow the bank and expand into new markets.He emphasized JPMorgan\'s ability in the new climate to earn a return on tangible equity of 17 percent, two points higher than the target before corporate tax cuts were enacted and nearly four points greater than the company delivered in 2017.Offering bank investors a view of the company stock, Dimon contended that it still made financial sense for JPMorgan to buy back shares "even at or above two times tangible book value" per share, which was $53.56 at year-end. JPMorgan shares closed at $110.99 on Wednesday.To show that government regulation needs to be "smart," Dimon included a reprint of a 1992 newspaper essay by the late liberal U.S. senator and Democratic Party presidential candidate George McGovern, who recounted how he had learned late in life that regulations could crush businesses.Dimon, 62, has said in the past that he was a Democrat, but in recent years he has avoided siding with a political party. He  said in the letter that partisanship causes bad public policy.He called for "improved merit-based immigration," particularly for those who get an advanced degree in the United States. "We need skilled individuals in America," he wrote.He also said the U.S. should revisit the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, which Trump has rejected.Interviewed later on Thursday morning on Yahoo Finance, Dimon said he and other CEOs had talked to Trump about trade policy a month ago."Obviously, we weren\'t very effective," Dimon said. ""We told him what we thought and it wasn\'t what he thought at the time."Asked how Trump was doing as president, Dimon said he chose to address specific policy actions: "I am not going to assess a president after a year."(Reporting by David Henry in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
BEIJING   The Latest on the escalating trade dispute between China and the United States (all times local):2:40 p.m.A spokeswoman for the agricultural department of Virginia says the state would suffer if China follows through on new tariffs for U.S. imports.Elaine Lidholm said Wednesday that China is the state's largest export market for agricultural goods, and farming is its biggest private industry. So new tariffs could jeopardize businesses dealing in Virginia soybeans, pork, apples and wine.China hasn't set a date for new tariffs it said it might impose on more than 100 American products in response to President Trump's plans for new tariffs on Chinese goods. It says the plan depends on when the U.S. imposes its tariffs. And there's still time for the countries to negotiate a deal.___2:00 p.m.China's threat to raise tariffs on U.S. goods could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft targeted for possible retaliation in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.Economist Lu Feng at Peking University's School of National Development says that should help minimize China's losses in the event President Donald Trump goes ahead with a planned tariff hike and Beijing responds.
(Reuters) - A federal bankruptcy judge approved a settlement on Wednesday between Philadelphia Energy Solutions and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency allowing the refiner to shed a significant portion of financial obligation under the nation\'s biofuel laws.The approval marks the end of a break-neck-pace bankruptcy that began in late January, when the Carlyle Group-backed company sought Chapter 11 relief and blamed the costs of complying with the U.S. Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) for its financial woes."This is another important milestone in our quest to strengthen our financial foundation and ensure that PES can successfully emerge from the restructuring process," the company said in a statement.The RFS requires refiners to blend biofuels such as ethanol into their fuel or buy credits, known as RINs, from those that do.PES needed to submit some 470 million credits to the EPA to prove compliance for 2016 and 2017, but only had 210 million on hand. The refiner said it did not have the money to go into the market and buy the additional credits.Under the settlement agreement, PES was only required to turn in the credits it had acquired to prove compliance, including a portion of this year\'s credits, saving close to $200 million.Reuters reported that other factors may also have played a role in the company\'s bankruptcy, including the withdrawal of more than $590 million in dividend-style payments from the company by its investor owners.The settlement angered the biofuel industry, which said it rewarded a company for ignoring the law. Growth Energy, a pro-biofuels trade group, sought to intervene in the bankruptcy and force Carlyle to pay the outstanding compliance costs."The EPA\'s sue-and-settle-style settlement will give the Carlyle Group a free pass for skirting the law, even after they neglected the refinery while pocketing hundreds of millions of dollars in cash payouts" Emily Skor, Growth Energy\'s chief executive officer, said in statement.(Reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru and Jarrett Renshaw in Phildelphia; Editing by Leslie Adler)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. Commerce Department said on Thursday it had determined that tool chests and cabinets made in China and Vietnam were being dumped in the U.S. market, and announced prospective import duties on the products ranging up to 327 percent.The action puts the ball in the court of the U.S. International Trade Commission. If it makes a final determination that U.S. producers have been injured by the imports, the duties would be imposed for an initial five-year period.In a related case, the ITC found in January that U.S. manufacturers were being harmed by imports of tool chests from China that the Commerce Department had found were subsidized, locking in place countervailing duties.In its announcement on Thursday, the department said tool chests manufactured by the Tongrun Single Entity in China would face antidumping duties of 97 percent, while imports from other Chinese producers would be hit with duties of 244 percent, if the ITC makes a final finding of harm.Imports from Vietnam would face a duty of 327 percent, it said.The case was brought by Waterloo Industries Inc of Sedalia, Missouri, a subsidiary of Fortune Brands Home & Security Inc, which says it accounts for more than half of domestic production of tool chests and cabinets.In 2016, the value of imports of tool chests and cabinets from China totaled $230 million, while imports from Vietnam were valued at $77 million, Commerce Department data shows.(Reporting by Tim Ahmann; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
DUBAI   Societe Generale is talking with Gulf governments about potential issues of euro-denominated bonds, with the region\'s first bond expected within the next 12-18 months, executives for the bank told Reuters.Bond issues from the region have been ramping up as governments seek to diversify their sources of funding away from a reliance on oil revenues.Until now, the vast majority of those issues have happened in U.S. dollars, but Societe Generale has held discussions with the Gulf Cooperation Council governments about possible issues in euros, the second largest bond market after dollars."Governments have to think about diversifying their funding sources in a context where all sovereigns of the region will probably have to tap the international bond markets on a regular basis," said Richad Soundardjee, Societe Generale\'s chief executive in the Middle East. "Hence beyond dollars, euro is natural option to look at."Egypt will start meeting bond investors in Europe this week ahead of its first potential euro-denominated bond issue, Reuters reported earlier this week, citing a document from one of the banks appointed to arrange the meetings.Societe Generale is not involved in arranging the Egypt issue but so far this year it was a joint book runner on a 1.7 billion euro-denominated bond issue by Ivory Coast and Senegal\'s 1 billion euro paper."The more Europestrengthens its positionas a tradeandinvestment partner for the GCC, the more compelling the opportunities for a euro-denominated bondbecome," said Amine Jaoui, head of public sector coverage for the Middle East.With all the right factors converging, it is likely a euro-denominated bond issue could be sold by a Gulf sovereign within the next 12 to 18 months, he said.(Additional reporting by Davide Barbuscia; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
BERLIN   An oil portrait believed to have been painted by Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler of a little-known former lover will go under the hammer next week with an asking price of 60,000 euros ($74,000), a German auction house said on Thursday.The 63 x 48 cm painting, signed A. Hitler, 1916, depicts Charlotte Lobjoie, a Frenchwoman whom Hitler met while serving in France during World War One, according to Werner Maser, a leading Hitler scholar who died in 2007."Portrait of a Girl" - a damaged work painted on hessian - was purchased by Flemish industrialists around 1967, auction house Weidler in Nuremberg said in a statement.It said it had documents showing it had been exhibited at art galleries in Japan.The painting in what appears to be a rural setting depicts a young woman with a red scarf loosely on her head that casts a heavy shadow over her face, and holding a pitchfork.She is wearing a light-colored shirt, open from the neck down, exposing part of her breasts.Maser, who was referred to by Weidler in its statement, wrote several books about Hitler, providing insight into the mind of the Nazi leader through a close look at his drawings, letters and notes.Hitler painted for a living in the 1920s before rising to power and leading Germany into World War Two. With Soviet troops closing in on his headquarters in Berlin, he committed suicide in April 1945, along with his mistress Eva Braun whom he married shortly before.In 2015 Weidler sold a watercolor of Neuschwanstein Castle in Bavaria that was also signed A. Hitler and believed to be the work of the former Nazi leader at an auction that fetched 100,000 euros.(Reporting by Charley-Kai John; Writing by Joseph Nasr; Editing by Richard Balmforth)

The historian John Lewis Gaddis, whose new book is On Grand Strategy, finds train videos relaxing: I especially recommend the six-hour run from Omsk to Novosibirsk, on which nothing happens.What books are on your nightstand?I dont have a nightstand. I have an iPad holder with all the books Im reading on the device. Most recently: Sarah Rudens translation of Augustines Confessions; A Gentleman in Moscow, by Amor Towles; Why Bob Dylan Matters, by Richard F. Thomas; Call Me by Your Name, by Andr Aciman; On Trails: An Exploration, by Robert Moor; and Melbourne, by David Cecil.Who is your favorite novelist of all time?Tolstoy, but Trollope comes close.Who are the best writers  novelists, essayists, biographers, journalists, poets  working today, in your opinion?Marilynne Robinson, Colm Toibin, Robert D. Kaplan, Joseph Epstein, Ron Chernow and Peggy Noonan.Which books by contemporary historians  both academic and amateur  do you most admire?Stephen Kotkins two volumes on Stalin, with one still to come. Ive read every line and have had to repeatedly reconsider what I thought I knew. Stalin is still a monster, but a far more intriguing one than I had ever suspected.You have been called the dean of Cold War historians. Besides your own, what books (fiction or nonfiction) best capture the Cold War? Have any books on the subject caused you to change your views?That title originated as a prank by an evil colleague and is the only deanship I havent managed to dodge. The best overall book now is Odd Arne Westads The Cold War: A World History. But anyone working on that topic  or any other in recent history  should be prepared to rethink as new sources appear. I once wrote a book on my own rethinking (We Now Know), but found that it made graduate students and international relations theorists nervous. So Ive tried since to be a bit more discreet.You co-teach a famous seminar on grand strategy. What is your favorite book to assign and discuss with your students?Machiavellis The Prince, because it so shakes the students. Young as they are, theyre ambitious enough to see themselves in it.Which genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid? Ever tried the other Gaddis (William)?Ill try anything thats not shrill or self-indulgent, although these days that excludes a lot. I have attempted the other Gaddis but never got beyond the first few pages. Fortunately, he wasnt a relative.What books might we be surprised to find on your bookshelves?Train books. Ive been a fanatic since the age of 5 (months) and in recent years have become addicted to the locomotive cab ride videos that are part of the Slow Television movement. Theyre great for viewing without having to think, as on the exercise bike. I especially recommend the six-hour run from Omsk to Novosibirsk, on which nothing happens.Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine?Pierre in War and Peace and Anna in Anna Karenina. But I also like Virginia Woolfs hero/heroine Orlando, with whom Ive always begun my undergraduate seminar in biography.What kind of reader were you as a child? Your favorite books and authors?Precociously discriminating. Therefore, A. A. Milnes Winnie-the-Pooh.If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be?Winnie-the-Pooh.If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?Thucydidess The History of the Peloponnesian War, or at least the Cliff Notes.Youre hosting a literary dinner party. Which three writers are invited?Machiavelli, Elizabeth I and Isaiah Berlin. They would have a blast!Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel as if you were supposed to like, and didnt? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?To the dismay of my students, the Harry Potter novels. I fail to finish books frequently, but it wouldnt be charitable for me to specify which ones.What books do you find yourself returning to again and again?C. P. Snows now sadly neglected Strangers and Brothers novels, as well as the naval history epics  not neglected at all  of Patrick OBrian. Also Jack Miless God: A Biography, with which I always end my undergraduate seminar.What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet?Its not that I havent read the Jane Austen novels  I have  but its still embarrassing to have to be told by well-meaning friends and my wife what Im supposed to get from them.Whom would you want to write your biography?The first Yale student to get into my voluminously indiscreet diary when its opened for research a hundred or so years from now.

(Reuters) - A U.S. District Court judge in California refused to issue an order blocking Qatar and one of its lobbyists from disseminating emails and other documents that top Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy has alleged in a lawsuit were stolen in a hack of his and his wife\'s computers. Broidy filed the lawsuit in a Los Angeles federal court last month, accusing Qatar of stealing and leaking emails to reporters in retribution for Broidy\'s attempts to influence the Trump administration in favor of regional rivals of Qatar. In a court filing on Wednesday U.S. District Judge John Walter rejected Broidy\'s applications for a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction to restrict Qatar and any of its agents from hacking or disseminating his emails and computer files, citing a lack of evidence that Qatar was behind the hack. Qatar has denied involvement in any hacking. So has Nicolas Muzin, a lobbyist for Qatar who is also a defendant in the case. Judge Walter said in the filing he had "serious concerns" about whether his court had jurisdiction over Qatar. He also said while Broidy had found IP addresses in Qatar linked to the hack he failed to identify the location of the alleged computer in Doha, a city of 1.3 million to 1.5 million people, behind the hacking or show it had a relationship to the government. Broidy has not shown that Qatar or Muzin "are responsible for the unauthorized access of Plaintiffs\' email accounts" or that they disseminated "the allegedly illegally-obtained emails and documents to various media outlets," Walter said. Lee Wolosky, a lawyer for Broidy, said temporary restraining orders are typically hard to get, especially when not all parties have been properly served with court papers, as is the case with Muzin because he is not currently on U.S. soil. Wolosky said he would pursue relief through another motion, an avenue left open by the judge."We will continue to litigate this case vigorously," Wolosky said in an email. In his lawsuit Broidy claims that Qatar, embroiled in a diplomatic and trade dispute with the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and others in the region, has sought to use the hacked emails to hinder his advocacy for Qatar\'s rivals. In an emailed statement Muzin said he was "pleased that the Court quickly saw through Elliott Broidy\'s specious allegations."Mitchell Kamin, a lawyer representing Qatar, declined comment on Wednesday\'s decision.(Reporting by Nathan Layne and Karen Freifeld in New York; Editing by Chris Reese)
WASHINGTON   Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting.Trump\'s attacks over the last week targeted what Amazon is best known for: rapidly shipping just about any product you can imagine to your door. But the company CEO Jeff Bezos founded more than two decades ago is now a sprawling empire that sells groceries in brick-and-mortar stores, hosts the online services of other companies and federal offices in a network of data centers, and even recently branched into health care.Amazon relies on a nearly 30-member in-house lobbying team that\'s four times as large as it was three years ago as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success. The outside roster includes a retired congressman from Washington state who was a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee when he stepped down.Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017."Amazon is just not on an even playing field," Trump told reporters Thursday aboard Air Force One. "They have a tremendous lobbying effort, in addition to having The Washington Post, which is as far as I\'m concerned another lobbyist. But they have a big lobbying effort, one of the biggest, frankly, one of the biggest."Bezos owns the Post. He and the newspaper have previously declared that Bezos isn\'t involved in any journalistic decisions.Earlier in the week, Trump alleged that Amazon is bilking the U.S. Postal Service for being its "delivery boy," a doubtful claim about a contract that\'s actually been judged profitable for the post office. And he has charged that Amazon pays "little or no taxes," a claim that may have merit. Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the left-leaning Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, said in February that Amazon "has built its business model on tax avoidance." Amazon reported $5.6 billion of U.S. profits in 2017 "and didn\'t pay a dime of federal income taxes on it," according to Gardner.The company declined to comment on Trump\'s remarks and did not immediately respond to a request for comment about its lobbying operations.Amazon has grown rapidly since it launched in 1995 as a site that sold books. It has changed the way people buy paper towels, diapers or just about anything else. And its ambitions go far beyond online shopping: its Alexa voice assistant is in tablets, cars and its Echo devices; it runs the Whole Foods grocery chain; the company produces movies and TV shows and it designs its own brands of furniture and clothing.The company is in the midst of launching an independent business with JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway that is seeking to lower health care costs for employees at the three companies. Given the three players\' outsize influence the alliance has the potential to shake up how Americans shop for health care and the initiative sent a shudder through the industry when it was announced in January.Amazon Web Services is angling for a much larger share of the federal government\'s market for cloud computing, which allows massive amounts of data to be stored and managed on remote servers. The CIA signed a $600 million deal with Amazon in 2013 to build a system to share secure data across the U.S. intelligence community.A partner of Amazon Web Services, the Virginia-based Rean Cloud LLC, in February scored what appeared to be a lucrative cloud computing contract from the Pentagon. But the contract, initially projected to be worth as much as $950 million, was scaled back to $65 million after Amazon\'s competitors complained about the award.Lobbying disclosure records filed with the House and Senate show Amazon is engaged on a wide variety of other issues, from trade to transportation to telecommunications. The company also lobbied lawmakers and federal agencies on the testing and operation of unmanned aerial vehicles. Amazon has been exploring the use of drones for deliveries, but current federal rules restrict flying beyond the operator\'s line of sight.The $15.6 million Amazon spent on lobbying last year was $2.6 million more than in 2016, according to the disclosure records. The bulk of the money  $12.8 million  went for Amazon\'s in-house lobbying team. The nearly 30-member unit is led by Brian Huseman, who worked previously as chief of staff at the Federal Trade Commission and a Justice Department trial attorney.As most large corporations do, Amazon also employs outside lobbying firms  as many as 14 in 2017.In Amazon\'s corner is former Washington congressman Norm Dicks of the firm Van Ness Feldman. Dicks was serving as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee when he ended his 36-year congressional career in 2013. He represented the company on information technology matters and "issues related to cloud computing usage by the federal government," according to the records, which show Van Ness Feldman earned $160,000 from Amazon last year.Amazon brought aboard four new firms in 2017, according to the records. Newcomers Ballard Partners, BGR Government Affairs, Brownstein Hyatt, and McGuireWoods Consulting lobbied for Amazon on transportation, taxes, drones and other issues.___Associated Press writer Joseph Pisani in New York contributed to this report.___
TOKYO   Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe\'s government faced criticism on Thursday, after his defense minister said the army last year found activity logs from a controversial 2004 to 2006 deployment to Iraq, but had failed to report them to his predecessor.The affair comes amid signs that declines in support for Abe might be bottoming out, with ratings of around 42 percent in two recent polls, after a suspected cronyism scandal and cover-up over the discounted sale of state-owed land.Poor ratings could hurt Abe\'s chances of winning a third term as leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party in a September vote that would position him to be Japan\'s longest ruling premier, so long as his coalition controls parliament.On Wednesday evening, Defence Minister Itsunori Onodera revealed that the Ground Self-Defense Force, as Japan\'s army is known, had located the logs in March 2017 but failed to report them to his predecessor, Tomomi Inada, who had told parliament a month earlier that the records could not be found."I would like to report to parliament after strictly investigating whether this was a cover-up," Onodera told an upper house parliamentary committee on Thursday.Earlier this week, Onodera had said the logs were found in January but he had not been told until March 31.Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference the government would decide what steps to take after an investigation under Onodera\'s "strong leadership".The Iraq troop deployment, Japan\'s biggest and riskiest overseas military mission since World War Two, was controversial because the reconstruction and humanitarian activities took place in what experts agreed was a conflict zone.The government designated the area a "non-combat zone" to avoid violating the pacifist constitution. The logs could shed light on conditions in the area where the troops operated.Opposition party lawmakers had asked about the records last year while grilling Inada over another set of logs about security conditions in South Sudan, where Japanese troops had joined a peace-keeping mission.An investigation found that handling of those logs broke some laws and Inada, under fire for other missteps as well, resigned last July."Cover-ups are the basic nature of the Abe cabinet. The entire cabinet should resign," Kyodo news agency quoted opposition Democratic Party upper house lawmaker Hiroyuki Konishi as telling the panel at which Onodera appeared.The fresh revelation coincided with the army\'s launch on Wednesday of a central command station to oversee Japan\'s five regional armies, operated separately after World War Two to avoid too much control by the military.There was no need to worry about civilian control of the military, Onodera told reporters on Wednesday before the Iraq logs disclosure."Civilian control is thoroughly implemented, unlike under the pre-war constitution," he added.(Additional reporting by Nobuhiro Kubo and Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
PARIS   A major European carmaker could be brought "to its knees" by carbon dioxide emissions fines, allowing a Chinese buyer to step in with its own electric vehicle technology, Peugeot maker PSA Group\'s chief executive said.Carlos Tavares, who chairs European auto industry lobby group ACEA, said that policymakers had failed to anticipate this outcome of the European Union\'s 2020 CO2 goals."The impact is very obvious. It\'s going to create a Chinese Trojan Horse in Europe," Tavares told an industry event hosted by French car magazine Le Journal de l\'Auto late on Wednesday.His outspoken comments come against a backdrop of rising trade tensions between China and the United States and wider concerns about growing protectionism worldwide.They also underscore concerns about foreign influence over European manufacturers, jobs and technology, which have risen since China\'s Geely snapped up 10 percent of Germany\'s Daimler in February."If a European carmaker missed its (CO2) targets and was brought to its knees by fines, it could not be acquired by another big European carmaker purely because of antitrust rules," Tavares said, without naming any manufacturer.That would create the opportunity for a foreign investor to bring in the kind of technology "imposed by European authorities, which means electric vehicles," he said."And who\'s the leader in electrification? It\'s the Chinese," he added.Paris-based PSA, itself 12.2 percent-owned by China\'s Dongfeng Motor Corp., has accelerated new vehicle development at Opel and Vauxhall after uncovering what Tavares described as hidden CO2 emissions problems following the brands\' acquisition from General Motors last year.Thanks to the extra investment, the group maintains it is now on track to meet CO2 goals averaging 95 grammes per kilometer being phased in from 2020-2021, backed by hundreds of millions of euros in potential fines for non-compliance. The current EU-mandated average for new cars is 130 g/km.Tavares has called for the EU penalties to be suspended until governments roll out adequate electric-car charging networks, saying last month he planned to raise the proposal at a meeting of Brussels-based ACEA on March 7."ACEA has not approached the European Commission to reopen any discussion of the 2020 goals," a spokeswoman told Reuters.President Donald Trump\'s administration moved this week to weaken U.S. fuel-economy goals previously agreed for 2022-25 in response to calls for a revision by carmakers.PSA and other European carmakers are facing declining sales of fuel-efficient diesel models, making it harder to meet CO2 targets and avoid large fines.(Reporting by Laurence Frost; Editing by Alexander Smith)
ANKARA   Shares in Turkey\'s majority state-owned Halkbank rose as much as 18 percent on Thursday after U.S. prosecutors sought a 20 year jail term for a Halkbank executive convicted of helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions.President Tayyip Erdogan\'s spokesman condemned the prosecutors\' demands as a grave injustice but investors appeared to take the move in a positive light, seeing a chance that U.S. Treasury action against Halkbank may be less severe than anticipated, analysts said."A perception might have been formed that a deal might have been struck between the parties that this case will be limited to individuals...or a perception that a lower-than-expected fine might be imposed on the bank," said Enver Erkan, a researcher at GCM Securities.Halkbank declined to comment. Shares in the bank were up as much as 18 percent in the morning trade and stood at 10.04 lira per share at 1231 GMT, up 11 percent on Wednesday\'s close.U.S. prosecutors on Wednesday asked a federal judge to sentence Mehmet Hakan Atilla to about 20 years in prison in a sanctions-busting case that has strained diplomatic ties between Turkey and the United States.Atilla was found guilty by a federal jury in Manhattan in January and is due to be sentenced on April 11. Halkbank has denied any wrongdoing, but the case has weighed on its shares - they are down about a third from last year\'s peak.\'LESS SEVERE\'"The market might be pricing in the expectation that the bank will be getting a less severe fine," said Sadrettin Bagci, a banks analyst at Deniz Investment, adding investors were likely pricing a $1 billion fine - the equivalent of one year\'s worth of earnings at the lender.The Haberturk newspaper said in October that Turkish banks might face billions of dollar in fines due to violations of U.S. sanctions on Iran. The government has said it will take any necessary measures to protect banks.The U.S. case against Atilla was based on the testimony of gold trader Reza Zarrab, who cooperated with the U.S. prosecutors and pleaded guilty to charges of leading a scheme to evade U.S. sanctions against Iran.In his testimony Zarrab implicated top Turkish politicians, including Erdogan. Zarrab said Erdogan, who has governed Turkey for nearly 15 years, personally authorised two Turkish banks to join the scheme when he was prime minister.Halkbank, the fifth-largest Turkish bank by assets, said all its transactions were in line with the local and international regulations. Ankara has said the U.S. judiciary relied on fabricated evidence and has cast the case as a plot to undermine Turkey.Erdogan\'s spokesman said Turkey strongly condemned the demand from U.S. prosecutors, calling it a "legal scandal".(Reporting by Ece Toksabay, Tuvan Gumrukcu and Ebru Tuncay; Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by Dominic Evans and Alexandra Hudson)
I have a friend who started an ethical and fair trade clothing line that was just picked up by a big American retailer. The clothes are made in India by local workers and sold in the United States. The production seems fine, but what concerns me is that my friend (who is white) uses brown emoji hands when she markets the clothes on social media. The clothing itself  the cuts and prints  already seems appropriated. But her blatant use of dark-skinned emoji makes me uncomfortable. What should I say?ANONYMOUSNot a syllable! You have too deeply discounted the value of your friends fair-trade enterprise and over-magnified your relatively trifling concerns. Your friend may be offering life-changing wages to people in a poorer region. (With expansion, she could help even more of them.) Better still, ethical supply chains eliminate child labor and other exploitation in fabric making, pattern cutting, sewing, packing and distribution.Given that all this work transpires in India  that the clothing is indeed made by Indians  her use of brown-skinned emoji hands seems reasonable enough. And if I total up your major complaints: fabrics and designs that seem appropriated (from the very region where they are made  huh?) and the dreaded brown-skinned emoji, you seem to be missing the forest for the trees.It is exquisitely easy to stand on the sidelines and nitpick at the imperfections of worthy projects. (As a jealous person, I am often likely to pile on.) But rather than quibbling with your pal over symbolic concerns, why not congratulate her on the material good shes doing? If you cant, better to keep quiet.At a dinner party at my parents house, the new wife of their neighbor bought four boxes of Girl Scout cookies from my daughter. She had two boxes of Thin Mints on hand and wrote an i.o.u. for the other two. The woman paid $20 for all four boxes. Four days later, I received a text from her: Where are my cookies? I apologized and said we would bring them as soon as we could. (Its an hours drive.) Three days later, she sent another text: I want my money back. Send me a check for $20. I explained that she had already taken two boxes, so I would send her $10. She then sent a photo of the clearly doctored i.o.u., showing that we owed her four boxes. Thoughts?DAVIDHang on! I may have gotten $10 of enjoyment out of your story, thereby solving everyones problem. (Except, clearly, those of the neighbor lady  but lets leave her troubles to a qualified professional.) My central concern is that your parents will continue living next to these neighbors long after Thin Mint season has passed. Resolve this quickly (and unfairly) for your parents sake. Send the woman a check for $20 and bring down the curtain on possibly the best story about Girl Scout cookies ever told.I am a 36-year-old guy. For the last 10 years, my mom has invited me to Passover Seder. I never go. Religion is not my thing. But this year she didnt invite me. We had a good talk the day before the dinner, so I dont think shes upset. But I heard from a cousin that the Seder went on as usual. I cant help feeling insulted. What should I do?NATHANIELInsulted? If you werent 36 (and I didnt object to corporal punishment), I would recommend a brisk spanking for you, Nathaniel. You havent once, apparently, in 10 years, given much thought to your mothers hurt feelings at your declined Seder invitations. Still, you take offense the one time she forgets to invite you. Lets acknowledge the sad truth: Your mother, like many, is probably a glutton for filial punishment. You would have been as welcome this year as any.My suspicion is that the formality of inviting you slipped her mind in the rush of putting together a complex meal for many guests. (Its not as if you were going to accept the 11th invitation, correct?) But lets test my hypothesis: Mark your calendar now for next year; make a big show of telling Mom how much you want to attend; then go. Be sure to report back, O.K.?I am so mad I could spit! Last weekend, at an Easter egg hunt, a 6-year-old boy told our 4-year-old daughter that there is no Easter bunny. She was devastated. I think the boys parents could (and should) have prevented this. Your thoughts?DADIm sorry for your loss of the Easter bunny. But short of placing your daughter in a sensory deprivation tank, shes going to hear things on the mean streets. And 6-year-olds arent famous for discretion. When your anger subsides, let the boys parents know what happened, so they can try to prevent its recurrence next year (and at Christmas). But I still think you can salvage this situation for another year or so with your 4-year-old: Ask her where she thinks the candy comes from  then deny, deny, deny.
(Reuters) - China\'s HNA Group Co Ltd, the heavily indebted aviation-to-financials conglomerate, plans to sell some or all of its $6.3 billion stake in Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc, underlining its need to shed assets and tackle a cash crunch.The sale, announced on Thursday through a regulatory filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, comes about a year and a half after HNA bought a 25 percent stake in Hilton for around $6.5 billion to become its biggest shareholder.Today, HNA owns 26.1 percent of Hilton.Following a $50 billion investment spree in the past two years, HNA has sold assets such as land and office buildings in recent months to pay down a large pile of debt that is straining its finances.In just the first 11 months of last year, HNA\'s bank loans and bonds surged by more than one-third to 637.5 billion yuan ($101.1 billion), a HNA China bond market filing showed.HNA had taken out a loan for its Hilton shares as well. A December 2017 SEC filing showed HNA had increased a loan against its Hilton shares to $3.5 billion from $3 billion. The lenders are JPMorgan Chase & Co, Credit Suisse AG, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG.No details were available on when or to whom HNA would sell its Hilton stake, or the size of the divestment. A Hilton spokesman declined to comment.An October 2016 SEC filing showed there are restrictions on how HNA can sell its Hilton stake if a divestiture happens in the first two years of ownership. Limitations included obtaining the approval of a majority of Hilton\'s board.Hilton\'s shares were up 1 percent at $78.79 in late morning trade.HNA sold its 25 percent stakes in Park Hotels & Resorts and Hilton Grand Vacations Inc in March. Both stakes were worth a total of $2.5 billion and were sold in the open market.(The story corrects to "first 11 months of last year" from "this year" in fifth paragraph.)(Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in BENGALURU and Koh Gui Qing in NEW YORK; Editing by Bernard Orr and Dan Grebler)
MUMBAI/NEW DELHI   An Indian court jailed Bollywood star Salman Khan for five years for poaching on Thursday, lawyers said, a sentence likely to derail the career of one of the country\'s most popular actors.Khan, 52, was found guilty of violating wildlife laws by killing a blackbuck, an endangered species of antelope, in 1998. Four other Bollywood actors accused in the case were acquitted.The stocky Khan wore a black shirt and sunglasses as he entered the court followed by an entourage of aides. Television footage later showed police escorting him to jail in Jodhpur, in the western state of Rajasthan.Television said Khan planned to appeal against the sentence. His lawyer, Anand Desai, told Reuters he had submitted a plea for bail which a judge will hear on Friday.The case was brought by members of a community known as the Bishnoi, who revere antelopes. The community has pursued the case against Khan for almost two decades and cheered the decision by setting off firecrackers near the courthouse and handing out sweets.Four other Bollywood actors accused in the case - Saif Ali Khan, Neelam, Tabu and Sonali Bendre - were acquitted, prosecution lawyer Mahipal Bishnoi said.Some actors came out in Khan\'s support. "I feel this is too harsh. I do hope he gets the relief he deserves," Arjun Rampal said.Khan has had a history of run-ins with the law.In 2015, Bombay High Court overturned his conviction in a hit-and-run case in which he was accused of running over a group of people sleeping on a city sidewalk, killing one and injuring four.Last year, another court in Jodhpur acquitted Khan in a separate poaching case, ruling that there was no proof that Khan had killed an endangered gazelle.Khan has made a series of blockbuster hits in the last few years with the latest in December, "Tiger Zinda Hai", grossing more than 3 billion rupees ($52 million) at the box office.His next film, "Race 3", is an action thriller scheduled for release later in the year.The court\'s ruling against Khan, who has 32.5 million followers on Twitter and was promoting his movie last week, sparked worries among Bollywood traders."If he doesn\'t get bail, then the jail term will have repercussions," said Girish Johar, a trade analyst. "He is a big star, and has a lot of big films lined up, all scheduled to be released over the next two years."(Editing by Sanjeev Miglani, Clarence Fernandez and Nick Macfie)
SYDNEY   Buyout giant Carlyle Group LP will buy Australia\'s Accolade Wines from a local private equity firm for A$1 billion (546.8 million), triple what the Australians paid seven years ago and underscoring the investment appeal of China\'s wine market.The sale of Accolade, Australia\'s No. 2 wine producer and owner of the Hardys and Banrock Station labels, by CHAMP Private Equity comes as Australian wine exports struggle to keep up with growing demand from China\'s middle-class.The Australian export bonanza has been spurred on by a free-trade agreement between the countries since 2015 which has seen China cut import tariffs on Australian wine from as high as 20 percent to about 3 percent."This is a company with great brands and strong market positions, with multiple growth opportunities, particularly in Asian markets," Carlyle said in a statement which did not mention China specifically.Australian wine sales to mainland China jumped 63 percent to a record A$848 million ($651 million) in 2017, putting Australia behind only France, official figures show. Australia\'s winemakers expect to benefit further from China\'s plan to raise tariffs on U.S. wine imports.Accolade does not break out its China export figures but CHAMP Chief Executive Officer John Haddock told Reuters the company expected to grow China exports 80 percent in 2018, from a small base. Total exports were about A$350 million."That\'s a growth that will be around for many years to come," Haddock said in a telephone interview.CHAMP planned an initial public offering of Accolade 18 months earlier but cancelled it when Britain\'s vote to leave the European Union prompted it to phase out some low-margin British sales and focus on growth in Asia.Two of Carlyle\'s main competitors, TPG Capital Management LP and KKR & Co LP, made rival bids for larger Treasury Wine Estates Ltd for about A$3.4 billion in 2014. Treasury rejected the offers and now has a market capitalisation of A$12.4 billion based on Thursday\'s share price.A surge in Chinese exports helped Treasury post record half-year profit in March, only five years after it was forced to pour out thousands of litres of unwanted wine out in an unceremonious exit from the U.S. market.Treasury shares were up as much as 3 percent on Thursday, while the broader market was up 0.6 percent.Carlyle\'s purchase includes a 20 percent stake held by Accolade\'s previous owner, Constellation Brands Inc.(Reporting by Byron Kaye and Tom Westbrook; Editing by Stephen Coates)
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week. His appearance comes as authorities around the world investigate allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 87 million Facebook users to influence elections.Here\'s a look at the various investigations and requests for information.___IN THE UNITED STATES: CONGRESS: Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 in a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees and April 11 before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. This will be his first-ever testimony before Congress. Individual congressional members have also written Facebook seeking answers. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC\'s Bureau of Consumer Protection, says the agency\'s probe will include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC\'s probe may extend to Facebook\'s compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data. INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories have written a letter seeking details on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.___IN EUROPE: EUROPEAN UNION: The EU is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws. U.K. INFORMATION COMMISSION: Britain\'s information regulator has seized evidence from the London office of Cambridge Analytica. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way. U.K. PARLIAMENT: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, says his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He says Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee."___ELSEWHERE: AUSTRALIA: Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country\'s privacy law, which requires organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. INDIA: India\'s government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian users has been compromised.
TRIPOLI   Libya are hoping a three-day visit by a FIFA delegation will lead to a lifting of the ban on hosting international football matches in the strife-torn country.The delegation watched a first division match in Tripoli on Wednesday and have toured stadium facilities as Libya hope to persuade world footballs governing body to overturn the five-year ban."The delegation will check the security situation in Libya so it can report back positively to FIFA and help lift the stadium ban that has been in place since 2013," said a statement from the Libya Football Federation.Libyas national team and its clubs competing in African club competition have been forced to host their matches in countries like Egypt, Mali and Tunisia since the ban was imposed.An initial restriction was imposed in 2011 during the civil war that led to the ousting of dictator Muammar Gaddafi. It was lifted briefly in 2013 before being reimposed.Since disputed elections in 2014, Libya has been split between competing political and military factions in the west and east of the country.The Tripoli government is rejected by its eastern-based rivals. Political turmoil and armed conflict have led to economic collapse, allowing migrant smugglers to flourish and giving space to Islamist militants.(Reporting by Mark Gleeson in Cape Town; Editing by Andrew Bolton)


(Reuters) - Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.The company\'s shares have sunk 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value since March 16, when the New York Times and London\'s Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Some investors see the chaos as a chance to snap up shares in a service for which there is scarce alternative, despite rising public scrutiny and the prospect of a grilling from U.S. legislators when Zuckerberg testifies before Congress next week.Canada\'s province of British Columbia and Canada\'s federal government combined investigations on Thursday, saying they had launched a joint probe into Facebook and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, while Australian authorities said they were exploring whether the social media company had breached user privacy laws.The California State Teachers\' Retirement System, with nearly $1 billion in Facebook stock as of last year, on Thursday also said it would question the company about privacy protections.Despite the probes and celebrities including singer Cher, actor Will Ferrell and Tesla Chief Elon Musk deleting their accounts, Facebook\'s social app downloads improved on a monthly basis both in the United States and globally, according to Evercore ISI.Facebook expanded its share of social app downloads in March by 33.2 percent from 30.1 percent, Evercore data showed.Several Wall Street analysts said the stock\'s decline presented a good opportunity to buy into the social network\'s previously high-flying shares, although they cautioned that much will depend on Zuckerberg\'s testimony to Congress."We suspect that looking back a year from now, if not sooner, this episode will have been a uniquely compelling buying opportunity in the mega-cap internet space," Deutsche Bank analysts said.Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, told Bloomberg in an interview on Thursday that a few advertisers had paused spending in the wake of the incident, but that the company was having reassuring conversations about how it has built privacy into its system. (https://bloom.bg/2q89KMt)Companies including U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys, internet company Mozilla and German bank Commerzbank AG have suspended advertisement on the platform.Sandberg also said a tool that allowed a researcher to gain access to personal information of up to 87 million users, complied with a privacy agreement the company signed with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in 2011.Her comments followed reports that the FTC was investigating the company over a possible violation of that agreement, which demands it to get user consent before sharing their information."While it\'s clear that investor sentiment has been materially impacted by (the) Cambridge Analytica revelations, we believe FB is acting proactively and aggressively to tighten its privacy controls and increase the level of transparency into its practices," Wells Fargo analyst Ken Sena said.Zuckerberg, who will testify about the scandal next week in front of committees in the U.S. House and Senate, may face calls from legislators for more oversight.Sandberg, in a separate interview with PBS, said: "We\'re not just open to regulations, we\'re moving ahead of it," and had built a tool which would be live before the next U.S. election and which would show details of who paid for election ads and demographics of the audience.Facebook shares closed up 2.7 percent at $159.35.(Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee, Sonam Rai and Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Mohammad Zargham in Washington; editing by Peter Henderson, Bernard Orr and James Dalgleish)
NEW YORK   The buzzy debut of Spotify Technology SA on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday drew retail investors across generations, not just the Millennials who make up the largest proportion of the music streaming service\'s customer base, retail brokerages said on Wednesday.Spotify\'s listing was hotly followed, as it went public via the unusual method of a direct listing, without selling new shares. There was demand for the stock, and shares ended up 12.9 percent on their first day of trade on the New York Stock Exchange. On Wednesday, the shares ended the day\'s session at $145.87, down 2.1 percent from Tuesday\'s close.Social media platform Snap Inc\'s high-profile IPO last year had been notable for being popular with Millennials, the primary user base for the company\'s mobile app Snapchat. But though Millennials are also a key demographic for Spotify, the Swedish company\'s listing did not draw disproportionate interest from that generation.Demand was seen across age groups, according to brokerages Fidelity and TD Ameritrade."There\'s good interest in it," said J.J. Kinahan, TD Ameritrade\'s chief market strategist, who is based in Chicago. "It\'s pretty well split across age groups."Fidelity said among its customers, baby boomers were slightly more active in trading Spotify shares than Millennials or members of Generation X. Baby boomers made nearly one-third more trades than Millennials and 20 percent more trades than members of Generation X. A similar pattern holds for other tech IPOs, a Fidelity spokesman said.Retail investor behavior indicated some caution about jumping in.On StockTwits, a social media platform whose users are mostly retail investors, only 40 percent of members were bullish on Spotify ahead of the debut. Negative sentiment toward the IPO rose as the date approached and the expected trading price climbed, said Garrett Hoffman, StockTwits senior data scientist."Our community is as bearish as they\'ve ever been (about Spotify)," Hoffman said.On the site, users posted messages expressing concerns about Spotify\'s lack of profits and competition from companies such as Apple Inc.High-profile IPOs of companies associated with the tech sector have had a mixed track record in the past year. Shares of MuleSoft Inc and Roku Inc, which went public in March 2017 and September 2017, respectively, have climbed more than 100 percent since those companies\' IPOs. On the other hand, shares of Snap and Blue Apron Holdings Inc have fallen below their IPO prices.Individual investors who spoke with Reuters similarly expressed reservations about buying Spotify shares."I think a lot of similarly situated retail investors still view many of the VC-backed, marketplace tech companies as destined IPO flops," said Layla Tabatabaie, an entrepreneur and advisor to tech startups who lives in New York.Others said they would only consider buying the stock at a lower price."It\'s certainly a strong company in regards to the service it offers," said Jonathan Johnson, a relationship banker in Portland, Oregon. "I\'d consider buying it but not at these (price) levels."(Reporting by April Joyner; additional reporting by Sinad Carew in New York; Editing by David Gregorio)
MANAMA, Bahrain   Britain opened its first permanent military base in the Middle East in more than four decades on Thursday in the Persian Gulf country of Bahrain, giving the U.K. an expansive presence along key international shipping routes.The UK Naval Support Facility can house up to around 500 Royal Navy personnel, including sailors, soldiers and airmen, in a region where maritime security ensures oil shipments and goods make it from Asia to Europe. British officials have described it as the first permanent British base east of the Suez Canal since 1971."The aim of the Royal Navy being out here anyway is to enhance and ensure the maritime security in the region, and whether or not that\'s law and order on the high seas, countering piracy, countering terrorism, making sure that the high seas are all safe for the free-flow of commerce, the free flow of trade to be able to take place," said Commodore Steve Dainton, U.K. Maritime Component Commander.Bahrain, located off the coast of Saudi Arabia and just west of its rival Iran, also plays host to the U.S. Navy\'s 5th Fleet. Tense encounters have occurred between U.S. and Iranian naval forces in the Persian Gulf, though military officials say provocations of U.S. navy ships in recent months have halted.The new British hub makes it easier for the Royal Navy to conduct longer-term deployments in the Persian Gulf and will offer engineering and logistical support for ships. The facility includes sleeping accommodations, sport facilities and recreational areas for troops."It offers us a much better base than we\'ve had before, a much more permanent presence and a real infrastructure for our people who are working and operating here all the time," said Commander of the Joint Forces Command of the U.K. Gen. Chris Deverell.The port would also be able to service mine sweepers and aircraft carriers, though carriers like the HMS Queen Elizabeth will not be able to dock there because the water is too shallow.The Duke of York, Prince Andrew and Bahrain\'s Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa were on-hand for the ceremony in Salman Port.The British first established the HMS Juffair base in 1935 in Bahrain, but the U.S. took over the base after the small island nation gained its independence from the British Empire in 1971.The re-establishment of the British base was announced in late 2014 and construction started nearly a year later. The name was changed to UK Naval Support Facility on Thursday.Bahrain, led by a Sunni monarchy, was rocked by Arab Spring-inspired protests in 2011 by its Shiite majority and others aimed at demanding more political freedoms from the ruling Al Khalifa family. The government put down the demonstrations with help from Saudi and Emirati troops.The ongoing crackdown has seen dozens of activists imprisoned, others exiled, and a major Shiite opposition group dismantled.
MEXICO CITY   Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday sharply rebuked Donald Trump over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, joining with opponents to tell the U.S. leader not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico.Trump has been unable to get the U.S. Congress or Mexico to fully fund his planned border wall, and Trump said Thursday he will probably keep National Guard troops along the Mexican border until it is built.In an unusually combative address, a stern-looking Pena Nieto urged Trump to stop sowing discord between the two nations and demanded a more respectful tone in bilateral relations."If your recent declarations are due to frustration over issues to do with internal policy, your laws, or your Congress, direct yourself to them, not to Mexicans," Pena Nieto said.For months Mexico has been locked in tortuous negotiations with the United States and Canada to rework the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), but hopes have risen recently that some kind of preliminary deal could be within reach."President Trump: if you want to reach agreements with Mexico, we stand ready," Pena Nieto said, before adding: "We will not allow negative rhetoric to define our actions."Pena Nieto and Trump have had a strained relationship ever since the New Yorker launched his campaign in 2015 with the claim that some Mexican migrants are criminals and rapists.The White House says mobilizing the National Guard was part of Trump\'s strategy to stop illegal immigrants from entering the country, whom he blames for serious crime.Pena Nieto has faced criticism for failing to take a tough line against Trump in the past. Trump\'s comments have thrust the countries\' relationship into the center of Mexico\'s presidential campaign, where Pena Nieto\'s party is trailing.All the country\'s presidential candidates on Thursday criticized Trump\'s plan to militarize the border.The front-runner in the race, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, said Trump\'s scheme was political "propaganda" based on misinformation that aimed to stir up "xenophobia" and "racism.""This great threat on the southern border of the United States that he says is there, does not exist," said the leftist Lopez Obrador, who has a double-digit lead in most polls."This anti-Mexican policy has worked politically because unfortunately there are conservative sectors in the United States with little information and he knows how to awaken an anti-Mexican sentiment," he added during a campaign event in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo.Ricardo Anaya, the second-place contender who heads a right-left coalition, echoed a Senate motion on Wednesday calling on the government to end cooperation with the United States on migration and security if Trump did not back down."You cannot negotiate or cooperate with threats," he said.Jose Antonio Meade, candidate of Pena Nieto\'s Institutional Revolutionary Party, also attacked the border plan, and independent Margarita Zavala called it a "historic error" and a "hostile act" in a letter addressed to Trump.Barring Meade, all of the candidates are trenchant critics of the president, but Pena Nieto namechecked all four of them and the Senate motion in his scolding of Trump."As president of all Mexicans, I agree with (their) remarks," he said. "No one stands above the dignity of Mexico."(Reporting by Michael O\'Boyle and Daina Beth Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Chris Reese)
The Boston Celtics, whose season began with a devastating injury, will enter the N.B.A. playoffs with news of another: Kyrie Irving, their All-Star point guard, needs another operation on his left knee and will miss the postseason.The team, which had been hopeful that Irving would return to the lineup at some point in the playoffs after undergoing knee surgery last month, announced Thursday that he was scheduled for a second procedure to remove two screws from the knee and that he would need four to five months to recover.With just over a week remaining in the regular season, the Celtics (53-25) have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference, but Irvings absence is a blow to their hopes of contending for a title.Irving, in his first season with the Celtics after forcing an off-season trade from the Cleveland Cavaliers, averaged 24.4 points and 5.1 assists a game this season while shooting a career-best 49.1 percent from the field. His play had helped make up for the loss of Gordon Hayward, an All-Star forward who suffered a grisly ankle injury on the first day of the regular season.Irvings problems stem from a procedure he had three years ago, after he fractured his left kneecap in the 2015 N.B.A. finals. At the time, surgeons implanted a tension wire and two screws in his knee.But this season, after experiencing discomfort, Irving underwent what the Celtics described as a minimally invasive procedure to remove the wire with the aim of relieving irritation in his patellar tendon.The Celtics had anticipated that Irving, 26, would be able to return within three to six weeks, but subsequent tests revealed a bacterial infection at the site of the two screws. On Saturday, Irving is scheduled to have the screws removed to ensure that no infection remains in the knee, the team said in a statement.The hardest thing to do sometimes is accept the uncontrollable things life throws at you, Irving wrote in a lengthy post on his Instagram account, adding: This season was only a snapshot of whats to come from me. Trust me.With Irving out, the Celtics chances of competing in the East are severely diminished  and the conference playoffs could be wide open. The Toronto Raptors are poised to be the top-seeded team behind DeMar DeRozan and Kyle Lowry. The Cavaliers, after several bumpy stretches, are surging once again behind LeBron James, who is assembling one of the finest seasons of his career at age 33.But perhaps no team looks more dangerous than the Philadelphia 76ers, who have won 12 straight games as they prepare for their first playoff appearance since 2012.Boston has not had much luck in recent seasons. Last year, the Celtics were the top-seeded team in the East but were eliminated by the Cavaliers in the conference finals after Isaiah Thomas, their star point guard, was sidelined with a hip injury. Three months later, the Celtics traded Thomas to Cleveland as part of the blockbuster deal that sent Irving to Boston. Thomas was later traded to the Los Angeles Lakers.

(Reuters) - Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.The company\'s shares have sunk 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value since March 16, when the New York Times and London\'s Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Some investors see the chaos as a chance to snap up shares in a service for which there is scarce alternative, despite rising public scrutiny and the prospect of a grilling from U.S. legislators when Zuckerberg testifies before Congress next week.Canada\'s province of British Columbia and Canada\'s federal government combined investigations on Thursday, saying they had launched a joint probe into Facebook and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, while Australian authorities said they were exploring whether the social media company had breached user privacy laws.The California State Teachers\' Retirement System, with nearly $1 billion in Facebook stock as of last year, on Thursday also said it would question the company about privacy protections.Despite the probes and celebrities including singer Cher, actor Will Ferrell and Tesla Chief Elon Musk deleting their accounts, Facebook\'s social app downloads improved on a monthly basis both in the United States and globally, according to Evercore ISI.Facebook expanded its share of social app downloads in March by 33.2 percent from 30.1 percent, Evercore data showed.Several Wall Street analysts said the stock\'s decline presented a good opportunity to buy into the social network\'s previously high-flying shares, although they cautioned that much will depend on Zuckerberg\'s testimony to Congress."We suspect that looking back a year from now, if not sooner, this episode will have been a uniquely compelling buying opportunity in the mega-cap internet space," Deutsche Bank analysts said.Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, told Bloomberg in an interview on Thursday that a few advertisers had paused spending in the wake of the incident, but that the company was having reassuring conversations about how it has built privacy into its system. (https://bloom.bg/2q89KMt)Companies including U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys, internet company Mozilla and German bank Commerzbank AG have suspended advertisement on the platform.Sandberg also said a tool that allowed a researcher to gain access to personal information of up to 87 million users, complied with a privacy agreement the company signed with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in 2011.Her comments followed reports that the FTC was investigating the company over a possible violation of that agreement, which demands it to get user consent before sharing their information."While it\'s clear that investor sentiment has been materially impacted by (the) Cambridge Analytica revelations, we believe FB is acting proactively and aggressively to tighten its privacy controls and increase the level of transparency into its practices," Wells Fargo analyst Ken Sena said.Zuckerberg, who will testify about the scandal next week in front of committees in the U.S. House and Senate, may face calls from legislators for more oversight.Sandberg, in a separate interview with PBS, said: "We\'re not just open to regulations, we\'re moving ahead of it," and had built a tool which would be live before the next U.S. election and which would show details of who paid for election ads and demographics of the audience.Facebook shares closed up 2.7 percent at $159.35.(Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee, Sonam Rai and Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Mohammad Zargham in Washington; editing by Peter Henderson, Bernard Orr and James Dalgleish)
LONDON   Asset managers must assess each year how much value for money they offer investors, Britain\'s markets watchdog said on Thursday, stopping short of tougher measures called for by critics of the 8 trillion pound ($11 trillion) sector.The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said asset managers would have 18 months to prepare for a requirement from September 2019 to make an annual assessment of value, as part of their duty to act in the best interests of investors.In a requirement that will take effect six months later than originally indicated, asset managers will have to publish their value assessments and show if any corrective action was taken if charges were identified as not being justified.After pressure from industry, the value for money idea floated in last year\'s review has been broadened to overall value to avoid what the FCA says is too much focus on costs."Changes to focus on wider value, rather than just charges, will better enable firms to demonstrate this value to their customers, although the new public statements could risk overloading consumers with information," said Andrew Strange, a director at consultants PwC.There is no common template for managers to assess value, they are only asked to spell out the factors taken into consideration such as the range and quality of services provided and the performance of the fund after deduction of all payments.Fund managers will also have to appoint at least two independent directors to their boards by September 2019.Shares in leading asset managers outpaced gains in the broader stock market, with Schroders up 1.7 percent and Standard Life Aberdeen up 2 percent at 1031 GMT.The sector\'s main UK trade body the Investment Association welcomed recognition by the FCA that investors judge asset managers by performance and service, as well as cost.But Gina Miller, founding partner of investment firm SCM Direct, said it was shocking how long it had taken the FCA to "achieve nothing more than restating the obvious", without tackling "misleading fees".SWEEPING REVIEWThe reforms build on the watchdog\'s sweeping review of Britain\'s asset management sector published last June that found evidence of weak price competition.The FCA also launched a further consultation on remedies related to funds providing better information about their products, covering how fund objectives can be expressed more clearly, and benchmarks used for tracking performance.This would make life harder for so-called "closet trackers", or funds which say misleadingly they actively chose investments and therefore charge higher fees. Tracker funds which follow a benchmark, such as the FTSE 100 index, charge lower fees.PwC\'s Strange said the proposals would force managers to be even more vigilant in how they use benchmarks in marketing materials and show fund performance when no benchmarks are used.The FCA said the chair of an asset management firm\'s board will be directly accountable to regulators for assessing value for money and ensuring independent directors are appointed.Asset managers will have a year to comply with changes to how they profit from investors buying and selling their funds, known as box profits, and with steps that make it easier for investors to shift into cheaper share classes, the FCA said.Daniel Godfrey, the former CEO of the Investment Association who called for more transparency in the sector, said the changes should improve value for investors, and that the importance of forcing asset managers to be clearer on their use of benchmarks should not be underestimated.Kevin Doran, chief investment officer at broker AJ Bell, said: "For far too long, many fund providers seem to have forgotten just whose money it is they manage, hiding behind vague objectives and excessive charges."($1 = 0.7114 pounds)(Additional reporting by Sinead Cruise; Editing by Jane Merriman and David Holmes)

Corey Johnson, the speaker of the New York City Council, promised to blaze a new and more independent path for the Council. Now that even applies to his taste in art.This week, workers from the Whitney Museum of American Art went to his office to hang a work by the modern artist Ellsworth Kelly  a green trapezoid that contrasts sharply with the artwork that hangs elsewhere in City Hall, which tends to be dark 19th century oil paintings of white men in ornate gold frames or more modern portraits of former mayors.The Whitney also sent over a polished aluminum sculpture by Robert Indiana. It depicts the word Love  the artists iconic image  and was placed on a windowsill in Mr. Johnsons office.It is tradition for new speakers to decorate their space with artwork borrowed from city museums and their choices often reflect personal style and political roots.The Whitney is in Mr. Johnsons district, on the West Side of Manhattan. Jennifer Fermino, his spokeswoman, said the speakers office sent out word to various institutions that he was seeking artwork and the Whitney responded. Stephen Soba, a spokesman for the museum, said that officials there chose the works: Mr. Kellys Green Panel (Ground Zero) and the sculpture.Im not the artsiest guy, Mr. Johnson said, explaining that he was happy to let the museum do the choosing.The arrival of the works comes as the Council is considering a funding request from the Whitney for the installation of a major public art project, called Days End, by David Hammons, a Harlem artist, that it wants to install on the edge of the Hudson River. Ms. Fermino said the museum is asking the Council for $2.25 million.Mr. Johnson called Days End an exciting, great project for a great New York artist and said there was no connection between the loan of the artwork and the request for financing. I didnt make any connection between the two things.Mr. Soba said the museum often lends artwork for display in elected leaders offices and that the installation in Mr. Johnsons office was completely unrelated to the financing request. The museum requested a total of $5 million in capital financing for the project  $2.25 million each from the Council and the Department of Cultural Affairs and $500,000 from the Manhattan borough presidents office, Mr. Soba said. The overwhelming majority of the funding is being privately raised by the Whitney, he said.Mr. Johnson said he planned to borrow more art for his office from other institutions and would exchange the pieces for new ones each year, adding that he wanted to display items from museums in every borough.I am deeply honored to be able to show beautiful art from different cultural institutions from across New York City at City Hall, he said. Well do the Brooklyn Museum and the Queens Museum and the Museum of the City of New York and The Met and smaller museums.Mr. Johnsons office also has two black-and-white photographs of Harvey Milk, a slain gay rights leader, and Larry Kramer, an AIDS activist and playwright. The photographs are on loan from the Leslie-Lohman Museum of Gay and Lesbian Art and Mr. Johnson said he plans to keep them on display during his full tenure as speaker.They are very personal to me, said Mr. Johnson, who is gay.Kellys artwork reflects the artists response to the debate over how to create a memorial to victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attack on the World Trade Center. The aluminum green trapezoid represents greenspace that could occupy the void where the Trade Center plaza once stood.Mr. Johnsons predecessor as speaker, Melissa Mark-Viverito, installed artwork from El Museo del Barrio and the Bronx Museum, according to Ms. Fermino. She also displayed photographs of New York street scenes from the Museum of the City of New York, which Mr. Johnson has kept on the walls in his office waiting area.Christine C. Quinn, who was speaker from 2006 to 2014, installed a large painting by the artist Lee Krasner in her office from the Brooklyn Museum of Art. Ms. Quinns office also had works on loan from the Guggenheim, the National Museum of the American Indian and other institutions, Ms. Fermino said.Referring to previous speakers who displayed artwork on loan, Ms. Quinn said: Gifford Miller had donated art. Peter Vallone had donated art. It was a tradition to have donated art.Ms. Quinn said it had no bearing on the Councils financing decisions.All of those institutions had requests for funding before me and it made zero difference, she said. We reformed the entire cultural-funding process in a way that many cultural institutions opposed while I was speaker, while that art hung.The city allocated $55 million to support the construction of a new building for the Whitney in the meatpacking district while Ms. Quinn was speaker.When prominent elected officials display works of art on loan they are elevating the arts, they are making sure and actually sending a message that culture and the arts are important to them, said Jimmy Van Bramer, a Queens councilman who is chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs. Thats a good thing for those who care about the arts.Mr. Van Bramer also praised the Days End project. There are very few works of public art of this magnitude by an African-American artist in New York City, he said. I believe the project is worthy of the funding thats being requested.Mayor Bill de Blasio has no modern art in his City Hall office and no artwork on loan from museums, according to members of his staff.But Gracie Mansion, the mayoral residence, has been home to at least two exhibitions since Mr. de Blasio moved in that included numerous works of art lent by museums, including the Whitney.Mr. de Blasio has been criticized for keeping some of the citys most prominent museums and other cultural institutions at arms length, in contrast to his predecessor, the billionaire Michael R. Bloomberg, who was a major donor to many of those institutions. It took Mr. de Blasio years to visit the High Line, which is in Mr. Johnsons district, and he said last year that he had never been to the MoMA/P.S. 1 museum in Queens.That gives added punch to the introduction of modern art into the building by Mr. Johnson, who has delighted in contrasting himself with the mayor.
MORRISVILLE, N.C.   The remains of an Air Force officer lost for almost 50 years after he was shot down over Southeast Asia finally came home Thursday to North Carolina, where he was greeted by his three children and a mile-long procession of roaring, flag-fluttering motorcycles.Col. Edgar F. Davis was the navigator aboard a RF-4C Phantom fighter-bomber aircraft shot down during a night photo-reconnaissance mission over Laos in September 1968. His remains were identified in late December.An Air Force color guard carried his flag-draped coffin from an American Airlines flight arriving at Raleigh-Durham International Airport from Dallas to a waiting hearse.About 30 members of his extended family were on hand including his daughter and two sons, both retired Air Force officers, said Robert Kerns, spokesman at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Davis\'s children and other family members declined to talk to a reporter until his burial Friday in his native Goldsboro, home of the Air Force base.The airport ceremony offered proof that the open wounds of military families can close, even decades later, thanks to the continuing work of U.S. teams committed to finding and identifying troops long missing in action."We don\'t give up. We\'ll never leave a soldier behind," said Joe Donnelly, a former Army major who twice served in Vietnam in the 1960s and now heads the USO\'s local honors team. "I don\'t mean to sound glib, but it just may take a while."Davis was 32 when his jet was shot down over Laos, which borders Vietnam to the west and was a secret front in the war in an attempt to destroy communist supply lines in the region. The pilot of Davis\'s plane ejected and was rescued. Searchers failed to locate Davis or the aircraft wreckage. He was later declared dead, according to the Defense Department\'s POW/MIA Accounting Agency.MIA investigators found a villager in 2015 who reported the burial location of a U.S. service member. U.S. military scientists and medical examiners used new kinds of DNA analysis to match Davis\'s remains to his family, the accounting agency said.Since Davis\'s remains were identified at the end of last year, more than three dozen other service members dating back to World War II have been identified.They included 20 sailors from the USS Oklahoma, which capsized with the loss of 429 people during the Japanese attack on the U.S. Navy base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in 1941. The Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency two years ago dug up 388 sets of remains from a Hawaii cemetery after determining that advances in forensic science and genealogical help from families could make identifications possible.___Follow Emery P. Dalesio on Twitter at http://twitter.com/emerydalesio. His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/emery%20dalesio

WASHINGTON   Two men who pleaded guilty to assaulting protesters during a 2017 visit by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Washington were sentenced to a year and a day in jail on Thursday, authorities said.Sinan Narin, 46, of McLean, Virginia, and Eyup Yildirim, 51, of Manchester, New Jersey, pleaded guilty to charges stemming from a street brawl outside the Turkish ambassador\'s residence that included members of Erdogan\'s security detail. Narin and Yildirim are both U.S. citizens.The May 2017 melee was condemned by U.S. and Washington city officials and strained relations between Turkey and the United States.Narin and Yildirim were sentenced to 12 months and a day in jail, with credit for time served after they were arrested in June, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney\'s Office said in an email.They also will undergo three years of supervised release once their sentences are completed.Narin and Yildirim pleaded guilty in December to one count  of felony assault for attacking anti-Erdogan protesters during the president\'s visit.Yildirim kicked a 61-year-old protester in the head and face, causing the man to suffer a concussion and memory loss, according to the sentencing memorandum, while Narin kicked a woman who had fallen, briefly knocking her out.Federal prosecutors have dismissed charges against 11 of 15 members of Erdogan\'s security team who were indicted over the brawl. Assault charges are pending against two Canadian citizens.Turkey blamed the melee on demonstrators linked to the Kurdistan Workers Party, while Washington\'s police chief referred to it as a "brutal attack" on peaceful protesters.Turkey has been waging a war for decades against the banned party, also known as the PKK, in the country\'s mainly Kurdish southeast.(Reporting by Ian Simpson; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
CARACAS/PANAMA CITY   Venezuela said on Thursday it was halting commercial relations with Panamanian officials and companies, including regional airline Copa, for alleged involvement in money laundering, prompting both countries to recall their ambassadors.The resolution names Panamanian President Juan Carlos Varela and nearly two dozen Cabinet ministers and top-ranking officials, and says that Panama\'s financial system had been used by Venezuelan nationals involved in acts of corruption.The individuals named in the resolution "present an imminent risk to the (Venezuelan) financial system, the stability of commerce in the country, and the sovereignty and economic independence of the Venezuelan people," Venezuela said.The statement came a week after Panama declared Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and some 50 Venezuelan nationals as "high risk" for laundering money and financing terrorism.Venezuela\'s civil aviation authority said in a statement that inbound and outbound Copa flights were suspended for 90 days, effective Friday, "as a measure to protect the Venezuelan financial system."Copa, a crucial provider of international flights following a sharp reduction in airline services to crisis-stricken Venezuela, did not respond to a request for comment.Panama announced it was recalling its ambassador to Venezuela and asked that Caracas follow suit, which it did several hours later.Panama\'s Varela, in brief comments to reporters on Thursday, described the Venezuelan announcement as nonsensical."We have not heard anything about breaking relations but rather about a set of supposed sanctions - it\'s gibberish," Varela said.Venezuela has been hit with sanctions by Canada, the United States and a number of other countries over issues ranging from human rights violations to corruption and drug trafficking.Maduro says the country is victim of an "economic war" led by his adversaries with the help of Washington, and says the sanctions are part of foreign countries\' efforts to undermine his government.(Additional reporting by Caracas newsroom; editing by G Crosse and Leslie Adler)
MOSCOW   The niece of Sergei Skripal, a former Russian spy poisoned in Britain with his daughter, says she plans to travel to England and try to bring back Yulia, Skripal\'s daughter, to Russia.Viktoria Skripal, the niece, told state TV on Wednesday evening that she had applied for a British visa, but that she was unsure whether British authorities would allow her to see her cousin Yulia, or her uncle Sergei, who were poisoned in Salisbury in a March 4 nerve agent attack.The attack left the Skripals in a critical condition, but on March 29 the hospital where they are being treated said Yulia was getting better, while the BBC, citing sources, said she was "conscious and talking"."I currently have one objective: to fly there and take away Yulia, at least Yulia," Viktoria Skripal said, adding that Yulia had always been very distant from politics. "It\'s a lot more complicated with Sergei [Skripal]."She said she was in regular contact with Russia\'s ambassador to London, Alexander Yakovenko, and that he had helped her obtain a Russian passport to travel.She said British authorities had given her no assurances she would be able to see Yulia even if she arrived at the hospital and that it would be up to Yulia if a meeting took place.Viktoria Skripal made the comments on Rossiya-1\'s 60 minutes show where pundits and lawmakers cast the nerve agent attack as part of an elaborate British plot to besmirch Russia.Britain has blamed Moscow for the chemical attack, something Russia denies.The case has plunged East-West relations into their worst crisis since the Cold War, with Britain and its allies expelling around 130 Russian diplomats and Moscow responding with its own expulsions.(Editing by Andrew Osborn)
LONDON   Former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal remains critically ill in hospital more than a month after he was poisoned with a nerve agent in the southern English city of Salisbury.This is what we know - and don\'t know - so far:WHAT HAPPENED?At 1615 GMT on March 4, police received a call from a member of the public about two people who were acting strangely. The police found Skripal, 66, and his daughter, Yulia, 33, unconscious on a bench outside The Maltings shopping center in Salisbury. The pair were taken to Salisbury District Hospital.A police officer, Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, was one of the first to respond to the incident. He was taken to hospital and later released.Britain said more than 130 people were affected by the attack. More than 50, including three children, reported to hospital.WHAT POISONED THEM?On March 12, British Prime Minister Theresa May said the couple had been poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent from the Novichok group of poisons developed by the Soviet Union in the 1970s and 80s.There are several variants of Novichok, a binary weapon containing two less toxic chemicals that when mixed react to produce a poison several times more lethal than sarin or VX.Russia\'s ambassador to Britain, Alexander Yakovenko, has identified the alleged poison as Novichok A-234, derived from an earlier version known as A-232.May said her government had concluded that it was "highly likely that Russia was responsible" for the poisoning or that it had lost control over some of the nerve agent.Russia has denied involvement and Russian officials have suggested the British secret services, possibly with U.S. help, poisoned the Skripals to stoke anti-Russian hysteria.Russian President Vladimir Putin has said it is nonsense to think that Moscow would have poisoned Skripal and his daughter."Russia does not have such (nerve) agents," Putin said on March 18. British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said it was overwhelmingly likely that Putin himself made the decision to attack Skripal, an accusation the Kremlin said was shocking.DIPLOMATIC FALLOUTMay gave Russia a day to provide an explanation but none came. On March 14, she ordered 23 Russians who she said were spies working under diplomatic cover to leave Britain.On the eve of its March 18 presidential election, Russia ordered 23 British diplomats out of Moscow. It also shut down the activities of the British Council, which fosters cultural links, and Britain\'s consulate-general in St Petersburg.The leaders of the United States, Germany, France and Germany condemned the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent in Europe since World War Two, saying it threatened the security of the West.In the biggest Western expulsion of Russian diplomats since the height of the Cold War, the United States ordered out 60 Russians and Moscow responded by expelling 60 U.S. diplomats.    Other Western countries then expelled about 70 Russians and the  Russians largely followed suit.For a graphic of the expulsions: http://graphics.thomsonreuters.com/testfiles/russia-west/index.htmlHOW DO WE KNOW IT WAS NOVICHOK?May said Britain\'s military laboratory at Porton Down had identified Novichok, though the government has not said how it knows it came from Russia.Russia has questioned on what basis Britain has made the conclusion that the poison originated in Russia and whether Britain has a reference sample of Novichok.To give an exact match, chemical weapons experts said Britain would have to compare it to a sample of Russian-made Novichok. It is unclear how Britain would have such a sample.Other ways of identifying the source would be British or Western intelligence information. None has been made public.Gary Aitkenhead, chief executive of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down, said on April 3 it was unable to say whether the nerve agent used was produced in Russia.But he said the substance required "extremely sophisticated methods to create, something only in the capabilities of a state actor."Britain has asked inspectors from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to test the poison. The results have not been published.WHAT IS NOVICHOK?Most public knowledge about Novichok comes from two Russian scientists who went public about the nerve agent shortly after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. It was developed by the Soviet Union\'s military in the 1970s and 80s by the state chemical research laboratory.Vil Mirzayanov, a Russian chemist who helped develop the poison, told Reuters last month that only Russia could have carried out the attack.He said Russia maintains tight control over its Novichok stockpile and that the agent is too complicated for a non-state actor to have weaponized.Another Cold-War-era scientist, Professor Leonid Rink, told Russia\'s RIA news agency the attack did not look like Moscow\'s work because the Skripals had not died immediately.The Soviet Union\'s chemical weapons programme was in disarray after the Cold War. Some toxic substances and know-how could have got into the hands of criminals.WHERE DID THE POISONING HAPPEN?Dean Haydon, Britain\'s\' senior national coordinator for counter-terrorism policing, said on March 28 a nerve toxin had been left on the front door of the Skripals\' home in England.Yulia Skripal arrived in Britain from Russia at London\'s Heathrow Airport at about 1440 GMT on March 3. At about 1340 GMT on March 4, the Skripals arrived at the car park of the Sainsbury\'s supermarket store at The Maltings shopping center.They went to the Bishop\'s Mill pub and then to Zizzi, an Italian restaurant, at about 1420 GMT. They remained there until about 1535 GMT. A member of the public alerted the emergency services at about 1615 GMT.Yulia was in a critical condition for nearly four weeks but on March 29 doctors said her condition had improved, though she is still being treated in hospital.Her father remained in a critical but stable condition, the hospital said. A British judge said last month that the Skripals might have suffered permanent brain damage.(Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge, Editing by Giles Elgood and Timothy Heritage)
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone   Sierra Leone\'s former ruling party intends to challenge the results of the presidential runoff vote in court, the losing candidate announced after the opposition party won for the first time in a decade.The National Electoral Commission announced late Wednesday that Julius Maada Bio with the Sierra Leone Peoples Party party had won. Bio, who had lost the presidential election in 2012, was swiftly sworn into office just before midnight.Defeated candidate Samura Kamara said in an interview broadcast on national television that "the results did not reflect the will of the voters." He said his APC party intends to take "appropriate legal action."Any registered voter has seven days to petition the Supreme Court over the results.Bio has pledged to work for national unity in the West African country of 7 million people. He faces a parliament that is dominated by the All Peoples Congress party.Bio, a former military leader, won Saturday\'s runoff election with 51.81 percent of valid votes cast, the electoral commission said. Kamara received 48.19 percent of the votes.The runoff vote was delayed by a few days after a ruling party member filed a court challenge alleging irregularities in the first round and a temporary injunction was issued, stalling preparations. The high court later lifted the injunction.Bio will now lead efforts to continue rebuilding the country after the devastating 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic as well as a deadly mudslide in August that killed some 1,000 people in the capital, Freetown.The election was the fourth since Sierra Leone\'s brutal civil war ended in 2002.Outgoing President Ernest Bai Koroma had served two terms and was barred by the constitution from running again.
LONDON   Heavy snow slowed activity in Europe\'s dominant service industry last month but with growth still relatively strong, policy expectations for the European Central Bank and Bank of England are unlikely to change.Businesses across the euro zone ended the first quarter with their weakest expansion since the start of 2017 as bad weather and a strong currency combined to curb growth in new orders, a business survey showed on Thursday.It was a similar story in Britain, where a sister survey said the Siberian weather system meteorologists called "the Beast from the East" weighed on services, which expanded at the slowest rate since just after the vote to leave the European Union in June 2016.Survey compiler IHS Markit said the PMIs pointed to a solid first quarter growth rate of 0.6 percent in the euro zone, but only half that in Britain, which is due to leave the EU in just under a year\'s time.But the ECB will probably decide this summer to slash its bond purchases if things develop as expected, policymaker Ewald Nowotny said last week. The BoE is widely expected to raise interest rates next month for only the second time since the global financial crisis a decade ago."The ECB is pretty much set on its course anyway. The Bank of England is a little more interesting in the sense that the rate decision is a bit more imminent," said Peter Dixon at Commerzbank."But the general perception is that this all appears to be more of a weather-related effect and as a consequence we can look through."The BoE sees British inflation as running too high. Even though it is below target in the euro zone, the ECB is looking to wind down its huge stimulus programme in coming months.Euro zone inflation rose to 1.4 percent as anticipated last month, preliminary official data showed on Wednesday, still some distance from the ECB\'s 2 percent target ceiling.In Britain, where sterling\'s fall since the Brexit vote has driven inflation up, prices rose a slower than expected 2.7 percent annually in February - though considerably above the central bank\'s 2 percent target.The BoE kept interest rates steady last month but two policymakers unexpectedly voted for a hike, reinforcing the view among economists that borrowing costs will rise in May.PMIS SLIP ON THE ICEIHS Markit\'s euro zone Final Composite Purchasing Managers\' Index, seen as a good overall indicator of growth, fell to 55.2 in March from February\'s 57.1, and revised down slightly from the flash estimate of 55.3.That was the sharpest one-month drop in almost six years, but it remains well above the 50 mark separating growth from contraction.Although growth remained strong and broad-based - with output expanding in every country covered by the survey - signs of a slowdown were also widespread, with growth in the bloc\'s big four economies as well as Ireland all moderating.IHS Markit/CIPS British services PMI tumbled to 51.7 in March from February\'s reading of 54.5, its lowest reading since July 2016 and a bigger fall than any economist had forecast in a Reuters poll.Reports earlier this week showed Britain\'s construction PMI dropped sharply in March, although manufacturing held up better."At face value, the latest UK services PMI looks very concerning ... but it seems that \'the Beast from the East\' played a big role in this miss," noted James Smith at ING."In reality, this means that policymakers will likely choose to look through this latest data when they meet next in May."Reuters polls last month predicted economic expansion of 0.6 percent in the euro zone and 0.4 percent in Britain. In January, the bloc\'s PMI was at its highest since June 2006 but the Reuters poll said growth had already peaked.The euro has gained over 2 percent against the dollar in the last three months, making the bloc\'s exports more expensive, while several blasts of cold weather in Europe have also hit activity."We are seeing some weakness in the domestic economy as well; notably some of the German numbers have been a bit softer of late. At the margin, the stronger euro is not helping," Commerzbank\'s Dixon said.A sub-index measuring new orders, which includes trade within the euro area, fell to a 14-month low of 55.0 from 56.3.Mirroring a slump in the manufacturing PMI released on Tuesday, the index covering the bloc\'s dominant service industry declined to a seven-month low of 54.9 from 56.2, just shy of the 55.0 flash reading.(Editing by Mark Heinrich)
BUFFALO, N.Y.   Three years after bottoming out, the Buffalo Sabres found a way to achieve a new low.A 4-2 loss to the Ottawa Senators on Wednesday night assured Buffalo of becoming the NHL\'s first team to finish 31st following this season\'s addition of the expansion Vegas Golden Knights."Honestly, no. I don\'t think anyone really envisioned this, certainly not myself being on the outside coming in," said Jason Pominville, the former Sabres captain who rejoined the team last offseason after being acquired in a trade with Minnesota."With the group we had, I still don\'t believe we should be where we\'re at. But we are there. And things got to change."First-year coach Phil Housley was defiant when asked if he ever second-guessed what he signed up for upon being hired in June after the Sabres cleaned house last spring."I believe in this organization. I believe in our management. I believe we\'re going to turn this thing around," Housley said.And yet the Hall of Fame defenseman had to acknowledge how difficult this season has been."This is just where we are as a group," Housley said. "Let\'s be honest, we have a long way to go."Having already extended their franchise-worst playoff drought to a seventh year, the Sabres clinched last place for the third time in five years  they were 30th in both 2013-14 and 2014-15.Their fate this season was sealed in losing their home finale in a matchup of two of the NHL\'s worst teams.Matt Duchene scored his team-leading 27th goal and the 30th-place Senators upped their total to 67 points, five ahead of the Sabres, who have just two games left.Max McCormick, Ryan Dzingel and Alexandre Burrows, with an empty-netter, also scored for the Senators. Craig Anderson stopped 32 shots, and Ottawa improved to 2-8 in its past 10."We play for each other, we play for our fans, we play for the crest on the front," Anderson said of the Senators\' objective to not finish last.And the Senators won with a roster depleted of numerous regulars, including captain Erik Karlsson, who remained in Ottawa to be his wife after the couple\'s first son was stillborn two weeks ago.The Senators scored three straight times after Buffalo\'s Ryan O\'Reilly opened the scoring on a breakaway goal 30 seconds in.McCormick tied the game 2:26 later by tipping in Mark Borowiecki\'s point shot. Duchene scored 3:14 later by blasting in a shot over Chad Johnson\'s left shoulder after teammate Ben Harpur broke up Sabres defenseman Rasmus Ristolainen\'s clearing attempt at the left boards.Dzingel made it 3-1 at the 3:21 mark of the second period, seconds after a tripping penalty against Buffalo\'s Marco Scandella expired. Dzingel collected a loose puck in the right circle and used Sabres defenseman Casey Nelson as a screen to sneak a shot under Johnson\'s right arm.Johnson stopped 30 shots and Kyle Okposo also scored for the Sabres in closing Buffalo\'s home record at 11-25-5.The Sabres\' league-worst 11 home wins matched a franchise low for any year, including the lockout-shortened 48-game 2012-13 season, when Buffalo went 11-10-3. Buffalo also went 11-19-9 during a 78-game season in 1971-72.The Sabres\' final four home losses came against four of the NHL\'s five-worst road teams: Arizona, which entered the day 27th, Detroit (28th), Ottawa (30th) and Montreal (31st)."I expected a lot more," O\'Reilly said about Buffalo\'s record. "But you can expect all you want. It comes down to doing it and getting better. And obviously, we got worse."NOTES: Senators RW Bobby Ryan did not return after sustaining a lower body injury in the first period. He was hurt when teammate Jean-Gabriel Pageau fell back into him after being checked by Buffalo\'s Jack Eichel. ... Sabres C Zemgus Girgensons will miss the final three games with an upper body injury. ... Senators RW Marian Gaborik missed his seventh consecutive game, and Boucher said the player is visiting a specialist to determine the severity of a nagging back injury. ... Corey Syvret made his debut as an NHL referee. Syvret played for OHL London in 2006 when he lost a fight, decisively, to current Sabres forward Jordan Nolan.UP NEXTSenators: Continue season-closing three-game trip Friday night at Pittsburgh.Sabres: Open season-closing two-game trip Friday night at Tampa Bay.___More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
BEIJING   China\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft for possible retaliation in a trade spat with Washington.That should help minimize China\'s losses if U.S. President Donald Trump goes ahead with a planned tariff hike and Beijing responds, said economist Lu Feng at Peking University\'s School of National Development."Compared with the U.S. list, which focuses on high-tech, China\'s list is more diversified," said Lu. "The impact to China\'s overall economy is under control."The two sides have not set a date for raising duties. Trump has approved higher duties on Chinese telecoms, aerospace and other technology goods but left time to negotiate by announcing a comment period through May 11. Beijing says its timing depends on what Trump does.Already, the threat of disruption has jolted the business world. Share prices of American exporters of aircraft, farm equipment and grain sagged Wednesday after Beijing announced its list of 106 products.Others picked for a possible 25 percent rise in Chinese import duty include beef, electric vehicles, industrial chemicals, orange juice and tobacco.Losers, including Chinese consumers who might face higher food prices, will likely outnumber winners."It definitely will affect my choices," said Wang Xiaoyu, a 20-year-old student in Beijing. "For daily necessities, mobile phones or electronics, I am more likely to choose domestic brands or choose products with the same price as U.S. products before the price hike."While importers that buy big volumes of American soybeans and other goods might struggle to fill the whole gap, those shortfalls could create business opportunities for rival suppliers."The obvious \'winners\' would be the other major suppliers of these products," said Adam Slater of Oxford Economics in an email.The biggest impact of higher Chinese duties would fall on American soybean farmers. China accounted for almost 60 percent of their exports and $12.4 billion in revenue for the year that ended on Aug. 31.Farmers in Brazil, Argentina or Australia might step up to supply Chinese buyers who use soybeans as animal feed and to produce cooking oil.A 25 percent price hike for American pork, whiskey and tobacco could make sources in Europe, Russia, Japan and elsewhere more attractive.It was unclear whether Beijing might try to make an exception for Chinese-owned U.S. exporters such as pork producer Smithfield Foods. WH Group, which bought Smithfield in 2013, opened a facility in the center Chinese city of Zhengzhou to produce its brands but uses meat imported from the United States.At the same time, American meat producers might save money if weaker Chinese demand depresses the price of soybeans they use to feed cows and pigs.Higher prices for American small aircraft and aviation technology also could give French and German competitors a chance to gain market share.U.S. aviation-related exports to China totaled $13.2 billion in 2016. That accounted for 58 percent of Chinese imports, giving potential rivals plenty of room to grow."We will continue in our own efforts to proactively engage both governments," said Boeing Co. in a statement. "A strong and vibrant aerospace industry is important to the economic prosperity and national security of both countries.Other potential winners include developing countries that might replace China as a supplier to American markets, according to William Jackson of Capital Economics.Mexico produces many of the goods targeted for U.S. tariffs on Chinese imports such as televisions and electrical circuits, he said in a report. South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand export semiconductors and other technology."To the extent that the tariffs do result in the U.S. importing from elsewhere, other emerging markets might stand to benefit," wrote Jackson.___AP Writer Sam McNeil and AP researcher Yu Bing contributed.
NEW YORK   Facebook\'s acknowledgement that most of its 2.2 billion members have probably had their personal data scraped by "malicious actors" is the latest example of the social network\'s failure to protect its users\' data.Not to mention its apparent inability to even identify the problem until the company was already embroiled in scandal.CEO Mark Zuckerberg told reporters Wednesday that Facebook is shutting down a feature that let people search for Facebook users by phone number or email address. Although that was useful for people who wanted to find others on Facebook, it turns out that unscrupulous types also figured out years ago that they could use it to identify individuals and collect data off their profiles.The scrapers were at it long enough, Zuckerberg said, that "at some point during the last several years, someone has probably accessed your public information in this way."The only way to be safe would have been for users to deliberately turn off that search feature several years ago. Facebook had it turned on by default."I think Facebook has not been clear enough with how to use its privacy settings," said Jamie Winterton, director of strategy for Arizona State University\'s Global Security Initiative. "That, to me, was the failure."The breach was a stunning admission for a company already reeling from allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 87 million Facebook users to influence elections.Over the past few weeks, the scandal has mushroomed into investigations across continents, including a probe by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Zuckerberg himself will be questioned by Congress for the first time on Tuesday."The FTC looked the other way for years when consumer groups told them Facebook was violating its 2011 deal to better protect its users. But now the Cambridge Analytica scandal has awoken the FTC from its long digital privacy slumber," said Jeffrey Chester, executive director for the Washington-based privacy nonprofit Center for Digital Democracy.Neither Zuckerberg nor his company has identified those who carried out the data scraping. Outside experts believe they could have been identity thieves, scam artists or shady data brokers assembling marketing profiles.Zuckerberg said the company detected the problem in a data-privacy audit started after the Cambridge Analytica disclosures, but didn\'t say why the company hadn\'t noticed it  or fixed it  earlier.Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment Thursday on when it discovered the data scraping.In his call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg said the company had tried "rate limiting" the searches. This restricted how many searches someone can conduct at one time from a particular IP address, a numeric designation that identifies a device\'s location on the internet. But Zuckerberg said the scrapers circumvented that defense by cycling through multiple IP addresses.The scraped information was limited to what a user had already chosen to make public  which, depending on a person\'s privacy settings, could be a lot  as well as what Facebook requires people to share. That includes full name, profile picture and listings of school or workplace networks.But hackers and scam artists could then use that information  and combine it with other data in circulation  to pull hoaxes on people, plant malware on their computers or commit other mischief.Having access to such a massive amount of data could also pose national security risks, Winterton said.A foreign entity could conceivably use such information to influence elections or stir up discord  exactly what Russia is alleged to have done, using Facebook and other social media, in the 2016 presidential elections.Privacy advocates have long been critical of Facebook\'s penchant for pushing people to share more and more information, often through pro-sharing default options.While the company offers detailed privacy controls  users can turn off ad targeting, for example, or face recognition, and post updates that no one else sees  many people never change their settings, and often don\'t even know how to.The company has tried to simplify its settings multiple times over the years, most recently this week.Winterton said that for individual Facebook users, worrying about this data scraping won\'t do much good  after all, the data is already out there. But she said it might be a good time to "reflect on what we are sharing and how we are sharing it and whether we need to.""Just because someone asks us information, it doesn\'t mean we have to give it to them if we are not comfortable," she said.She added that while she no longer has a Facebook account, when she did she put her birth year as 1912 and her hometown as Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Neither is true.__AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story.

WASHINGTON   In nearly a decade as general manager of the Washington Nationals, Mike Rizzo has proved adept at wheeling and dealing, at drafting and developing, to the tune of four NL East titles in the past six years.When it came time to discuss his own contract  talks that resulted in a two-year extension through 2020, announced hours before Thursday\'s home opener against the New York Mets  Rizzo joked that he wasn\'t quite as tough at the table as usual."My negotiating skills are much better when I\'m negotiating for a trade or with free agents than I was for myself; you don\'t usually buy a house when you\'re negotiating a contract. But like I do a lot of times, I made no bones about where I wanted to be and wanted to do," Rizzo said, wearing a three-piece gray suit to mark the occasion. "I came to a deal that I\'m very happy with, very satisfied with."And then, lapsing into GM-speak, appropriately, he referred to the average annual value of his own contract the way he would a player\'s, saying: "The years are important to me, but the AAV of the deal is right where I wanted it to be. I think everything else takes care of itself in the long run. Like I\'ve told the players: \'We win, we all eat better.\' That\'s kind of our motto."For comparison\'s sake, executives leading other recently successful franchises such as Theo Epstein with the Cubs, Dave Dombrowski with the Red Sox, Brian Cashman with the Yankees, and Andrew Friedman with the Dodgers all have five-year deals. So, too, does Mike Hill with the Marlins, while Andrew Anthopolous with the Braves has a four-year contract.Rizzo came to the Nationals as an assistant general manager in 2007, then succeeded Jim Bowden as the GM in 2009, before adding the title of president of baseball operations in 2013."This is a common-sense move that had to get done," said Max Scherzer, who has won two NL Cy Young awards since signing a free-agent deal in Washington.Because he was entering the final year of his contract, Rizzo\'s future was a big question mark heading into this season, along with 2015 NL MVP Bryce Harper\'s chance to become a free agent after 2018.Now one of those franchise-altering issues is resolved."I thought it was important for the team not to have this as a distraction. And I thought going forward it was becoming one," Rizzo said about his own status. "I heard some players being more vocal about it. I\'m glad it\'s behind us now and there\'s some continuity and consistency."One of Rizzo\'s big jobs moving forward  in addition to trying to finally oversee the Nationals\' first series victory in the postseason  will be to either figure out a way to keep Harper in D.C. beyond this season or figure out a way to suitably replace his production."We\'ve made no bones about it that Harp\'s a big part of this organization. He\'s a vital cog in what we\'re trying to do. He\'s a guy I\'ve known since he was 16 years old that we scouted, signed and watched him blossom into a star at the big-league level," said Rizzo, who drafted the outfielder with the No. 1 overall pick in the amateur draft. "Of course, we\'d love to keep him long term."Harper\'s reaction to Rizzo\'s new deal?"He\'s one of the best in the game. ... Unbelievable getting guys in trades and things like that. Also, he lets guys be themselves. He\'s great for this organization and happy to have him at the helm," Harper said. "I can say that we have definitely gotten closer over the years. Riz is a great guy. Somebody that\'s going to have your back, each and every night. Somebody that\'s going to battle for you in the trenches, when you\'re going bad or going good. I\'ve got a lot of respect for Rizzo."Still, Harper also said it didn\'t matter all that much whether this extension came now or later."I don\'t think anybody in this clubhouse has really been thinking about it. I guess maybe he\'s been thinking about it," Harper said. "We\'re definitely happy for him. But I don\'t think we\'re really worried about a GM getting an extension."Perhaps. But first-year manager Dave Martinez did say it was a bit of a concern for him when he joined the Nationals, knowing his GM was tied to the team only through 2018 at the time."He\'s really good at what he does. I\'ve learned a lot about just how he develops players and what he thinks of players," Martinez said. "And he\'s helped me out a lot so far."______More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
SANAA, Yemen   A spate of deadly drive-by shootings targeting Muslim clerics and preachers has sparked panic and fear in Yemen\'s southern port city of Aden, prompting some imams to quit and abandon their mosques while dozens have fled the country.The killings have also brought attention to a rivalry that has emerged in Aden as yet another layer to Yemen\'s complex civil war.Since 2015, the conflict has pitted a Saudi-led coalition of mostly Arab states against the country\'s Shiite rebels, known as Houthis, who control much of northern Yemen and its capital, Sanaa. The coalition is fighting to restore Yemen\'s internationally recognized President Abed-Rabbo Mansour Hadi to power.The United Arab Emirates joined the war as a key partner in the coalition, sending forces to southern Yemen and managing to carve out a zone of influence across the region. The UAE has set up heavily-armed militias in a challenge to forces loyal to Hadi, who has been in self-imposed exile in Saudi Arabia for most of the past two years.In several instances, UAE-trained militiamen, some operating under the umbrella of the Southern Transitional Council  which many see as a secessionist force fighting for an independent Southern Yemen  have engaged in deadly clashes with Hadi\'s forces. The UAE has also been linked to secret prisons where terror suspects are tortured and held without trial, a charge the Emiratis deny.The Gulf Arab state also holds deep enmity toward Hadi\'s top ally in the south, the Muslim Brotherhood branch in Yemen, known as the Islah party.Many of the slain clerics belonged to the Islah party. In most cases, they were shot by gunmen while leaving their mosques after Friday prayers, or outside their homes.A tally by The Associated Press shows that at least 25 clerics, preachers, and religious scholars have been gunned down since 2016 in Aden and the southern provinces, with over 15 killed in the past six months alone.The slayings have stoked anger against the UAE in Aden. Recently, graffiti saying, "Down with the UAE occupation" surfaced in the streets. On Tuesday, a joint statement by 12 political parties and movements denounced the "evil hands behind the assassinations" of the clerics. It said those killed are all supporters of Hadi\'s government.Minister of Religious Endowment Ahmed Attiya said the killings are "systematic" and that over 50 clerics have left Yemen so far, fleeing to countries such as Egypt and Jordan."If this continues, we will ask the clerics to stay home and stop going to mosques," he said from Riyadh.Attiya has also appealed for an effort to "rescue the clerics, scholars, and imams" of Aden and his office has warned that the killings are taking place hand-in-hand with forced replacements of clerics affiliated with Islah.Hadi\'s government, which operates mostly out of exile with only a few ministers on the ground in Aden, has denounced the slayings as "desperate attempts by terrorist elements and outlaws" against Yemen\'s legitimate government.No group has claimed responsibility for the killings. Security authorities in Aden would only say that they are investigating and that they have rounded some suspects.A top security official in Aden, speaking on condition of anonymity under regulations, accused the UAE of orchestrating the killings. A list with 20 names of slain clerics was provided by the ministry of religious endowment in Aden; the additional five names were compiled by the AP.Ali al-Jilani, the cleric of Al-Qadirya Mosque in Aden, was the first to be killed, in January 2016. The following month, Abdel-Rahman al-Adani, one of Aden\'s most prominent clerics, was gunned down.In February, masked militants in Aden killed Shawki Kamadi, a member of the Islah party. And Yasser al-Ezzi, the imam of Aden\'s Omar bin al-Khattab Mosque, did on Wednesday, after he was shot in an assassination attempt last week.A cleric in Aden\'s Mansoura district said he stopped going to his mosque after receiving death threats. He declined to give his name or elaborate, for fear of retribution."My friends advised me to stay away," he told the AP over the phone. Another mosque in Mansoura, the Al-Rimi Mosque, was shut down after two of its clerics were killed, he said."What is happening is terrifying," the cleric added.Nidhal Bahourith, a cleric at Aden\'s Al-Dhahibi Mosque, was taken by armed men last Thursday, sparking a protest rally in the city.His son, Mohammed Bahourith, said he followed the vehicle with the men who had seized his father, and found that he was taken to the headquarters of the so-called anti-terrorism force, one of several units in Aden that answer only to the UAE./"They want to destroy Islah, humiliate it and bring the clerics to their knees," said Mohammed, adding that his 51-year-old father had been receiving threats and demands for payments over the phone, including one just hours before his abduction. When the threats started, his father stopped going to the dawn prayers, he said.The Saudi-led coalition did not respond to AP requests for comment.Fouad bin al-Sheikh, a former Yemeni minister for religious affairs, decried the officials\' silence over the clerics\' deaths, saying on his Facebook page that "not a week passes without hearing shocking news about the assassination of an imam or a preacher" in Aden."I don\'t understand why the liquidation of the scholars," he wrote. "What is the message?"___Associated Press writer Maggie Michael in Cairo contributed to this report.
MOSCOW  A Russian historian of the Soviet forced labor camps known as the Gulag, whose work ran counter to official contemporary narratives that play down the crimes of the Stalin era, was acquitted on Thursday of child pornography charges, which human rights groups said had been trumped up for political reasons.The historian, Yuri A. Dmitriev, gained renown in 1997 for discovering the remains of more than 9,000 victims of Stalinist purges buried in communal pits in Sandarmokh, a forest in northwestern Russia.Mr. Dmitriev has devoted the past 30 years to searching for such mass graves together with colleagues from Memorial, one of Russias oldest and most respected human rights organizations. Mr. Dmitriev serves as the regional director of Memorial in Karelia, a region in northwestern Russia bordering Finland.Initially, local government officials had supported his efforts and attended memorial events at the forest, which has been commemorated with a chapel and monuments to the victims amid the trees.But attitudes have been changing, and the Kremlin now emphasizes taking pride in Russias past, not uncovering its darker chapters. President Vladimir V. Putin said last year that excessive demonization of Stalin is one of the ways to attack the Soviet Union, Russia.Pro-government news outlets have run articles suggesting that Mr. Dmitrievs grim discovery of masses of decaying bones could have been the site of executions of Soviet Army soldiers by Finns during the so-called Winter War with Finland that began in 1939, though most historians say that is unlikely. Mr. Dmitrievs research was not on trial but formed a backdrop for his case.Mr. Dmitriev was arrested in December 2016 on the child pornography charges after taking nine nude photographs of his adoptive daughter, who was 11 at the time. He denied the images were pornographic.He said he took the photos to prove that he was not beating the girl, in case social services accused him of child abuse as the official pressure against him mounted. A court-appointed committee eventually agreed that the pictures were not pornographic in nature.The verdict on Thursday, handed down by a court in the city of Petrozavodsk, cleared Mr. Dmitriev of the pornography accusations but convicted him on a lesser charge of illegally possessing parts for a shotgun. He was sentenced to three months of probation and community service, Russian news agencies reported.Mr. Dmitriev had also denied the firearms charge, and it was not immediately clear whether he would appeal.Russian human rights groups had spoken out in defense of Mr. Dmitriev, saying investigators had illegally searched his house, opened a criminal case based on an anonymous claim and subjected him to a forced psychological examination, all practices reminiscent of the Stalinist past that Mr. Dmitriev had dedicated his life to exposing.
A shift in the cultural winds is palpable in New Jerseys state capital. Since the year began, a new governor, Philip D. Murphy, a Democrat, has been sworn in, and a vibrant arts scene has continued to expand downtown.On the banks of the Delaware River, Trenton is a postindustrial city thats been buffeted by bad news for decades. Factories closed, crime escalated and restaurants moved to the suburbs, making it almost impossible to find a decent tomato pie, a local specialty.Reconstruction on the golden-domed State House and restoration of the citys reputation are underway, offering compelling reasons for a day trip, about a 90-minute train ride from Midtown. Blocks of rowhouses and Italianate Victorians, some beautifully restored, some begging for attention, look like historic parts of Philadelphia. In February, a handsome and long-empty bank, at 143 East State Street, was reborn as the soaring BSB Gallery, a platform for local artists and music performances.The fact is, were more than a negative headline, said Joseph Kuzemka, 43, who founded the Trenton Punk Rock Flea Market in 2013. On April 7 and 8, the event will feature live punk bands, vendors of vinyl records and vintage goods, a tented beer garden and food trucks. Mr. Kuzemka is particularly thrilled that two of his heroes  Greg Hetson of the Circle Jerks and Marky Ramone, the Ramones drummer  will be on hand to sign autographs.The setting for the flea market is the bygone Roebling Wire Works factory, at 675 South Clinton Avenue, which once supplied the wire cables for the Brooklyn Bridge and the Golden Gate Bridge, among other celebrated structures. Admission is $5 for the entire weekend.A century-old former Sears warehouse is the home of Artworks, a pioneering gallery at 19 Everett Alley, featuring local, national and international artists. Addison Vincent, the exhibits coordinator, said there was a large and growing artists community in Trenton since it was a cheap place to live and find studio space.The counterculture scene brought in a lot of graffiti artists, but as we all got older, we transitioned more to fine arts  from tagging buildings to tagging canvases, said Mr. Vincent, 40, adding that he knew of two or three other downtown galleries on the horizon.A 10-minute walk west from Artworks is 1911 Smokehouse Bar-B-Que, which opened near the State House in 2015, at 11 West Front Street. You wont find tomato pie, but there is another surviving Trenton tradition: pork roll. The processed, bologna-ham hybrid (Cases brand in this case, although other Trentonians swear by its rival, Taylor ham) turns up in various guises, including a slice atop a hamburger or blended with sausage in sensational meatballs, a frequent special.The executive chef Reggie Hallett and his brother-partner Maurice Hallett have created a welcoming barbecue joint and bar, one of the few places open way past commuting hours for state workers. Their tender pork and mighty good brisket are smoked over hickory wood for 14 hours, meaty ribs for six. Three-hour smoked chicken wings are grilled or fried and amped up with sauces, from lemon pepper to Sriracha bourbon.Downtown Trenton is compact so theres also time to tour the Old Barracks Museum, at 101 Barrack Street. From 1758, British troops were quartered there during the French and Indian War, sleeping at least two to a bed. During the Revolutionary War, the stone-walled barracks served as a military hospital specializing in smallpox inoculations. While leading a tour recently, a guide dressed in period costume explained the diseases festering progress in graphic detail.The museum also provides an overview of the pivotal and successful Battles of Trenton, the second of which George Washingtons troops fought in 1777 near downtowns Mill Hill Park. Summer will see an evening concert series there, a further sign that Trenton isnt so much rolling up the carpets at night anymore as rolling them out.
WASHINGTON   The U.S. military has canceled a training exercise off the coast of Djibouti and paused air operations from the country after two air mishaps this week raised questions about the state of military readiness, U.S. officials said on Thursday."U.S. air operations in Djibouti are on hold and U.S. Naval Forces Central Command has canceled the remainder of exercise Alligator Dagger in response to two separate aviation incidents in Djibouti," the military said in a statement.On Tuesday, a U.S. Marine Corps jet crashed in Djibouti. The pilot was in stable condition. In a separate incident, a CH-53 helicopter suffered "structural damage" during a landing at Arta Beach, Djibouti.This is the latest in a recent spate of accidents involving U.S. military aircraft, raising questions about readiness.A U.S. Air Force pilot with the traveling Thunderbirds exhibition squad was killed early Wednesday when his F-16 jet crashed at Nellis Air Force base in Nevada.On Tuesday, a U.S. Marine Corps helicopter crashed during a training mission in Southern California. All four crew members are believed to have been killed."We\'re going to look at each one ... I\'m certainly not prepared to say that it\'s a wave of mishaps or some form of crisis," Marine Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, told a Pentagon briefing on Thursday.The accidents come as President Donald Trump ordered National Guard troops along the border with Mexico.Speaking with reporters at the same press briefing on Thursday, Pentagon officials said they did not yet know where the funding for the National Guard troops would come from, but that military readiness would be appropriately funded."I can assure you that our resources will still be dedicated to ensuring that our war fighters get what they need when they need it," Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said.White said the military was looking into building a wall at its Barry Goldwater Air Force Range in Arizona along the Mexican border.Officials said most other details, such as how many troops would go to the border and whether they would be armed, were still unknown.They added that the U.S. military had created a border security support cell that would coordinate between the Pentagon and Department of Homeland Security.(Reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and James Dalgleish)
MANBIJ, Syria   Even as President Donald Trump mulls a U.S. pullout from Syria, insisting that the Islamic State group is "almost completely defeated," the extremist group is showing signs of a revival.Despite being kicked out of the main towns they once occupied near the Iraqi border, the militants have regrouped elsewhere and revised their tactics, recently mounting a brazen attack on a border city in eastern Syria and expanding their footprint inside the Syrian capital itself.Talk of a U.S. troop withdrawal has alarmed the United States\' main ally in Syria, the Kurds, who fought alongside the Americans to roll back the Islamic State group. They fear not only an IS resurgence, but also that without U.S. troops in the country, Turkey, Russia and Iran will fill the void and wrest control of northern and eastern Syria.The White House said Wednesday that the U.S. military mission against IS in Syria is coming to a "rapid end," but offered no timetable for the withdrawal of the 2,000 U.S. troops other than to say they will leave just as soon as the last remaining IS fighters can be vanquished.Trump, however, has signaled to his advisers that ideally, he wants all troops out within six months, according to three U.S. officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren\'t authorized to discuss what transpired in a meeting with the president.Developments on the ground, however, suggest it will be difficult, if not impossible, to completely snuff out the group before then."Daesh is not over," said the commander of the U.S.-backed Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body administering this strategic northern Syrian town."Daesh still has cells present in all areas and every now and then there are problems in areas where the cells are still operating," said the commander, who spoke on condition he be identified only by his nom de guerre, Mohammed Abu Adel, in line with regulations, and referred to IS by its Arabic acronym.Speaking to the Associated Press on Wednesday, he said the U.S. statements about a pullout were a cause for "concern on the street level" but that Kurdish officials were receiving reassurances from U.S. generals on the ground that American troops were staying.Last week, an explosion killed two coalition personnel, an American and a Briton, during an operation to capture a known IS member in Manbij, where U.S. troops maintain a large presence. It was the first such blast to hit the U.S.-led coalition since it deployed in the town months after the U.S.-backed forces liberated it from IS in 2016 following fierce battles that lasted nearly three months.Since then, the town has served as a model of stabilization, but officials are now expressing concern about IS attempting to re-emerge.The U.S.-backed forces  a mix of Kurdish and Arab fighters known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, or SDF,  routed IS militants from almost all the territory the extremists controlled in northern Syria, including the group\'s de facto capital of Raqqa, in October. In November, a coalition of Iranian, Iraqi, Syrian and Russian forces secured the militant\'s last urban stronghold, Boukamal, in eastern Syria on the border with Iraq.That seemed to herald victory over the militants. The various sides then turned their attention to pursuing their own interests in the disintegrated country.The IS militants kept a sliver of territory along the Euphrates River near Boukamal, and some nebulous zones of control in the desert of eastern Syria and on the border with Iraq  but nothing that seemed beyond containment.But in a surprise attack, the militants stormed Boukamal on Monday, triggering heavy fighting before Iranian-backed Shiite militias beat them out, according to a war monitoring group and Syrian opposition activists with connections to the region. Approximately 400 Islamic State fighters crossed the Euphrates River and ambushed the town, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group, killed 11 pro-government fighters in clashes, and losing five of their own.From their desert territory the IS militants have harassed forces at oil stations, as well, according to Mohammad al-Ayed, director of the Palmyra News Network.U.S. and Kurdish officers had warned of an IS resurgence when Turkey attacked the town of Afrin in northwestern Syria in March to drive out the main Kurdish militia, known as the YPG.The YPG forms the backbone of the Syrian Democratic Forces, America\'s main partner in Syria, which then shifted hundreds of fighters from operations against IS in eastern Syria to the front lines against Turkey in Afrin.That forced a pause in operations against the main IS holdout in Syria. The U.S.-led coalition has cut its airstrikes against IS by half since the Kurdish-led fighters moved away from eastern Syria, said coalition spokesman Col. Ryan Dillon.The U.S. relies on ground maneuvers by the Syrian Democratic Forces to flush out IS fighters and expose them to airstrikes, Dillon said. "If the SDF are not constantly putting pressure on ISIS elements, that allows them to quietly reconsolidate," he added, using an alternate acronym for the Islamic State group.Meanwhile, with the Syrian government focused on vanquishing the rebels in their stronghold of eastern Ghouta, near Damascus, IS militants surged from a pocket of territory they hold on the southern edge of the capital to snatch a neighborhood right from under the government\'s nose.Some 120 pro-government fighters were killed in the battle of Qadam, according to the Observatory, losses that went unmentioned in state media. Other clashes between the two sides brought the government forces\' death toll to 204 in 23 days, the Observatory said.IS has lost almost all the territory it once controlled in Syria and Iraq, land that had encompassed a third of those countries. But the pockets it still holds provide protection.IS fighters have excellent knowledge of the desert areas along the Syria-Iraq border, dating back to the early days of the Islamic State group and even before, when the group was called al-Qaida in Iraq, said Jalal al-Hamad, a Europe- based Syrian activist who monitors the war with an organization called Justice for Life.IS has extensive tunnels there and can move relatively undetected, avoiding Syrian and Russian airstrikes, al-Hamad said, though American planes can detect them. The militants use bad weather, particularly dust storms, to cross the Euphrates, he said.The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces control about 25 percent of Syria, and the Kurds are hoping to emerge from the conflict with a degree of self-rule in their territory.But they fear that an American withdrawal will leave them unable to hold on to much of that. It would allow Turkey, which succeeded in capturing Afrin, to carry out its threat to attack Manbij and try to take other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border.It would also, they warn, cede the east completely to Damascus\' allies Russia and Iran, which have set up a series of bases in the country during seven years of war.Ilham Ahmed, a senior Kurdish official in Syria\'s Raqqa province, said an American pullout would open the way for "total chaos in Syria."Trump appears to be unconcerned with such potential consequences, dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria amid disagreements with his aides and national security team."As far as Syria is concerned, our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS," Trump said. "We\'ve completed that task."The uncertainty puts U.S. officials in Syria in a difficult position, particularly vis-a-vis their local partners.Dillon, the coalition spokesman, said he would not speculate on anything that\'s going to happen in the future."We\'re going to keep doing what we\'re doing until we\'re told otherwise," he said.___Issa reported from Beirut. Associated Press writer Josh Lederman in Washington contributed to this report.
LONDON   The head of Britain\'s military research center said on Tuesday it was unable yet to say whether the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned a Russian double-agent last month had been produced in Russia."We were able to identify it as Novichok, to identify that it was military-grade nerve agent," Gary Aitkenhead, chief executive of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down in England, told Sky News."We have not identified the precise source, but we have provided the scientific info to government who have then used a number of other sources to piece together the conclusions you have come to."However, he confirmed the substance required "extremely sophisticated methods to create, probably something only in the capabilities of a state actor".He added: "we are continuing to work to help to provide additional information that might help us get closer to [the source] but we haven\'t yet been able to do that."Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.After the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two, Britain blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin for the attempted murder, and the West has expelled around 130 Russian diplomats.Aitkenhead said the British government had "other inputs" it could use to determine the origin of the nerve agent, some of them intelligence-based."It is our job to provide the scientific evidence of what this particular nerve agent is - we identified that it is from this particular family and that it is a military grade, but it is not our job to say where it was manufactured," Aitkenhead added.He reiterated that the substance could not have come from Porton Down.Russia\'s EU ambassador Vladimir Chizhov noted in an interview with the BBC last month that the British research lab is only eight miles (11 km) from Salisbury, insinuating that may have been the source.The Foreign Office has said there was "not an ounce of truth" in his implication the nerve agent could have been linked to Porton Down.Skripal\'s daughter Yulia is getting better after spending three weeks in critical condition due to the nerve toxin attack at her father\'s home in Salisbury, the hospital where she is being treated said last Thursday.Her father remained in a critical but stable condition.(Reporting by Andy Bruce; editing by Stephen Addison)
WASHINGTON  The United States military is spending about $1 million to help detain thousands of Islamic State fighters and their family members in makeshift camps run by Kurdish militias in northern Syria, pulling the Pentagon deeper into the war zone detention operations it has sought to avoid.The dilemma is unfolding even as President Trump has pledged to withdraw the 2,000 remaining United States troops in Syria, many of whom are vetting the most dangerous detainees, and suspend more than $200 million in State Department recovery funds for the country.Defense Department and Kurdish officials said several thousand detainees  including at least 400 fighters from more than three dozen countries and their families, as well as other Syrian militants  were being held in several camps. The American funding is paying to erect fencing, put bars on windows and otherwise secure schools and other buildings being used as temporary jails for fighters who were captured or surrendered after last years collapse of Raqqa, the Islamic States self-proclaimed capital.Military officials insist American personnel are not strengthening the buildings or guarding the detainees themselves, just paying for it.Critics fear the facilities could become breeding grounds for extremists and repeat a key security miscue of the Iraq war. But without the American assistance, the camps lack sufficient security to prevent jailbreaks of battle-hardened militants who could reinvigorate pockets of Islamic State fighters near Abu Kamal, a town in eastern Syria along the Iraqi border.Syrian Kurdish officials said the camps were straining their capacity to oversee the dangerous fighters and rapidly depleting their budgets to pay for operations at the half-dozen sites in and around Raqqa. One senior American official said as many as 50 to 60 fighters were detained in a single room.The process has been tedious, Kino Gabriel, a spokesman for the Kurdish-led militia known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, said by WhatsApp from Qamishli, Syria. The interrogation is taking time, and filtering the prisoners has not been an easy task. We need all kinds of support from the international coalition.American diplomats and Pentagon officials are frantically trying to persuade countries to repatriate their citizen fighters who have been detained, but so far have had few takers.It is critical that countries take their citizens back and prosecute them in a timely manner commensurate with their crimes, Nathan A. Sales, the State Departments counterterrorism coordinator, said in an email. We call on our partners to take responsibility for their citizens.The Islamic State has lost nearly all the territory it seized in Iraq and Syria in 2014. But American intelligence and military officials warn that the extremist group has pivoted to a deadly insurgency in areas it formerly controlled, and still holds sway with a potent appeal on social media for adherents from Europe to the Philippines to carry out attacks wherever they are.Two commandos  one American soldier, one British  were killed in a roadside bombing last week in Manbij, a contested city in northern Syria.Although ISIS has been decimated in Iraq and Syria, its ideology still resonates globally, David M. Cattler, the governments national intelligence manager for the Near East, said last month. ISIS is evolving and adjusting.Unlike suspected Islamic State militants seized in neighboring Iraq  mostly from the northern city of Mosul and surrounding areas  the detainees being held in the Kurdish region of Syria fall into a legal gray area and face an uncertain long-term fate.Kurdish authorities are parceling out justice in ad hoc courts, but the region is still part of Syria, and Kurdish control is not internationally recognized.In a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee last month, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, raised concerns about American culpability for the growing number of fighters in the custody of the Syrian Democratic Forces.Do you think we have a credible plan to detain these people? Mr. Graham asked Gen. Joseph L. Votel, the head of the militarys Central Command, which oversees operations in the Middle East.We actually do have a plan to detain them on the ground, General Votel said. He also noted the effort to repatriate the detainees.If they dont go back to their countries, do you think we have a plan  credible plan  to detain them inside of Syria long term? Mr. Graham asked.We are working on improving the capacity of the Syrian Democratic Forces to do that right now, General Votel said. He offered no details, but a senior American military official said the Pentagon planned to spend about $1 million on the improvements. The funding, however, may now be in doubt, given Mr. Trumps vow last week to withdraw troops and aid from Syria.Still, the Pentagon has openly acknowledged the security problem.These arent necessarily the best detention facilities, in the sense of they are being held in Syria, and not in the most secure area, Kathryn Wheelbarger, principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs, said in February. There were certain days where we are seeing 40 to 50 a day were being captured, so a capacity problem is very real.Teams of specialists from the International Committee of the Red Cross have visited the detention sites in Syria. A spokeswoman for the organization, Anna Nelson, declined to comment on the conditions in the camps, following organization policy.Kurdish officials have said that conditions in the camps meet international standards, especially for women and children, and that Kurdish authorities were sorting out combatants from local civilians who were pressed by the Islamic State into administrative or medical jobs, and could be safely released.United States Special Operations troops advising the Kurdish-led militia are cataloging fingerprints and other so-called biometrics of the more than 400 suspected foreign fighters in at least three camps near Raqqa. The American forces are also interrogating the detainees to learn more about foreign fighter networks and threats to their home countries.Theyre taking the time to go through the prisoners and know who they are, Mr. Cattler said during remarks at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Its critically important.Indeed, American officials were able to identify through biometric screening two British men infamous for their role in the Islamic States imprisonment, torture and killing of Western hostages.The men, Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, were part of a group of four Islamic State militants known as the Beatles because of their British accents. They were the last two members of the group to remain at large.American military officials and human rights advocates see parallels between the evolving detention situation in Syria and the Iraq war. Militants, including Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the current leader of the Islamic State, were held for years at Camp Bucca, a sprawling American detention center in southern Iraq where they became more radicalized.One of the main reasons to strengthen the makeshift camps in Syria is to prevent any jailbreaks, like one in February in which a handful of Islamic State fighters escaped, military officials said.A series of daring but little-noticed breakouts from Iraqi prisons several years ago freed hundreds of hardened militants who are now among the leaders and foot soldiers of the Islamic State and other radical Sunni groups operating in neighboring Syria and, increasingly, in Iraq itself.That group even had a name for its prison strategy, Operation Breaking the Walls, which unfolded during a 12-month campaign from July 2012 until a major break at Abu Ghraib, the main Iraqi prison, on the western outskirts of Baghdad, in July 2013.Eventually, some 40,000 fighters from more than 120 countries joined the battles in Syria and Iraq over the past four years, American and other Western officials said. While thousands died on the battlefield, officials said many thousands more probably slipped away to conflicts in Libya, Yemen or the Philippines, or went into hiding in countries like Turkey.About 295 Americans are believed to have traveled to aid extremists in Iraq or Syria, or tried to, United States officials said.
SAHARONIM DETENTION CENTRE, Israel   Israel on Wednesday released from detention a small group of African migrants who had been awaiting deportation after the collapse of an international deal to send them to Rwanda.Some 200 additional migrants are still being held at the Saharonim detention center in southern Israel awaiting possible deportation to Uganda but their fate depends on whether an Israeli envoy who visited the east African state on Wednesday had managed to secure a deal for them to be taken in.In the event agreement is not reached, they too will be freed, probably on Thursday. The long-term fate of the freed migrants was unclear but Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he was seeking a new relocation deal, although he gave no details.Netanyahu said on Tuesday he was cancelling an agreement with the U.N. refugee agency to relocate thousands of African migrants, bowing to right-wing at home pressure to scrap the deal.Netanyahu\'s critics seized on his backtracking on the arrangement - under which thousands of other migrants would have won the right to remain in Israel - as a sign of political weakness.For the estimated 37,000 migrants in Israel, most of them from Eritrea and Sudan, the whirlwind of announcements over the past three days about their future has swept their status even deeper into limbo.On Monday, Netanyahu announced the arrangement with the UNHCR that would have relocated about 16,250 migrants to Western countries.But the fact that thousands more would be allowed to stay raised an outcry from right-wing politicians and on social media from Netanyahu\'s nationalist voter base, which wants the migrants expelled. He then announced he was putting the agreement\'s implementation on hold and by Tuesday, he killed it.The 58 migrants set free from Saharonim in the south of the country boarded buses to Tel Aviv. They were freed because the state could not give assurances to the Supreme Court that it had found a safe haven for them abroad."I have been detained for six months and at lunch time today the police came and told me I was being released, I don\'t know where I\'ll go yet," Musia Bara from Eritrea told Israel\'s Channel 1.Several hundred migrants held a demonstration in central Jerusalem later on Wednesday demanding to be allowed to stay and for the forced deportations to be stopped.Eritrean Muluebrhan Ghebrihiwet, 27, one of the demonstrators who has been in Israel for almost seven years and who was released from detention last month, said Israel\'s government was playing mind games with the migrants."We are grateful to the Israeli public for their support  but the government has waged a psychological war against us and they have done so because of politics but we are refugees, human beings and we demand that they stop," he said.(Additional reporting by Ronen Zvulun in Jerusalem; Writing by Ori Lewis; Editing by Alison Williams)

WASHINGTON  Whether it is the Paris climate accord or the Iran nuclear deal, President Trump has moved methodically to dismantle the foreign policy legacy of his predecessor Barack Obama. Except for Syria, on which Mr. Trump has faithfully echoed Mr. Obamas hands-off policy.Mr. Trumps statement on Tuesday  that I want to bring our troops back home; I want to start rebuilding our nation  underscored again how similarly he and Mr. Obama view the United States role in the overlapping conflicts in Syria.Both men have doubted the wisdom of a long-term American military commitment in the country. Both have complained that Saudi Arabia expects the United States to bear the burden of a costly war against President Bashar al-Assad. Both have viewed Syria primarily through the prism of combating the Islamic State.Though Mr. Trumps aides made much of his order to fire Tomahawk missiles at Mr. Assads airfields last spring  an order that Mr. Obama famously refused to give four years earlier  it was the exception that proved the rule.Mr. Trump, a former senior adviser said, does not believe that Syrias civil war is a vital national security interest of the United States. Neither did Mr. Obama, which is why he initially rebuffed proposals to funnel weapons to the rebels in Syria or to impose a no-fly zone over parts of the country.Both men retreat from the idea of getting deeply involved in other countries civil wars, said Robert S. Ford, the last American ambassador to Syria. Both of them are instinctively more concerned about the American economy and things at home, even if they have very different visions of America.Mr. Ford, who now teaches at Yale and is a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute, said Mr. Trump, like Mr. Obama, was right to worry about mission creep in the militarys operations in Syria.The American-led coalition, Mr. Ford noted, has recently bombed Syrian forces, backed by Iranian militias and Russian mercenaries, who were advancing on oil fields held by the Syrian Democratic Forces, a mostly Arab faction that is fighting with the United States against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.This wasnt about ISIS, Mr. Ford said. This was about keeping the Syrians out of the oil fields held by our buddies.The Trump administrations debates over Syria carry a distinct echo of those during the Obama administration. Both presidents confronted aides pushing more aggressive options. In Mr. Trumps case, the Pentagon is pleading for more time to mop up in Syria, warning that a hasty exit will jeopardize the gains made in the campaign against the Islamic State. In Mr. Obamas case, the C.I.A. and the State Department both advocated arming the rebels.At a National Security Council meeting on Tuesday, a frustrated Mr. Trump pressed his top military advisers for how long it would take to root out the remaining Islamic State fighters and to train local forces to stabilize Syrian territory freed from the militant group.In 2012, Mr. Ford recalled, a skeptical Mr. Obama quizzed his aides about how arming a ragtag band of Syrian rebels could lead to a negotiated end to the war.Both leaders also share the same skepticism of the motives of allies. Mr. Obama railed against Saudi Arabia, which had lobbied Washington to arm the rebels, as a free rider. Mr. Trump said Tuesday that if Saudis were so eager for the United States to stay engaged in Syria, they should help finance the campaign.I said, Well, you want us to stay, maybe youll have to pay, Mr. Trump said during a news conference, apparently referring to a call he had with King Salman of Saudi Arabia. It is very costly for our country. And it helps other countries a hell of a lot more than it helps us.Mr. Trump is more transactional in his approach than was Mr. Obama. The former president, his aides said, tended to focus on whether a strategy was financially sustainable over time, while the current president views foreign affairs as a strict balance sheet.Trump administration officials insist there are other differences. Mr. Trump, they said, agreed to arm the Syrian Kurds  a crucial step that enabled these battle-hardened soldiers to fight alongside American troops in retaking the Syrian city of Raqqa.Mr. Obama did not arm the Kurds, mainly because his aides were caught up in a debate over whether it would antagonize Turkey. The Turks view the Kurdish militia as closely linked to the Kurdistan Workers Party, a separatist group known as the P.K.K., which threatens Turkey. Mr. Obama did come around to supporting the idea of arming the Kurds, but only at the end of his presidency.Mr. Trump, officials said, has given his military commanders more flexibility to deploy troops, which they said had accelerated the defeat of the Islamic State. But analysts said Mr. Obama planted the seeds for the victory by orchestrating the multinational military campaign to begin with.While Obama and Trump may share an aversion to escalating the conflict, their instincts led in different directions, said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a former deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama. Obama was more focused on diplomacy with the key players, while Trump has shown little inclination to focus on the diplomatic track.Mr. Obamas diplomatic ambitions, some argue, are the key to understanding why he shunned deeper involvement in Syria.For Obama, it was fear of alienating Iran from a nuclear deal, the jewel in the crown of his foreign policy, said Frederic C. Hof, a former special envoy to Syria in the Obama administration. For Trump, it is an instinctive belief that anything the U.S. is doing in the Middle East is a waste of time and money.Yet Mr. Obama, too, lamented that American military adventures in the region usually ended in ashes. He often drew an analogy to Libya, where he had authorized a military intervention in 2011 that left the country in shambles.With their reluctance to get involved, Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump may find themselves united in another way. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump regularly castigated Mr. Obama for withdrawing American troops from Iraq too abruptly in 2011  a decision that he said allowed the Islamic State to take root and flourish.Now, as Mr. Trump pushes his commanders for a speedy exit from Syria, he faces the same danger.What the Department of Defense is worried about is a three-plus-year military campaign against ISIS going down the drain, Mr. Hof said. If you wanted to write a script for the resurgence of an Islamist regime, this is it.
BOISE, Idaho   Fines paid by the U.S. Department of Energy to Idaho for missing a deadline to get radioactive liquid waste out of underground storage tanks have surpassed $3.5 million and the money could be used for enhanced monitoring of a huge aquifer beneath the site, officials say.The federal agency started paying the fines in 2015 for violating a 1992 agreement involving 900,000 gallons of waste sitting above the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer at the department\'s isolated desert site in eastern Idaho that includes Idaho National Laboratory, the nation\'s top federal nuclear research lab.Officials say contamination from the 890-square-mile (2,305-square-kilometer) site reached the aquifer through injection wells, unlined pits and accidental spills, mainly during the Cold War era before regulations to protect the environment were put in place.The U.S. Geological Survey last year released a report saying monitoring of existing wells found the aquifer to be as free of radioactive contamination and other pollutants as it has been in more than six decades of monitoring.Federal and state officials are currently discussing spending about $2.2 million of the money generated by fines for monitoring wells in the aquifer that\'s used by cities for drinking water and farmers for irrigation."Anytime we can enhance the protection of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer, that\'s a benefit to Idaho," said Natalie Creed, manager of the Hazardous Waste Unit at the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.The Energy Department has paid some of the fines in cash that goes into an account used to respond to emergency hazardous waste situations anywhere in the state.The rest of the money is used for environmental projects.The federal agency has until the end of May to formally propose the aquifer monitoring project, and state and federal officials have been communicating about it.  Creed said she has asked the federal agency for more information about how the monitoring project might benefit the environment.Roy Bartholomay, chief of the U.S. Geological Survey\'s Idaho National Laboratory Project, said the proposed additional monitoring of wells could help that agency\'s tracking of radioactive material in the aquifer.Some of the possible new wells and other monitoring equipment would be in the Lost River Basin, an area where the Lost River disappears into the ground and is not well understood. Part of the river, when it\'s flowing, reaches the Energy Department site."At this stage, there\'s a need for a lot more data to make that a better flow model," Bartholomay said.The Idaho Water Resource Board has already approved spending the $2.2 million  if it gets it  for the wells and monitoring. The agency\'s primary objective is to get a better understanding of the surface and underground water flow to allocate water to irrigators."There are a lot of water-use conflicts in the Big Lost," said Brian Patton, manager of the state\'s Water Planning Bureau. "We want to get a better handle on the hydrology of that system so we can make better management decisions."The daily fine of $6,000 levied on the Energy Department will continue while radioactive waste remains in the tanks. The Energy Department built a $600 million facility to treat the liquid waste, but it has failed to work.The Energy Department didn\'t respond to inquiries about the situation.The failure to remove the liquid waste has also left the Energy Department in violation of a separate, 1995 agreement preventing experimental quantities of spent nuclear fuel from entering the state for examination at Idaho National Laboratory.Idaho for a number of years granted extensions to the Energy Department before finally initiating the fines in 2015.
BACSSZENTGYORGY, Hungary   During her long life, Terez Majsztrovics has never left her small village, hidden at the end of an asphalt track amid the rolling hills of the Hungarian lowlands.But the world came to her, in wave after wave.Born in 1934, she saw German, Russian and Hungarian troops march across the area in World War Two, then, once the Yugoslav border was established, she spent a few decades "three hills away" from a frontier fortified by Communists.During the harshest days of Stalinism, Hungary built a fence along the border, complete with a minefield. It was an "Iron Curtain", built against a perceived threat from the South.In the 15-kilometre military zone citizens, especially ethnic Serbs like Majsztrovics, were closely monitored. When relations eventually thawed in the 1950s, that fence came down.But, sixty years later, another one went up, and the border was sealed off again.Majsztrovics, who can now hardly walk without a cane and spends most of her days in a wheelchair, said she was afraid of a new threat from the South: migrants.Truth be told, it has been some time since she last saw one. It was during the great rush, when hundreds of thousands crossed here en route to Germany in 2015."The problem is they are not Christian," she said last week, sitting in a chair by her small, crumbling house at the edge of the village closest to the border. She was there "car-watching" as a new border crossing point was opened that day.She was worried about traffic, as the previously dead-end asphalt now extended to Serbia and beyond."Sixty-three cars I counted already," she said. "It\'s too much."RAZOR WIRE, ELECTIONOne of those cars belonged to the foreign minister, she was told. She smiled. She likes the government. Prime Minister Viktor Orban\'s Fidesz party is good for Hungary, so Fidesz should stay, she said.In all likelihood, Fidesz and Orban will remain in power after elections on April 8, thanks in large part to their unrelenting opposition to migration and the symbol of that opposition: the double razor wire fence along the border.It is visible in the distance from Bacsszentgyorgy. And there are border patrols there. She likes the soldiers.Timea Komaromi, another of the 80 Bacsszentgyorgy residents, is also wary of the migrants."They never touched anything or anyone, never caused any problems."Still...Previous waves of migration, mostly from the former Yugoslavia and Kosovo, caused her no fear."I even fed goulash to some of those families. These people now are different. They are not Christian."The villagers get their news from state TV, controlled by the government, which puts out anti-migrant propaganda. Their fears mirror that.When a photographer appears to document the fence and their life next to it, they invite her to the local church and ask her what she is up to. Whatever she says, they are convinced she is an agent from Brussels, out to unleash migrants upon them.It\'s not a personal grudge. They like the photographer. They feed her mutton stew.It\'s a long drive back to Budapest.(Writing by Marton Dunai; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
NEW YORK   The New York Police Department has agreed not to conduct surveillance based on religion or ethnicity and to listen to Muslims as it develops new training materials as part of a deal to settle claims it illegally spied on Muslims for years after the Sept. 11 attacks.The agreement announced Thursday by the city and the Islamic community also calls for the city to pay $75,000 in damages and nearly $1 million in legal fees. It also ensures surveillance in New Jersey will follow rules defined in another landmark civil rights case."Today\'s settlement sends a message to all law enforcement: Simply being Muslim is not a basis for surveillance," said Farhana Khera, executive director of Muslim Advocates, a legal advocacy and educational organization."We won this case, make no mistake about it. But as a member of the armed forces, I believe the United States won as well," said Farhaj Hassan, a U.S. Army reservist and the lead plaintiff in the 2012 lawsuit in federal court in Newark, New Jersey."No one likes to take on the cops. Cops are good," he said. "But in this case, when cops were acting bad, it had to be done."The lawsuit came after The Associated Press revealed in a series of Pulitzer Prize-winning articles how the NYPD infiltrated Muslim student groups and put informants in mosques as part of a broad effort to prevent terrorist attacks. In New Jersey, the department collected intelligence on ordinary people at mosques, restaurants and schools starting in 2002, the AP reported.At a news conference, the plaintiffs noted that surveillance program never produced a terrorism lead as it spied on at least 20 mosques, 14 restaurants, 11 retail stores, two grade schools and two Muslim student associations in New Jersey.The deal came after a Philadelphia appeals court in 2015 likened the surveillance program to when Japanese Americans were interned during World War II and discrimination before racial unrest in the 1950s and 1960s forced change.Baher Azmy, legal director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, said the agreement protects an increasingly empowered Muslim community.It bans the police department from conducting surveillance without suspicion on the basis of religion or ethnicity and calls for the Muslim litigants to provide input into a new policy guide to control the police department\'s Intelligence Bureau. It also requires NYPD counter-terrorism probes in New Jersey to follow the Handschu Guidelines, which resulted from a 1971 lawsuit by the Black Panther Party alleging police engaged in widespread surveillance of legitimate political activity.It also requires the city to pay $47,500 to businesses and mosques harmed by surveillance and $25,000 to individual plaintiffs in $5,000 increments. The city also will pay $950,000 in legal fees for plaintiffs."This settlement demonstrates a continued commitment by the NYPD to safeguard individual constitutional rights while keeping New York the safest city in America," said Zachary W. Carter, the city\'s top lawyer.___Associated Press Writer Tom Hays contributed to this report.
GENEVA   A U.N. rights watchdog called on Hungary on Thursday to crack down on hate speech by politicians against Roma, Muslims and other minorities, and to repeal a law allowing migrants to be deported without a chance to seek asylum.It urged the nationalist government to reject draft laws known as the "Stop-Soros Package" that would empower the interior minister to ban non-governmental organisations that support migration and pose a "national security risk".The government says the bill is meant to deter illegal immigration that Prime Minister Viktor Orban says is eroding European stability and has been stoked in part by Hungarian-born U.S. financier George Soros. It says its policies are to ensure Hungarians can live in safety.Orban, seeking a third consecutive term on Sunday, has campaigned on a strong anti-migration message - although a U.N. panel expert said the timing of the watchdog\'s comments, at the end of a four-week meeting, was not directed at voters.The U.N. Human Rights Committee voiced concern at "hate crimes and about hate speech in political discourse, the media and on the internet targeting minorities, notably, Roma, Muslim, migrants and refugees, including in the context of government-sponsored campaigns".The panel issued its findings and recommendations after its 18 independent experts reviewed Hungary\'s record on upholding civil and political rights."The concern we saw in Hungary is that sometimes hate speech is accompanied by hate crimes which are directed against minorities and against migrants," Yuval Shany, the panel vice-chair, told Reuters TV.Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto defended Hungary\'s policies, telling the U.N. panel last month: "First and foremost, it is a firm conviction of the government that the Hungarian people have the right to live a life in security, without fear of terrorist atrocities."In 2015, the central European country had a "sad experience" when some 400,000 migrants passed through on their way to Western Europe, "ignoring all rules", he said.The U.N. panel also decried a Hungarian law adopted a year ago that allows for automatically removing all asylum applicants to transit zones for indefinite confinement.People should be allowed freedom of movement while their individual asylum claims are examined to see whether they are refugees fleeing war or persecution, the committee said.The panel added that Hungary should repeal a June 2016 law that enables police to summarily expel anyone entering irregularly.The committee also voiced concern at the "prevalence of anti-Semitic stereotypes" and how "high-ranking officials have nurtured conspiracy theories relating to George Soros".Orban has waged a billboard and media campaign asserting that Soros would "settle millions from Africa and the Middle East", among other allegations.Soros, who is Jewish, has rejected the campaign against him as "distortions and lies" meant to create a false external enemy.(Reporting and writing by Stephanie Nebehay; Additional reporting by Marina Depetris; Editing by Alison Williams; Editing by Mark Heinrich and Alison Williams)
SEOUL, South Korea   The rival Koreas held preparatory talks Thursday for a summit later this month between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in amid a global diplomatic push to resolve tensions over the North's nuclear program.The meeting of working-level officials at the border village of Panmunjom was to discuss security, protocol and media coverage issues for the planned April 27 summit. South Korea's presidential Blue House said the two sides agreed not to disclose the contents of the discussions until a final agreement is reached.The Koreas agreed on the date for the summit after a high-level meeting last week. South Korean officials have said the summit will focus on North Korea's nuclear disarmament, although the North hasn't confirmed this through its state-run media.A separate summit between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump is anticipated by the end of May.The two Koreas agreed Thursday to hold another preparatory meeting to work out the details of the April 27 summit, which is to take place in the South Korea-controlled side of the border village, Panmunjom. The Koreas will need to agree on how Kim will arrive at the venue, and there has been media speculation that he would cross the military demarcation line that bisects the Koreas by foot in a symbolic gesture. The Koreas also need to determine how many times he and Moon would meet that day and whether parts of the meetings would be broadcast on live television.The Koreas have held only two summits since the 1950-53 Korean War.Kim made a surprise visit to Beijing last month and met President Xi Jinping, which appeared to be aimed at improving both countries' positions ahead of Kim's planned summits with Moon and Trump.In setting up separate talks with Beijing, Seoul, Washington, and potentially Moscow and Tokyo, North Korea may be moving to disrupt any united front among its negotiating counterparts. By reintroducing China, which is North Korea's only major ally, as a major player, the North also gains leverage against South Korea and the United States, analysts say.The North's diplomatic outreach comes after an unusually provocative year in which it conducted its most powerful nuclear test to date and test-launched three intercontinental ballistic missiles designed to target the U.S. mainland. It's widely seen as an effort by the North, squeezed by heavy sanctions, to break out of isolation and improve its economy.South Korea says Kim has expressed a willingness to negotiate nuclear disarmament in his talks with Moon and Trump.Some analysts say getting the North to commit to denuclearization and agree to a robust verification regime could be a difficult process and take many years. North Korea has been repeatedly accused over the past two decades of using disarmament talks to ease outside pressure and win badly needed aid, while secretly pushing ahead with weapons development.
WASHINGTON   When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn\'t on the line.When Trump tapped John Bolton to be his next national security adviser, Kelly wasn\'t in the room.And when Trump spent a Mar-a-Lago weekend stewing over immigration and trade, Kelly wasn\'t in sight.Kelly, once empowered to bring order to a turbulent West Wing, has receded from view, his clout diminished, his word less trusted by staff and his guidance less tolerated by an increasingly go-it-alone president.Emboldened in his job, Trump has rebelled against Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely. It\'s all leading White House staffers and Trump allies to believe that Kelly is working on borrowed time.In recent weeks, Trump has governed at breakneck pace, ousting aides and issuing surprise policy announcements on Twitter, recreating the helter-skelter feel of his first months in office. Kelly\'s allies maintain that his retreat is strategic. They suggest that the belief that Kelly was Trump\'s savior was an overstated idea all along and that the chief of staff is now content to loosen the reins and allow an increasingly comfortable president to govern from his gut.But those close to the president say that Trump has increasingly expressed fatigue at Kelly\'s attempts to shackle him and that while Trump is not ready to fire Kelly, he has begun gradually freezing out his top aide.Trump recently told one confidant that he was "tired of being told no" by Kelly and has instead chosen to simply not tell Kelly things at all, according to a person who was not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity.In Trump\'s West Wing, once the rumors begin that an aide\'s exit is forthcoming, the "stink" on that staffer never leaves, according to one of the nearly dozen White House aides, former administration officials and outside advisers who spoke to The Associated Press under the same conditions.As Kelly\'s public profile and behind-the-scenes influence has faded, speculation has risen that chaos could return."It\'s not tenable for Kelly to remain in this position so weakened," said Chris Whipple, author of "Gatekeepers," a history of modern White House chiefs of staff. "More than any of his predecessors, Donald Trump needs an empowered chief of staff to tell him what he does not want to hear. Trump wants to run the White House like the 26th floor of Trump Tower, and it\'s simply not going to work."Kelly was once a fixture at the president\'s side, but Trump has now cut him out of a number of important decisions.For months, Kelly made it a practice to listen in to many of the president\'s calls, particularly with world leaders. While he is still on the line for some of those conversations, Kelly was not part of the call Trump made to Putin last month from the White House residence during which Trump ignored advisers\' advice against congratulating the Russian president on his re-election.Although Kelly had agitated for the removal of outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster, he counseled Trump against hiring Bolton, a neo-conservative media commentator. Trump did it anyway, offering the job to Bolton in a one-on-one meeting in the Oval Office and telling his chief of staff about it later.As Trump spent the Easter weekend at his Florida resort and tweeted about his tariffs plan, Kelly was out of state, though the men did consult by phone. While Kelly has fumed about the ethics questions swirling around Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, Trump was at least initially more supportive of Pruitt, telling him, "We\'ve got your back."The president also has cast aside the constraints the retired four-star Marine general tried to place on Trump about whom he could see and speak to. Those restrictions led shunned advisers to try to undermine the chief of staff in the press and with Trump. For months, former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was barred from the White House, only to return when Kelly was overruled by Trump, according to four White House aides and outside advisers.Many in the West Wing believed that Kelly\'s attempts to curtail Trump\'s interactions with Lewandowski, as well as Trump allies such as David Bossie and Anthony Scaramucci, were always destined to fail and alienate the president, who has privately contemplated recreating the freewheeling nature of his campaign and Trump Tower office. Kelly also has clashed with Trump\'s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, who had his security clearance downgraded after a policy change written by the chief of staff.Some White House aides contend that Kelly has been intentionally giving Trump more leeway to be himself and that Kelly recognizes that\'s what Trump wants. But allies acknowledged Kelly\'s receding power and said he\'s trying to keep his head down and focus on policy, such as the plan to mobilize the National Guard along the U.S. border with Mexico.The White House declined to make Kelly available for an interview. In public, Trump praises his chief of staff, telling Marines in California last month that Kelly probably "likes what you do better than what he does, but he\'s doing a great job."The speculation surrounding Kelly echoes the treatment of his predecessor, Reince Priebus, who was the subject of months of questions about how long he would last on the job. Priebus eventually resigned under pressure.Kelly also no longer commands the same respect among some quarters of the staff. His role came under harsh scrutiny this year over his handling of the controversy surrounding ousted White House aide Rob Porter, who was accused of domestic abuse.Kelly\'s shifting version of events elicited frustration from former communications director Hope Hicks, who had been dating Porter, and dismayed a number of West Wing staffers. That episode frustrated Trump, who still remains agitated about an interview that Kelly gave to Fox News months ago in which he suggested that Trump had "evolved" in his thinking about the need for a wall on the Mexican border.Kelly, who took the job last July, had previously told confidants he hoped to be on the job for a year. One person familiar with his thinking said the chief of staff recently voiced doubt he would make it that far.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Jill Colvin contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey
Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.FASHION IN FILM FESTIVAL  WEARING TIME: PAST, PRESENT, FUTURE, DREAM at the Museum of the Moving Image (April 6-22). Retrospectives centered on fashion and cinema proliferated with the release of Phantom Thread, but this one, which debuted in London and was curated by the academics Marketa Uhlirova and Tom Gunning, explores clothing not to celebrate stylishness but to examine how cinema has used costuming to represent the passage of time and dream states. Take note of when the red dress appears in Nicolas Roegs Dont Look Now (on April 15) and of what Gena Rowlandss aging-actress protagonist wears in John Cassavetess Opening Night (on Sunday). The festival begins with The Inferno Unseen (on Friday), a new arrangement of footage shot for Henri-Georges Clouzots unfinished movie Inferno, the subject of a documentary that was released in the United States in 2010. The screening will feature live musical accompaniment.718-784-0077, movingimage.usGRACE JONES at the Metrograph (April 6-12). The documentary Grace Jones: Bloodlight and Bami (opening on April 13) celebrates the career of the Jamaican-born model, recording artist and sometime actress, although this sidebar series of Ms. Joness spotty onscreen work perhaps illustrates why she didnt become an enduring movie star. See her in such roles as Zula, a warrior in Conan the Destroyer (showing on Friday and Saturday), and May Day, a hit woman for the arch-villain Max Zorin (Christopher Walken) in A View to a Kill (on Saturday), the last of the Roger Moore Bond films. 212-660-0312, metrograph.comSON OF 3-D FUNHOUSE at the Museum of Modern Art (April 9-11). The stereoscopic cinema of the 1950s returns to MoMA with three major curiosities: The Maze (screening on Monday and Tuesday), a bit of gothic horror directed by the celebrated production designer William Cameron Menzies and restored with assistance from Martin Scorsese and his Film Foundation; Cease Fire (on Monday and Wednesday), which took cameras into the Korean War; and Inferno (on Tuesday and Wednesday), a Technicolor noir with Robert Ryan.212-708-9400, moma.orgWOMAN, WARRIOR, SAINT: JOAN OF ARC ONSCREEN at the Quad Cinema (April 6-12). For nearly a century, the Maid of Orlans has fascinated auteurs. Her latest screen incarnation, Jeannette: The Childhood of Joan of Arc, a rock opera directed by the French philosopher-miserablist Bruno Dumont, opens on April 13. But Joan of Arc was also the subject of Carl Theodor Dreyers radical close-ups in The Passion of Joan of Arc (on Friday and Wednesday) and the austere, pared-down storytelling of Robert Bresson in The Trial of Joan of Arc (on Friday and Monday). And she was Jean Sebergs first role in Saint Joan (on Saturday and Thursday), adapted by Graham Greene from George Bernard Shaws play and directed by Otto Preminger. The Quad also hasnt forgotten Joans excellent adventure with Bill and Ted (on Saturday and Wednesday).212-255-2243, quadcinema.com
WASHINGTON   Facebook isn\'t just a company. It\'s a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It\'s tricky and it\'s going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we\'re going to keep the wild, wild West  I don\'t think it\'s sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook\'s reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia\'s use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital\'s pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it\'s questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress\' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that\'s not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama\'s final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook\'s vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team\'s newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he\'s open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he\'d get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he\'s encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November\'s elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook\'s biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission\'s charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who\'s written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government\'s antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook\'s largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg\'s net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook\'s market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia   Forty-three Cambodians arrived in Phnom Penh, Cambodia\'s capital, on Thursday after being deported from the United States under a law allowing the repatriation of immigrants who have committed felony crimes and have not become U.S. citizens.The group is the largest to be sent to Cambodia under a 2002 bilateral agreement. More than 500 other Cambodians have already been repatriated.The program is controversial because it breaks up families, and in some cases the returnees have never lived in Cambodia, having been the children of refugees who fled to camps in Thailand to escape the genocidal Khmer Rouge regime that ruled Cambodia in 1975-79.Critics of the deportation policy say many of those convicted fell into crime as a result of social dislocation. The returnees are seen as having difficulty reintegrating into Cambodian society because many have spent most of their lives in the United States.Two Cambodians ex-convicts on March 30 received pardons from California Gov. Jerry Brown, at least temporarily removing the risk they might be deported.Gen. Dim Ra, a senior immigration police officer overseeing the returnees, said the group that arrived Thursday included three women.He said any returnees who still have family members in Cambodia will live with their relatives, and those who do not will receive vocational training by a private group funded by the U.S. government before being integrated into Cambodian society.The deportation policy has hurt already cool relations between Cambodia and the United States.Prime Minister Hun Sen said in April last year that he wanted to amend the 2002 pact with Washington that allowed the implementation of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, meant to combat illegal immigration and terrorism.Hun Sen, who has led Cambodia for more than three decades, said the agreement should be reviewed on "humanitarian" grounds because it splits up families settled in the United States. Calls to review the act were first raised in 2016 by Cambodian officials, who asked that it be renegotiated or suspended to ease the reintegration problem.Cambodia then slowed or stopped accepting the return of Cambodian deportees.In response, the U.S. Embassy in Cambodia stopped issuing visas in September last year to senior Cambodian foreign ministry officials and their families, an action initiated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. It said the suspension was implemented under U.S. immigration law in response to Cambodia\'s refusal to accept back its nationals whom the U.S. wants to repatriate. Similar actions were taken for the same reason against Eritrea, Sierra Leone and Guinea.Cambodia in retaliation suspended missions by U.S. military-led teams searching for the remains of Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War. The U.S. government lists 48 Americans still unaccounted for in Cambodia.In February this year, a U.S. State Department official said the visa sanctions on top Cambodian foreign affairs officials could be lifted "in the near future" if the Cambodian government follows through on promises to begin accepting deportees again.U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Carl Risch said during a visit to Cambodia that Cambodian officials had been "very supportive in trying to improve the process."___This story has been corrected to show that the year of the repatriation agreement was 2002 instead of 2001.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Gavin Newsom is the lieutenant governor, a former San Francisco mayor and a leading Democrat to replace Gov. Jerry Brown. California Today has been doing occasional question-and-answer sessions with candidates for office. Todays interview with Mr. Newsom, edited and condensed for clarity, was conducted for our article on the race.Q. Were there things Jerry Brown did you would continue?A. Oh, the one that gets me in trouble question. Browns perfect. (Laughs) Look  hes done an extraordinary job. Its important to remind folks where we were seven years ago: 12.4 percent unemployment, $27 billion budget deficit. Now we are having a raging debate about the size of the surplus. This state has turned a corner.Q. What has not gone right?A. Were not all rowing in the same direction. We are the richest and the poorest state. Eight million living below the poverty line, 40 percent of our kids at or near the poverty line. Inequality is the issue that is going to define a good part of my tenure. To say it happened on our watch is accurate.Q. Has the governor paid enough attention to homelessness?A. He has on the margins. But have we designed a framework to regionalize solutions and to have the state drive the effort? No. And I intend to do that. We have never had a governor particularly animated by homelessness.Q. Do you support the proposal by Senator Scott Wiener to override local zoning and permit construction of eight-story housing near transit lines?A. I told him point blank, I would not sign this bill, but I love what you are doing. How can I help? No sooner than did we have that conversation than hes already made substantive amendments, on rent control protection. He realizes one size does not fit all. The spirit of what he is doing is right.Q. I get the spirit. But what about the concept?A. Its a crisis. We cant live on intentions. At the end of the day, if you want to move the mouse, youve got to move the cheese. The middle class of the state is leaving in droves. This is a Code Red in California.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before, according to the police, she went to YouTube headquarters and shot three people before killing herself. (The New York Times) The move by the Trump White House to roll back air-emission standards isnt going over well with editorial boards. If Trumps E.P.A. wants a war over California fuel economy standards, war it is, The San Diego Union Tribune said. The Trump administration seems just as determined to drag America backward to more dependence on dirty fossil fuels, The Fresno Bee said. If youve got it, why not? Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the Saudi ruler, has rented out all 285 rooms in the Four Seasons Hotel for his visit to Los Angeles. (Hollywood Patch) A Republican candidate for governor, Travis Allen, has a proposal for dealing with Californias homeless crisis: Build state institutions and force homeless people to live there, if necessary. California citizens have a right to clean streets, to clean cities. (Sacramento Bee) The Motion Picture Association of America has a new chairman, who has a background in diplomacy and the Muppets. (The New York Times) The Bay Area is looking at a month of rain in two days. Looks like the rainy season isnt over yet. (The San Francisco Chronicle) A major coup for Apple as it seeks to catch up with its rivals on artificial intelligence: It snagged Googles chief of search and artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea. (The New York Times) San Franciscos latest subway project looks as if its coming to fruition. The final station for Munis Central Subway is rising to the street. Still, the all aboard moment wont happen until December 2019. (San Francisco Chronicle) The parents of two people killed by immigrants are pushing for a state initiative to nullify the sanctuary city laws passed by the state. You already have no right to be here, one of the parents said. (Sacramento Bee) Can President Trump station troops along Californias border with Mexico? Maybe not. (Los Angeles Times) Its getting awfully expensive to drive in San Diego. Gas prices rose to $4 a gallon the other day. (San Diego Union-Tribune). Oh, and the average rent in San Diego hit a new high last month. (San Diego Union-Tribune) Bonnie Reiss, a former state secretary of education and longtime confidante of Arnold Schwarzenegger, died this week at 62. Mr. Schwarzenegger wrote a tribute, calling her a true treasure to California. (Fox & Hounds)Frank Gehry, 89, the architect, and Wolfgang Puck, 68, the restaurateur, are Los Angeles institutions.The city brims with testimonials to both mens work. Mr. Pucks flagship restaurant, Spago, is in Beverly Hills. Mr. Gehry is involved in all kinds of projects, including a revitalization of the Los Angeles River and an expansion of the Colburn School near the Walt Disney Concert Hall, which he also designed.And now, they are teaming up on a project: A Gehry-designed restaurant by Mr. Puck on the beach in the Pacific Palisades.The project would replace Gladstones Restaurant, along Will Rogers State Beach. The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, which runs the concession, has agreed to negotiations with Mr. Puck and Mr. Gehry to rebuild it.The sketch above suggests what Mr. Gehry has in mind for the design. But what kind of food? (Please dont say farm to table.) We will work together to deliver approachable, high-quality cuisine in a distinct architectural setting, Mr. Puck said.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
LONDON/MOSCOW   Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.Yulia and Sergei Skripal, 66, were found slumped unconscious on a public bench in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Britain said they were poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent, the first known use of such a toxin on European soil since World War Two.London has blamed Russia for the attempted murder while Moscow denies any involvement. The incident has had major diplomatic ramifications, with mass expulsions of Russian and Western diplomats."We have told our British colleagues that \'you\'re playing with fire and you\'ll be sorry\'," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia told a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Thursday that Moscow had requested."We didn\'t do it, we\'re not guilty," Nebenzia said.British U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce told the Security Council that Britain\'s actions "stand up to any scrutiny" and pledged to keep the 15-member body updated on the inquiry."We have nothing to hide ... but I do fear that Russia might have something to fear," Pierce said.Deputy U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kelley Currie told the council: "We have stated previously and do so again today our firm belief that Russia is responsible for this chemical weapons attack on U.K. soil".The attack left the Skripals in critical condition and doctors had initially feared that even if they did survive, they might have suffered permanent brain damage.But while her father remains stable in intensive care, Yulia\'s health has improved rapidly. On Thursday she issued a statement through British police to thank hospital staff and people who came to her help when "when my father and I were incapacitated".Her recovery means she can help British counter-terrorism police with their investigation although she did not give any details about what had happened in her brief remarks.Britain\'s Foreign Office said she had been offered assistance by Russia\'s embassy but had so far declined."I woke up over a week ago now and am glad to say my strength is growing daily. I am grateful for the interest in me and for the many messages of goodwill that I have received," said Yulia, 33."I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you\'ll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence."Hours before the statement issued by British police, Russian state TV and Interfax reported that Yulia had phoned her cousin Viktoria Skripal in Russia, saying she and her father were both recovering and that she expected to leave hospital soon."Everything is fine, everything is fixable, everyone is getting better, everyone is alive," they quoted her as saying in the call.Asked about her father\'s health, Yulia was cited as saying: "Everything is fine, he is resting right now, sleeping ... nobody has any problems that can\'t be put right."Russian state TV said it could not vouch for the authenticity of the quotes. Viktoria Skripal has said she plans to travel to England if she can get a visa.DIPLOMATIC LOWPolice believe the nerve agent was left on the front door of the home in Salisbury where Skripal, a military intelligence colonel who betrayed dozens of Russian agents to Britain\'s MI6 spy service, lived after he was freed in a spy swap.The attack has driven Moscow\'s relations with the West to a new post-Cold War low, with Britain and its allies, including the United States, expelling about 130 diplomats and the Kremlin responding in kind.On Wednesday, Russia lost its call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning at a meeting of global watchdog the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Moscow\'s ambassador to London Alexander Yakovenko said on Thursday Russia had never made Novichok, the Soviet-era nerve agent which British experts say was the toxin used.He said the Kremlin would accept the results of OPCW tests but only if there was transparency and they were confirmed by experts from outside Europe and NATO.While scientists at the Porton Down biological and chemical weapons laboratory near Salisbury have concluded the toxin was Novichok, its chief executive said on Tuesday they had not yet determined whether it was made in Russia.That prompted even some allies to say London needs to provide more evidence of Russian culpability.Britain says there is no plausible explanation other than that Russia was behind the attack and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has accused Russia of running a disinformation campaign.A number of Russians have died in mysterious circumstances in Britain in recent years including dissident Alexander Litvinenko who was poisoned with a rare radioactive isotope in 2006. A British inquiry concluded his murder had probably been ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin."We have a lot of suspicions about Britain," said Russian UK ambassador Yakovenko. "If you take the last 10 years, so many Russian citizens died here in the UK, under very strange circumstances ... My question is why is it happening here?"(Additional reporting by Estelle Shirbon and William James in London, Michelle Nichols at the United Nations and Paul Carrel in Berlin; Editing by Catherine Evans and James Dalgleish)
JERUSALEM  In Gaza City, pickup trucks and motorized rickshaws busily ferried piles of tires toward the border fence with Israel on Thursday as Palestinians planned for another day of protests on Friday, hoping that the thick black smoke from burning rubber would frustrate Israeli snipers.In Israel, officials defended the lethal tactics used by the military at last Fridays protest, which killed 19 Gazans. They insisted they would not back off during the second round of protests against Israels longstanding blockade of Gaza.Pointing to a series of armed attacks along the Gaza border since mid-February, the Israeli Armys chief spokesman on Thursday accused Hamas, the militant group that rules the territory, of seeking to turn the area into a battlefield. The Israelis claim that Hamas is using women and children as human shields and burning tires to create a smoke screen, all to provide cover for violent attempts to penetrate the fence and attack Israelis.With this we cannot live, said Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, the army spokesman, noting that some Israelis lived in homes just 50 yards from the Gaza fence. Just because no one was hurt does not mean they had no intention. They did, and we have proof.Hamas, which has largely assumed responsibility for organizing the protests that began last Friday, insisted it would ensure that demonstrators at the next round were unarmed. But it said it would not deter them from throwing rocks at Israeli forces.Israel has given no indication that it would alter its course despite a storm of international criticism and a new attempt by an Israeli human rights group to persuade soldiers to disregard orders to shoot demonstrators with live ammunition. But officials also sought to defend their stance more fully on Thursday.In a conference call with reporters, General Manelis said that on March 30, while civilians generally kept to the rear, militants hurled firebombs, crossed parts of the fence or tried to cut openings in it and fired on Israeli forces. And he hinted that while Israel did not want another war with Gaza, Hamas was running the risk of provoking one.We have no intention to turn these events along the fence into weekly ones, he said. But at the same time he warned, If events continue in this manner of terror attacks behind civil protests, we do not intend to limit our response to the fence area.Hamas said it would pay $3,000 each to the families of those killed in the protests, who included several members of the groups military wing and at least one commander. The group also offered $200 to $500 to those who were wounded, depending on the extent of the injuries  prompting Israel to say the group was inciting violence by putting a price tag on casualties.Muhammad Thuraya, a Hamas representative on the organizing committee for the demonstrations, said the payments were the least the group could do. This is our duty to our people, to ease the suffering of our citizens, he said in an interview. This does not mean that we are promoting people for death. We will offer what we can for our people.Demonstrators set up a symbolic cemetery at the staging grounds for Fridays protest to commemorate those killed last week. But the scene was otherwise almost festive. A volleyball court was set up for a competition between teams of amputees, sponsored by the son of Ismail Haniyeh, the Hamas political director. A speaker at a mock court pronounced sentences on absent Israeli war criminals while a small crowd watched approvingly. And Mr. Thuraya said a bride and groom would celebrate their wedding at the demonstrations on Friday afternoon.Umm Muhammad Marzoug, 44, took her four children to the site late Thursday to look around and said they would return on Friday, despite the risks. She said the economic, social and political pressures of life in Gaza had brought her to this point.We live together, or we die together, she said.In Israel, meanwhile, a debate broke out over the militarys use of live ammunition after BTselem, an Israeli human rights group, placed ads in the newspapers Haaretz and Maariv calling on soldiers to disregard orders to shoot. Quoting a legal precedent as well known in Israel as the My Lai massacre is in the United States  stemming from the massacre of dozens of Arab civilians in Kafr Qasim in 1956  the group warned that some orders were so blatantly illegal that it pains the eye and outrages the heart, if the eye be not blind and the heart be not callous or corrupt.This is part of the moral ethos of this country, something Israelis are taught in school, that army officers are taught as part of their training and that is the moral compass were all supposed to follow, said Hagai El-Ad, BTselems executive director. And were stating that front and center and demanding that we will follow it now.General Manelis would not discuss the rules of engagement for Israeli soldiers, and particularly snipers, on when to use live ammunition as opposed to rubber bullets, tear gas or other means of riot control.But former Israeli military lawyers argued that there were plenty of situations in which firing on unarmed demonstrators could be justified.BTselem are correct as a general rule, but its a general rule, said David Benjamin, who formerly served as the director of a branch of the Israel Defense Forces international law department and as a top legal adviser for the Gaza Strip. An unarmed person per se doesnt represent a major security threat, but a large number of unarmed people, for example, storming through the fence, does represent a threat. You would want to use riot control, less lethal means, at first, but live fire is an option where that fails.Asked about videos from March 30 showing at least one Gazan who was fatally shot in the back, Mr. Benjamin said that a peaceable demonstrator running away would not be a legal target. But someone who had participated in armed hostilities could be fair game, even while fleeing.Hes not immune just because he decides to take a rest, he said.It is not so simple to ask soldiers to arrest anyone who makes it across the fence, Mr. Benjamin said, particularly when thousands more might follow.Within that mob are people who are armed, he said. If soldiers approach the fence, they run the risk of being shot at, hit with Molotov cocktails or rolling burning tires. Thats the Hamas tactic  to mix up the terror activity with the civilians, and then its very difficult to respond in a way that everybody will be happy with.Mr. El-Ad of BTselem, however, insisted that there was no ambiguity about what had taken place on March 30.This is not complicated, he said. To see Israeli soldiers, inside Israel, firing live ammunition from a distance at unarmed Palestinian protesters inside the blockaded Gaza Strip, with the figures of injuries and fatalities that resulted from that  you do not need to be a legal expert to look at that and say this is outrageous, illegal, immoral and unacceptable.
LONDON/MOSCOW   Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.Yulia and Sergei Skripal, 66, were found slumped unconscious on a public bench in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Britain said they were poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent, the first known use of such a toxin on European soil since World War Two.London has blamed Russia for the attempted murder while Moscow denies any involvement. The incident has had major diplomatic ramifications, with mass expulsions of Russian and Western diplomats."We have told our British colleagues that \'you\'re playing with fire and you\'ll be sorry\'," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia told a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Thursday that Moscow had requested."We didn\'t do it, we\'re not guilty," Nebenzia said.British U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce told the Security Council that Britain\'s actions "stand up to any scrutiny" and pledged to keep the 15-member body updated on the inquiry."We have nothing to hide ... but I do fear that Russia might have something to fear," Pierce said.Deputy U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kelley Currie told the council: "We have stated previously and do so again today our firm belief that Russia is responsible for this chemical weapons attack on U.K. soil".The attack left the Skripals in critical condition and doctors had initially feared that even if they did survive, they might have suffered permanent brain damage.But while her father remains stable in intensive care, Yulia\'s health has improved rapidly. On Thursday she issued a statement through British police to thank hospital staff and people who came to her help when "when my father and I were incapacitated".Her recovery means she can help British counter-terrorism police with their investigation although she did not give any details about what had happened in her brief remarks.Britain\'s Foreign Office said she had been offered assistance by Russia\'s embassy but had so far declined."I woke up over a week ago now and am glad to say my strength is growing daily. I am grateful for the interest in me and for the many messages of goodwill that I have received," said Yulia, 33."I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you\'ll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence."Hours before the statement issued by British police, Russian state TV and Interfax reported that Yulia had phoned her cousin Viktoria Skripal in Russia, saying she and her father were both recovering and that she expected to leave hospital soon."Everything is fine, everything is fixable, everyone is getting better, everyone is alive," they quoted her as saying in the call.Asked about her father\'s health, Yulia was cited as saying: "Everything is fine, he is resting right now, sleeping ... nobody has any problems that can\'t be put right."Russian state TV said it could not vouch for the authenticity of the quotes. Viktoria Skripal has said she plans to travel to England if she can get a visa.DIPLOMATIC LOWPolice believe the nerve agent was left on the front door of the home in Salisbury where Skripal, a military intelligence colonel who betrayed dozens of Russian agents to Britain\'s MI6 spy service, lived after he was freed in a spy swap.The attack has driven Moscow\'s relations with the West to a new post-Cold War low, with Britain and its allies, including the United States, expelling about 130 diplomats and the Kremlin responding in kind.On Wednesday, Russia lost its call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning at a meeting of global watchdog the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Moscow\'s ambassador to London Alexander Yakovenko said on Thursday Russia had never made Novichok, the Soviet-era nerve agent which British experts say was the toxin used.He said the Kremlin would accept the results of OPCW tests but only if there was transparency and they were confirmed by experts from outside Europe and NATO.While scientists at the Porton Down biological and chemical weapons laboratory near Salisbury have concluded the toxin was Novichok, its chief executive said on Tuesday they had not yet determined whether it was made in Russia.That prompted even some allies to say London needs to provide more evidence of Russian culpability.Britain says there is no plausible explanation other than that Russia was behind the attack and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has accused Russia of running a disinformation campaign.A number of Russians have died in mysterious circumstances in Britain in recent years including dissident Alexander Litvinenko who was poisoned with a rare radioactive isotope in 2006. A British inquiry concluded his murder had probably been ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin."We have a lot of suspicions about Britain," said Russian UK ambassador Yakovenko. "If you take the last 10 years, so many Russian citizens died here in the UK, under very strange circumstances ... My question is why is it happening here?"(Additional reporting by Estelle Shirbon and William James in London, Michelle Nichols at the United Nations and Paul Carrel in Berlin; Editing by Catherine Evans and James Dalgleish)
LONDON   The daughter of a former Russian spy poisoned by a nerve agent said Thursday in her first public comment that she\'s recovering even as the international furor over the attack intensified, with Russia warning Britain it is "playing with fire."At the United Nations, Russia claimed that intelligence services of other countries were probably behind the attack. But Britain\'s U.N. Ambassador Karen Piece shot back that Russia has come up with 24 theories on who bears responsibility for the poisoning, but the United Kingdom has only one  that it\'s highly likely Russia was responsible.Yulia Skripal, 33, said in a statement released by British police that her "strength is growing daily" and she expressed gratitude to those who came to her aid when she and her father, Sergei, were found unconscious on a bench a month ago."I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you\'ll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence," she said.The hospital in the English city of Salisbury confirmed that Yulia\'s health has improved, while her 66-year-old father, Sergei Skripal, remains in critical condition.At the U.N., the confrontation between Russia and Britain and more than two dozen Western allies who have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity intensified.Russia\'s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia claimed that Russia that was the victim of a hasty, sloppy and ill-intentioned defamation campaign by Britain and its allies.Moscow assumes "with a high degree of probability" that the intelligence services of other countries are likely responsible for the incident, Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said."Since the British authorities dare to state that behind the incident in Salisbury is Russia\'s responsibility with a high degree of probability, well we also with a high degree of probability are assuming that the intelligence services of certain countries are behind the mega-provocation," he said.Nebenzia said "everything confirms this is a coordinated, very well-planned campaign" intended "to discredit and even delegitimize Russia."He refused to name the intelligence services that Russia suspects, but said their goal is to accuse Moscow of using "a horrible, inhumane weapon, of concealing the arsenal of this substance," of violating the Chemical Weapons Convention, and putting in question Russia\'s "role not only in finding a solution in Syria, but anywhere else."He also warned: "We have told our British colleagues that you are playing with fire and you will be sorry."Britain\'s Pierce said Russia\'s 24 theories for the attack include blaming it on terrorists and saying Britain wanted to distract from Brexit, its departure from the European Union.After trading barbs about Sherlock Holmes, Nebenzia and Pierce resorted to nonsensical fantasy with the Russian ambassador reading a passage from Alice in Wonderland and the British ambassador responding with a witty passage from the book that says: "I believe in as many as six impossible things before breakfast."Adding to the intrigue was a recording aired Thursday by Russian state Rossiya TV of a purported phone call between Yulia Skripal and her cousin in Russia. In the call, Yulia Skripal allegedly said she and her father were both recovering and in normal health, and that her father\'s health was not irreparably damaged.Rossiya TV said Skripal\'s niece, Viktoria, who lives in Moscow, gave it the purported recording, although the broadcaster said it could not verify its authenticity.Moscow has steadfastly hammered away at Britain\'s account of what befell the Skripals on March 4, especially the claim that their exposure to a Novichok nerve agent developed by the Soviet Union meant the attack was carried out by Russia.During the Security Council meeting, Nebenzia questioned the British government\'s claims of Russian responsibility by posing a series of questions.He asked why the British policeman was affected by the nerve agent immediately when it took four hours for Skirpal and his daughter to be affected. He asked what antidotes for exposure to Novichok the Skripals were given, where the Skirpals were for four hours without cellphones on the day of the attack, and what happened to two cats and two guinea pigs in the Skirpal\'s house.Russia has said it never produced Novichok and completed the destruction of its chemical arsenals under international control last year. Nebenzia insisted that Britain is required to allow Russia to cooperate in the investigation."Great Britain refuses to cooperate with us on the pretext that the victim does not cooperate with the criminal," he said. "A crime was committed on British territory, possibly a terrorist act, and it is our citizens who are the victims."He said both Skripal and Yulia are Russian citizens, and Moscow must be granted access to them.Pierce said the U.K. has left it to Yulia to decide whether to give Russia consular access to her.Moscow has sent home an equal number of envoys  more than 150  in an all-out diplomatic war unseen even at the height of the Cold War.As part of the diplomatic row, Russia last week ordered 60 U.S. diplomats to leave the country by Thursday in retaliation for Washington\'s expulsion of the same number of Russians.Three buses believed to be carrying expelled American diplomats left the U.S. Embassy in Moscow early Thursday after loading their luggage on trucks. Some toted pet carriers.Ahead of the U.N. meeting, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov described the British accusations against Moscow as a mockery of international law. He sarcastically likened the British accusations to the queen from Alice in Wonderland urging "sentence first  verdict afterward.""The so-called Skripal case has been used as a fictitious, orchestrated pretext for the unfounded massive expulsions of Russian diplomats not only from the U.S. and Britain, but also from a number of other countries who simply had their arms twisted," Lavrov said in Moscow.The British government says it relied on a combination of scientific analysis and other intelligence to conclude that the nerve agent came from Russia. But the Foreign Office on Wednesday deleted a tweet from last month that said scientists at Britain\'s defense research facility, the Porton Down laboratory, had identified the substance as "made in Russia."President Vladimir Putin\'s envoy for cybersecurity, Alexander Krutskikh, mocked the contradictory statements, saying that "the latest developments around the Skripal case indicate the days of this British Cabinet are numbered."___Lederer reported from the United Nations. Associated Press writers Vladimir Isachenkov, Jim Heintz and Nataliya Vasilyeva in Moscow also contributed.
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.Its bloody combat, Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. This isnt a cold war. Its a scorching hot war. And thats politically expedient for both sides.The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.Government by litigation isnt what the American people voted for, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, and attempting to thwart an administrations elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often, he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues, Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the states attorney general was simple: I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.Xavier Becerra, Californias attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. We dont wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration, he said. But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about ideological judging.The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trumps criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administrations perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitutions allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right, Professor Somin said. On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the states natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder, he said in a statement.The administrations legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said it isnt clear why the federal government claims its not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.He added, Isnt there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administrations complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. Immigration law is the province of the federal government, Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers  to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood, Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: Were not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal governments job of enforcing federal immigration law. Were in the business of public safety, not deportation.A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administrations suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that California ought to prevail on all three issues.Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.Resistance to unpopular federal laws  whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict  is permissible, they wrote, only within the bounds of federalism.The administrations lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the states laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an actual enumeration of the nations residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections, Mr. Sessions said on Monday.Californias lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally  including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The states lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws, Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said the issues in this case will benefit from further development.Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities, he wrote. But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a common core curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administrations efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administrations justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congresss role in passing immigration laws.The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the states chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.California is not the arbiter of these issues, he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.On Monday, the agency took steps to challenge Californias waiver. Though the process may take some time, it is likely to produce another clash between the Trump administration and the state that has emerged as its most determined foe.California, Mr. Becerra said, is ready to file suit.
MIAMI  Inside the computer lab at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School last month, students worked furiously on their yearbook, their overlapping conversations moving so briskly that sometimes it was difficult to keep up.But listening closely, I found some of their chatter to be jarring.One moment, two students were engaged in a lighthearted thumb war. The next, two other students mentioned  casually, almost in passing  how many death threats they had received on Twitter.The block button is great, said Aly Sheehy, an 18-year-old senior.Aly and her classmates were dealing with their new, inescapable reality as survivors of one the deadliest school shootings in modern American history. And I, a reporter returning home to cover its aftermath, was learning that the first few months of my new job would be consumed with stories of lost innocence.I became Miami bureau chief for The New York Times in December, after a decade at The Miami Herald. To get acquainted with my new colleagues and newsroom rhythms, the National editor, Marc Lacey, asked me to spend some time in New York. (Note to self: In the future, refuse to leave Florida in winter.)I was still in New York on Valentines Day when someone flagged me about reports of an active shooter at Stoneman Douglas. They must be mistaken, I thought. Years ago, I covered the Broward County school district for The Herald. Stoneman Douglas was  and still is  a jewel in the Broward public school system, the sixth largest in the country.I wanted to fly to South Florida as soon as possible. But I was helping to report in New York, and it took me 10 days to get back. Once here, with no assignment or story in mind, I drove to Parkland. I needed to see the school for myself. Standing alone next to the vast, improvised memorial outside its gates, I felt overcome with sadness. I rushed to my car and cried.In late February, the photographer Sam Hodgson pitched spending some time with Sarah Lerner, the yearbook adviser, and her staff. I thought the idea was brilliant, and I was grateful that Ms. Lerner, her students and school administrators would let us in to report. I worried about how the students would react to us. But I had forgotten, in my years since covering education, how easily young people get used to having a reporter around. How often they speak truths that older people might hesitate to say out loud. How incisive their reflections and observations can be.Sam and I tried to be unobtrusive, letting the students work while we hung back and watched and listened. But the computer lab was small, and we were unavoidable.Still, the students said they appreciated that we tried to blend in. They did not mince words when they shared their grievances about other journalists since the shooting. Throngs of reporters crowded the sidewalk on the day the school reopened, clamoring for a sound bite. Kyra Parrow, an 18-year-old senior, chided that reporters always ask the same questions.At one point, I started talking with Isabel Chequer, a 16-year-old junior who was painstakingly reviewing group photos for student clubs and identifying each person pictured. To my surprise, she called the task kind of relaxing.Its just such a good distraction for everything going on, she said.Isabel explained a few minutes later that she had been injured in the shooting. I didnt know this; the names of the wounded had not yet been made public, and she had not shared her story with any reporter.But there, side by side in the yearbook lab, she recounted her horrifying experience, with the remarkable poise that has characterized so many of the Parkland students.Its kind of been overwhelming. Im kind of closed off in talking about my emotions, Isabel said. Ill never be over the grief.But she expressed hope about the future: that a story of loss might turn into one of recovery and action.I really think were going to do something, she said. Were going to change the world forever.
The last of three major lawsuits over the surveillance of Muslims by the New York Police Department was settled on Thursday, ending years of litigation over a broad, decade-long spying program in which Intelligence Division detectives eavesdropped on conversations in cafes, asked people about their views on drone strikes and designated mosques as potential terrorist organizations.As part of the settlement of Hassan v. City of New York, the police will use reasonable and diligent efforts to expunge certain information pertaining to Muslim communities in New Jersey that the Intelligence Division gathered. The Department will also give plaintiffs a chance to propose revisions to a policy guide on compliance with the Handschu Guidelines, which govern how the police may investigate political and religious activity.Senior police officials will attend a public meeting with the plaintiffs, and the city will pay 10 businesses, mosques, student groups and individuals amounts ranging from $1,250 to $22,500 to satisfy their claims for damages. The settlement confirms that New York Police Department investigations involving political activity in New Jersey are subject to the Handschu Guidelines.Neither the city nor the police admitted any misconduct or violation of the law.Todays settlement marks a monumental victory for American-Muslim communities far and wide who have demanded fair and equal treatment by law enforcement, said Farhana Khera, executive director of Muslim Advocates, which filed the suit and was later joined by the Center for Constitutional Rights and the law firm Gibbons P.C.The resolution of this case affirms and enhances the N.Y.P.D.s commitment to conducting effective investigations to prevent crime and terrorism, said the police commissioner, James P. ONeill. This has occurred while also protecting the constitutional rights and freedoms that every N.Y.P.D. employee takes a sworn oath to uphold.The Hassan case was filed in 2012 on behalf of individuals, businesses, student associations and mosques in New Jersey who said that New York detectives had violated the Constitution by conducting surveillance of at least 20 mosques, 14 restaurants, 11 retail stores, two grade schools and two Muslim student organizations and creating more than 20 maps of Newark noting the location of mosques and the ethnic composition of Muslim neighborhoods.The police also took photographs and video at mosques, collecting license plates, the lawsuit said. The suit added that the program was founded and operated upon a false and constitutionally impermissible premise: that Muslim religious identity is a legitimate criterion for selection of law enforcement surveillance targets, or that it is a legitimate proxy for criminality.The covert program, carried out by the demographics unit during the Bloomberg administration, became a lightning rod for criticism. Initially, the Police Department would not confirm that the unit existed. A series of articles by The Associated Press first detailed the surveillance. As a mayoral candidate, Bill de Blasio criticized it, and in 2014 the then-police commissioner, William J. Bratton, disbanded the unit, which the department had acknowledged had not generated a terrorism investigation in six years of monitoring communities.While New York City moved to settle two lawsuits making similar claims filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan and Brooklyn, it fought the suit in New Jersey. The Law Department argued that the New Jersey surveillance was constitutional and that the plaintiffs lacked standing because any harm they suffered came not from the police actions but from the disclosure of unredacted documents by The Associated Press.In 2014, Judge William Martini, of Federal District Court in Newark, agreed, dismissing the case and saying that the plaintiffs had not alleged facts from which it could be plausibly inferred that they had been targeted solely because of their religion. He suggested instead that the surveillance was probably meant to locate budding terrorist conspiracies.But the next year the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia restored the case, writing that it had plausibly alleged that the city engaged in intentional discrimination, adding: We have been down similar roads before. Jewish-Americans during the Red Scare, African-Americans during the civil rights movement and Japanese-Americans during World War II are examples that readily spring to mind.Lawyers who brought the Hassan case said its settlement builds upon one last year that resolved the lawsuits filed in New York City. And Omar Farah, a senior staff attorney with the Center for Constitutional Rights, said the settlement would help repair relations between the Police Department and Muslims who had been subject to invasive surveillance.The document itself says explicitly that the NYPD has to change its training approach from avoiding litigation risk to positively emphasizing protecting the equal rights of all Americans, he said. Thats going to create lasting improvements to the way the NYPD interacts with this community.
For anyone who is a fan of Antiques Roadshow, this is a story for you.Two years ago, Robert Warren, the executive director of Hoyt Sherman Place in Des Moines, was searching for a box of Civil War flags in the theaters upstairs storeroom when he came across a painting wedged between a table and a plaster wall. The surface was scratched and faded, but there was a sticker on the back, a label from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where the painting had once been on display.Mr. Warren had stumbled upon Apollo and Venus, an oil painting on wood by the 16th-century Dutch master Otto van Veen. It had been stowed in the storeroom for decades and is now potentially worth millions of dollars.Instead of cashing in on the prized find, though, Mr. Warren said the theater would make it the centerpiece of its permanent collection, on display July 1 in the theaters gallery along with 54 other paintings that have been restored.Such finds are more rare than fans of Antiques Roadshow might hope. But they do happen. Recently the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh found more than a dozen treasures hidden in its storage vault, including a prized portrait by the English painter George Romney. Last year, what many people say is a rare Jackson Pollock was found in an Arizona garage. And who can forget when a painting by a famous Victorian painter was discovered on (where else?) Antiques Roadshow?We already have a spot picked out, said Mr. Warren, who, since arriving at Hoyt Sherman in 2015, has shored up the theaters finances and rehabilitated its art galleries. It will hang on a prime wall in the gallery.Nason Bartholomew Collins, the scion of a steamship line owner, lent the painting to the Met in the mid-1800s, according to conservators, but brought it with him to Des Moines when he and his family moved there in 1871. In 1952, an heir of Mr. Collins donated it and four other paintings to the Des Moines Womens Club, which established an art gallery at Hoyt Sherman.The painting has not yet been officially appraised, but Mr. Warren said theater executives who researched the find have valued it at a minimum of $4 million. It is currently insured for $50,000, but since it has been restored and framed, he said he hoped the insurance company would insure it for at least $1 million. Cameras will be installed in the gallery to thwart theft, he added.Initially, Federico Barocci, a Renaissance painter and printmaker from Urbino, Italy, was believed to have painted Apollo and Venus. But upon closer examination, Mr. Warren said, conservators agreed it was painted by van Veen, a 16th-century Dutch painter and draftsman who became known for altarpiece decorations and his illustrations for emblem books. (It is estimated to have been painted around 1600.) He was born in 1556, traveled to Rome like many of his contemporaries to study the Italian masters, before moving to Antwerp where he founded a studio in the later 1590s.A formidable artist and teacher in his day, van Veens most famous pupil was Peter Paul Rubens, the renowned painter who embodied Flemish Baroque style and whose work is notable for its color, voluptuous form and sensuality.This work is important because the artist was the teacher of Rubens, said Barry Bauman, an art conservator based in River Forest, Ill., who cleaned and restored Apollo and Venus to its original vibrancy. Of course Rubens took it to a different level. But you can see the influence of his teacher unfold over time.Van Veen moved to Brussels in 1615, where he remained until his death in 1629.In the painting, Apollo is holding a lyre while Venus, the goddess of love, is portrayed as an artist painting a landscape, her fleshy backside exposed. There are references to her fertility and beauty, including a basket of fruit, a sprig of roses and a bowl of oysters. Before restoration, the oil-on-wood panel was cracked, its surface dull from layers of discolored varnish. It took four months to clean and repair, the naturalistic figures emerging only after layers of paint from previous restorations were removed.It is something to see such beauty revealed, said Mr. Warren.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don\'t call it a "timeline."Wary of charges of hypocrisy for publicly telegraphing military strategy after criticizing former President Barack Obama for the same thing, the White House has ordered Trump\'s national security team not to speak of a "timeline" for withdrawal. That\'s even after Trump made it clear to his top aides this week that he wants the pullout completed within five or six months.It wasn\'t the result top national security aides wanted. Trump\'s desire for a rapid withdrawal faced unanimous opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence community, all of which argued that keeping the 2,000 U.S. soldiers currently in Syria is key to ensuring the Islamic State does not reconstitute itself.But as they huddled in the Situation Room, the president was vocal and vehement in insisting that the withdrawal be completed quickly if not immediately, according to five administration officials briefed on Tuesday\'s White House meeting of Trump and his top aides. The officials weren\'t authorized to discuss internal deliberations and requested anonymity.If those aides failed in obtaining their desired outcome, it may have been because a strategy that\'s worked in the past  giving Trump an offer he can\'t refuse  appears to have backfired.Rather than offer Trump a menu of pullout plans, with varying timelines and options for withdrawing step-by-step, the team sought to frame it as a binary choice: Stay in Syria to ensure the Islamic State can\'t regroup, or pull out completely. Documents presented to the president included several pages of possibilities for staying in, but only a brief description of an option for full withdrawal that emphasized significant risks and downsides, including the likelihood that Iran and Russia would take advantage of a U.S. vacuum.Ultimately, Trump chose that option anyway.The president had opened the meeting with a tirade about U.S. intervention in Syria and the Middle East more broadly, repeating lines from public speeches in which he\'s denounced previous administrations for "wasting" $7 trillion in the region over the past 17 years.What has the U.S. gotten for the money and American lives expended in Syria? "Nothing," Trump said over and over, according to the officials.The intensity of Trump\'s tone and demeanor raised eyebrows and unease among the top brass gathered to hash out a Syria plan with Trump, officials said: Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary James Mattis, CIA chief Mike Pompeo and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan.At one point, Dunford spoke up, one official said, telling Trump that his approach was not productive and asked him to give the group specific instructions as to what he wanted.Trump\'s response was to demand an immediate withdrawal of all American troops and an end to all U.S. civilian stabilization programs designed to restore basic infrastructure to war-shattered Syrian communities.Mattis countered, arguing that an immediate withdrawal could be catastrophic and was logistically impossible to pull off in any responsible way, without risking the return of the Islamic State and other terrorist groups in newly liberated territories, the officials said. Mattis floated a one-year withdrawal as an alternative.Trump then relented  but only slightly, telling his aides they could have five or six months to complete the mission to destroy the Islamic State and then get out, according to the officials. Trump also indicated that he did not want to hear in October that the military had been unable to fully defeat the Islamic State and had to remain in Syria for longer.The president had spoken. But what to say about it publicly?In a brief and vague statement released the day after the meeting, the White House said the U.S. role in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" and emphasized that the U.S. was counting on other countries and the U.N. to deal with Syria\'s future. But it offered no specificity as to the timing of a U.S. withdrawal."The president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, said Thursday. "We\'ve always thought that as we reach finale against ISIS in Syria, we\'re going to adjust the level of our presence there. So in that sense, nothing has actually changed."Pentagon officials stressed that no formal order had been handed down to the military to alter course or start a withdrawal. Nonetheless, the officials said Trump was clear in his intent.For Trump, any notion of a "timeline" comes with significant political risk. After all, he had regularly bashed Obama on the campaign trail for forecasting his military moves in advance. In fact, Trump was so critical of Obama for putting an arbitrary deadline on the 2011 Iraq withdrawal that he dubbed Obama "the founder of ISIS," arguing that Obama had signaled to al-Qaida sympathizers in Iraq that they need only wait the U.S. out.And Trump\'s whole strategy for dealing with Afghanistan, for example, is based on the idea that the U.S. presence should be "conditions-based" and not time-based."I\'m not like other administrations, where they say we\'re going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn\'t work that way," Trump said last year, shortly after becoming president.___This story corrects attribution of Thursday quote in paragraph 17 to Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, not Gen. Joseph Dunford.___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___
GAZA   Israeli fire killed a Palestinian at the Gaza border on Thursday and another died of wounds suffered several days ago, health officials said, bringing to 19 the number of Palestinian dead from a week of frontier protests.The Israeli military said one of its aircraft targeted an armed militant near the security fence along the Gaza Strip.Tens of thousands of Palestinians are holding a six-week-long protest in tent encampments along the fenced border of the Israeli-blockaded Gaza Strip, an enclave of 2 million ruled by the Islamist Hamas group.The demonstrators are pressing for a right of return for refugees and their descendants to what is now Israel.The latest deaths are likely to add to international concerns over the violence, which human rights groups have said involved live fire against demonstrators posing no immediate threat to life.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called for an independent investigation into the deaths on the first day of the protest last Friday, and B\'Tselem, an Israeli rights group, urged Israeli soldiers to "refuse to open fire on unarmed demonstrators. Orders to do so were manifestly illegal, it said.The United States, however, directed its criticism at the protest leaders. "We condemn leaders and protestors who call for violence or who send protestors - including children - to the fence, knowing that they may be injured or killed," President Donald Trump\'s Middle East peace envoy, Jason Greenblatt, said in a statement on Thursday.Sixteen Palestinians died after being shot by Israeli troops on the first day of the demonstrations, Palestinian medical officials said, and another was killed on Tuesday.A 33-year-old man, hit by Israeli fire a few days ago near one of the tent cities, died on Thursday, the officials said.Israel says it is doing what is necessary to defend its border. The military said that its troops had used live fire only against people trying to sabotage the border fence or rolling burning tires and throwing rocks.On Thursday, Brigadier-General Ronen Manelis, Israel\'s chief military spokesman, cautioned that Israel might attack deeper inside Gaza if the demonstrations did not stop."We have information that tomorrow, under a smoke screen and civilian cover, Hamas intends to carry out terrorist attacks against our civilians and troops, and cross the fence," he said."We have no interest in harming women and children who are protesting. They are not our enemies. We have one intention, not to allow terrorist attacks against our civilians and troops on the other side of the fence."LETHAL FORCEMany of the demonstrators who turned out for the first wave of protests along the border returned to their homes and jobs over the week. But organizers expect large crowds again on Friday, the Muslim sabbath.Protesters on Thursday were bringing more tents and thousands of tires to burn, in what has become known as The Friday of Tyres." They say they intend to use mirrors and laser pointers to distract Israeli sharpshooters.Friday is going to be a special day, they will see that we are not afraid, said one Palestinian youth as he delivered tires to the area. But Ahmed Ali, a 55-year-old teacher, said that while he wanted his family to see the tent camp, he would not come back on Friday.I taught my children one day we will be returning to Jaffa, our home, but I cant allow them to throw stones because the Israelis wont hesitate to kill them, he said.Hamas said on Thursday it would pay $3,000 to the family of anyone killed in the protests, $500 for critical injuries and $200 for more minor injuries. Israeli leaders say that such payments serve to instigate violence.Visiting the frontier this week, Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman warned protesters that "every person who comes close to the fence is endangering their lives."The protest action is set to wind up on May 15, when Palestinians mark the "Naqba", or "Catastrophe", when hundreds of thousands fled or were driven out of their homes during violence that culminated in war in May 1948 between the newly created state of Israel and its Arab neighbors.Israel has long ruled out any right of return, fearing it would lose its Jewish majority.(Writing by Jeffrey Heller and Stephen Farrell; Editing by Richard Balmforth and Peter Cooney)
Susan Anspach, the radiant and rebellious actress who personified the 1960s-into-the-70s counterculture in films like Five Easy Pieces and Blume in Love, as well as in the stage musical Hair, died on Monday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 75.Her son, Caleb Goddard, who announced the death on Thursday, said the cause was coronary failure.Ms. Anspach (pronounced ONS-bok) had the distinction of playing Sheila, the good-girl-turned-hippie female lead, in the Off Broadway production of the musical Hair that immediately preceded the Broadway run.The show, which shocked some audiences with its antiwar message, celebration of nonmarital sex and all-nude final scene, ran 45 performances at the Cheetah Theater, a club on West 53rd Street. That was in December 1967. When Hair opened on Broadway at the Biltmore Theater in April 1968, Lynn Kellogg was Sheila.Ms. Anspachs film career, which began soon afterward, hit the ground running. Her first role was in Hal Ashbys The Landlord (1970), about a young white man (Beau Bridges) who buys a building in a black neighborhood in Brooklyn.Her second movie, the same year, was the now-classic Five Easy Pieces, directed by Bob Rafelson, in which she played the sophisticated New Age intellectual who sleeps with Jack Nicholsons character despite being engaged to his brother.In Play It Again, Sam (1972), there she was in flashbacks as Woody Allens blatantly critical ex-wife. (I dont feel any rapport with you, and I dont dig you physically, she says, cautioning him a minute later, Dont take it personal.)In Blume in Love (1973), she left her stuffy divorce-lawyer husband (George Segal), let her hair go wild and moved in with a shaggy out-of-work musician (Kris Kristofferson) who wrote songs about being free.Vincent Canby of The New York Times was a fan of Ms. Anspachs. Writing about Montenegro, a low-profile 1981 comedy set in Sweden, in which she played a bored American wife raucously trying to find her true self, he described her as one of Americas most daring and talented actresses and who has yet to land a film role that shows her off to full advantage. Some would argue that she never did.I was getting reviews that compared me to Katharine Hepburn and Bette Davis, Ms. Anspach told People magazine in 1978. But there were no Hepburn or Davis parts.Susan Florence Anspach was born in Queens on Nov. 23, 1942, and raised at first by a great-aunt. She was 6 when the aunt died, and she went back to live with her parents, Renald Anspach, a World War II Army veteran and later a factory worker, and the former Gertrude Kehoe, a secretary and the daughter of a Wall Street banker who had disowned her when, in his view, she married down. The couple, Ms. Anspachs son said, met in Queens at the 1939 Worlds Fair.Because of neglect and physical abuse, Susan left home at 15 and, with a Roman Catholic organizations help, moved in with a family in Harlem. She received a full scholarship to the Catholic University of America in Washington, where she studied music and drama, and made her professional debut in Thornton Wilders one-act play Pullman Car Hiawatha at a summer theater in Maryland.In New York, Ms. Anspach had the good luck to fall in with a company of young actors that included Dustin Hoffman, Robert Duvall and Jon Voight, who were then unknown. She made her New York stage debut in a 1965 Off Broadway revival of Arthur Millers A View From the Bridge with Mr. Duvall and Mr. Voight; she appeared with Mr. Hoffman the next year in Turgenevs The Journey of the Fifth Horse.Her two Broadway appearances, in And Things That Go Bump in the Night (1965) and Lovers (1968), were brief.Around the same time, she was making her first television appearances; The Patty Duke Show and The Defenders were among her early credits.Ms. Anspach continued to work in both movies and television until her late 60s. One of her last films was Wild About Harry (2009), a family drama (originally titled American Primitive) set in 1973. This time she was part of the older generation, sitting at the head of the dining table in her blond bouffant, surrounded by young people with straight, shoulder-length hair or daring sideburns.In addition to her son, whose father is Jack Nicholson, she is survived by a daughter, Catherine Goddard, whose father was Steve Curry, an original cast member of Hair; three grandchildren; and a brother, Robert Anspach.Although Ms. Anspach often said that she disdained marriage, she did marry and divorce twice. Her first husband, from 1970 to 1978, was the actor Mark Goddard, who adopted her children. Her second was the musician Sherwood Ball, from 1982 to 1988.She didnt even think it was a good idea to live with a man, she remarked in her People interview, because if the kids get attached to him and you break up, it just isnt fair. But she still had something of an ever-changing, big, happy family. My closest friends in the world are my ex-lovers, she said.

The Atlantic magazine on Thursday terminated its relationship with Kevin D. Williamson, the conservative writer whose hiring last month angered liberals and sparked an online debate about what views are considered acceptable in mainstream publications.It was Mr. Williamsons hard-line stance on abortion  namely, that it should be treated as premeditated homicide and punished accordingly, perhaps by hanging  that generated the initial controversy over his hiring.It was that same viewpoint that led to his abrupt departure.Mr. Williamson expressed it during a Twitter exchange in September 2014. After hiring him in late March, Jeffrey Goldberg, the magazines editor in chief, defended Mr. Williamson, saying that he did not want to judge people for their worst tweets, or assertions, in isolation.But on Thursday, Mr. Goldberg wrote in a memo to his staff that he had come to see the writers remarks on Twitter as something more than merely trollish. The editor cited a podcast episode from the same month in which Mr. Williamson elaborated on his anti-abortion views  which seemed in keeping with how he had described them on Twitter.The tweet was not merely an impulsive, decontextualized, heat-of-the-moment post, as Kevin had explained it, Mr. Goldberg wrote. Furthermore, the language used in the podcast was callous and violent. This runs contrary to The Atlantics tradition of respectful, well-reasoned debate, and to the values of our workplace.I have come to the conclusion, Mr. Goldberg added, that The Atlantic is not the best fit for his talents, and so we are parting ways.The podcast in question was a National Review show called Mad Dogs and Englishmen, which is hosted by Mr. Williamson and the NationalReview.com editor, Charles C. W. Cooke. The episode that dealt with abortion received renewed attention after it was turned up this week by the liberal media watchdog group Media Matters. At one point during the episode, Mr. Williamson said of abortion, I would totally go with treating it like any other crime up to and including hanging.Mr. Williamson, in an email exchange on Thursday, declined to respond to questions about his termination.The outrage over the writer, who spent many years as a correspondent for National Review, fell squarely into a burgeoning culture war over free speech, gender issues and questions about which views deserve a megaphone as prominent as The Atlantic, a magazine that relies on a heavily liberal readership.In announcing Mr. Williamsons new role last month, Mr. Goldberg acknowledged that he had disagreed with him more than I have agreed with him. But he praised Mr. Williamsons writing as stylish, witty and ideologically interesting, and said he envisioned The Atlantic as a big tent for ideas and argument.Liberals cried foul. Besides pointing out Mr. Williamsons tweet about abortion, his critics noted an essay in which he rejected the gender identity of the transgender actress Laverne Cox, referring to her with male pronouns. Another Williamson essay described an African-American child as adopting the universal gesture of primate territorial challenge.The abortion rights group Naral Pro-Choice America started a #FireKevin campaign on Twitter. On Thursday, Naral issued a formal statement that praised Mr. Williamsons firing and called the writer an extremist bigot.While The Atlantic should have never allowed him to occupy space in its pages, were relieved that Jeffrey Goldberg heard the concerns and outrage of so many and removed Williamson from his post, wrote Ilyse Hogue, Narals president.Some conservatives pushed back, arguing that liberals were trying to stifle speech and that Mr. Williamson was being unfairly defined by a tiny fraction of his published work.After learning that The Atlantic had fired Mr. Williamson, Erick Erickson, a prominent conservative writer, deemed the decision another reminder that much of American conservatism finds itself ghettoized not by choice, but by the lefts active demands that the right be silenced.During his brief time at The Atlantic, Mr. Williamson published one column, an examination of current conservative politics headlined The Passing of the Libertarian Moment.Mr. Goldberg, in his Thursday memo, said he remained committed to maintaining ideological diversity among his stable of opinion writers.We are striving here to be a big-tent journalism organization at a time of national fracturing, Mr. Goldberg wrote. We will continue to build a newsroom that is, as The Atlantics founding manifesto states, of no party or clique. We are also an organization that values a spirit of generosity and collegiality. We must strive to uphold that standard as well.
On the day Prohibition was repealed in 1933, Sidney Haas was the 12th applicant (and, the family says, the first independent store owner) licensed by New York State to legally sell alcoholic beverages. He proceeded to transform the Manhattan butcher shop founded by his uncle, Morris Lehmann, who had immigrated from Germany in 1870, into a wine and liquor store.My dad was a bit of a maverick, Sidneys son Robert said.Twenty years later, when the stores chief buyer in France, Raymond Baudoin, died suddenly, Sidney Haas dispatched his 27-year-old son to Europe to promptly find a replacement. Fortified with two years of college French, Robert Haas, a Navy veteran and Yale graduate, fell in love with France and revised his objective.I discovered I didnt want to replace Baudoin, he told Wine Enthusiast magazine in 2005. I wanted his job.Robert Haas, a maverick in his own right, helped expand the store into what would become  after being sold to a rival in 1965  Sherry-Lehmann Wine and Spirits, one of the best-known wine retailers in the United States. He also founded Vineyard Brands, a leading wine importer. And, at 62, he embarked on a high-risk, long-haul venture as a California vintner.Planting vines brought over from the Rhone Valley in France, the winery, Tablas Creek Vineyard, founded in 1989 with the Perrin family, Rhone wine producers, now turns out about 30,000 cases a year.Theres very little that is more a declaration of your optimism than starting a vineyard in your 60s, said Mr. Haass son Jason, the general manager of Tablas Creek.Robert Haas died at 90 on March 18 at his home in Templeton, Calif., in the wine country of San Luis Obispo County The cause was complications of pneumonia, Jason Haas said.Heralding what became known as the Rhone Rangers era of cultivating grapes like Grenache, mourvdre and syrah in California, in 2000 Robert Haas was the first American elected president of the Acadmie Internationale du Vin, an industry promotional and research association.As early as 1960, Craig Claiborne described him in The New York Times as widely traveled and knowledgeable.In 1988, Wine Spectator wrote, By one estimate Haas has been responsible for bringing more fine Burgundy to this country than any other importer of our time.Robert Zadok Haas was born on April 18, 1927, in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn to Sidney Haas and the former Harriet Bailey, a homemaker.Raised in Scarsdale, N.Y., he remained a loyal Brooklyn baseball fan and was a good enough shortstop to get an invitation from a scout to an open Dodgers tryout while he was attending Scarsdale High School.After one semester at Yale, Mr. Haas enlisted in the Navy during World War II and served stateside. He earned a bachelors degree from Yale in history, politics and economics in 1950 and went to work in the family wine store, M. Lehmann.His first marriage ended in divorce. His wife, the former Barbara Glenn, survives him. Besides her and their son, Jason, he is also survived by two children from his first marriage, Daniel Haas and Janet Conway; a daughter from his second marriage, Rebecca Haas; his sister, Adrienne Sands; six grandchildren; and a great-grandson.After joining his fathers business, Mr. Haas persuaded him to sell futures on wine that was practically still fermenting. Two decades later he founded the importer Vineyard Brands in Vermont, which represented Burgundy and Bordeaux brands like Chteau Lafite and Chteau Petrus. He also promoted California wines from the Napa and Sonoma valleys.Mr. Haass relationship with the Perrin family began when he was an importer. While in France, he met Jacques Perrin, the family patriarch, and his sons, Francois and Jean-Pierre. They developed the label La Vielle Ferme in France and then agreed to partner in a California vineyard.There, they found a former alfalfa farm where the environment, including the weather, topography and the soils limestone base  closely resembled conditions in the Rhone Valley.Vine cuttings were imported from France in 1989 and quarantined for three years by agricultural officials to make sure they were disease-free. In 1992, Mr. Haas and his partners built greenhouses, propagated the first vines in 1994 and began selling grafted vines and budwood to hundreds of other growers.Tablas Creek Vineyard winery opened in 1997, flanking the eponymous rivulet in the Paso Robles hills about 12 miles inland and midway between Los Angeles and San Francisco. It introduced the 1,200-gallon wooden foudres, or vats, popular in France.Though the operation struggled at first, it turned a profit in 2006.Mr. Haas was armed with a discerning palate that could distinguish astringent from vegetal from just a dram during a wine tasting. He was also blessed with a gift for gab.Buying wine is not like buying Tinkertoys, he told Wine Spectator. You have to understand that the man just spent a whole year of his life making that particular crop, and hes not going to part with it without some show over it. Theres some discussion necessary.Even if theres nothing to talk about, Mr. Haas said, theres something to talk about. 

Since the shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and the March for Our Lives, the emergence of Emma Gonzlez, a senior at the school, as a national face of gun control activism has drawn much attention for her role as a founder of #NeverAgain and for her views on social media strategy  and for her now famously shaven head.To many outside eyes, her hair (or lack of it) has become the symbol of her refusal to accept the status quo, her refusal to simply sit back and leave change to the establishment. So much so that The New Yorker recently published an article comparing her to Joan of Arc, as depicted in the 1928 film by Carl Theodor Dreyer: another young woman with a genius for inspiring leadership, a deeply felt belief system and brutally close-cropped hair.No matter that, as the essays author acknowledges, a few weeks before the shooting Ms. Gonzlez had declared, on her schools Instagram account, that I decided to cut my hair because it was a pain in the neck, if youll forgive the pun. It was really hot all the time; it was very cumbersome and very heavy, leading to a lot of headaches. It was expensive to keep it up, and as prom time came around, I figured it would be cheaper to not have to worry about doing my hair.Her original motivation has become shrouded in her advocacy, and in the eyes of the watching world, her head has taken on its own meaning, representative of our failure, of her renunciation. If, a few years ago, it seemed possible that with the advent of models like Ruth Bell and Kris Gottschalk, buzz cuts on women could be viewed as representations of quirky beauty and celebrated all over the East Village and beyond, the reaction to Ms. Gonzlezs hair has made it clear that we were deluded.I dont think you can ever just shrug it off as a matter of personal expression, said Erin K. Vearncombe, a lecturer at Princeton University who specializes in the cultural anthropology of dress. Hair is intrinsically linked to assumptions about gender and power relations. It has always been, from the myth of Medusa (whose hair was made of snakes, and whose glance could turn men to stone) through the travails of Hillary Clinton as first lady, when her many hairdos came to represent what her opponents saw as her slippery opportunism  and the new buzz cuts.Hair, in the eyes of the beholders  partly because it is so much in the eyes of the beholders  is, as it ever was, a political issue. It is, as the anthropologist Grant McCracken wrote in his book Big Hair, our court of deliberation, the place where we contemplate who and what we are. And while such contemplation ebbs and flows, it is, like everything else in this heightened political climate, once again central to the conversation. At least the visual one.Earlier this year, Rose McGowans shaven pate was displayed in high definition on the cover of Brave, her account in part of her experience with sexual harassment. Last month, Asia Kate Dillon and the shaved head returned to small screens (and promotional billboards) everywhere in Billions, and the first nonbinary gender character on American series television.Since the release of Black Panther in February, the bald heads of the Dora Milaje soldiers, led by Okoye (Danai Gurira), have become clarion calls of black female strength and beauty. And Adwoa Aboah, the Model of the Year at the British Fashion Awards in December, is known for not only her stubbled head but also her Gurls Talk platform and her advocacy on the part of young womens mental health.In all cases, it is almost impossible to separate the image from the activism.Especially because those images exist in stark contrast to those of certain other women in the public eye, in particular the women associated with the Trump family, including the first lady, Melania Trump, and the former communications director Hope Hicks, whose long, lush locks represent what Mr. McCracken call voluptuous hair  hair in the Rita Hayworth-Cindy Crawford mode. It could be a coincidence, though it is also notable that some of the things the women who have shaved their heads stand for represent a group of values and cultural beliefs that the administration does not share: gun control, L.G.B.T.Q. rights.Hair is not solely a female issue, of course; mens hair is also fraught (hello, Samson; hello, skinheads). Though as Dr. Vearncombe said, because we focus so much attention on the head, especially on the female head, and because this attention is gendered, and because, more than anything, this attention is visible, absent hair on a womans head can be read as disruptive to the politics of the male gaze. Looking at a womans face, at her hair, has conventionally been an exercise of desire, and of an assertion of male power. Disrupting this convention, disrupting this gaze, allows us to see a different set of possibilities for the female head. The shaved head speaks in a different way.And what is says is multitudes. It can sometimes speak of punishment: After World War II, women in France who were accused of being collaborators had their heads shaved in public; Natalie Portmans character in V for Vendetta had her head shaved during a torture scene. It can reflect discipline and toughness: See Demi Moore in G.I. Jane and Charlize Theron in Mad Max: Fury Road. It can represent instability: When Britney Spears had her breakdown in 2007, she shaved her head in an act that has practically become a synonym in the pop lexicon for unstable. And it can be a direct riposte to a certain set of social and cultural values and expectations.In an excerpt from her book published in i-D, Ms. McGowan wrote of shaving her head: I broke up with you. The collective you, the societal you. I broke up with the Hollywood ideal, the one that I had a part in playing. It was a way of rejecting, she wrote. The ideal version of a woman that is sold to you by every actress in every hair commercial telling you, this the secret to being beguiling, the secret to getting a man to want you.This is hair as seen through the Freudian lens, wherein the whole head becomes a stand-in for sexuality. Ms. McGowan later went on to say that her hair made her feel like a blowup sex doll. And yet, by rejecting it, by shaving it, she did not escape it (none of us do); she simply transformed its messaging.As Geraldine Biddle-Perry, an Associate Lecturer at Central Saint Martins and the co-editor of Hair: Styling, Culture and Fashion, wrote in an email exchange, For women who voluntarily cut/shave their hair, volition alters the symbolic grammar and so the act functions in terms of female agency and empowerment.Which in turn raises the question of whether we are in for more head shaving, and whether that may ultimately lead to a time when, Dr. Vearncombe said, we will not care about what a woman puts on or removes from her head.Its possible. Though given the history, gun control may have a better chance.


LONDON  Nicole Grobert is German, but she has spent almost all of her career in Britain, developing tiny nanomaterials and figuring out how to use them in everything from artificial bones to super-efficient batteries. Young scientists have an unusual degree of autonomy here, she has found, and European Union funds enabled her to build her own research group at the University of Oxford.These days, though, Dr. Grobert says her future at Oxford looks cloudier than it used to. Since Britain voted to quit the union, she has been getting calls from universities on the Continent, and farther abroad, gauging her interest in a new job. For now, she is staying put, but if grants grow scarce or immigration rules create new hassles, she is ready to move.I came with a suitcase, Dr. Grobert said. I can grab that suitcase and go.For decades, the European Union has provided a collaborative, cross-border framework in which British universities have grown and thrived. European grants fund research like Dr. Groberts and nurture the international back-and-forth crucial to scholarly work in disciplines from archaeology to economics.Free movement within the bloc has meant faculty from other European nations can live and work in Britain visa-free, and students from elsewhere in the union pay the same tuition as Britons.Now, university administrators are watching anxiously as negotiations between London and Brussels lurch along, with little clarity about how drastically ties may change after the divorce, known as Brexit, which is expected next March. Last month, negotiators announced a 21-month transition period, which may postpone the biggest shifts, but like everything about Brexit, it remains subject to change.This is the single biggest challenge to our universities, in the same way it is the single biggest challenge to our nation, since the Second World War, said Alastair Buchan, Oxfords head of Brexit strategy.Being in Europe has absolutely transformed the serious U.K. universities, he said. The threat Brexit brings, in this existential way, is that we wont be able to access the talent, the scholars from neighboring countries.Dr. Buchan worries, too, that with financial support coming from one government, rather than a large bloc with well-established grant-making structures, future funding decisions may be driven by political imperatives rather than academic excellence.European grants provide about 12 percent of British universities research income, although for some institutions it is as high as 60 percent, according to an analysis commissioned by four major academic bodies. Nationally, 17 percent of academics are citizens of European nations other than Britain. Within the elite Russell Group of Britains top 24 research institutions, the proportion is close to a quarter.At University College London, where 50 million pounds, or about $70 million, in annual European grants make up 12 percent of the research budget, a Brexit mitigation group has met dozens of times since Britain voted in June 2016 to leave the European Union, said Michael Arthur, the president and provost.Anxiety among European faculty members has eased a bit since Prime Minister Theresa Mays government said in December that citizens from other European Union countries already in Britain would be able to register to stay. But the caveat that no one provision is final until the entire Brexit deal is done means nothing is for sure.University College London has sought to reassure its employees, but the uncertainty hangs over people, Dr. Arthur said. More than 90 percent of Europeans on staff have been contacted by overseas universities asking if theyd consider a move, he said.Recruiting new researchers is proving even harder than holding on to existing ones. In one fellowship program for young researchers, about 30 of the 100 applications the university usually gets come from continental Europe. This year, there were none.Thats before Brexit is finalized, so imagine what it might be like after, he said.Downstairs from Dr. Arthurs office, a group of European undergraduates in the corner of a noisy cafe said theyd felt less welcome in Britain since the referendum. European Union students already enrolled here, and those arriving this autumn, will be able to finish their degrees without immigration constraints or tuition changes, and the transition arrangements may extend that further, but the rules for those coming later are unclear.Konrad Gradalski, who studies politics and East European affairs, said when he was finishing secondary school in Poland, Britain was a popular destination among his peers.People had dreams like U.C.L., Oxford, Cambridge, Mr. Gradalski said, referring to Britains elite universities. Most of my friends no longer want to come here. Theyre scared of the racism, because of reports of anti-immigrant feeling among Britons. And, more pragmatically, its about finance, with worries fees will double or more to the level non-European Union citizens now pay, and Europeans will lose eligibility for loans.There are plenty of other options. Institutions in Canada and Australia, as well as continental European universities offering studies in English, are competing with big British and American names in the lucrative international higher education market.Now, we realize there are other things than Cambridge and Oxford and Harvard, said Alix Dumoulin, a Parisian studying philosophy, politics and economics at University College London.At universities in the United States, international students enrollment has dipped, which administrators attribute in part to President Trumps anti-immigrant rhetoric and restrictive policies.Brexit could have a similar effect, putting off not just Europeans, but applicants from places like India, China and Malaysia, for whom the general sense that Britain has become a less welcoming and hospitable place for foreigners is quite palpable, said James Wilsdon, a professor of research policy at the University of Sheffield.So far, numbers are holding up. After the Brexit vote, undergraduate applications from European Union students dropped for the first time since 2012, but they have since ticked up again. Applications from outside the union also rose, a reminder that the pool of potential students is growing as middle classes expand in many developing nations.Saying it did not want to pre-empt negotiations, the Department of Education declined to comment on Brexits effects on universities, but said European Union students make an important contribution and we want that to continue.Sam Gyimah, the governments minister for universities and science, has said Britain will continue welcoming international researchers, and hopes to remain part of the European Unions main research program. But we are not going to participate at any price, he said in February at a parliamentary meeting on Brexit and science.That underlines the reality that universities concerns are just one piece of a much larger, fiendishly complex Brexit puzzle. So their priorities, even those government shares, could be derailed by the bigger politics, said Sarah Main, executive director of the Campaign for Science and Engineering, an advocacy group.The stakes are high. With deep ties to research-driven industries like tech, aerospace and pharmaceuticals, universities are an important economic engine. Their prestige, said Dr. Main, is also central to Britains international reputation. I think its part of the U.K.s character.At University College London, Ms. Dumoulin said that while Brexit might make it harder to stay in London after graduation, she will have lots of other choices. As a French citizen, she will still be able to live and work anywhere in Europe, unlike her British classmates, who are likely to lose that right.I feel like Im really lucky, she said. Because its not France whos exiting the E.U.
(Reuters) - An American cameraman and filmmaker who died in December in a jail in the Philippines suffered blunt-force trauma, and his body had markings inconsistent with the official account by Philippine authorities that he hanged himself, a private U.S. pathologist said.The findings raised new questions about the death of Jesse Phinney on the Philippine island of Cebu. Law enforcement officials there said they found the 42-year-old Boston nativehanging in the bathroom of a detention facility where he was being heldonDec. 5,and declared it a suicide.Phinney\'s family, suspecting foul play and believing he was incapable of the alleged crimes that prompted his arrest, hired a Providence, Rhode Island-based forensic pathologist and a private investigations company to look into his death.The pathologist, Dr. Elizabeth Laposata, told Reuters in a recent interview that an autopsy she performed in the United States found deep bruises on Phinney\'s body, caused within three or four hours of his death, and an unexplained mark on his neck. She said she believed the evidence indicated that Phinney did not take his own life."No medical examiner would be comfortable saying this is a suicidal hanging because there are all these unexplained things," said Laposata, a former chief medical examiner for the state of Rhode Island who is now in private practice and regularly testifies at murder trials.The day before he was found dead, Phinney had been arrested on suspicion of violating human trafficking and child abuse laws, according to a report by the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) seen by Reuters. The NBI is the Philippine equivalent of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.According to the report, the NBI began tracking Phinney after a December 2016 complaint by Cebu Vice Governor Agnes Magpale, who also co-chairs a women\'s protection group. The report included affidavits from a mother and child who said Phinney sometimes had minors sleep at his home, took pictures of them, and gave them gifts.Magpale told Reuters in a text message that she referred Phinney to the NBI, which she said is standard procedure when her office is presented with allegations of human trafficking or other crimes."I was told NBI did surveillance work for some time. When NBI took over, they filed the case," she said.The NBI\'s report said Phinney was found hanging by a belt and that an autopsy commissioned by the NBI determined the cause of death was "asphyxia by hanging." The report was sent to the U.S. embassy in Manila by the NBI\'s regional director in Cebu, Patricio Bernales."I thought this case was closed, but the local police is now conducting an investigation and the human rights groups here are also asking a lot of questions," Bernales told Reuters, referring questions about the case to NBI headquarters in Manila. Bernales did not name the human rights groups.Royina Garma, a police superintendent in charge of criminal investigations in Cebu, told Reuters that his superiors in Manila ordered his office to probe Phinney\'s death. He said they had sought all documents related to the case from the NBI in Cebu but had yet to receive them.Ferdinand Lavin, an NBI spokesman in Manila, said his office did not have any comment and that he expected the bureau\'s office in Cebu to respond to any questions.Phinney\'s death occurred against the backdrop of Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte\'s nearly two-year-old "war on drugs," which critics say has led to the deaths of thousands of small-time drug users and dealers in execution-style killings by law enforcement.While acknowledging she had no proof, Phinney\'s sister, Molly Phinney Baskette, told Reuters in a TV interview that she feared that a culture of "widespread extrajudicial killing" was a contributing factor in his death. Asked about this assertion, Assistant Presidential Communications Secretary Rachel Rodulfo referred Reuters to "the appropriate authorities" and said she trusted that "proper procedures would be observed in the conduct of the probe.""HAPPIEST PLACE ON EARTH"Phinney was a cinematographer on more than two dozen documentaries, TV series and reality shows on channels including Discovery and History, according to the IMDb movie and TV information website. Most recently, he worked on National Geographic\'s 2014-2016 series "Life Below Zero."He had been winding down his TV career and was looking to start a new one building off-the-grid housing for low-income people. He had recently settled in Cebu, which he often called "the happiest place on Earth," his sister said."They said it was suicide. It was not suicide," said Phinney Baskette, a minister at a church in Berkeley, California, adding that she believed her brother was innocent.Reuters reviewed Laposata\'s death investigation report, which included a second autopsy and other tests.Laposata said she found two ligature marks on Phinney\'s neck, one more than is typical in a suicide. She also pointed to two distinct blood and fluid stains found on his T-shirt, whereas only one stain pattern would be expected in a suicidal hanging, dropped from the nose or mouth.Laposata also pointed to a picture of Phinney when he was arrested that showed he was not wearing a belt.The pathologist said the autopsy done in the Philippines immediately after Phinney\'s death missed a hemorrhage on top of his head, as well as deep bruises on his back and shoulder consistent with blunt-force trauma.Phinney\'s family raised about $34,000 via a GoFundMe page to defray the costs for the second autopsy and to hire Insiders Corp, a Paris-based investigations firm now probing his death in the Philippines.The company is working the case pro bono, and plans to issue a public report of its findings in the coming weeks, said spokeswoman Grace Cameron.(Reporting by Nathan Layne in New York and Manuel Mogato in Manila; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
Paige Jennings has seen her mother with blood on her hands before. But this week The Americans took it to a new level: a horrified Paige seeing her mothers face covered in the blood, not to mention the brains, of an American general shed just killed. This is going to be a hard one to explain.That gruesome scene was the close of the episode, titled Tchaikovsky (and directed by Matthew Rhys, doing double duty). But it had already been a challenging hour for the furiously multitasking Elizabeth.After the bleak ending last week, when she angrily rejected Philips concern and marched upstairs alone, this week opened with her coming back down the stairs, still silent and defiantly smoking a morning cigarette. (Philip had made an indelicate and tactically flawed reference to her smelling like cigarettes all the time.)Her plate was more than full. She was pulling her shifts as a home health aide at the Haskard house, spying on the husband (an American arms negotiator) and putting up with his wife, whom she has to help keep alive through the coming Reagan-Gorbachev summit. This meant sitting still for an impromptu drawing lesson from Erica Haskard, perhaps the only person this side of Claudia who can order Elizabeth around.It was fun to see the unstoppable Elizabeth shutting up, sitting down and picking up a pencil for the immovable Erica. The whole notion of Elizabeths being possibly awakened by her exposure to Ericas art hasnt been my favorite thing about this season  its more of a stretch than the show usually makes  but there was a zing to their exchange, with Elizabeths demurral, Trust me, I cant draw, met by Ericas retort, No, thats not your problem. Erica told her not to focus on the object but, rather, just to see light and shade  exactly the opposite of what Elizabeth has trained herself to do in order to carry out her duties.When she wasnt bedside with Erica or photographing documents on Glenns desk, Elizabeth made time for lunch with another source, Patrick McCleesh (Reed Birney) at the State Department. (He appears to be her fake work husband  sort of like her own Martha, but without the sex and the mock wedding.) It was a relatively uneventful scene, except for Elizabeths nearly being caught by security guards. McCleesh told her that Ronald Reagan was starting to show signs of dementia. Claudia responded to that nugget with a huh  as far as the K.G.B. is concerned, American presidents come and go.Elizabeth had to be nimble with her lies on the home front, too. Again turning down Philips offer to talk, she neglected to mention that she had killed a Navy security guard whod had a run-in with Paige, finessing the whole situation by saying that Paige got somebodys name wrong.But the real challenge to her composure came when Paige asked, Do our people ever use sex to get information? Elizabeths eyes-averted What? was about as flustered as she gets, although she immediately recovered and denied that such a thing could ever happen. (She later backtracked, saying, Well, maybe some people, in some circumstances, might bend the rules a little.)Presumably Paige will learn the truth about these things even if she lands the comfortable State Department or C.I.A. job that Elizabeth is angling for her to get. But maybe shell never have to know what her own mother has been getting up to all these years. (Nice moment: Paiges wearily dismissive Obviously when Elizabeth lectured her about not checking out books about espionage from the library.)And then there was the general. Wed met him before, as Colonel Lyle Rennhull, back in Season 1. (The final episode of that season, The Colonel, was named after him.) Back then, he was meeting Philip to tell him that Americas Star Wars missile-defense system was a pipe dream, a meeting that initiated a sequence of events that ended with Elizabeths being shot. He resurfaced because Moscow wanted Elizabeth to shake him down for a piece of American tech, a lithium-based radiation sensor. If he didnt obtain one, his past treason would be exposed.Rennhull (still played by Victor Slezak) has not been the most admirable character  in Season 2 he killed the informant Sanford Prince in order to protect himself  but this time he decided to stand on principle, declaring that all he ever wanted to do was avoid war and that he wouldnt sell out his country now. So, an idealist, like Elizabeth. When they met in a park in Virginia, he pulled a gun, and she fell to her knees and played the Im-a-mother card, pretending to beg for her life. This was a distraction, of course, before she lunged, tackled him, wrestled for the gun and then slowly, purposefully forced it under his chin and pulled the trigger.Paige ran from her post in the parking lot to her moms aid, but this being The Americans, there was no hugging or crying. The emotion was packed into the moment when their eyes locked, as Elizabeth yelled at Paige to get back to the car. Paige, the good soldier, hesitated only briefly before turning and running back without a word. Then the credits rolled, the fallout put off until next week.Elsewhere in the episode, Philip had further setbacks in his new capitalist existence. His employee Stavos (Anthony Arkin) lost one of the travel agencys valuable clients, and when Philip told the story to Henry, the son gently reprimanded the father: Maybe Stavos was right and Philip should have kept the client himself. The American-born Henry probably has better business instincts than his wannabe-bourgeois dad.Henrys brief appearance, by phone from New Hampshire, was one of two heartwarming cameos. The other: a walk-on by the mail robot, gliding through the back of a scene at F.B.I. headquarters. In a related subplot, we were given both some comic relief and some spy-story tension via the Gennadi-and-Sofia story. Tired of her once glamorous husband, Sofia let it slip to Stan that she had found a sympathetic ear at the Tass office, a co-worker named Bogdan.The episode was time-stamped by the baseball game on Glenn Haskards radio: Oct. 4, the last day of the 1987 season. Glenn listened as Chili Davis of the San Francisco Giants tied the game, 4-4, with a home run off the Atlanta Braves Chuck Cary. (The Giants went on to win, 5-4, on Bob Brenlys walk-off homer in the 10th inning. They won the National League West that year but lost to the St. Louis Cardinals in the league championship series.)Finally, the episodes title referred to Claudias favorite composer. She played a Tchaikovsky recording for Paige  Im sure one of you can tell us which piece it was  and the melancholy strains continued on the soundtrack as Paige and Elizabeth had their uncomfortable conversation about sex. Let us know in the comments what you thought about Tchaikovsky and the latest stages in Paiges education.

, (Reuters) - An American cameraman and filmmaker who died in December in a jail in the Philippines suffered blunt-force trauma, and his body had markings inconsistent with the official account by Philippine authorities that he hanged himself, a private U.S. pathologist said.The findings raised new questions about the death of Jesse Phinney on the Philippine island of Cebu. Law enforcement officials there said they found the 42-year-old Boston nativehanging in the bathroom of a detention facility where he was being heldonDec. 5,and declared it a suicide.Phinney\'s family, suspecting foul play and believing he was incapable of the alleged crimes that prompted his arrest, hired a Providence, Rhode Island-based forensic pathologist and a private investigations company to look into his death.The pathologist, Dr. Elizabeth Laposata, told Reuters in a recent interview that an autopsy she performed in the United States found deep bruises on Phinney\'s body, caused within three or four hours of his death, and an unexplained mark on his neck. She said she believed the evidence indicated that Phinney did not take his own life."No medical examiner would be comfortable saying this is a suicidal hanging because there are all these unexplained things," said Laposata, a former chief medical examiner for the state of Rhode Island who is now in private practise and regularly testifies at murder trials.The day before he was found dead, Phinney had been arrested on suspicion of violating human trafficking and child abuse laws, according to a report by the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) seen by Reuters. The NBI is the Philippine equivalent of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.According to the report, the NBI began tracking Phinney after a December 2016 complaint by Cebu Vice Governor Agnes Magpale, who also co-chairs a women\'s protection group. The report included affidavits from a mother and child who said Phinney sometimes had minors sleep at his home, took pictures of them, and gave them gifts.Magpale told Reuters in a text message that she referred Phinney to the NBI, which she said is standard procedure when her office is presented with allegations of human trafficking or other crimes."I was told NBI did surveillance work for some time. When NBI took over, they filed the case," she said.The NBI\'s report said Phinney was found hanging by a belt and that an autopsy commissioned by the NBI determined the cause of death was "asphyxia by hanging." The report was sent to the U.S. embassy in Manila by the NBI\'s regional director in Cebu, Patricio Bernales."I thought this case was closed, but the local police is now conducting an investigation and the human rights groups here are also asking a lot of questions," Bernales told Reuters, referring questions about the case to NBI headquarters in Manila. Bernales did not name the human rights groups.Royina Garma, a police superintendent in charge of criminal investigations in Cebu, told Reuters that his superiors in Manila ordered his office to probe Phinney\'s death. He said they had sought all documents related to the case from the NBI in Cebu but had yet to receive them.Ferdinand Lavin, an NBI spokesman in Manila, said his office did not have any comment and that he expected the bureau\'s office in Cebu to respond to any questions.Phinney\'s death occurred against the backdrop of Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte\'s nearly two-year-old "war on drugs," which critics say has led to the deaths of thousands of small-time drug users and dealers in execution-style killings by law enforcement.While acknowledging she had no proof, Phinney\'s sister, Molly Phinney Baskette, told Reuters in a TV interview that she feared that a culture of "widespread extrajudicial killing" was a contributing factor in his death. Asked about this assertion, Assistant Presidential Communications Secretary Rachel Rodulfo referred Reuters to "the appropriate authorities" and said she trusted that "proper procedures would be observed in the conduct of the probe.""HAPPIEST PLACE ON EARTH"Phinney was a cinematographer on more than two dozen documentaries, TV series and reality shows on channels including Discovery and History, according to the IMDb movie and TV information website. Most recently, he worked on National Geographic\'s 2014-2016 series "Life Below Zero."He had been winding down his TV career and was looking to start a new one building off-the-grid housing for low-income people. He had recently settled in Cebu, which he often called "the happiest place on Earth," his sister said."They said it was suicide. It was not suicide," said Phinney Baskette, a minister at a church in Berkeley, California, adding that she believed her brother was innocent.Reuters reviewed Laposata\'s death investigation report, which included a second autopsy and other tests.Laposata said she found two ligature marks on Phinney\'s neck, one more than is typical in a suicide. She also pointed to two distinct blood and fluid stains found on his T-shirt, whereas only one stain pattern would be expected in a suicidal hanging, dropped from the nose or mouth.Laposata also pointed to a picture of Phinney when he was arrested that showed he was not wearing a belt.The pathologist said the autopsy done in the Philippines immediately after Phinney\'s death missed a hemorrhage on top of his head, as well as deep bruises on his back and shoulder consistent with blunt-force trauma.Phinney\'s family raised about $34,000 via a GoFundMe page to defray the costs for the second autopsy and to hire Insiders Corp, a Paris-based investigations firm now probing his death in the Philippines.The company is working the case pro bono, and plans to issue a public report of its findings in the coming weeks, said spokeswoman Grace Cameron.(Reporting by Nathan Layne in New York and Manuel Mogato in Manila; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
SAN FRANCISCO  The authorities believe a woman who shot three people at YouTubes headquarters before killing herself on Tuesday was angered by the social media outlets policies.While the police did not specifically say what those policies were, they likely had to do with a concept called demonetization. In response to pressure from advertisers and consumers, YouTube has been pulling ads from thousands of videos that it decides do not meet its standards for content. That has sparked an outcry from many of the people who post videos to the service.One of those creators was Nasim Najafi Aghdam, the woman the police said had shot YouTube employees in San Bruno, Calif. She frequently posted videos to several YouTube channels and had become increasingly angry over the money she was making from them.My Revenue For 300,000 Views Is $0.10????? Ms. Aghdam wrote on her website, while calling YouTube a dictatorship. There is no equal growth opportunity on YOUTUBE or any other video sharing site, your channel will grow if they want to!!!!!Ms. Aghdams complaints echoed what a wide range of YouTube posters  from self-described animal rights activists like her to right-wing political provocateurs  have increasingly been protesting over the last year.When YouTube was started in 2005, it took a hands-off approach to much of what was posted, so long as the content was not overly violent or sexual. In 2012, YouTube began allowing almost any video to carry ads, enabling advertisers to reach consumers where they were on the internet. It also gave video creators, from commercial giants to one person recording on a laptop computer, a way to make money off their work.But a series of news reports revealed big brands ads running alongside extremist, racist and other hateful videos, leading some companies to pull their money from the site. YouTube has since clamped down and pulled ads from thousands of controversial videos.YouTube declined to comment on Wednesday.Video creators take a share of the money from ads running before or alongside their videos. But YouTube has been raising the bar on qualifications for running ads.Last April, the company said it would set a requirement for 10,000 cumulative lifetime views before allowing videos to gain ads. In January, the company raised that requirement to 4,000 hours of watch time in the past year and 1,000 subscribers.When YouTube pulls ads, it tells creators which videos violated the standards, though it doesnt elaborate very much on what they did wrong. Its unclear whether YouTube pulled ads from Ms. Aghdams videos.The anger around demonetization has been growing for more than a year.One of YouTubes most popular personalities, Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg, who goes by PewDiePie, posted videos with Nazi imagery, including a sign that called for Death to Jews. As a punishment, YouTube demonetized some of his videos in early 2017, though it didnt outrightly bar him. Mr. Kjellberg, now calling himself family-friendly, still posts regularly and has a booming business on the platform.In December, YouTubes chief executive, Susan Wojcicki, said the company would hire 10,000 people to enforce company policies regarding videos.Around that time, another YouTube star, Logan Paul, posted video of himself nervously laughing at the dead body of a man who appeared to have committed suicide. The company again had to apologize and announced that it was removing Mr. Paul from its top-tier payment system and canceling plans to pay him to make a show.Ms. Wojcicki said in January that YouTube was looking to hire an even bigger team of monitors to look more closely at the platforms content and decide what should belong.A wide spectrum of YouTube creators, from the conspiracy-minded to the most popular stars, have been vocal about what they see as censorship on YouTube.After a popular video blogger who posts about news, Philip DeFranco, saw his videos demonetized, he called demonetization censorship with a different name. On Twitter, he wrote: Producer just got off the phone with Youtube and it wasnt a mistake. Feels a little bit like getting stabbed in the back after 10 years.Luke Rudkowski, an independent journalist who describes conspiracy theories to his more than 500,000 subscribers on YouTube, has repeatedly complained about the site pulling ads from his videos.In August, he posted a video criticizing news that YouTube would start removing more terrorist content. We are seeing the purging, the cleaning of this major online institution to be more favorable towards corporations and governments, Mr. Rudkowski said. Now thats why I think were finally reaching the end time of this beautiful and amazing platform.A few days later, he said YouTube had pulled ads from 660 of his videos, basically eviscerating my main source of revenue for this news organization.Mr. Rudkowski has continued to upload videos to his YouTube channel, WeAreChange, every few days. In a message on Wednesday, he distanced himself and other YouTube creators from Ms. Aghdam.In my opinion she was failing and blaming Youtube for her problems, he said. I dont think its actually about being censored but more about a delusional woman who couldnt accept failure.On her own website, Ms. Aghdam frequently complained about YouTubes policies, influence and employee politics. In particular she said her animal-rights activism made her a target for scrutiny. She included another video, called Im being censored. YouTubes war against vegans, made by the video blogger Emily Moran Barwick, who runs a site called Bite Size Vegan.Ms. Aghdam posted a video claiming that YouTube had set age restrictions, which would require many viewers to be over 18 years old, on a workout video even though videos from pop stars like Nicki Minaj were much more provocative. And she believed that YouTubes parent company, Google, was targeting her.When searching for my website in google, at top of link they add an error occurred but there is no error! she wrote on her site in February 2016. They add it to keep you from my visiting my site.

Writers are often at their best  or their most quotable and oracular, anyway, if thats any measure  when theyre thinking about history. Theres Faulkner, of course: The past is never dead. Its not even past. Or James Joyce, my current train companion: History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake. Or Kanye West: Im too busy writing history to read it.Not us! Weve got history on the brain this week, thanks to a strong collection of books on the subject. In Fatal Discord, Michael Massing looks at the illuminating tensions between Erasmus and Martin Luther at the dawn of the Enlightenment. In Victorious Century, David Cannadine surveys the highs and lows of the British Empire in the 1800s. In Farewell to the Horse, the German cultural scientist Ulrich Raulff starts out exploring the history of human-equine interactions and ends up contemplating the nature of history itself, both as a concept and as a literary genre.History rears its head in other ways too among this weeks titles, from journalistic accounts of conflicts past and present to novels based on historical figures (Jasmin Darzniks Song of a Captive Bird, about the Iranian poet Forugh Farrokhzad) or multigenerational family epics (Luis Alberto Urreas The House of Broken Angels). History even contributes a book of its own to the list, by way of Clarice Lispectors novel The Chandelier  first published in 1946 in Brazil, and finally available in English 72 years later. Sometimes, history takes its time.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksSEE WHAT CAN BE DONE: Essays, Criticism, and Commentary, by Lorrie Moore. (Knopf, $29.95.) This volume of nonfiction by the acclaimed story writer and novelist collects book reviews, personal essays, political pieces and ruminations on TV series like True Detective and Friday Night Lights. The book flooded my veins with pleasure, our critic Dwight Garner writes. Some of the pieces first appeared in The New York Review of Books, a magazine to which Moore has brought, Garner writes, an especially intimate and approachable voice, that of an intellectual who doesnt mistake solemnity for seriousness and actually seems to be enjoying herself.THE CHANDELIER, by Clarice Lispector. Translated from the Portuguese by Benjamin Moser and Magdalena Edwards. Edited by Benjamin Moser. (New Directions, $25.95.) Lispectors characteristically hypnotic second novel, originally published in 1946 in her native Brazil, has just been translated into English for the first time. No one sounds like Lispector  in English or Portuguese. No one thinks like her, our critic Parul Sehgal writes. The book, about the interior life of a young, unhappy woman named Virginia, is uniquely demanding  its baggy, claggy and contentedly glacial, Sehgal writes, but its also a vulnerable and moving performance  with a heart-stopping payoff.THE STREET PHILOSOPHY OF GARRY WINOGRAND, by Geoff Dyer. (University of Texas Press, $60.) Dyers latest book, physically imposing and visually sumptuous, pairs 100 brief essays by the author with 100 photographs by Garry Winogrand, including 18 color photographs previously unpublished. Winogrand, born in 1928, captured the fallout from the midcentury American moment  those few decades, from the 1950s on, when placid middle-class prosperity started to give way to something less affluent, more fragmented and harder to define, our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. Dyers accompanying texts wear their erudition lightly. He makes ample and appreciative use of Very Serious Ideas from the likes of Erich Fromm, Marshall Berman and Richard Sennett, but its the specifics in the pictures themselves that most excite his imagination.THE HOUSE OF BROKEN ANGELS, by Luis Alberto Urrea. (Little, Brown, $27.) In Urreas sprawling, tender, funny and bighearted family saga, the de La Cruz clan gathers in San Diego to celebrate the 70th birthday of its patriarch, who is dying of cancer. Urrea is intent on both celebrating the particularities of Mexican-American life and attacking the anti-Mexican racism that has been a part of American culture ever since the United States conquered quite a bit of Mexico, Viet Thanh Nguyen writes in his review. What is Urreas novel but a Mexican-American novel that is also an American novel? American in the broadest possible sense, from the United States of America, north of the border, to Mexico and by implication all of the other countries south of the border that are also American. The novel disrespects borders.THE CADAVER KING AND THE COUNTRY DENTIST: A True Story of Injustice in the American South, by Radley Balko and Tucker Carrington. (PublicAffairs, $28.) Tracing the wrongful convictions of two men in Mississippi in the early 1990s, the authors ask whether problems in our justice system stem from basic incompetence, bald racism or both. Junk science convicted these men; real science set them free, our reviewer, Elie Mystal, writes. The inability of judges and jurors to tell the difference is why innocent men languish in jail while the prosecutors who put them there run for higher office.FAREWELL TO THE HORSE: A Cultural History, by Ulrich Raulff. (Liveright, $35.) Raulff ranges far and wide to tell the story of the complicated relationship between humans and horses  an elegy that is labyrinthine in the varied places it goes, but never frustrating. He layers fact over myth over military anecdote over personal memory over Darwin over Napoleon over Tolstoy over Gehlen until the book resembles an oil painting of outrageous complexity, so thickly laden with paint that it would take years to scrape down to its blank canvas, C. E. Morgan writes in her review. Its a bold play, a kind of intellectual onslaught.  Raulff mostly succeeds and succeeds remarkably.VICTORIOUS CENTURY: The United Kingdom, 1800-1906, by David Cannadine. (Viking, $40.) Any serious scholar of the Victorian Age faces a tricky balance sheet of profit and loss. Cannadines admirable history lucidly records Britains many triumphs at home and abroad, and its many failures as well. Much of the narrative frame concerns high politics, and rightly so, our reviewer, Geoffrey Wheatcroft, writes. A book like this one is particularly valuable in an age when history undergraduates often startle their teachers by their ignorance of basic facts. So its good to be reminded of the personal as well as principled conflicts among some of the towering figures who appear here.SONG OF A CAPTIVE BIRD, by Jasmin Darznik. (Ballantine, $27.)  Inspired by the turbulent life of the Iranian poet Forugh Farrokhzad, who challenged her countrys conservative mores by daring to write verse about female pleasure, Darzniks novel is superbly dramatized, each scene designed to stir up fury and longing. Farrokhzad was defiant, in life and in Darzniks fiction, Dina Nayeri writes in her review. By the 1960s, she had come to represent Irans New Woman. At once loved and hated, she was a literary sensation and an acclaimed filmmaker, who demanded that female desires, expressed in plain language, be given the weight of serious literature. Male poets had been writing breathlessly about women for centuries  why should the reverse be any less palatable?FATAL DISCORD: Erasmus, Luther and the Fight for the Western Mind, by Michael Massing. (Harper, $45.) Last year saw a profusion of books about Martin Luther to mark the 500th anniversary of his posting the 95 Theses. Massing widens the lens wondrously, bringing in Erasmus, the great humanist foe of Luther, and showing how their rivalry set the course for much of Western civilization. Reviewing the book, Rebecca Newberger Goldstein applauds this inspired approach: Massing, a journalist, has produced a sprawling narrative around the rift between the two men, laying out the sociological, political and economic factors that shaped both them and Europes responses to them, and tracing their theological disputes back to the earliest days of Christianity, she writes. Though a massive amount of material is marshaled, Massings journalistic skills keep the story line crisply coherent.THE LAND BETWEEN TWO RIVERS: Writing in an Age of Refugees, by Tom Sleigh. (Graywolf, paper, $16.) In these essays and an accompanying volume of poetry, House of Fact, House of Ruin, Sleigh visits some of the worlds hot zones  Kurdistan, Mogadishu, rural Lebanon  to bear witness. Even people threatened by drought and starvation, he writes, have to get on with their lives. Our reviewer, Tess Taylor, says that Sleigh often explores the hair-trigger balance between culture and chaos to examine precisely this: the enormously fragile ways that even in the face of war or famine people do get on, even while at any moment survival, that most fragile of luxuries, might just as easily end.JOURNEY INTO EUROPE: Islam, Immigration, and Identity, by Akbar Ahmed. (Brookings, $34.99.) Ahmed, a renowned Pakistani scholar and diplomat, gathered a team of researchers to interview Muslims across Europe about their situation. This, I felt, was Europes ticking time bomb, he says. In her review, Atossa Araxia Abrahamian writes: The fundamental message of Journey Into Europe is that throughout history, Islamic and European civilizations have often been not just compatible, but complementary. Its crucial to acknowledge their shared past to reject todays resurgent tribalism.
Here is the March edition of Teenagers in The Times, a roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com. We publish a new edition on the first Friday of each month.As we did last month, weve listed the entries about the activism that has emerged after the Feb. 14 attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla, as a category of their own.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________March for Our Lives, Gun Reform, School Safety and Activism at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High SchoolBeyond Gun Control, Student Marchers Aim to Upend ElectionsWith hundreds of March for Our Lives demonstrations planned, high school students say this is a moment of political awakening for their generation.We Are the Change: Teenagers From Chicagos South Side Stand With Parkland SurvivorsThis video features footage from the event.March for Our Lives Highlights: Students Protesting Guns Say Enough Is Enough\'Hundreds of thousands of protesters, outraged by a recent school shooting, took to the streets in Washington and around the world, calling for action against gun violence.March for Our Lives: Maps of the More Than 800 Protests Around the WorldJust over a month after the Parkland mass school shooting, organizers have planned hundreds of demonstrations calling for stricter gun laws.In Gun Control Marches, Students Led but Adults Provided Key ResourcesThe March for Our Lives demonstrations were triumphs of organic, youthful grass-roots energy, and of sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.Something About Parkland Has Been Different: Survivors From 20 Years of Mass Shootings SpeakWe spoke to survivors of mass shootings and others affected by them about the demonstrations planned for Saturday, March 24.20 Years After the Shooting on the PlaygroundThe writer of this Opinion essay, a survivor of the 1998 attack at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Ark., in which four students and a teacher were fatally shot, says, It was jarring to find a group of survivors  my former classmates  as divided as our country.Advertisers Drop Laura Ingraham After She Taunts Parkland Survivor David HoggMs. Ingraham had apologized for mocking Mr. Hogg over his college rejections. She only apologized after we went after her advertisers, he said. It kind of speaks for itself.Support for Gun Control Seems Strong. But It May Be Softer Than It LooksThe new activists are hoping the old patterns of weak support will change.What the Dreamers Can Teach the Parkland KidsFrom one activist to another: Trust your instincts, study your history and dont read the comments, says this Opinion essay writer.Thank a TeenagerThis Opinion writer states, At times yesterday, the protesting students seemed to be everywhere  on social media, on television, in communities. And they offered a needed jolt of inspiration in a dark political time.National School Walkout: Thousands Protest Against Gun Violence Across the U.S.In a coordinated action, students left their classrooms and sometimes marched in the streets a month after 17 people were killed in a Florida high school.We Stand With the StudentsThe nations adults must listen to the students walking out of their schools Wednesday to protest gun violence, states this editorial.Letting Teenagers LiveThis Opinion essay writer says, Motor vehicle crashes kill more young people than shootings, and the issue is less affected by politics.Mr. Trump, Heres a Teenage Hero; Its Your Turn!A 15-year-old stood up to the Parkland gunman, yet the president wont stand up to the N.R.A., states this Opinion essay.Parkland Students Find Themselves Targets of Lies and Personal AttacksDavid Hogg is not an actor. He was indeed at school that day. Emma Gonzlez did not tear up a copy of the Constitution.Why I Didnt Join My Schools WalkoutThe writer of this Opinion essay states, I am a high school junior, and I shoot guns and hunt. Many of the kids protesting guns right now dont seem to know that much about them.I Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My FriendsThe notion that the Parkland shootings wouldnt have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous, writes a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who as an eighth grader had been assigned to tutor Mr. Cruz through the schools peer counseling program.Brother of Nikolas Cruz Arrested on Trespassing Charge at Stoneman Douglas High SchoolSheriffs deputies stopped Zachary Cruz on Monday afternoon after he rode a skateboard onto the schools property, the authorities said. School officials had told him to stay away.After Parkland, Turning Trauma Into ChangeStudents who survived the attacks at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School discuss the psychological aftermath.7 Times in History When Students Turned to ActivismThe survivors of the Parkland, Fla., high school shooting have surprised many with their public activism. But they are hardly the first students to push the adult world for political change.Arming TeachersIn as many as a dozen states, schools have already taken advantage of laws that allow employees to carry guns. Ohio is one of them.Who Should Be Armed in Florida Schools? Not Teachers, Lawmakers Say. But Maybe Librarians.After a debate on the State Senate floor on Monday, Republican legislative leaders backed off on arming most teachers, but voted to allow others in schools to carry guns.Why We Should Lower the Voting Age to 16Young people ought to have a say in how school shootings are best prevented, states this Opinion essay writer.Power to the ParentsGive kids the franchise  but let their parents exercise it, says the writer of this Opinion essay.School Officer: A Job With Many Roles and One Big ResponsibilitySchool resource officers like the one under scrutiny following the Florida shooting are expected to act as counselors and instructors as well as the first line of defense.Dear National Rifle Association: We Wont Let You Win. From, Teenagers.Our parents did not succeed in ensuring our safety at school. So we must do it ourselves, write the New Jersey high school students who penned this Opinion essay.Art Show Inspired by Parkland Shooting Victims Is ExtendedI had a lot of feelings Ive never had before while painting, Manuel Oliver, the father of a slain student, said.How the Parkland Students Got So Good at Social MediaThe activist students of Stoneman Douglas, where 17 people were killed last month, are social media naturals. But its not entirely true that theyve been tweeting all their lives.How Young Is Too Young for Protest? A National Gun-Violence Walkout Tests SchoolsA coordinated protest on Wednesday at schools across the U.S. has administrators making special plans for students who may not be old enough to handle the subject.With Gun Control Nearing a Dead End, G.O.P. Turns to School SafetyThe House plans to vote on legislation to beef up security at the nations schools, but Democrats accused Republicans of diverting attention from guns.Maryland School Gunman Confronted by Officer Shot Himself, Authorities SayThe St. Marys County Sheriffs Office said Austin Wyatt Rollins fatally shot himself in the head at the same time an officer fired at him.Girl Shot at Maryland School Dies After Being Taken Off Life SupportJaelynn Willey, 16, was shot at Great Mills High School on Tuesday. She died, surrounded by her family._________EducationWhat College Students Really Think About Free SpeechA new study finds that the vast majority of students strongly support free speech but struggle to balance it with their desire for inclusivity.The Ivy League Students Least Likely to Get MarriedAt Princeton, and in the American higher education system as a whole, there remains a strong correlation between marriage and economic class.The Growing College Graduation GapAccording to this Opinion essay writer, More poor students are going to college than in the past. And yet the number who graduate is falling even further behind.Yale Rape Verdict Shows How Yes Means Yes Can Be Murkier in CourtThe acquittal in the case of Saifullah Khan showed how the consent standards that have been adopted at colleges may differ from those that prevail off campus.At Columbia, Revisiting the Revolutionary Students of 1968As the 50th anniversary of the 1968 student takeover approaches, the neglected story of African-American protesters is moving to the center of the story.Its Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakAccording to this Opinion essay as they admit more poor students, colleges need to do a better job of serving them.Stop Asking About My Kids College PlansHave you guys made your list yet? everyone asks. I hate this question. We arent going to college; my daughter is, states this Opinion essay writer.A Problem for High Schools: More Cars, and Nowhere to Park ThemIn wealthy Long Island communities, luxury cars have become a standard gift for teenagers. But most schools do not have the space to accommodate them.Understanding Student MobbistsYounger generations have a different understanding of whats wrong with society and how to fix it, states this Opinion essay writer.Black Kids Dont Want to Read About Harriet Tubman All the TimeThis Opinion essay writer says, They need to see themselves reflected in stories that celebrate everyday beauty.College Republicans Propose an Unusual Idea From the Right: A Carbon TaxGOP strategists said the budding movement reflected a broader shift on social issues that, if it spread, could split the party along generational lines._________Civics, Politics, Economics and BusinessPatriotic Youth Army Takes Russian Kids Back to the FutureThe Youth Army, a recent Kremlin creation, is designed to imprint nationalist fervor, but critics doubt Russia needs a militaristic league for the young.Malala Yousafzai Returns to Pakistan for First Time Since AttackMs. Yousafzai, a Nobel laureate studying at Oxford, met with the prime minister and will visit a school she helped build near her native Swat Valley.Boko Haram Returns Dozens of Schoolgirls Kidnapped in NigeriaThe unexpected return of the girls may turn out to be a major propaganda coup for Boko Haram, although some girls are still missing, and the group warned the girls to never go back to school again.Boko Harams Seizure of 110 Girls Taunts Nigeria, and Its LeaderThe president has often declared the Islamist group defeated, so its latest mass abduction threatens to become a major issue in next years election.Trapped in Russian Mall Fire, Children Said Farewell by PhoneBlocked exits prevented people from escaping the blaze at a mall in Siberia, officials said. At least 64 people were killed, many of them children.Never Again: Fighting Hate in a Changing Germany With Tours of Nazi CampsFerdous is from Afghanistan, Florentina from Kosovo and Damian from Berlin. A German high school class visited Sachsenhausen, where 50,000 are believed to have died during World War II.The Toys They Carried: Syrian Children Under SiegeChildren in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta are finding ways to pass the time in cramped basement shelters. But they are not insulated from the war.The Orphans of Chinas Economic MiracleThis Opinion essay states, Millions of migrants have left their children behind in the villages  sometimes to live with family members, sometimes to fend for themselves.A Young Monk Finds Her CallingIn Japan, a girl turns to her Buddhist faith to help rebuild her village temple destroyed in the tsunami seven years ago.Income Mobility Charts for Girls, Asian-Americans and Other Groups. Or Make Your OwnWatch men and women of any race grow up in the United States.New York Forgets Its Juvenile LifersAccording to this Opinion essay, A new lawsuit challenges the parole boards routine denials, even to those who have served decades and pose little or no safety risk.Why Are Black Students Punished So Often? Minnesota Confronts a National QuandaryThe Trump administration is highlighting the struggles that Minneapolis and St. Paul face with disparities in school discipline, and putting a thumb on the scale.Americans Might No Longer Prefer Sons Over DaughtersNew evidence suggests a shift, possibly because of a subtle fear of boys and the trouble they might bring._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsKarlie Kloss Teaches Teenage Girls How to CodeWhen shes not jet-setting or hanging with Taylor Swift, the 25-year-old model runs a coding boot camp for young women.Are iPhones Bad for Kids?Two new books  Anya Kamenetzs The Art of Screen Time and Naomi Schaefer Rileys Be the Parent, Please  offer advice to anxious parents.Your Kids Phone Is Not Like a CigaretteThis Opinion writer states, We cant fight technology the way we fought Big Tobacco.Take Your Daughter to the Movies, Not to Weight WatchersYour 13-year-old does not need to count points is one point raised in this Opinion essay.Are Todays Teenagers Smarter and Better Than We Think?Childhood health experts have worried about kids raised on cellphones and social media. Student protests gave us a glimpse of the potential of Gen Z.In Swedens Preschools, Boys Learn to Dance and Girls Learn to YellThe state curriculum urges teachers to counteract traditional gender roles, and at one school, girls are encouraged to shout No! and boys run the play kitchen.Finding the Poetry in March MadnessThis Opinion essay writer says, At Loyola, our poetry workshop was energized by our teams win, not overshadowed by it.At 15, Juggling Freshman Year and an International Squash CareerMarina Stefanoni of Darien, Conn., was the youngest player ever to compete in the Tournament of Champions. Having conquered junior events, shes eyeing success in pro events while still in high school.Clarkson, a Tiny Hockey Hotbed, Aims for Two N.C.A.A. TitlesThe womens team won its second national championship in a row and third in five years. Now, the men take their turn.After Historic Victory, U.M.B.C. Students Look Forward to the Next  LabIt wasnt exactly mass hysteria Saturday on the campus that wins chess championships the way Duke collects basketball ones. The model U.N. team is tough, too.I Go to Duke. Do I Have to Care About Basketball?This Opinion essay writer, a senior at Duke University, describes what happened before a basketball game started: I am handed a tip sheet with instructions: Yell "Woo" every time you jump,\' and shout strategically mean things at the correct moments.When College Basketball Teams Invade New York, an Empty Gym Is Hard to FindThe 25 mens college basketball teams competing this week in the Big East and Atlantic Coast Conference tournaments all need places to practice.Suicides, Drug Addiction and High School FootballThe dire existence of young athletes in Madison, Ind.: You just cant believe this is all happening in one small community._________Arts, Media and CultureThe Prom-Like Intensity of High School FolklricoIn the Central Valley in California, students gathered for an event celebrating a storied dance tradition steeped in Mexican culture.On Netflix, a Growing Wave of Shows for and About TeenagersAlexa & Katie and On My Block join a roster that includes 13 Reasons Why, Stranger Things and Everything Sucks.With Rise, a Friday Night Lights for Theater KidsNBCs Rise, isnt Glee and it isnt Fame. The mantra is to always keep it as realistic and honest as possible, said its showrunner, Jason Katims.Does Gay Hollywood Have Room for Queer Kids?This Opinion essay writer states, The unspoken rule of gay cinema and television: Masculine leads only.Finding New Meaning in Mean GirlsThe movie is beloved. But it also pits girls against girls. How, then, do you make a stage musical that satisfies fans and meets our cultural moment?Opening Young Minds With the Arts When Schools Are ClosedHeres a roundup of activities, from Muppet movies to zombie tag, at New York museums during the public school spring break._________
H. Fred Walker stood before his Edinboro University community on a recent snowy day and issued a warning.We have been very insular in that we have not looked beyond the boundaries of Edinboro, the college president told a group of staff and students who had gathered at a meeting in this town tucked away in Northwestern Pennsylvania to hear the details of the colleges strategic plan. When were judged against our peers, its a punch in the eye for us.While it was difficult for many in the room to hear, it was a reality years in the making for Edinboro, a four-year public university with an enrollment of about 6,000 students that is part of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education. In the last decade, enrollment has plummeted, faculty salaries have caused expenses to skyrocket and completion rates have dissipated.No longer is the schools most promising pipeline the average teenager going to college for the first time, but more likely the adult who may need to go back for a second or third. After 160 years as an anchor of rural Pennsylvania, the university is becoming obsolete.Theres a reckoning that has to come, Mr. Walker said in an interview in early March.For Mr. Walker, the reckoning came just a few weeks later. He resigned on March 27 after he enraged faculty and students with comments he made about his reform tactics to the The Chronicle of Higher Education.It is one of the most striking, but not unusual, signs of tumult gripping higher education institutions across the nation as they look for ways to thrive in the next century. Edinboro is among many colleges and universities facing a gloomy picture  painted by polls, politics and population shifts  that are forcing an overhaul of campuses. Amid a growing disillusionment with higher education, thousands of institutions are seeking ways to adapt to a rapidly changing landscape that has been destabilized by skeptics, an impatient work force and a fierce conservative populace streak.For colleges, that means re-examining centuries worth of practice. At Edinboro, that means gone are the days of educating for educations sake.Edinboros provost, Michael J. Hannan, who started as an assistant professor at the university 30 years ago, will lead the school on an interim basis, and he has signaled that he plans to follow the course set by Mr. Walker. I have every confidence that we will address our present challenges, guided by our values and an unwavering commitment to our students, Mr. Hannan wrote in a statement to the school community following Mr. Walkers resignation.Mr. Hannan said the university had been ignoring signs for at least a decade when, even amid a demographic downturn, it was building new dormitories instead of bracing for the market changes. Unfortunately, in our case, there was no concerted, strategic effort and were trying to change that at this point, he said in an interview as provost. I dont know if we thought wed be the exception.In Washington, congressional Republicans have set their sights on the Higher Education Act  the law governing the nations roughly 4,000 colleges and universities  to dismantle what they see as bloated, liberal-leaning bureaucracies that have left 6 million unfilled jobs and over $1 trillion in student debt. Elite institutions like the Ivy Leagues have already experienced the effects of the backlash, after they were targeted with an endowment tax in a sweeping Republican tax bill passed by Congress in December. President Trump has even called for vocational schools to replace community colleges.The efforts are driven in part by a 20-point divide between Democrats and Republicans in their confidence in colleges, shown in the most recent Gallup Poll that assesses attitudes in the country toward higher education. The results are clear: no longer is a college degree the crucible it once was.Too many Americans, particularly working-class Americans, are not sure that the return on investment is as high as it could be anymore, said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of government and public affairs at the American Council on Education. And thats where we have to do a better job.Among both political parties, the chief reasons for losing faith in higher education are a cause for concern. Democrats cite colleges rising costs while Republicans, 58 percent of whom said that college has had a negative impact on society, think colleges are too ideological.The effect of this divide on views of higher education  a pivotal element of the American dream for so many  raises questions about the future of higher education in this country, a Gallup analysis said.That is particularly true for universities like Edinboro, which have thrived on their ability to convince white, working-class families that their limited resources were well spent sending their teenagers to be shaped into the next generation of great thinkers. Now, with shifting demands, Edinboro and other universities are looking at eliminating several programs that have traditionally carried that goal, a move that some call the next war on the liberal arts.This shows the self-referential style of higher education driven by faculty with Ph.D.s is waning, said Mark Schneider, a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute who wrote the study Saving the Liberal Arts with Matthew Sigelman, chief executive of Burning Glass Technologies.All of a sudden, you woke up one day and students were dropping English majors because they want jobs, Mr. Schneider said.Among the programs being cut at Edinboro are degrees in music, geography and a masters in social science. The university will add programs like a master of business administration and a bachelors of science degree in health sciences.Mr. Hannan said the school was sensitive to preserving liberal arts majors  like political science and history  in its review, though some specialties would be discontinued. Without some of those programs, you have to question whether or not you are a university, Mr. Hannan said. But for better or worse, many students are career-minded, and we have to respond to that.The university plans to emphasize co-curricular activities, leadership and life skills, and experiential learning opportunities in its new plan. It will also double the size and budget of its career center.Nationally, Gallup polling shows that colleges have been particularly slow to recognize the demand for work force preparation said Mr. Schneider, pointing to the 16 percent of students who reported using career centers on college campuses, and found them useful.While the evidence of the benefits of higher education has never been more pronounced, the prevalence of stories about the lack of jobs and high student loan debt have put colleges on notice.But it wouldnt be the first time. The demise of colleges and universities has been forecast time and again, Mr. Hartle said. And higher education is often targeted as a culprit of societal misgivings, usually during the most politically divisive eras  they emerged in narratives during the Communist hearings and Vietnam protests.Anything thats been around in the same place, doing the same function for 150 years has shown it can change, Mr. Hartle said. But nobody can be comfortable, and any institution that assumes that past success guarantees the future is being foolish.Besides, higher education is facing a new threat in the business of creating and transmitting information.That keeps Joseph E. Aoun, president of Northeastern University in Boston, up at night. While other presidents in local college towns worry about competing for endowments and enrollment, Mr. Aoun sees another threat: robots.More than the latest polls, he is driven by a 2013 Oxford University Study that predicted that nearly half of the jobs in the United States are at risk of being taken over by computers within the next two decades. We said if robots are going to replace human beings we need to help students to be robot-proof, and we built a strategic plan around that, Mr. Aoun said.That thinking positioned Mr. Aoun on the fringe of higher education strategizing just a few years ago, but he is now called on weekly to advise other institutions on how to help their students outsmart the workers of the future.He calls this strategy humanics  a staple of Northeasterns program that requires computer science majors to take theater classes. The idea is to give students the ability to solve the worlds most pressing problems in a way that robots cannot  with empathy. Or as he puts it: I havent seen a computer that weeps.During his 12-year tenure, Mr. Aoun has essentially turned over the reins of the institution to students and employers. The schools acclaimed cooperative education and career development program, called Co-op, sends more than 90 percent of its students into paying jobs around the world. Students complete two Co-ops, sometimes three, over the course of their college careers, for six months at a time.While other colleges are trying to get their students to use the career center, Northeastern has students in companies in 136 countries and on every continent, including Antarctica. The students are the ones who are in tune with the world, Mr. Aoun said. Theyre bringing the experience to us, and getting us out of our comfort zone.The urban campus is described as having a workaholic vibe, and a running joke is that nobody looks twice at a student walking around campus in a suit. Chaitri Gulati, a third-year student at Northeastern, was drawn to the school because of the Co-op program, and because sitting in class would not just be for the sake of taking examinations and intellectual enrichment.Ms. Gulati, who is studying economics and political science, is at Wellington Managements London office, where she is working with an investment team, and more important, applying theoretical concepts learned in her classes to understanding the investment process. The more such experiences I have, the more I learn what role I wish to play now but also later in life, Ms. Gulati said.Northeastern is not hurting for students: it has posted record application numbers for the past nine years and last fall got 62,000 applications for 2,800 freshman seats. But Mr. Aoun is hoping to meet another demand  what Northeastern calls the lifetime learner. For too long, Mr. Aoun said, lifelong learning had been deemed a second-class operation.A recent poll conducted by Northeastern and Gallup found that only 37 percent of workers said that if they lost their job to a machine they would turn to a college or university for retraining. Mr. Aoun hopes to lure more of those potential students.Where others see a challenge, Mr. Aoun sees an opportunity. Theres a lot of anxiety right now, he said. But I believe were in the golden age of higher education.Edinboro University, on the other hand, is trying to climb out of the Dark Ages. The overhaul will touch virtually every corner of the college, starting with who walks through the door.The school toughened admissions requirements to weed out local students who have traditionally turned to Edinboro as their only education option. It is a painful reality, but so are their outcomes. Though the college has accepted nearly everyone who applied, its enrollment has plummeted nearly 30 percent in the last five years. It has a 38 percent attrition rate, and poor four-year and six-year graduation rates, at 27 percent and 49 percent.The admissions move seems counterproductive, given that it is sure to result in fewer students. Already, Edinboro stands to be among the hardest hit in its region by demographic shifts that will see declining high school graduates and fewer births. But the school has set its sights on a new group of students  specifically, the 100,000 adults who have been identified by a state analysis who are living in the region who have completed some college but not obtained a degree.Marc Sylvester, president of Edinboros faculty union, said the faculty supported key elements of Edinboros plan forward, including raising admission standards and overhauling program offerings.But, Mr. Sylvester said, more important than a plan was for the campus to have faith in the leader implementing it. There are changes that need to be made, he said. And we also need to respect our traditions. Otherwise, were losing our identity. 

