China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in an escalating tariff dispute with President Donald Trump that companies worry might depress global commerce.
Curt Deane says his grandfather would be thrilled to know that a century after his service in World War I, people have not forgotten the heroics of his dog, Stubby.
President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly “dangerous” flow of illegal immigrants.
Companies in Britain face a deadline to publish gender pay gaps, the Fed’s new chairman will speak and the Saudi crown prince wraps up his American tour.
General Ríos Montt began his political career as a reformer but was later found guilty of trying to exterminate a Mayan Indian community.
American commanders have been forced to consider loosening restrictions on access to night-vision devices for Afghan forces, even though they fear the equipment could be lost or sold underground.
Much of rural America will abandon the president if his tariffs incite a crisis for rural businesses.
South Korean exports grew less than expected in March, adding to worries about the outlook for global demand amid growing fears of a U.S-China trade war and a resurgence in protectionism.
U.S. policy toward China has been misdirected for decades and policymakers are now recalibrating ties, Senator Elizabeth Warren told reporters during a visit to Beijing amid heightened trade tensions between the world's two largest economies.
Pope Francis, in his Easter address on Sunday, called for peace in the Holy Land two days after 15 Palestinians were killed on the Israeli-Gaza border, saying the conflict there "does not spare the defenseless".
On Christianity's most joyful day, Pope Francis called for peace in a world marked by war and conflict, "beginning with the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria" and extending to Israel, where 15 Palestinians were killed on the Israeli-Gaza bo...
Mexico's presidential front-runner launches his campaign near the U.S. border on Sunday, amid tension over U.S. President Donald Trump's plan to put a wall between the two countries.
Once a battle zone, the traditional baptism site of Jesus on the Jordan River is surrounded by minefields. An operation is now underway to clear them.
The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools, which was stripped of its power by the Obama Education Department, is pursuing a return under a more for-profit-friendly administration.
Charles H. Rivkin, an assistant secretary of state during the Obama administration, is now the chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America. He takes over in a time of upheaval.
Francis urged “reconciliation” in the Middle East and pressed for “the fruits of dialogue” to help address tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
China has slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as on wine and certain fruits and nuts, in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel, China's finance ministry said.
Chinese Foreign Minister&#160;Wang Yi&#160;said on Sunday China and Vietnam should settle their disputes in the South China Sea through talks and move to jointly exploit its waters.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Former Guatemalan military dictator Efrain Rios Montt, hounded by charges of genocide for decades, died on Sunday aged 91, leaving bitter memories of his bloody stewardship of the Central American nation during its civil war.
The International Criminal Court says authorities in Mali have handed over a jihadist leader for prosecution on war crimes charges.
Queen Elizabeth II has sent congratulations to Britain's Royal Air Force on the 100th anniversary of its founding.
German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas wants to resume dialogue with Russia and gradually improve ties after diplomatic expulsions over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in England that Britain blames on Russia, he said on Sunday. 
President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they're coming to...
Mexico's presidential front-runner launched his campaign close to the U.S. border on Sunday, demanding respect for Mexicans hours after U.S. President Donald Trump again threatened to scrap a key trade pact and erect a wall between the countries.
The Latest on the conflict in Syria (all times local):
An exhibition that reproduces the precious treasures of Mughal art in their original setting in Kabul's Babur Garden opened this weekend, bringing a rare moment of cultural relief to a city pounded by war for decades.
Botswana's new president, sworn in on Sunday as the landlocked country's fifth post-colonial leader, said he would give priority to tackling youth unemployment and diversifying its economy.
Former Guatemalan military dictator Efrain Rios Montt died at the age of 91 on Sunday, a bitterly divisive figure in the country's long civil war who escaped a 2013 genocide conviction only to face renewed charges last year.
The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local):
The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. fought for many issues throughout his life as a minister and the leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, speaking out against various barriers holding back blacks, Hispanics, Asian Americans and Nati...
Israel's defense minister on Sunday rejected international calls for an investigation into deadly violence along Gaza's border with Israel, saying troops acted appropriately and fired only at Palestinian protesters who posed a threat.
Today in History
Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he's glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump's national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."
The couple met in 2010 while both were working for the New Hampshire Democratic Party.
Ms. Ebert, who wrote in secret for most of her life, later rose to queenly prominence within the chivalrous ranks of cowboy poetry.
A senior Republican senator on Sunday warned U.S. President Donald Trump against pulling U.S. troops from Syria, saying it would lead to a resurgence of Islamic State and increased Iranian sway over the Syrian government in Damascus.
The front-running candidate for Mexico's July 1 presidential election formally opened his campaign Sunday in Ciudad Juarez, the border city that launched some of the country's key resistance struggles.
Americans should be able to control their personal information, too.
Must be nice to have a rotation so good that Gerrit Cole is the No. 4 starter.
Tim Cook and Ginni Rometty have recently criticized Facebook. But don’t expect a long lineup of other tech industry leaders to speak out anytime soon.
Milwaukee's bold offseason moves for Christian Yelich and Lorenzo Cain are working quite well so far.
The group in control of the last rebel bastion near Damascus appeared on Sunday to have agreed a deal for its fighters to make peace with the government or quit the eastern Ghouta enclave, Syrian state media said.
Former dictator Efrain Rios Montt, who seized power in a 1982 coup and presided over one of the bloodiest periods of Guatemala's civil war in which soldiers waged a scorched-earth campaign to root out Marxist guerrillas, died Sunday, his lawyers s...
Myanmar's de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi called on Sunday for her people to remain united, saying the Southeast Asian country faces "challenges" at home and abroad, as she marked two years since her party swept to power in a historic vote.
Islamist insurgents battled for hours on Sunday with African Union troops after exploding two car bombs outside one of their bases, Somali police, military and the militants said. 
Every month, subscription streaming services add a new batch of movies and TV shows to their libraries. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April.
The performer Chad Hoopes, who played a borrowed Stradivarius made in 1713 for several years, now owns a violin made by Sam Zygmuntowicz in Brooklyn in 1991.
Steven Spielberg's latest blockbuster topped the domestic box office over the four-day holiday weekend.
President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.
Here’s what you need to know about the week’s top stories.
A rebel faction trapped by government forces outside the Syrian capital agreed to evacuate to northern Syria on Sunday as reports swirled of a larger agreement that would have the government retake full control of the eastern Ghouta region after s...
John Legend steps into the sandals of Jesus. And Benedict Cumberbatch stars in a new movie about grief and loss.
Fifty years after King’s assassination, three television documentaries explore his impact on the nightly news, and King’s more disillusioned final years.
The violence has waned, but a public relations battle has begun over the shooting deaths of 15 Palestinians by Israeli troops at the Gaza border.
The North Korean leader attended a concert by South Korean musicians in Pyongyang on Sunday. After watching one group perform, he called the event a “gift for Pyongyang citizens.”
‘You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on, I asked myself, “Why not 13?”’
The race for the top seed in the Eastern Conference is getting more interesting.
North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un clapped his hands and said he was "deeply moved" as he, along with his wife and hundreds of other citizens, watched a rare performance by South Korean pop stars visiting Pyongyang. The concert highlights the thawi...
Turkey’s government has made the ethnic origins of its citizens available online. The results are shattering the myth of racially pure Turkishness.
An operation to smear a nerve agent on Sergei Skripal’s door handle was so risky, it is unlikely to have been tried without Kremlin approval, British officials investigating the case believe.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.
Steven Spielberg has found his way back to the top of the box office with the action-adventure "Ready Player One," while Tyler Perry has scored again with "Acrimony."
A look at our latest featured couples.
Advocates as well as opponents of gun control, both plotting next steps after the March for Our Lives rally, think their adversaries will eventually tire.
