Lawmakers in Vermont, a place long steeped in hunting culture, on Friday approved a sweeping package of new gun restrictions, making the state all but certain to join Florida in passing a raft of new gun control measures after a teenage gunman killed 17 people last month at a high school in Parkland, Fla.Gov. Phil Scott, a Republican, has vowed to sign the measure. It represents a remarkable departure from the states existing gun laws, which are some of the weakest in the country  and an about-face for Mr. Scott, who decided to consider new gun control measures only after a teenager was accused of plotting a school shooting in Vermont in the days after the violence in Parkland.No state is immune to the risk of extreme violence, Mr. Scott said in a statement on Friday, adding, If we are at a point when our kids are afraid to go to school and parents are afraid to put their kids on a bus, who are we?The bill, which passed the Senate, 17 to 13, on Friday after clearing the House earlier in the week, would raise the minimum age to purchase a gun to 21 and ban bump stocks, which are devices that allow semiautomatic rifles to fire more rapidly. It also contains restrictions that go beyond those in the measure signed in Florida, like an expansion of background checks and a limit on the capacity of magazines that can be sold or possessed in the state.The passage of the bill is likely to be hailed as a victory by activists pushing for tighter gun laws around the nation after the Parkland shootings. It comes less than a week after hundreds of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in protest of mass shootings and gun violence  including 2,500 who squeezed onto the steps of the Capitol in Montpelier.I think the message that most members of the Legislature  not all  took is that public opinion is changing in Vermont, said Eric Davis, an emeritus professor of political science at Middlebury College.Madison Knoop, a college freshman who organized last weekends march in Montpelier, called the bills advancement such a good first start.The day after the Parkland shooting, Mr. Scott, a moderate Republican who has kept his distance from President Trump, said he saw no need for new gun laws  a position in line with years of precedent in Vermont, a rural state with a committed population of hunters.Mr. Scott shifted his stance a day later, after a teenager was arrested and accused of planning a school shooting in Fair Haven, Vt. Everything should be on the table at this point, Mr. Scott said.Lawmakers are expected to approve two more gun control measures next week. One would allow law enforcement officers to remove guns from people considered at risk of harming themselves or others, and the other would allow firearms to be taken from people arrested or cited for domestic assault.Some Democrats joined Republicans in opposing the measures that advanced on Friday. State Senator Dick Sears Jr., a Democrat, expressed deep unease with the ban on high-capacity magazines, which had been included in the House bill.And State Senator John Rodgers, a Democrat representing a rural stretch of northern Vermont, mourned a change in the states culture before he voted against the bill.I think maybe if we pass this bill, maybe it is over, maybe the Vermont I grew up with is over, and its changed, Mr. Rodgers said, according to Vermont Public Radio.On Saturday afternoon, Recoil magazine and Magpul Industries, which makes firearms accessories, were planning to distribute free 30-round magazines at the State House to show their disdain for the expected law. Magazines of that size that are in residents possession before the ban goes into effect would not be subject to the law.Evan Hughes, vice president of the Vermont Federation of Sportsmens Clubs, which was opposed to the legislation, said he would be among the crowd on Saturday.Our legislators, he said, have drastically underestimated the response from the gun-owning community.
MONTPELIER, Vt.   Gun rights supporters protesting gun restriction legislation have gathered outside the Vermont Statehouse to urge the governor not to sign the bill.Police estimate hundreds of protesters turned out Saturday to show their opposition a day after the Vermont legislature passed the gun restrictions package.Protesters were giving away 1,200 30-round magazines. The legislation would ban high-capacity magazines and rapid-fire devices known as bump stocks, in addition to raising the legal age. It also would expand background checks for private gun sales.People who own high-capacity magazines before the law takes effect can keep them.Gun rights advocates also were accepting donations for a fund to challenge the Vermont legislation.Republican Gov. Phil Scott is expected to sign the bill.____This story has been corrected to show the number of magazines is 1,200, not 400.
Most bail bond agents make it their business to get their clients to court. But when Ronald Egana showed up at the criminal courthouse in New Orleans, he was surprised to find that his bondsman wanted to stop him.A bounty hunter was waiting at the courthouse metal detector to intercept Mr. Egana and haul him to the bond company office, he said. The reason: The bondsman wanted to get paid.Mr. Egana ended up in handcuffs, missing his court appearance while the agency got his mother on the phone and demanded more than $1,500 in overdue payments, according to a lawsuit. It was not the first time Mr. Egana had been held captive by the bond company, he said, nor would it be the last. Each time, his friends or family was forced to pay more to get him released, he said.As commercial bail has grown into a $2 billion industry, bond agents have become the payday lenders of the criminal justice world, offering quick relief to desperate customers at high prices. When clients like Mr. Egana cannot afford to pay the bond companys fee to get them out, bond agents simply loan them the money, allowing them to go on a payment plan.But bondsmen have extraordinary powers that most lenders do not. They are supposed to return their clients to jail if they skip court or do something illegal. But some states give them broad latitude to arrest their clients for any reason  or none at all. A credit card company cannot jail someone for missing a payment. A bondsman, in many instances, can.Using that leverage, bond agents can charge steep fees, some of which are illegal, with impunity, according to interviews and a review of court records and complaint data. They can also go far beyond the demands of other creditors by requiring their clients to check in regularly, keep a curfew, allow searches of their car or home at any time, and open their medical, Social Security and phone records to inspection.They keep a close eye on their clients, but in many places, no one is keeping a close eye on them.Its a consumer protection issue, said Judge Lee V. Coffee, a criminal court judge in Memphis. Before recent changes to the rules there, he said, defendants frequently complained of shakedowns in which bondsmen demanded extra payments. Theyre living under a constant daily threat that if you dont bring more money, were going to put you in jail. The pressure, the judge said, would actually encourage people to go out and commit more crimes.Unlike payday lenders, the bail bond industry deals with potential criminals whose very involvement with the law raises questions about their trustworthiness. But in the United States criminal justice system, the Supreme Court has affirmed, liberty before trial is supposed to be the norm, not the exception  the system is intended to allow defendants to stay out of jail.Some bail bond practices have drawn the ire of judges who complain that payment plans are too lenient on people accused of serious crimes, allowing them to get out for just a few hundred dollars or even no money down. Those judges say it should be more difficult for the accused to walk free.Other judges see some bondsmen as trampling the rights of defendants. One judge in Lafayette, La., Jules Edwards III, held in contempt two bondsmen who were brothers for intercepting a defendant on his way to court and sending him, instead, to jail.The judge said the commercial bail industry had put its financial interests above justice and public safety. If hes not in compliance with the contract, sue him. How do you get to snatch his body and hold him hostage? Judge Edwards said in a phone interview.He added that defendants do not have to go with their bondsmen unless there is a warrant out for their arrest, but many of them do not know that. What theyre doing is intimidating and coercing and lying, he said. The brothers declined to comment.In both Mr. Eganas case and this one, the bondsmen would not have been on the hook for the defendants failure to appear, because they diverted the defendants from court dates for unrelated cases, not the ones for which they had bailed them out.The bond agency, Blairs Bail Bonds, stopped Mr. Egana, who had prior felony convictions, from going to court on charges of fleeing an officer, but had bailed him out in June 2016 after he was arrested on charges of possession of marijuana, a firearm and stolen property.Had Mr. Egana been wealthier, he might have been able to post his full bail of $26,000, then gotten it back when he returned for court. But like most defendants, Mr. Egana had to turn to a commercial bail bond agent that charges a nonrefundable fee for the service of guaranteeing the bond.Not only could Mr. Egana not afford the full bail, he could not afford the fee, $3,275. He arranged to pay it in installments. After his release, he said, Blairs informed him that on top of the premium, he would have to pay $10 a day for an ankle monitor, though the judge had not ordered one. Guilty or innocent, Mr. Egana would never see any of that money again. Blairs has denied any wrongdoing in the matter.Some customers feel they have no choice but to pay bond agents fees  no matter how outrageous they seem. When a home health care aide wanted to bail her son out of Rikers Island in New York City, she was charged $1,000 to have a courier walk her money a few blocks to the courthouse.A defendant in a serious domestic violence case in Santa Clara, Calif., suffering from a dangerous heart condition, had to have his ankle monitor removed each time he went to the hospital, and was forced to pay $300 to have it put back on afterward.A woman in Des Moines woke one morning to find that her 2001 Pontiac Grand Prix had been repossessed during the night. Had she put up her car as collateral in a typical loan, she would have been notified that she had fallen behind and given 20 days to pay.But instead, the car was collateral for a bail bond for her childs father. She owed $700 to the bail agents. They not only took the car, but turned the father over to the jail. Ultimately the misdemeanor assault charges against him were dismissed.The bond agents in the Lafayette, New York, Santa Clara and Des Moines cases declined to comment. But Jeffrey J. Clayton, the executive director of the American Bail Coalition, an industry group, said that credit bonds, as the payment plans are called, should be more tightly regulated and require at least a minimum down payment. However, he said, any rules should preserve the benefit to the customer, namely, If you have the ability to pay it, just not right now, you can get out right now.Bond companies fall into a sort of regulatory gulf between criminal courts and state insurance departments, which are supposed to regulate them but seldom impose sanctions. With rare exception, defense lawyers and prosecutors are too busy with their caseloads to keep bond companies in line. Further complicating things, it is often unclear whether consumer protection laws apply, and insurance departments say they lack the resources to investigate complaints.In the case of Mr. Egana, who worked as a carpenter, it did not take long for him to fall behind on his payments. But he thought that since he was routinely showing up to court, he would be fine.He was wrong. The bond company detained him several more times, according to court records. At one point, two men with guns and bulletproof vests came to the home where he was working as a contractor and forced him into a car. Each time, they demanded that his mother pay more money.Jeffrey Orey, a spokesman for Blairs Bail Bonds, while denying any wrongdoing, declined to comment on the specifics of Mr. Eganas lawsuit. He said the company had never charged interest or assessed penalties for late payment. The lawsuit, brought by the Southern Poverty Law Center on behalf of Mr. Egana and alleging violation of consumer lending laws, says Mr. Eganas mother paid at least $5,450  or almost two times the original premium  to keep her son out of jail. Some of her money, the lawsuit says, was applied to older debts that Mr. Egana still owed.It was kidnapping, Mr. Egana said. They saw the love that my mom has for me, and they used that to their advantage.In May, Blairs decided it no longer wanted Mr. Egana as a customer and handed him over to the jail.The use of bail bonds has come under attack in recent years because it keeps the poorest, rather than the most dangerous, defendants behind bars.State after state has taken steps to reduce or eliminate the practice of making that freedom contingent on money. In response, the bond industry has worked to undermine reforms and regulations, arguing that commercial bail is still the most efficient and taxpayer-friendly way to keep the public safe and the courts running smoothly.The bond agent takes a fee in exchange for guaranteeing the amount of the bail on the defendants behalf. But the fee  or premium  usually about 10 percent, is too high for many defendants, the vast majority of whom are poor. So they arrange a payment plan. The debt, paid over weeks or months of installments, can outlast the criminal case.The arrangement can include steep late fees or require signing over collateral worth many times what is owed. And while defendants, or the family members and friends who often shoulder the costs, typically pay no interest as long as their payments are on time, if they go into default they can trigger annual interest rates as high as 30 percent.The use of financial conditions for bail has not always been as widespread as it is today. In 1990, only 24 percent of those released from jail before trial were required to pay. That number soared to almost 50 percent in 2009, the most recent year for which national figures are available. In some jurisdictions, the number is far higher: In New Orleans in 2015, 63 percent of misdemeanor defendants and 87 percent of felony defendants had to pay to be released before trial, according to a study by the Vera Institute of Justice, a nonprofit that seeks to improve the criminal justice system.Commercial bail fees, often scraped together by multiple family members, siphon millions from poor, predominantly African-American and Hispanic communities. Over a five-year span, Maryland families paid more than $256 million in nonrefundable bail premiums, according to a report by the states Office of the Public Defender. More than $75 million of that was paid in cases resolved with no finding of guilt, and the vast majority of it was paid by black families.In 2015, New Orleans families paid $6.4 million in premiums and fees, the Vera Institute of Justice found. In New York City last year, bond companies collected between $16 million and $27 million, a sizable transfer of wealth, noted Scott Stringer, the city comptroller, to the pockets of opportunistic bail bond agents.The poor pay more than the rich: Some bond agencies offer lower rates to those who are union members, hire their own lawyer rather than use a court-appointed one, or put up more valuable collateral.The entire premise on which the commercial bail system is built  that when defendants skip bail, someone must either find them or pay, is somewhat illusory.The image of the industry, encapsulated by Dog the Bounty Hunter chasing down outlaws on television, is one of danger and high stakes.But in most cases where defendants miss court, a bond agent may not have to do anything. Many states allow months for a defendant to be found. In Texas, bond agents have nine months before a felony bail is forfeited. In Colorado, according to the American Bail Coalition, even after a bond is paid, the agent has two years to find the missing defendant and get the money back.With so much time, many defendants will resurface on their own, or be caught during a traffic stop or other law enforcement interaction, without any effort on the bond agents part.In a report last year, government auditors in Utah criticized the long grace periods, saying that more than 70 percent of defendants who skip court show up within a month. Over the course of a year, the auditors found, less than 2 percent of bonds were forfeited.If youre not holding bond companies accountable at every turn, they can wriggle out of a forfeiture, said Alison Filo, a prosecutor in Santa Clara, Calif., where the district attorneys office has begun in recent years to pursue payments from bond agents. Ms. Filo said there were some counties in her state where forfeitures were never collected.The system, though, has worked well for the industry, even attracting private equity investors. Mom-and-pop bail companies are backed by large surety companies, which guarantee the full amount of the bond in exchange for a portion of the premium.Together, the surety companies and the bail bond agents collect about $2 billion a year in revenue, according to an analysis by Color of Change, a nonprofit focused on racial justice, and the American Civil Liberties Union. Bail insurers have shaped the entire industry, as well as the laws they operate under, to safeguard their profits at the expense of peoples lives, said Rashad Robinson, the executive director of Color of Change.While most insurance companies expect losses of up to 50 percent, one surety company, Continental Heritage of Florida, had no losses in its bail division for almost two decades. And an industry giant, AIA Bail Bond Insurance Company, said it underwrote more than $800 million in bonds in 2016. Its losses: zero.In Santa Clara County, Gregory Chiottis daughter had already been convicted and gone to jail when he got a bill from Jakes Bail Bonds for $39,755, along with a notice of foreclosure on his house, which he had put up as collateral on her bond.On paper, Californias bail laws have strong consumer protections, but regulators have grown so frustrated with complaints that they have repeatedly asked lawmakers for more money to police the industry.Under California law, Mr. Chiotti could be charged only the premium for his daughters bond  $5,000  plus any actual, reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by Jakes.But Jakes claimed that Mr. Chiotti owed something called a recovery cost percentage of $19,500 and $4,425 for unspecified equipment, among other fees, according to an investigative report. To prevent the sale of his house, Mr. Chiotti, then 69, cashed out savings and forked over nearly $40,000.He thought that was the end of the matter, but Jakes never released the lien on his property. Six years later, in 2015, he got a second notice of foreclosure. This time the bondsman, Jacob Garcia Peters, said he owed $117,500.At the time, Santa Clara County had begun a rare effort to prosecute unscrupulous bondsmen, and Mr. Peters was charged with attempted extortion. During the investigation, court records show, Mr. Peters acknowledged that the bonds had been cleared by the court and he had never been required to pay. But according to the file, Mr. Peters said the daughter, who had missed at least one court appearance, had breached the contract, so Mr. Chiotti was liable for the money anyway.Though California law appears to be quite clear about what bond agents can charge, a review of more than 100 bail contracts and legal documents by the criminal justice reform clinic at the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law found that such protections were routinely ignored. The contracts included all manner of additional costs, including late fees, interest on delinquent balances and renewal premiums that required the defendant to pay again to stay out of jail if the case was not resolved within a year.Unlike in most states, bondsmen in California must return the premium to customers if they surrender them to jail, unless they can demonstrate that their risk level substantially increased. A new arrest for a lesser crime does not constitute increased risk, the law says. But one contract said that if the defendant moved without prior written notice or was arrested for any new offense, his premium would not be repaid. In another, defendants could be returned to jail without a refund if they did anything to suggest that they might forfeit the bond.California contracts are hardly outliers. Until recently, Maryland bond contracts allowed an automatic financial judgment against a client if the bondsman claimed they had missed a payment. Such provisions, known as confession of judgment clauses, are typically forbidden in consumer contracts because they are considered unfair and deprive borrowers of the chance to contest the debt. Under a Beaumont, Tex., contract, one late payment could mean jail.In New Orleans, the Southern Poverty Law Center has complained to state regulators that bondsmen routinely charge more than is allowed by law. In phone calls placed by The New York Times, several bail bond companies quoted prices that exceeded what is allowable under state law by a few hundred dollars. When asked, they said the extra money was a lock-up fee paid to the jail. But there is no such fee.In one San Francisco case, according to a court filing, a defendant named Juan Contreras claimed he made more than 20 court appearances on a felony domestic violence charge and paid some $20,000 to his bond agency, but was returned to custody when he did not answer the bond agents calls.Between 2010 and 2015 in California, the number of bail complaints to the Department of Insurance nearly quadrupled and became more serious, the department said, with common grievances including kidnapping and false imprisonment for purposes of extortion, forged property liens and death certificates, and theft or embezzlement of collateral.Complaints about bail bond agents have flooded into insurance regulators across the country, but rarely result in meaningful punishment.Part of the problem, regulators say, is that they are outmatched and do not have the resources to investigate abuses. The California insurance commissioner, Dave Jones, said he had twice tried to get a law passed to pay for bail investigations, but both times it was defeated after lobbying by the bond industry.Mr. Clayton of the American Bail Coalition said bond agents objected because the department had over-criminalized the insurance code, pursuing violations as felony cases rather than focusing on revoking licenses.In Mr. Chiottis case, a criminal court judge dismissed the charges against Mr. Peters, the bondsman, saying the evidence did not show attempted extortion. A lawyer for Mr. Peters declined to comment. Mr. Peters reached a confidential settlement with Mr. Chiotti and surrendered his bail license.It is not hard to find people whose entire lives have been upended by the bail bond industry. Some defendants wind up in jail for no offense other than falling behind on their bail payments. Others decide to plead guilty to crimes that they did not commit just to escape from the financial demands of their bondsman.Frankie Bells troubles began last January in New Orleans, when she was charged with misdemeanor domestic abuse after getting into a squabble with her boyfriend. Ms. Bell, 26, had no criminal record. With help from her uncle, she was able to pay the $1,500 premium. But the bond company, citing the fact that she had a Texas drivers license, required her to wear an ankle monitor  at a cost of $300 a month.It took less than two weeks for Ms. Bell, who is mentally impaired and lives on $700 a month in disability payments, to fall behind. Almost immediately, the calls from her bail bond company began, she said. They would threaten to put me back in jail, she said. They said they would send the police to my house, arrest me and throw me into a cell.Ms. Bell said she tried panhandling on the street, begging her friends for money, and letting other bills slide. Still, by the time she appeared in court in April, she was $800 behind. Ms. Bell had maintained her innocence from the start, but faced a stark decision: plead guilty in a deal that spared her any jail time, or risk being locked up before trial for failing to pay the bond agent. I dont want people to think of me as a criminal, she said, but I just wanted it all to end.Often, even pleading guilty is not enough to get free of the bond agents power, since defendants may still owe money. Christopher Franklin pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor assault charge in February 2017. He had paid his bondsman, Rodney Sawyers, more than $4,000, and owed only $300 more.But about a week later, Mr. Franklin said, Mr. Sawyers showed up at his house in Charlotte, N.C., in the middle of the night, pounding on the front door.Mr. Franklin stumbled to answer, disoriented and groggy. Mr. Sawyers muscled his way in, Mr. Franklin said, handcuffed him and drove him to jail.Mr. Sawyers did not respond to requests for comment.Mr. Franklins public defender in the case, Eli Timberg, said he has routinely had clients returned to jail for not paying their bondsmen, but Mr. Franklins case stood out. There were no active charges, Mr. Timberg said. No bond out for him. It was unbelievable.Even the jail staff seemed perplexed when Mr. Franklin arrived, he said, since his case was no longer pending. After five hours, he was released.
CLEVELAND   A man viewed as a local superhero with a matching car collection and a penchant for completing daring feats for charity is under investigation for his alleged involvement in a multi-million dollar Medicaid fraud scheme at his two Ohio substance abuse treatment centers.A forfeiture complaint filed last week by the U.S. Attorney\'s Office in Cleveland seeks to keep around $3.5 million in assets from 38-year-old Ryan Sheridan, whose Braking Point Recovery Services operated centers in suburban Youngstown and suburban Columbus.The complaint says the forfeitures are "traceable" to federal health care fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and money laundering. Justin Herdman, the U.S. attorney for northern Ohio, said Sheridan "ripped off taxpayers.""This case underscores that health care fraud is big business and a serious crime, particularly at a time when more resources are being devoted to drug treatment," Herdman said.No criminal charges have been filed against Sheridan or anyone associated with Braking Point. Sheridan\'s attorney did not respond to repeated messages seeking comment.The complaint says Braking Point submitted nearly 135,000 claims seeking $48 million in reimbursements from May 2015 until the FBI and other agencies shut down the centers during raids in October 2017. Ohio\'s Medicaid agency paid Braking Point $31 million for those claims.Investigators also searched the homes of Sheridan and his ex-wife, who submitted Medicaid claims for Braking Point. The complaint said the investigation began in December 2016.The U.S. Attorney\'s Office wants Sheridan to forfeit $2.2 million in a now-frozen bank account, $327,000 from a brokerage account and $390,000 in bundled cash found in a basement gun safe at Sheridan\'s home in Columbiana County.The complaint asks that Sheridan also forfeit his car collection, which includes a replica Batmobile that Sheridan bought for $160,000 and a replica of the "Ghostbusters" hearse he bought for $145,000.According to the complaint, Braking Point billed Medicaid for treatment services that weren\'t properly documented and that Sheridan and others pressured employees to submit bills to inflate the amount of time it took to render services to patients. Nurses were told to record that it took at least five minutes for any activity, including handing out ibuprofen, the complaint said.Medicaid is a health care benefit provided to low-income families and individuals. The federal government covers 62 percent of the cost for Ohio\'s program, which is administered by the Ohio Department of Medicaid.Substance abuse treatment centers have opened in recent years throughout Ohio, which is among the states hardest hit by the opioid crisis. Braking Point only accepted patients who qualified for Medicaid.A small group of employees rallied in support of Sheridan outside one center location after the October raids. Yet most of the improper practice allegations came from employees.The complaint details numerous ethical problems with how the centers operated, including employees dispensing drugs to help people manage their withdrawal symptoms without authorization. People admitted to the Austintown Township center\'s detox facility sometimes had to wait days before seeing a doctor, according to the complaint.Sheridan became a minor celebrity in Youngstown, a community still recovering from the decades-old loss of steel plants and manufacturing. News outlets featured him in stories about his feats of daring-do and efforts to raise money for local organizations. The "Ghostbusters" hearse was featured in a Youngstown Christmas Parade. He\'d drive his Batmobile to local events dressed as the Caped Crusader.Sheridan climbed Mount Kilimanjaro and ran with the bulls in Pamplona, Spain, last year to raise money for Youngstown State University\'s Rich Center for Autism."He has been generous and supportive of many local charities," Bergen Giordani, development director at the Rich Center, told The Associated Press.Sheridan incorporated Braking Point in January 2015. The complaint said he previously worked at an intervention program for people convicted for driving under the influence. His application to become a Medicaid provider in Ohio included information about convictions for drug possession, operating a vehicle while impaired, menacing and domestic violence between 1998 and 2003, the complaint said.Sheridan applied to the state to open a second treatment center in Whitehall in Franklin County in late 2016. The center was managed and co-owned by Tom Dailey, who was found dead at a northeast Ohio motel in July 2017 after overdosing on a mix of heroin, fentanyl and cocaine.___Mark Gillispie can be reached on Twitter at https://twitter.com/MarkGillispie1.
BEIRUT, Lebanon  When pro-government forces retook her hometown from Syrian rebels, Nisrine accepted the same surrender deal the government has offered tens of thousands of Syrians: a one-way bus trip to a place she had never been  the northern, rebel-held province of Idlib.Since Syrias war began, the population of Idlib has doubled as it has taken in a motley mix of fleeing civilians, defeated rebels, hard-line jihadists and those like Nisrine who have packed up their families to ride the government surrender bus.But as government forces wrap up a blistering campaign in eastern Ghouta, Idlib is likely to be the next target. And this time, there will be nowhere else to run.Maybe this is the last chapter of the revolution, Nisrine, 36, an Arabic teacher from the onetime tourist resort of Madaya, said in an online interview recently. Syrians are killing Syrians. Nothing matters anymore. We decided to die standing up. Im sad for the revolution, how its gone, how people called for freedom and now its gone.Idlib, a small, conservative province on the Turkish border, is Syrias largest remaining rebel-held area. One of the earliest regions to revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, it may be the place where the revolution that began more than seven years ago finally ends.The government has carried out scorched-earth airstrikes there with its ally, Russia, routinely hitting hospitals and clinics, schools and neighborhood markets.But people are still coming.In recent days, more than 10,000 fighters and civilians have been bused to Idlib from surrendering sections of eastern Ghouta. They arrive traumatized, exhausted and disillusioned, often with children suffering from malnutrition after years of siege.The government has treated the province as a dumping ground for those it does not want in its territory, and paints the province as a nest of jihadists. But the vast majority in Idlib are civilians, including nonviolent activists who could face arrest and torture if they remained in government areas and who often push back against hard-liners in the province they believe have co-opted the revolt.Marwan Habaq, who survived the barrages in eastern Ghouta in a basement with his wife and infant daughter Yasmina, is taking them to Idlib. It is a tough choice because, as they have no place to live in Idlib, they will have to leave his wifes parents behind and they will face more shelling. But if they stay, he is sure he will be arrested or forced into military service.Two bitter options, he said. Leaving to the unknown, or staying within Assads hands.But the move only delays the inevitable.Its a shame on the world, said Mehran Ouyoun, a member of the opposition council in exile for the Damascus suburbs, which meets in Turkey. If you approve the war crime of forced evacuation, at least make sure these people dont suffer again and again.Idlib was once controlled by a patchwork of clashing insurgents, some led by American-backed army defectors calling for a civil state. Others, including an Al Qaeda affiliate, welcomed foreign fighters and espoused a spectrum of Islamist ideologies. But hard-liners have seized the upper hand, playing into the governments portrayal of the region even as they create tensions with residents who oppose them.As they struggle to survive, many residents are caught between government attacks from the sky and the overbearing rule of extremist factions that dominate on the ground.Nisrine joined the revolution at the outset in 2011, pushing for a secular, civil democracy. Like a dozen other Idlib residents interviewed for this article by phone and email, she asked not to be fully identified for fear of retribution from any side.She boarded a bus for Idlib last year after surviving a year of siege and bombardment, hoping that her son Abdullah, 10, would not starve to death like some children had in her town, Madaya. At first, she was excited to be reunited with her husband, a former law student and rebel fighter who had gone to Idlib two years earlier.She did not regret leaving Madaya. After the government takeover there, her brother and brothers-in-law were drafted and sent to the front with minimal training. They died in battle.But Nisrine was troubled by Idlib Citys ubiquitous jihadist billboards, face veils and cafes segregating women and banning them from smoking water pipes. When she wears her usual head scarf and modest coat, religious enforcers lecture her for not veiling her face.One ultrareligious neighbor spoke constantly of fighting Shiites, never about building a new country. Eventually Nisrine lost her temper.Why did you climb on the revolutions back? she recalled asking the woman. I didnt join the revolution to see this.Her husband, who had been a rebel fighter back in Madaya, also struggled to find a way to keep fighting for a cause he believed in. After briefly joining two of Idlibs main Islamist factions, he quit to become a paralegal.They considered me an infidel, he said of the factions, and I considered them extremists.But the episode that shocked Nisrine most was the day her son, after a few months playing with other children in Idlib, announced: I want to join the jihad.Horrified, Nisrine decided to set up educational alternatives and start campaigning quietly against the recruitment of children into hard-line religious schools and rebel factions.She also helped open a chapter of an organization that provides psychological support and cultural activities.Umm Abdo, 36, a philosophy professor from Syrias largest city, Aleppo, takes a more confrontational approach. She fled to Idlib in 2014 for fear she would be arrested after government forces detained her husband.I dont stay silent, she said. Im not afraid of death. Welcome, death!She said she does not leave home without a gun.She could not find work in Idlibs university; Philosophy had been banned as polytheism. So she became a traditional healer, treating mostly women, and found that their already limited freedoms had contracted further under the hard-liners who control Idlib.She heard from students brainwashed into calling their parents infidels, teenage girls sold into marriage. One woman arrived unable to speak. It turned out her husband had badly beaten her after she caught him cheating.With a degree in Islamic law, she started defending underdogs in Islamic court. She helped farmers defeat attempts by the factions to take away their lands. She won a divorce for a woman whose father had sold her to a foreign fighter who raped and beat her.When we decided to revolt, it was against oppression, she said. But today were facing the worst oppression.Life in conservative Idlib poses challenges for everyone from relatively cosmopolitan Damascus, but especially for single women.Rima, a former political prisoner from Madaya, arrived in Idlib divorced with no local family ties or male relatives to protect her. Few landlords would rent to a single woman and one evicted her when she refused his advances.Even taxi drivers ask: Why are you single? Why dont you have brothers? she said.Recently local authorities in Idlib City announced single women would have to live in special camps.For Rima, the problem was solved when she got engaged. The catch: Her fianc wants her to veil her face.I will, she said, not because Im convinced, but because I love him.Fitting in remains a challenge, but there are few options.Idlib wasnt the best choice, she said. It was the only choice.

EDINBURGH   Britain said on Saturday it was routine for border officials to search aircraft, after Russia said Moscow would demand an official explanation why a Russian Aeroflot passenger plane was searched at London\'s Heathrow airport on Friday."It is routine for Border Force to search aircraft to protect the UK from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country," Security Minister Ben Wallace said in a statement.Once these checks were carried out the plane was allowed to carry on with its onward journey.(Writing by Elisabeth O\'Leary; Editing by Alison Williams)
NEWPORT NEWS, Va.   A prosecutor in Virginia has ruled that a police officer was justified in fatally shooting an armed man who took several people hostage inside a bar last year.The Daily Press reports Newport News Commonwealth\'s Attorney Howard Gwynn issued a report after investigating the April 2017 shooting of Caleb "C.J." Jackson Jr.It says Jackson began acting erratically at the bar after hours, at one point taking out a pistol and waving it around. Then he fired several rounds, striking an employee.Officers broke down the locked front door and barged in.The report says, Sgt. Perry A. Bartels saw Jackson face him and raise a gun to his waist. Bartels fired three shots, striking and killing Jackson.Jackson died at the scene. The employee who was shot survived.___Information from: Daily Press, http://www.dailypress.com/
Rocker Ted Nugent says the Florida students calling for gun control have "no soul" and are "mushy brained children."The 69-year-old made the comments Friday while defending the National Rifle Association as a guest on the Joe Pags show, a nationally syndicated conservative radio program.Nugent, a longtime member of the NRA\'s board of directors, said survivors of the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School are wrong to blame the NRA and its members for mass shootings."These poor children, I\'m afraid to say, it hurts me to say, but the evidence is irrefutable: They have no soul," Nugent said. He added that the gun control measures the students support amount to "spiritual suicide" and "will cause more death and mayhem."A representative for Nugent did not respond to a request for comment on Saturday.Some Parkland students responded on social media and demanded an apology."If only he saw all the tears. If only he had to look into the eyes I\'ve looked into. If only he saw what this did to all of us," junior Cameron Kasky said on Twitter. "And here the NRA is, receiving more fear-based donations than ever. Talk about \'no soul.\' This guy better apologize. Seriously."Senior Kyra Parrow said it\'s funny that the NRA rails against bullying while Nugent was "being a 5 year old acting like a bully" to her and her classmates.Nugent made the comments the same day several advertisers dropped Fox News personality Laura Ingraham after she mocked a survivor of the Parkland shooting online.Ingraham said Friday she will take a weeklong "Easter break" with her children while guest hosts fill in on her show, "The Ingraham Angle."She drew backlash Wednesday when she shared an article on Twitter saying student David Hogg had been rejected by four colleges and was whining about it. She later apologized and said Hogg should be proud of his grades.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   The family of Stephon Clark joined hundreds at a rally Saturday, urging California\'s capital city not to let his memory or calls for police reform fade nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old unarmed black man was killed by Sacramento officers.Clark\'s fiancee, Salena Manni, stood on stage with his two young sons, grandmother and uncle for the gathering organized by Sacramento native and former NBA player Matt Barnes, who pledged to create a scholarship fund for the children of black men killed by police."All he wanted to do was go see his sons again, and unfortunately he can\'t," Curtis Gordon, Clark\'s uncle, said as he recalled seeing his nephew hours before the shooting. "So remember that  while we mourn, while we shout, while we cry  because it ain\'t just our pain, it\'s their pain."Barnes amplified calls for charges against the two officers who are on administrative leave."It\'s more than color  it comes down to right and wrong," he said. "You\'re trying to tell me I can kill someone and get a paid vacation?"The peaceful demonstration that drew between 200 and 300 people to a downtown park came a day after a private autopsy released by the family showed Clark was shot from behind.Clark was killed March 18 by two police officers responding to a call of someone breaking into car windows. They yelled that he had a gun before shooting, but it was only a cellphone. The police department says it has not received an official autopsy report from the county coroner\'s office.Activists and faith leaders called for justice not just for Clark, but for all black men killed by police. Family members of Joseph Mann, who was killed by Sacramento police in 2016, also spoke. The chairman of a police oversight commission urged attendees to continue their activism by showing up to meetings and pushing for systemic change.Community leaders urged the city to set a national example."This little small town can show this nation our great big heart," the Rev. Kevin Ross said.The night before, several hundred protesters marched through downtown streets for nearly four hours, with Black Lives Matter Sacramento leaders diffusing tensions on several occasions to keep the march peaceful.About 150 people attended another vigil and protest Saturday night outside a sheriff\'s department office. It was the latest disruptive but mostly peaceful demonstration since Clark was killed.Protesters have twice blocked fans from entering games involving the NBA\'s Sacramento Kings at a downtown arena, but there were no signs of trouble amid a big police presence at a game Saturday night against the Golden State Warriors.The Friday release of the private autopsy commissioned by Clark\'s family has prompted fresh outrage. Pathologist Dr. Bennet Omalu, known for his study of a degenerative brain condition in football players, announced that Clark was hit by eight bullets  six in the back, one in the neck and one in the thigh  and took three to 10 minutes to die. Police waited about five minutes before rendering medical aid.Omalu said the proposition that Clark was assailing the officers, meaning he was facing them, is "inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence." He said it was unclear if Clark would have survived had he gotten immediate medical attention.A day after the shooting, police distributed a news release that said the officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands."Police video of the shooting doesn\'t clearly capture all that happened after Clark ran into his grandmother\'s backyard. Clark initially moved toward the officers, who were peeking out from behind a corner of the house, but it\'s unclear if he was facing them or knew they were there when they opened fire after shouting "gun, gun, gun."After 20 shots, officers called to him, apparently believing he might still be alive and armed. They eventually approached and found no gun, just a cellphone.Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, called Clark\'s death tragic and said it "raises a number of very serious questions." He said he supports the state attorney general\'s independent oversight of the investigation.___Associated Press reporters Sophia Bollag and Don Thompson in Sacramento and John Antczak in Los Angeles contributed to this story.
BATON ROUGE, La.   Kept under wraps for nearly two years, body camera footage of a policeman killing Alton Sterling shows the officer threatening to shoot the man and screaming profanities before firing the fatal shots that stoked protests across the nation.The videos, released Friday as Baton Rouge\'s police chief announced the firing of the white officer who shot Sterling six times, came days after the state attorney general declined to bring criminal charges against the two officers involved in the incident.The tapes show a police encounter that rapidly turned violent, descending into death threats, a football-style tackle and finally, the killing of a 37-year black man who was selling homemade CDs outside a convenience store in Louisiana\'s capital city.Two cellphone videos of the incident quickly spread on social media after the shooting, but the new footage show the clearest and most complete picture of what happened that night.In July 2016, Officers Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II approached Sterling in the parking lot of the Triple S Food Mart and ordered him to put his hands on the hood of a nearby car.As Sterling asks what he has done, the situation breaks down."Put your hands on the car or I\'m going to shoot you in your (expletive) head," an officer, apparently Salamoni, is heard saying. A gun is pointed at the back of Sterling\'s head as the officer\'s orders rise into a shout.When Sterling complains that the officers are hurting him, one officer tells the other to use a Taser on him and an electric buzzing can then be heard. The officer said to be Salamoni then runs at Sterling, tackling him as the camera footage blurs with motion.As the men are on the ground, someone yells "he\'s got a gun." Shots ring out. Salamoni had fired six bullets into Sterling.The officers recovered a loaded revolver from Sterling\'s pocket. As a convicted felon, Sterling could not legally carry a gun.L. Chris Stewart, an attorney representing two of Sterling\'s children, said the newly released video footage shows a "truth" experienced by many black men during encounters police officers."What that truth is, is the silent complaint  or the loud one  of every black person in the inner city who has to deal with an officer like Blane Salamoni," he said. "You can clearly see there was no value placed on Alton Sterling\'s life by Blane Salamoni."The video then shows Sterling lying in the parking lot, blood pooling on his chest, his arms moving slightly. As more police begin to arrive, the officer said to be Salamoni asks them to start roping off the area but tells them to leave Sterling where he lies. The officer is heard in the footage calling Sterling stupid.Salamoni\'s attorney, John McLindon, said he will appeal his client\'s firing to a civil service board. McLindon said he didn\'t think Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul gave his client a fair hearing during a closed-door meeting Thursday night."He did what he was trained to do," McLindon said of his client.Salamoni told an internal affairs investigator in September 2016 that he cursed at Sterling to send a message that the officers weren\'t "playing," according to a report released Friday. Salamoni also said he saw Sterling reach for and hold a gun in his pants pocket right before he shot him during their struggle on the ground.Trying to explain why he swore at Sterling after the shooting, Salamoni said "he was so mad at Sterling for making him kill him and for trying to kill us," the report says.Lake, who did not fire his gun but helped wrestle Sterling to the ground, was suspended for three days. Lake\'s attorney, Kyle Kershaw, said his client wants to return to his patrol job in Baton Rouge after his brief suspension.The police chief said he fired Salamoni for violating department policies on use of force and "command of temper." He suspended Lake for violating only the latter policy. The pair had been on paid administrative leave since the shooting.The Justice Department ruled out federal criminal charges last May.For nearly two years, Sterling\'s family and many other Baton Rouge residents have called on authorities to release all of the video footage of the shooting. The shock of finally seeing and hearing it overwhelmed Andrika Williams, the mother of three of Sterling\'s children. Williams told her attorney, Michael Adams, that she had an anxiety attack and collapsed when she saw one of the newly released videos in a friend\'s social media post as she walking in her neighborhood Friday evening."Every time they see this footage, they relive this. It\'s horrible to watch," Adams said.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.   A white North Carolina police officer shot and killed a black passenger who refused orders not to reach for a gun after a late-night traffic stop led to a physical struggle, authorities said Saturday.The shooting happened after Officer D.E. McGuire stopped a car containing two men and a woman about 10:30 p.m. Friday during a routine patrol northeast of downtown, according to a Winston-Salem Police Department news release.Edward Van McCrae, 60, was in the rear seat and began making suspicious movements, police say. McGuire told McCrae to stop reaching for concealed areas of the vehicle, but McCrae continued, according to the news release."After being removed from the vehicle, Mr. McCrae physically struggled with Officer McGuire and refused multiple verbal commands by Officer McGuire to \'stop reaching,\'" the news release said. "As the struggle continued, a handgun became visible to Officer McGuire."McGuire shot and killed McCrae when he refused commands not to reach for the gun, according to the release. A police report characterizes the exchange as an assault on the officer with a firearm.The State Bureau of Investigation has been brought in to investigate the shooting, which happened in a residential area of modest homes. A spokesman for the state agency, Brent Culbertson, confirmed in an email that McGuire is white and McCrae was black.McGuire, who has worked for the department since 2015, has been put on administrative duty pending the investigation.The news release said that McCrae used his body camera from the beginning of the traffic stop, and he called for backup when he saw McCrae\'s suspicious movements. State law typically requires a judge to sign off on any public release of police body-camera footage.Other officers arrived within seconds of the shooting and attempted to resuscitate McCrae, as did an emergency medical crew, according to authorities. He was pronounced dead at the scene. The other occupants of the car weren\'t injured.Police said that McGuire had minor abrasions after the altercation.A woman who lives near the scene of the shooting, Delphine Bias, told WGHP-TV that she heard gunshots before walking to her window to see McCrae lying on the ground."I heard about four or five shots, \'Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow!\'" she said. "So when I jumped up to run to see what was going on, I saw a gentleman laying over there on the street."
NEW YORK   A man who killed 10 people in 1984 in one of New York City\'s most notorious massacres has been released from prison.The New York Times reports that Christopher Thomas was released in January from Shawangunk Correctional Facility in Wallkill, New York.Thomas killed eight children and two women in a crime known as the Palm Sunday Massacre. The sole survivor was a 13-month-old girl named Christina Rivera.One of the first police officers to arrive at the massacre scene in Brooklyn, Joanne Jaffe, cared for the toddler that night and later helped raise her.Jaffe rose to become the highest-ranking female police chief in the New York Police Department before retiring this year.She told the Times she hopes Thomas is rehabilitated "and doesn\'t hurt anyone else."Retired Lt. Herbert Hohmann, who led the investigation, told the New York Post that Thomas "doesn\'t deserve to be out on the street."The now 68-year-old Thomas was convicted of manslaughter in 1985. Some jurors said at the time that they had convicted him of manslaughter, not murder, because Thomas\' heavy cocaine use was a factor in the crimes.State law capped Thomas\' sentence at 50 years. Prison officials said that with time off for good behavior, he was eligible for release after serving two-thirds of that time.
Gov. Jerry Brown of California on Friday pardoned five ex-convicts facing possible deportation, drawing criticism from President Trump and heightening continued tensions between Washington and California.The  five immigrants were among 56 pardons and 14 commutations Mr. Brown granted on Friday  Good Friday and the start of Passover  to those who have been out of custody for at least 10 years and have exhibited exemplary behavior after their convictions, the governors press office said.They included a United States military veteran, Sokha Chhan, a refugee from Cambodia who served nearly a year in jail for the misdemeanors of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or cohabitant and threatening a crime with the intent to terrorize. Phann Pheach, another Cambodian refugee who was pardoned, served six months for possession of a controlled substance for sale and obstructing a police officer.Mr. Brown also granted pardons to Daniel Maher, who spent five years in prison after being convicted of kidnapping, robbery and using a firearm, and who is now the director of a recycling program in Berkeley, Calif.; Sergio Mena, who was sentenced in 2003 and put on probation for three years for possession of a controlled substance for sale; and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz, who served five months for vehicle theft.On Saturday morning Mr. Trump tweeted a list of crimes that he linked to the five who were pardoned and asked, Is this really what the great people of California want?It was the latest discord between Mr. Trump and leaders in California, where lawmakers have been actively seeking to disrupt Mr. Trumps policies  not only by passing immigration laws that run counter to the administrations agenda, but also by expanding environmental protections, raising gasoline taxes to pay for highway construction, and resisting moves to weaken rules for greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards for automobiles.We will definitely not sit by idly as the Trump administration tries to deport immigrants, throw people off health care, ignore climate change and steal our water, State Senator Scott Wiener, a Democrat, said in January. Its about playing defense to whatever the administration throws at us  but also offense in terms of continuing Californias push for progressive social change.On Friday, the same day Mr. Brown announced the pardons, Mr. Trump declared April Second Chance Month, highlighting the need for ex-convicts to get an opportunity to become contributing members of society.I am committed to advancing reform efforts to prevent crime, improve re-entry and reduce recidivism, Mr. Trump said in a news release.Mr. Brown, who is serving the final 12 months of his second stint as governor, has granted 1,115 pardons and 51 commutations since taking office in 2011, Evan Westrup, the governors press secretary said on Saturday. It amounts to far more than his recent predecessors.Some of these cases involved immigrants who faced deportation or who had already been deported. An exact breakdown was not immediately available.In December, Mr. Brown pardoned two men who came to the United States as children, after their families fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia, and who were scheduled to be deported for their crimes, The Sacramento Bee reported. Last year, he pardoned three veterans who had been deported to Mexico and in 2015, he pardoned a man who was fighting deportation after serving two decades for burglary and kidnapping, among other crimes.For ex-convict immigrants, deportation is a severe punishment that is often unwarranted, said Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights, which seeks to change Californias laws to help immigrants avoid deportation.We believe that deportation is an enhancement to their sentences that goes way too far, she said. Theyve actually paid their debt to society.Immigration law is so punitive, that it just does not forgive, she added. Most judges, their hands are tied behind their back, she said, and the inability to have any discretion promotes large-scale deportation.Mr. Trump visited California in mid-March to inspect border wall prototypes designed to keep out undocumented immigrants. The trip came one week after Attorney General Jeff Sessions sued the state over three new immigration laws he called unconstitutional, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to deport criminals who were born outside the United States.Mr. Brown, a Democrat, said at the time that Mr. Sessions was basically going to war with California.In Mr. Trumps weekly address on Saturday he took another swipe at California, blaming so-called sanctuary cities for the opioid epidemic, and referring to California as a sanctuary state that has become a hub for transporting heroin across the southern border. He also admonished Oaklands mayor for helping criminal aliens elude the authorities because of the citys dangerous sanctuary policies.Sanctuary cities put innocent Americans at the mercy of hardened criminals and heartless drug dealers, Mr. Trump added. These are bad people.That argument  that immigrants bring crime to America  has influenced many of the Trump administrations policies on immigration. Studies have shown, however, that immigration does not drive crime. According to one recent analysis, a large-scale collaboration by four universities, the areas with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980.The data is crystal clear that immigrants do not lead to an increase in crime, said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. I think opponents to immigration like to cherry-pick egregious cases where the individual does not belong in the U.S. and therefore marginalize an entire community.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   About 200 people demonstrated in Sacramento on Saturday to protest the fatal police shooting of Stephon Clark, in the latest of nearly two weeks of mostly peaceful rallies since the unarmed black man was gunned down in his grandmother\'s yard.The death of the 22-year-old father of two was the latest in a string of killings of black men by police that have triggered street protests and fuelled a renewed national debate about bias in the U.S. criminal justice system.Saturday\'s demonstration brought together a multi-racial crowd, many holding signs such as "Stop Police Rage" and "Power to the People." It was led by retired National Basketball Association player Matt Barnes, who grew up in the area and had two stints with the Sacramento Kings franchise."We\'re here today to raise awareness, to come together peacefully and to have some accountability for the officers, not only in Sacramento but across the country, who have been doing this," Barnes told the Sacramento Bee newspaper.Some of Clark\'s relatives attended the gathering in a city plaza. It followed a more heated protest overnight, during which demonstrators yelled expletives at police clad in riot gear.Clark was shot on the night of March 18 by police responding to a report that someone was breaking windows. Police said the officers feared he had a gun, but that he was later found to have been holding a cellphone.Police have said he was moving towards officers in a menacing way. The shooting was captured on a body cam video released by police.On Friday, an attorney for Clark\'s family released a private autopsy showing most of the eight bullets that hit Clark struck him in the back, contradicting the police version of events.Clark was shot six times in the back, once in the side and once in the leg, said the attorney, Benjamin Crump."This independent autopsy affirms that Stephon was not a threat to police and was slain in another senseless police killing under increasingly questionable circumstances," Crump said.The Sacramento Police Department said it would have no further comment until after the release of the findings of an official autopsy by the county coroner, and a review by state and local prosecutors.In several days of sporadic protests, protesters have blocked traffic and twice delayed fans from reaching games played by the Kings at the Golden 1 Center.(Additional reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles, Brendan O\'Brien in Milwaukee, Rich McKay in Atlanta and Jonathan Allen in New York; Editing Chizu Nomiyama and Sandra Maler)
MINGORA, Pakistan   In the Pakistani hometown of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai, reminders are frequent of the daughter of scenic northwestern Swat Valley who survived a gun attack  and so are memories of harsh rule by the Taliban.Yousafzai flew into Swat on Saturday by helicopter during her first visit to Pakistan since the Pakistani Taliban - now on the run but still able to launch attacks - shot her in the head in 2012 over her advocacy for girls\' education and opposition to Islamist militancy.Yousafzai\'s return to her hometown was eagerly awaited by  admirers and family friends."We\'re very happy that Malala has come to Pakistan. We welcome Malala," said Arfa Akhtar, a third grade student in a school where Yousafzai once studied. "I\'m also Malala. I\'m with Malala in this mission."Barkat Ali, 66, says he remembers holding Malala in his lap when she was a child in Mingora. He is proud of the 20-year-old\'s struggle to promote girls\' education, just as he is of his refusal 10 years ago to turn over his son when the Taliban demanded new fighters."They were the old illiterate people who would say that our daughters will not go to schools," Ali said, recalling two mortar shells landing in his street, often patrolled by the Taliban."Now people have become sensible. They educate their girls."The Taliban took over much of the valley starting in 2007, banning girls\' education, killing people, flogging women and hanging bodies from electric poles to enforce their harsh interpretation of Islamic law before the Pakistani army drove them out in 2009.Not everyone in Swat, though, has such reverence for Yousafzai, who became the youngest Nobel laureate in history in 2014 at age 17.Resident Mohammad Nisar Khan says the international celebrity and official protection given to the young woman overshadows the sacrifices made by others in Swat."We were the ones who stood up against the Taliban...My four uncles and two cousins were slaughtered by the Taliban in Matta. They were brutally martyred. Yet, no one has asked about me," Khan said."Can someone show me one brave deed that Malala Yousafzai has performed ... that we have not performedat age 50?"Elsewhere in parts of Pakistan, her arrival was met with outright hostility from those who accuse her of building a career abroad by painting a negative picture of her homeland.In the eastern city of Lahore, a group of private schools staged a protest on Friday with teachers and their students chanting "I am not Malala", some wearing black armbands.The organizer of the protest, Kashif Mirza, said dozens of private school chains participated and teachers told students in classes "that Malala does not represent true Pakistan"."She maligned Pakistan, Islam and the Pakistani army after going abroad," said Mirza, who leads the President of All Pakistan Private Schools Federation. He said his group condemned the gun attack on Yousafzai but said since going abroad she had been influenced by foreign powers.Other private schools, however, declined to join the anti-Malala protest."No such day was observed in any of our branches, because we don\'t support any event which spreads hatred, said Tabraiz Bokhari, spokesman of Beacon House School System, with 200 affiliates across Pakistan.In the nine years since the army drove out the Taliban, Swat has become mostly peaceful, though there are still occasional militant attacks including one several weeks ago targeting the military.Many Swat residents, including family friend Jawad Iqbal, were hopeful Malala would be able to return on this trip."The people of Swat and the whole of Pakistan are with Malala," Iqbal said standing in front of a portrait of Yousafzai with her father, who is a teacher."God willing, we will counter the terrorism and extremism in our region with the weapon of education, with the weapon of a pen, with the weapons of teachers and with the weapons of books."Along the road where Malala was shot on her school bus, resident Amir Zeb also said he hoped Malala will visit."Malala Yousafzai is the daughter of Pakistan," he said, adding. "We\'re proud of her."(Additional reporting by Mubasher Bukhari in LAHORE, Pakistan; Writing by Asif Shahzad; Editing by Peter Graff and Kim Coghill)
CARACAS   Venezuelas government broke its silence about a riot and fire in a police stations cells that killed dozens of prisoners on Wednesday, issuing a statement on Friday night sending condolences to relatives and promising an investigation.The Bolivarian government of the Venezuelan republic ... sends its profound condolences to the relatives and loved ones of each of the people who died in this unfortunate incident, the statement by the Foreign Ministry read.The statement did not give any details on the cause of the disaster, which inmates relatives and a surviving prisoner told Reuters stemmed from a shootout with police in an overcrowded and lawless jail.Venezuelas opposition says leftist president Nicolas Maduros response to the 68 deaths in Valencia has been woefully insufficient. Maduro has yet to personally speak about the incident and has instead been tweeting about Easter holidays, a visit by Hollywood actor Danny Glover, and the upcoming presidential election.In its statement, Venezuela also criticized the United Nations human rights office for precipitated and disproportionate comments about the disaster.From Geneva, the United Nations had called on Venezuelan authorities to carry out a speedy investigation and provide reparations to victims families.Venezuelas Foreign Ministry said those comments betrayed bias and were part of a multi pronged attack against the South American nation.Prison violence has been an issue in Venezuela long before Maduros late predecessor Hugo Chavez took office in 1999. Chavez once described the problem as the world\'s most "savage" and promised to clean it up.But opposition politicians said the Valencia disaster was another sign of the ruling socialists\' incompetence in a country that is deep in economic crisis and is plagued with food shortages, hyperinflation, and rampant crime.While in Venezuela all sorts of human rights violations are going on, Maduro is busy with ... increasing his levels of corruption and showing that he is an incapable leader who has the people going without food and medicine, said opposition lawmaker Angel Alvarez from Carabobo state, where the jail riot occurred.(Reporting by Corina Pons and Alexandra Ulmer; Editing by Susan Thomas)
The widow of the gunman who slaughtered 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was acquitted Friday of helping to plot the attack and lying to the FBI afterward  a rare and stinging defeat for the U.S. government in a terrorism case.Noor Salman, 31, sobbed upon hearing the jury\'s verdict of not guilty of obstruction and providing material support to a terrorist organization, charges that could have brought a life sentence. Her family gasped each time the words "not guilty" were pronounced.On the other side of the Orlando courtroom, the families of the victims of the June 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting sat stone-faced and silent.Within hours, Salman was released from jail after 14 months and got into a waiting car without answering questions."Noor is so grateful. Her belief in the process was shown. She wants to get back to her son," her attorney Linda Moreno said. Family spokeswoman Susan Clary said Salman\'s family "always thought that Noor was the first victim" of her husband, Omar Mateen.The verdict reverberated through Orlando and legal circles beyond."The government rarely, rarely loses these kinds of cases. It\'s got every single factor on its side," said David Oscar Markus, a Miami attorney who routinely tries federal cases. "It\'s a pretty impressive win for the defense and a devastating loss for the government."Mateen, the American-born son of Afghan immigrants, was killed by police after opening fire in the name of the Islamic State group.Relying heavily on an alleged confession from Salman, federal prosecutors charged that she and Mateen had scouted out potential targets together  including Disney World\'s shopping and entertainment complex  and that she gave him the "green light to commit terrorism."But the defense portrayed her as an easily manipulated woman with a low IQ and argued that she signed a false confession because she was tired after a long interrogation and feared losing her young son.In a blow to the government\'s case, the FBI itself found that receipts and cellphone signals showed the couple were nowhere near the Pulse on the day Salman said they were.Also, prosecutors introduced no online posts, texts or any other evidence that Salman supported ISIS, and were hard-pressed to counter the defense\'s portrayal of her as a simple, sweet mother who loves her 5-year-old son, romance novels and the cartoon character Hello Kitty.After the verdict, prosecutors said they were disappointed and took no questions.The jurors said little as they left court."Noor Salman should never have been on trial," said Ahmed Bedier, a civil rights advocate and the president of United Voices of America. "Let this verdict serve as a message to law enforcement and prosecutors who railroad and persecute innocent people on little evidence, the people of this great nation will not allow it."Some veteran attorneys said the government made a mistake in not recording the alleged confession. The jury was given only a written statement."The FBI needs to start recording their statements. It\'s a terrible practice. But it\'s the FBI\'s policy not to record," Markus said. "Even local police agencies now record statements and are required to do so. Jurors in today\'s age want to hear the recording, they want to see the evidence."Miami defense attorney David Weinstein said: "As much as we don\'t want to admit it, this is the age of the cellphone. It\'s ingrained in the minds of jurors, if it\'s not recorded, it didn\'t happen."Christine Leinonen, an attorney and former state trooper whose only son was killed in the nightclub massacre, told The Orlando Sentinel she was disappointed but not shocked by the verdict. She said Salman\'s alleged confession was "clearly coerced" and added: "Cops screw up their own cases."Prosecutors had also accused Salman of falsely claiming that her husband didn\'t use the internet in their home, that he had deactivated his Facebook account years earlier, that he had one gun when he had three, and that he wasn\'t radicalized.But the defense said that Salman, who was born in California to Palestinian parents, was abused and cheated on by her husband and that he concealed much of his life from her. Her attorneys argued there was no way she knew her husband would attack the nightclub because even he didn\'t know it until moments before.According to prosecutors, Mateen intended to attack Disney World\'s shopping and entertainment complex by hiding a gun in a stroller but became spooked by police and chose a new target.___Lush reported from St. Petersburg, Florida.___This story has been corrected to show that Bedier is with United Voices of America.
The Fox News host Laura Ingraham announced on Friday that she was taking a week off following the decision of several companies to pull advertising from her show after she ridiculed a student survivor of the Parkland, Fla., school shooting.Ill be off next week for Easter break with my kids. But fear not, weve got a great lineup of guest hosts to fill in for me, Ms. Ingraham said on her show, The Ingraham Angle.In response to an email, Fox News said that Ms. Ingrahams break was a preplanned vacation with her kids.The dispute began on Wednesday, when Ms. Ingraham shared an article about how the student, David Hogg, 17, had been rejected from several colleges, and she accused him of whining about it.In response, Mr. Hogg, who has called for stricter gun regulations after the Feb. 14 shooting, called on advertisers to boycott Ms. Ingrahams show.He posted the names of her top advertisers on Twitter and urged his nearly 700,000 followers to call those companies. Several companies, including Hulu, Nutrish, Nestl and TripAdvisor, have yanked their advertisements from Ms. Ingrahams show.Wed like to confirm that we are no longer advertising on Laura Ingrahams show and are monitoring all of our ad placements carefully, Hulu said  on Twitter.The decision of an adult to personally criticize a high school student who has lost his classmates in an unspeakable tragedy is not consistent with our values, Wayfair, an online retailer of home goods, said in a statement. The company said it supported open dialogue and debate.Consumers have increasingly used social media to demand that advertisers respond to controversies, particularly those involving Fox News hosts.Last year, more than 50 brands pulled ads from The OReilly Factor after The New York Times reported on settlements that the shows host, Bill OReilly, had made with women who accused him of sexual harassment or other inappropriate behavior, which contributed to his ouster.On Thursday, Ms. Ingraham apologized to Mr. Hogg, saying he should be proud of his grade point average.On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland, Ms. Ingraham wrote on Twitter.But Mr. Hogg said Ms. Ingrahams apology did not go far enough and seemed designed only to stop more advertisers from dropping her show.I will only accept your apology only if you denounce the way your network has treated my friends and I in this fight, Mr. Hogg said on Twitter. Its time to love thy neighbor, not mudsling at children.
MANILA   The Philippine central bank has sounded an alert to local financial institutions following a cyber attack at the Malaysian central bank, in which hackers sought to steal money using fraudulent wire transfers, its governor said on Saturday.Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) has said no funds were lost in the incident, which it identified on Tuesday, and involved falsified wire-transfer requests over the SWIFT bank messaging network, the latest in a series of electronic heists at financial institutions around the world."We issued a general alert reminder as soon as we got BNM advisory to be extra careful over the long holiday. Although banks already do that as SOP (standard operating procedure)," Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Nestor Espenilla said in a phone message."Information sharing is part of enhanced defensive protocols against cyber-crime," Espenilla said.The alert was issued on Wednesday, and there had been no specific threat, officials said.Bank Negara did not say who was behind the hack or how they accessed its SWIFT servers. The central bank, which supervises 45 commercial banks in Malaysia, said on Thursday there was no disruption to other payment and settlement systems the central bank operates because of the cyber attack.In February 2016, the Philippine financial system was thrown into the global spotlight after $81 million that was stolen from Bangladesh central bank was channeled into several accounts at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp (RCBC), before disappearing into the local casino industry.The Bangladesh heist led financial institutions around the globe to bolster security. There is no word on who was responsible and Dhaka has been able to retrieve only about $15 million.The Philippine central bank fined RCBC a record one billion pesos ($20 million) in 2016 for its failure to prevent the movement of the stolen money through it. RCBC has blamed rogue employees for the incident.(Reporting by Karen Lema; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
AMSTERDAM   The International Criminal Court on Saturday said it has taken into custody at its detention center in the Netherlands a Malian man accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity.The suspect, identified by the ICC as Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz Ag Mohamed Ag Mahmoud, was indicted for crimes allegedly committed as de-facto chief of Islamic police in Timbuktu in 2012 and 2013 including destroying cultural monuments and enforcing policies that led to sexual enslavement of women and girls.The detention of Al Hassan is a boost for ICC prosecutors. The only other suspect arrested in Mali\'s conflict, Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi, pleaded guilty to destruction of cultural heritage for his participation in smashing mausoleums. He was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2017 after apologizing for his actions, and could appear as a witness against Al Hassan.Victims\' groups had been critical of the court for the limited scope of al-Mahdi\'s indictment, though his case was widely viewed as a landmark because it was the first time a person has been convicted of a war crime solely for destruction of cultural artifacts.In Al Hassan\'s case, judges said prosecutors had presented enough evidence to issue an arrest warrant for crimes against humanity including "torture, rape and sexual slavery; persecution of the inhabitants of Timbuktu on religious and gender grounds; and other inhumane acts."Al Hassan will have an initial court appearance next week at which he will be informed of the allegations outlined in his arrest warrant. He is not yet required to enter a plea.Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said in a statement she had asked judges to issue an arrest warrant for Al Hassan on March 20, and the warrant was issued under seal on March 27. Malian and Dutch authorities cooperated in the handover.Bensouda, who has been criticized for obtaining few convictions during her tenure, said her selection of Al Hassan for prosecution showed her commitment "to bring forward cases only guided and built on a strong evidentiary foundation."She said it also signaled her intent "to address the untold suffering inflicted upon the Malian population and what they hold dear as a people."(Reporting by Toby Sterling; Editing by Sandra Maler)
CARACAS   Venezuela arrested five state police officials for their alleged role in a riot and fire that killed 68 people in an overcrowded police station cell, the country\'s public prosecutor said on Saturday."The prosecutor\'s office has issued arrest warrants for five officials of PoliCarabobo who have been signaled as responsible for the tragic incident that led to the death of 68 citizens in the cells of the headquarters of said regional police: THEY HAVE BEEN DETAINED #Justice," tweeted prosecutor Tarek Saab.     Saab, a former Socialist Party governor close to leftist President Nicolas Maduro, did not provide any further details on the cause of the disaster, the worst to affect Venezuela\'s notoriously violent jails in over two decades.Relatives of dead inmates and one surviving prisoner told Reuters there was a shoot-out with police on Wednesday morning in the jail in Carabobo state capital Valencia.One inmate\'s widow said officials had doused the area with gasoline, which fueled a fire through the small cells strung with hammocks and divided with sheets.    There was no immediate comment from Carabobo state police.Venezuela\'s opposition blames the tragedy on Maduro\'s inability to reform Venezuela\'s lawless jails, where inmates strut around with weapons and orchestrate crimes from cells."The situation in detention centers and police jail cells in Venezuela is unacceptable!" said opposition lawmaker Miguel Pizarro.Opposition politicians have also criticized the government for its long silence about the incident. Maduro\'s administration only issued a statement late on Friday night expressing its condolences to relatives and the president has yet to publicly speak about the deaths.A former bus driver and union leader who has grown widely unpopular, Maduro is running for re-election in a May election largely boycotted by the opposition.With heavy use of state resources and a compliant electoral council, he is expected to win a six-year term despite salary-destroying hyperinflation, a fifth straight year of recession, and rampant crime.State television focused on showing images of Venezuelans on the beach during the Easter holiday, while Maduro\'s ministers also largely remained mum on the Valencia disaster.But Delcy Rodriguez, the president of the pro-government legislative super body known as the constituent assembly, struck back at criticism of the government\'s handling of the jail fire."We repudiate the use of Venezuelans\' pain as a political tool," tweeted Rodriguez.(Reporting by Alexandra Ulmer; Editing by Sandra Maler)
KAMPALA, Uganda   A Burundian man recently deported from the United States after failing to receive political asylum has been detained without charge back home, activists said Saturday.Clement Nkurunziza has had no access to a lawyer since his March 22 arrest, said the group iBurundi, which monitors alleged government abuses.Police spokesman Pierre Nkurikiye confirmed Nkurunziza is in custody but gave no details.Nkurunziza was arrested after arriving on a plane from the U.S., iBurundi said.Over 1,000 people had signed an online petition urging the U.S. not to send Nkurunziza back to Burundi, saying "his life would be in jeopardy."But another group of Burundians signed a separate petition urging his deportation, alleging that he had a role in the killings of students during his time as president of the students\' union at the University of Burundi in the 1990s during the country\'s 13-year civil war."When supporters of the Burundian government saw the petition urging the U.S. government to not deport him, they jumped on it and started saying he should be sent to Burundi to be jailed," iBurundi said. It called for an independent investigation of those allegations.Burundian prosecutors have not said what crime Nkurunziza is likely to be charged with.Nkurunziza had fled Burundi after urging the president to retire after two terms in 2015. Deadly protests broke out when President Pierre Nkurunziza successfully sought a third, disputed, term, leaving an estimated 1,200 people dead.The two men are not related.The International Criminal Court judges last year authorized an investigation into allegations of state-sponsored crimes during the recent political upheaval in the East African nation that the U.N. human rights chief has called one of "the most prolific slaughterhouses of humans in recent times."Burundian authorities have repeatedly denied allegations of serious rights abuses, saying they are the victim of propaganda by exiles opposed to the government.Burundi\'s president rose to power in 2005 following the signing of the Arusha accords ending the civil war that killed about 300,000 people. He was re-elected unopposed in 2010 after the opposition boycotted the vote. He said he was eligible for the third term in 2015 because lawmakers, not the general population, had chosen him for his first term. Critics called the move unconstitutional.Burundi now faces a referendum in May on proposed changes to the constitution that would let the president rule until 2034.___Associated Press writer Eloge Willy Kaneza in Bujumbura, Burundi contributed.
ACAPULCO   Dozens of Roman Catholic devotees dressed as ancient Romans and biblical figures fled a Good Friday procession in panic on Friday in the Mexican resort town of Acapulco after gunfire rang out over a nearby car robbery.One of the robbers died from a heart attack during a shootout with police while an accomplice escaped, said the government of Guerrero, one of Mexico\'s most violent states.Minutes after the confrontation, another man in a home nearby was killed in what was reported to police as a subsequent slew of gunfire. No people in the procession were reported injured.Murder rates in Acapulco and the popular Los Cabos resort further north have soared in recent years as Mexico fights entrenched drug crime.Mexico registered a record number of murders last year, staining the reputation of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) whose presidential candidate, Jose Antonio Meade, trails third in polls to win the July 1 election.Campaigns officially kicked off on Friday, with the second- and fourth-place contenders holding midnight rallies to deliver vows to curb corruption and violence, two of Mexico\'s most critical and intertwined issues that are shaping the race.Meade and leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who ranks first in polls, will launch their campaigns on Sunday.In Acapulco on Friday, a video verified by Reuters shows onlookers who had just concluded the re-enactment of Jesus Christ\'s crucifixion darting in terror down a major street, yelling, "Stay calm, stay calm!"One man crouched behind a large wooden crucifix propped against a parked car, while a group of men in flowing red capes and Romanesque armor streamed past. Women grabbed hands with children, pushing them through the confused mob.A shootout also interrupted a Good Friday procession in the violent northern city of Reynosa and left one dead, local media reported.According to a video aired on television, several dozen religious marchers darted to the sidewalk amid shouts of "Get to the ground!" after the pop-pop of gunfire cut into choral singing.A Jesus figure wearing white robes tinged with fake blood kneeled behind a giant crucifix as more gunfire rang out, dropping it when a companion yelled for him to "leave the cross!" and take cover off the street.(Writing and additional reporting by Daina Beth Solomon; Editing by Kim Coghill)
MOSCOW   Russian authorities on Saturday arrested billionaire Ziyavudin Magomedov on charges of embezzling more than $35 million, in one of the highest-profile prosecutions of a Russian tycoon in years.Magomedov denied the charges at a pre-trial hearing, where a judge ordered that he be held in custody until May 30.One of Russia\'s richest men, the 49-year-old Magomedov holds assets in construction and logistics through his sprawling Summa Group. He also has investments in U.S. tech ventures, including the Virgin One Hyperloop project.He was detained along with his business partner and brother, Magomed Magomedov, and Artur Maksidov, the head of a company in the Summa Group that was involved in the construction of a soccer World Cup venue in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad.Both businessmen will also be held in custody until May 30, the court ruled.At a hearing in Moscow\'s Tverskoy District Court to decide whether Magomedov and his associates should be detained before their trial, Judge Maria Sizintseva said they had acted as part of an organized crime group and had tried to put pressure on witnesses. She rejected an offer from Magomedov to put up a $35 million bail bond, and ordered he be detained.Citing the arguments against granting bail, the judge said Magomedov had access to his own aircraft, and assets abroad. The day before he was detained, he had booked a flight from Moscow to Miami, the judge said.Summa said it planned to appeal the court decision and was ready to cooperate with the investigation.MUSCULAR STATEInvited to speak from a cage in the courtroom, Magomedov, dressed in a dark-blue jogging suit, said: "I categorically disagree with the charges presented ... The prosecution case does not stand up to scrutiny."He said he needed treatment in the United States for a medical problem, and offered to put up the $35 million bail. "I\'m willing to pull together this money, so no one has any thoughts that I might go on the run," Magomedov said.Magomedov is part of a group of Russian multi-millionaires who, while publicly loyal to the Kremlin, are not in President Vladimir Putin\'s inner circle.Some members of the group say they are being squeezed by a tough economy, Western sanctions on Russia, and powerful state-run companies that are muscling in on nearly all sectors of the economy.In past cases when magnates have been prosecuted, some in the Russia business community have said the tycoons were victims of a plot by the Kremlin or by politically connected business rivals - though the authorities deny that.People familiar with the Russian judicial system say high-profile corruption cases are rarely fabricated, but that the law is applied selectively, and that prosecutions can be influenced by outside factors.Ziyavudin Magomedov ranked 63rd last year on the Forbes list of the richest business people in Russia with $1.4 billion. In January, he was listed by the U.S. Treasury Department as one of 96 "oligarchs" close to Putin.His Caspian Venture Capital fund has investments in ride-hailing service Uber; Diamond Foundry, a company that produces man-made diamonds; and Peek, an online leisure activities company.Magomedov is also co-executive chairman of Los Angeles-based tech firm Virgin Hyperloop One, which is chaired by Richard Branson. It is one of several firms developing a futuristic transport system that involves propelling people at high speed through sealed tubes.He also co-owns the Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port with Russian oil pipeline monopoly Transneft and transportation group Fesco.(Additional reporting by Gleb Stolyarov; Writing by Gabrielle Tetrault-Farber and Christian Lowe; Editing by Larry King)
Less than five weeks after declaring her candidacy for Congress, the actress Stacey Dash announced Friday that she was withdrawing from the race to represent a heavily Democratic House district in California.In a statement posted on Twitter, Ms. Dash  who is best known for her role in the 1995 movie Clueless  said she had concluded that the bitterness surrounding our political process, the rigors of campaigning and even the act of holding office itself would be harmful to her family.Deciding to withdraw my candidacy was a difficult choice, but I have to go where I feel God is leading me, she said.Ms. Dash, 51, is a Republican, and her decision to compete for a seat in Californias 44th District was puzzling. The district encompasses much of South Los Angeles, including largely black cities and neighborhoods like Compton and Watts, as well as communities that are increasingly Latino.Hillary Clinton received 83 percent of the vote there in the 2016 presidential election, and Barack Obama won similar shares in 2008 and 2012.Nanette Barragn, a Democrat, is the districts current representative and has announced that she is running for re-election. Among Ms. Barragns challengers will be Aja Brown, a highly visible Democrat who became Comptons youngest mayor in 2013.Ms. Dash came onto the political stage in earnest when she endorsed Mitt Romneys presidential campaign in 2012. She was a Fox News contributor from 2014 to 2016 and an early supporter of President Trump. Her endorsements of Republican candidates drew significant attention, and backlash, in part because she is black.In an interview with the journalist Nicholas Ballasy in June 2016, after she released a memoir titled There Goes My Social Life: From Clueless to Conservative, Ms. Dash said she had been ostracized in Hollywood because of her political views. Her agents had dropped her, she said, and she had not auditioned for a role in more than a year.Asked in that interview how she would pitch Mr. Trump to African-American and Hispanic voters, she paraphrased the adage that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.Why do you keep voting Democrat, and nothing changes? asked Ms. Dash, who has said she voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 before switching parties. Try something new.In her statement on Friday, she continued that line of attack, arguing that constituents in the 44th District had been forgotten by the Democratic Party.People on the lower end of the economic spectrum had been offered little more than symbolic gestures, she said. Politicians, she argued, had come to accept high crime, decaying infrastructure and staggering high school dropout rates as the norm.The people living here deserve better, she said. I will continue to speak out.
A young woman seeks comfort after a breakup in Lover for a Day. And the true crime documentary Operation Odessa arrives on Showtime. LOVER FOR A DAY (2018) on Mubi. The latest meditation on love by the French director Philippe Garrel revolves around a seemingly functioning triangle. After a devastating breakup, 23-year-old Jeanne (Esther Garrel, the directors daughter), moves in with her father, Giles (Eric Caravaca), and his new 23-year-old girlfriend, Ariane (Louise Chevillotte). Shot in 35-millimeter black-and-white film and set in Giless crowded Paris apartment, Lover for a Day follows Jeannes rocky transition while revealing each characters anxieties and convictions about intimacy and romance. In her review for The New York Times, Manohla Dargis wrote that the film looks like a dream, adding that Mr. Garrel is a master of near-perfection, of dazzlingly lit and shot wisps of hair and tear-streaked cheeks. The directors earlier drama, In the Shadow of Women, streams on Mubi on Sunday.FRANK (2014) on iTunes, Amazon, Hulu and Sundance Now. Domhnall Gleeson plays Jon, an aspiring rock star who joins a band led by a brilliant keyboardist, Frank (Michael Fassbender). Among Franks many quirks is the large papier-mch head he refuses to take off. As the group records an album, Franks experimentalism inspires Jon in new ways, and tensions rise between Jon and his feisty bandmate Clara (Maggie Gyllenhaal).OPERATION ODESSA 9 p.m. on Showtime. In the 1990s, Ludwig (Tarzan) Fainberg, a Russian mobster and Miami strip club owner; Juan Almeida, a Cuban luxury car dealer; and Nelson (Tony) Yester, an international drug trafficker, were accused of combining their skills to sell a Soviet submarine to a Colombian cartel to distribute cocaine in the former Soviet Union and North America. An interagency task force, Operation Odessa, uncovered the plot after a three-year investigation. In this new documentary, the director Tiller Russell interviews Mr. Fainberg and Mr. Almeida (Mr. Yester is still on the run), and the law enforcement agents who exposed the unbelievable scheme.THE X-FILES 11 a.m. on BBC America. It could be said that this cult paranormal drama has had three lives. Starring David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson as F.B.I. agents investigating the supernatural, the series first aired in 1993; returned for a six-episode 10th season in 2016; and resolved a major cliffhanger in its 11th season, which wrapped up on March 21. Fans were mostly pleased with the latest episodes, yet many feel that the show has run out of juice. (Ms. Anderson has hinted that she, too, has had enough.) For those who prefer its earlier days, BBC America is airing this back-to-back marathon of the first two seasons through 6 a.m. Tuesday, with a break for the season finale of Top Gear on Sunday at 8 p.m. All the original episodes are streaming on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu.48 HOURS: LIVE TO TELL 10 p.m. on CBS. A former sex trafficking victim chronicles her traumatic experience in this short-run series. Ashton Kutcher discusses his efforts in identifying potential victims and abusers through his nonprofit organization, Thorn.
Today in HistoryToday is Saturday, March 31, the 90th day of 2018. There are 275 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On March 31, 1968, at the conclusion of a nationally broadcast address on Vietnam, President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned listeners by declaring, "I shall not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your President."On this date:In 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain issued an edict expelling Jews from Spanish soil, except those willing to convert to Christianity.In 1889, French engineer Gustave Eiffel unfurled the French tricolor from atop the Eiffel Tower, officially marking its completion.In 1917, the United States took formal possession of the Virgin Islands from Denmark.In 1923, the first U.S. dance marathon, held in New York City, ended with Alma Cummings, who had danced with six consecutive male partners, setting a world record of 27 hours on her feet.In 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Emergency Conservation Work Act, which created the Civilian Conservation Corps.In 1943, "Oklahoma!," the first musical play by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, opened on Broadway.In 1958, the Chuck Berry single "Johnny B. Goode" was first released on the Chess label.In 1976, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that Karen Ann Quinlan, a young woman in a persistent vegetative state, could be disconnected from her respirator. (Quinlan, who remained unconscious, died in 1985.)In 1986, 167 people died when a Mexicana Airlines Boeing 727 crashed in a remote mountainous region of Mexico.In 1993, actor Brandon Lee, 28, was accidentally shot to death during the filming of a movie in Wilmington, North Carolina, when he was hit by a bullet fragment that had become lodged inside a prop gun.In 1995, Mexican-American singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, 23, was shot to death in Corpus Christi, Texas, by the founder of her fan club, Yolanda Saldivar, who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison.In 2005, Terri Schiavo (SHY\'-voh), 41, died at a hospice in Pinellas Park, Florida, 13 days after her feeding tube was removed in a wrenching right-to-die dispute.Ten years ago: HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson announced his resignation amid the wreckage of the national housing crisis. A Bahamas jury ruled that Anna Nicole Smith\'s son, Daniel, died from an accidental drug overdose, just like his mother. American movie director Jules Dassin, whose Greek wife, Melina Mercouri, starred in his hit movie "Never on Sunday" and six more of his films, died in Athens at age 96.Five years ago: Pope Francis marked Christianity\'s most joyous day at the Vatican with a passionate plea for world peace as he celebrated his first Easter Sunday as pontiff. The Houston Astros, coming off consecutive 100-loss seasons, made an impressive debut in the American League, trouncing the Texas Rangers 8-2 on opening night.One year ago: President Donald Trump signed a pair of executive orders focused on reducing the U.S. trade deficit; the first order gave the Commerce Department 90 days to assemble a report on the factors behind the trade deficit, while the second sought to increase collection of duties on imports. Evgenia Medvedeva of Russia retained her world figure skating title at the championship in Helsinki. William T. Coleman Jr., a civil rights lawyer who served as transportation secretary during the Ford administration, died in Alexandria, Virginia, at age 96.Today\'s Birthdays: Actor William Daniels is 91. Actor Richard Chamberlain is 84. Actress Shirley Jones is 84. Musician Herb Alpert is 83. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., is 78. Former U.S. Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., is 78. Actor Christopher Walken is 75. Comedian Gabe Kaplan is 74. Sen. Angus King, I-Maine, is 74. Rock musician Mick Ralphs (Bad Company; Mott the Hoople) is 74. Former Vice President Al Gore is 70. Author David Eisenhower is 70. Actress Rhea Perlman is 70. Actor Robbie Coltrane is 68. Actor Ed Marinaro is 68. Rock musician Angus Young (AC/DC) is 63. Actor Marc McClure is 61. Actor William McNamara is 53. Alt-country musician Bob Crawford (The Avett (AY\'-veht) Brothers) is 47. Actor Ewan (YOO\'-en) McGregor is 47. Actress Judi Shekoni is 40. Rapper Tony Yayo is 40. Actress Kate Micucci is 38. Actor Brian Tyree Henry (TV: "Atlanta" Stage: "Book of Mormon") is 36. Actress Melissa Ordway is 35. Jazz musician Christian Scott is 35. Pop musician Jack Antonoff (fun.) is 34. Actress Jessica Szohr is 33.Thought for Today: "Man does not speak because he thinks, he thinks because he speaks."  Octavio Paz, Mexican poet (born this date in 1914, died 1998).
MOSCOW   Moscow has told Britain it must cut just over 50 more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia as a standoff deepened over the poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter in England, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.Moscow also demanded an official explanation for the search of a Russian passenger plane in London, saying it reserved the right to act similarly against British airlines in Russia. Britain said the search was routine.Russia advised its citizens to think carefully before traveling to Britain, warning they could fall victim to official harassment.More than 100 Russian diplomats have been expelled by Western countries, including 23 from Britain, to punish the Kremlin over the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the historic English city of Salisbury.London says Moscow was responsible for the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two, and Britain\'s defense minister on Saturday said it was "heartening" to see the backing of international allies."The world\'s patience with Putin\'s repeated pattern of malign behavior has worn thin," Gavin Williamson wrote in a newspaper column, urging that Britain\'s defense capabilities needed to keep better step with Russia\'s broadening tactics.Russia denies responsibility for the attack. It has cast the allegations as a Western plot to sabotage East-West relations and isolate Moscow.Russia had already retaliated in kind by ejecting 23 British diplomats. On Friday, the Foreign Ministry summoned British Ambassador Laurie Bristow and told him London had one month to further cut its diplomatic contingent in Russia to the same size as the Russian mission in Britain. It also expelled 59 diplomats from 23 other countries for backing Britain.A spokeswoman for Britain\'s Foreign Office called the Russian move regrettable, and said it was considering the implications of the measures. She did not say how many diplomatic staff in Russia would be affected, while the British Embassy in Moscow says it does not make staff numbers public.But Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the demand meant Britain would have to cut "a little over 50" more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia on top of the 23 diplomats who have already gone home."We asked for parity. The Brits have 50 diplomats more than the Russians," Zakharova said on Saturday.Asked if that meant London would now have to cut exactly 50 diplomatic and technical staff, she said: "A little over 50."RUSSIAN TRAVEL WARNINGThe Russian Foreign Ministry later published a list of 14 questions its London embassy had sent Britain\'s Foreign Office. It included queries about why Russia had been denied consular access to the Skripals and about France\'s role in the case.In a move underlining the serious nature of the diplomatic crisis, the Russian Embassy also advised Russians to think twice before traveling to Britain, warning of rising anti-Russian sentiment and possible harassment from the authorities, including the risk of objects being planted in their luggage."We can\'t rule out increased attention by British law enforcement agencies and intelligence services to Russian passport holders," the embassy said in a statement.Russia\'s Ministry of Transport meanwhile demanded Britain explain an Aeroflot airliner was searched at Heathrow Airport on Friday, in what the Russian Embassy in London called a "blatant provocation".Britain disagreed with that assessment."It is routine for (Britain\'s border agency) to search aircraft to protect the UK from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country," Security Minister Ben Wallace said.The Russian Embassy said Wallace\'s logic was "difficult to comprehend" and only amplified its doubts about the incident.Britain\'s Foreign Office also said on Saturday it was considering allowing visits under consular access terms to Yulia Skripal, who is recovering in hospital against all expectations and is no longer in critical condition.Russia\'s embassy said that it had contacted Viktoria Skripal, Yulia\'s cousin. "Upon receiving confirmation that Yulia Skripal\'s condition is getting better and she is able to communicate, she said she would like to go to London and to visit her cousin," the embassy said.The BBC reported on Friday that Yulia was "conscious and talking," which may help the investigation of how she and her father were poisoned.The poisoning on British territory has united much of the West in taking action against what it regards as the hostile policies of President Vladimir Putin. This includes the United States under President Donald Trump, whom Putin had hoped would improve ties.(Additional reporting by Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh and Gabrielle Ttrault-Farber in Moscow; Editing by Stephen Powell and Sandra Maler)


Samuel Belzberg, a feared corporate raider of the 1980s who perfected the contentious practice known as greenmail to build one of Canadas foremost family dynasties, then reinvented himself as a successful private-equity investor, died on Friday night in a hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 89.He had suffered a stroke, his daughter Wendy Belzberg said in confirming the death.Apart from his business career, Mr. Belzberg, who lived in Vancouver, was widely known for his philanthropy devoted to Jewish causes, among them the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, one of the worlds leading organizations dedicated to Holocaust research and education. He was its founding chairman.Sam was both a visionary and proud Jew, said Rabbi Marvin Hier, who founded the center.Mr. Belzberg will be remembered primarily as a self-made businessman  a get-out-of-my-way entrepreneur who rose from the Canadian prairie to the pinnacle of the corporate world.Starting out by selling used cars in Alberta in the 1940s, he went on to join his brothers, Hyman and William, in 1963 in founding what became First City Financial, a financial services giant and holding company, originally based in Vancouver, that would be used by the family for its high-profile corporate takeovers.Mr. Belzberg first attracted attention outside of Canadian business circles in 1979, when he amassed shares of the Bache Group, at the time one of the largest retail brokerage companies in the United States. Bache was vulnerable, having been squeezed by a silver-market gamble, but its managers bitterly fought the Belzbergs demands for board seats.The battle was detailed in 1981 in a front-page article in The Wall Street Journal, which reported that Bache executives believed that Hyman Belzberg might have ties to organized crime.Sam Belzberg angrily dismissed that notion, although he did acknowledge that his brother had vacationed at the Acapulco Hilton in 1970 and, he said, mingled unwittingly with underworld figures from the United States and Canada. (According to intelligence reports that were later made public, the mob bosses were meeting in Mexico to discuss casino strategy.)In the end, Bache took refuge in the arms of Prudential Insurance, selling  itself to Prudential in a deal that made the Belzbergs roughly $83 million in todays money.Seizing on the junk-bond boom and sometimes teaming up with American raiders like T. Boone Pickens, the Belzberg brothers  with Sam Belzberg running the show  quickly became known as greenmailers. The term refers to investors who accumulate stock in a company, threaten a takeover and then drop the threat after the company agrees to buy back the shares at a premium.Mr. Belzberg rejected that characterization as unfair. In an interview with The New York Times in 1986, when First Citys assets were worth roughly $18 billion in todays money, he said he had never set out to sell stock back at a premium.We have business plans when we buy into something, he said, adding that he sold back shares only when companies refused to listen to his strategic advice.I dont understand why managements that pay the greenmail arent criticized, he said.Mr. Belzberg said he was simply a merchant banker  by his definition, an investor who takes advantage of situations and opportunities.Samuel Belzberg was born in Calgary, Alberta, on June 26, 1928. His father, Abraham Belzberg, had been a fishmonger in Poland when he immigrated to Canada in 1919 and started a furniture business. Samuels mother, the former Hinda Fishman, had also emigrated from Poland. They had three sons (Samuel was the middle one) and two daughters, Fanny and Lil, who were the oldest siblings.Samuel Belzberg was the only son to graduate from college. He studied business at the University of Alberta.The business that he and his brothers built began as City Savings & Trust Company in 1963 and became First City Financial in 1971.He married Frances Cooper, a model and aspiring actress living in Los Angeles whose parents had come from the same small town in Poland as his. When he was 21, his father drove him to Los Angeles to meet her. She survives him.Mr. Belzbergs rise in the corporate world was interrupted when he surrendered day-to-day control of First City in 1991. The company had taken huge losses on its securities portfolio and been bruised by a failed takeover attempt of Armstrong World Industries, a Pennsylvania floor-covering and ceiling-board company.The fight, which coincided with the 1989 collapse of the junk-bond market, made it harder for the Belzbergs to find takeover financing and led Pennsylvania to adopt one of the countrys toughest anti-takeover laws.The raider era had ended.It was then that Mr. Belzberg, in his early 60s, started a second act as a private-equity investor, ultimately building a new company in Vancouver, Gibralt Capital, into a powerhouse. Successful maneuvers included the buyout and turnaround of Keg Restaurants, a Canadian steakhouse chain; the financing of ID Biomedical, a manufacturer of vaccines based in Quebec City; and huge real estate projects in Nova Scotia, California and Oregon.Gibralt also established Balfour Holdings, a real estate company focused on distressed properties  apartment complexes, shopping centers, residential subdivisions  created by the savings and loan crisis in the United States beginning in the 1980s. Mr. Belzberg sold Balfour to Blackstone Real Estate Advisors in 1997.He started over because he had lost a lot of money and had something to prove, Wendy Belzberg said. And he had commitments, philanthropic ones, that he was determined to make good on.With his wife, Mr. Belzberg founded the Dystonia Medical Research Foundation in 1976 after one of their daughters, Cheri, was found to have dystonia, a movement disorder. Mr. Belzberg was also a founder of Yeshiva University High School of Los Angeles, which offers Modern Orthodox teaching, and he established Action Canada, a nonprofit leadership development initiative.Besides his wife and his daughter Wendy, he is survived by two other daughters, Lisa Belzberg and Cheri Tannenbaum; a son, Marc; and his sister Lil Faider.Wendy Belzberg said that her father, an avid golfer and fisherman, loved to mentor his teenage grandchildren, bringing them to Gibralt as interns, imparting his sometimes dictatorial advice and, above all, training them how to be savvy with money.Once he took my son for a slice of pizza in New York, Ms. Belzberg said, and he told the cashier, Ill pay for the pizza, I guess, but Im not paying for the tax on it  Im Canadian, and we dont do that. 
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump hailed the start of his long-sought U.S.-Mexico border wall this past week, proudly tweeting photos of the "WALL!" Actually, no new work got underway. The photos showed the continuation of an old project to replace 2 miles of existing barrier.And on Saturday, he ripped Amazon with a shaky claim that its contract with the post office is a "scam."Trump and his officials departed from reality on a variety of subjects in recent days: the census, Amazon\'s practices and the makeup of the Supreme Court among them. Here\'s a look at some statements and their veracity:TRUMP: "Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL!"  tweet Wednesday, showing photos of workers building a fence.TRUMP:  "We\'re going to be starting work, literally, on Monday, on not only some new wall -- not enough, but we\'re working that very quickly -- but also fixing existing walls and existing acceptable fences."  Trump, speaking the previous week after signing a bill financing the government.THE FACTS: Trump\'s wrong. No new work began on Monday or any other time this past week. And the photos Trump tweeted were misleading. They showed work that\'s been going on for more than a month on a small border wall replacement project in Calexico, California, that has nothing to do with the federal budget he signed into law last week.The Calexico project that began Feb. 21 to replace a little more than 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) of border wall was financed during the 2017 budget year. A barrier built in the 1990s mainly from recycled metal scraps is being torn down and replaced with bollard-style barriers that are 30 feet (9.1 meters) high.Ronald D. Vitiello, acting deputy commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, defended the president\'s statements, saying Friday "there\'s construction" underway.___TRUMP: "If the P.O. \'increased its parcel rates, Amazon\'s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.\' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"  tweet Saturday.TRUMP: "I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!"  tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting Amazon\'s record on taxes, the U.S. Postal Service\'s financial situation and the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.People who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it, however.As for the post office, package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that\'s lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs  not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce, the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages, but that hasn\'t been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail, which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.While the Postal Service\'s losses can\'t be attributed to its package business, Trump\'s claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels.  The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner, Jeff Bezos, owns The Washington Post, one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___TRUMP: "Because of the $700 & $716 Billion Dollars gotten to rebuild our Military, many jobs are created and our Military is again rich. Building a great Border Wall, with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country, is all about National Defense. Build WALL through M!"  tweets Sunday and Monday.THE FACTS: Trump is floating the idea of using "M\'\'  the Pentagon\'s military budget  to pay for his wall with Mexico. Such a move would almost certainly require approval from Congress and there\'s plenty of reason to be skeptical about the notion of diverting military money for this purpose.Only Congress has the power under the Constitution to determine federal appropriations, leaving the Trump administration little authority to shift money without lawmakers\' approval.Pentagon spokesman Chris Sherwood referred all questions on the wall to the White House. Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to reveal specifics, but said Trump would work with the White House counsel to make sure any action taken was within his executive authority.___DAVID SHULKIN, citing reasons Trump fired him as Veterans Affairs secretary:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family\'s character, I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity."  op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous, though politics contributed to his dismissal.White House support for Shulkin eroded after a blistering report in February by VA\'s internal watchdog, a non-partisan office. The inspector general\'s office concluded that he had violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The inspector general also said Shulkin\'s chief of staff had doctored emails to justify bringing the secretary\'s wife to Europe with him at taxpayer expense.It is true, though, that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call, John Ullyot, a top communications aide, and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin\'s removal after the release of the inspector general\'s report. The staff director declined to do so.  Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general\'s report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4,000 to cover the costs of his wife\'s coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and point to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___TRUMP: "THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen, and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens, NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!"  tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: As a basics civics lesson, Trump\'s tweet falls short. The Supreme Court is the unelected branch of government and no party can "hold" it. That said, both parties try to win confirmation of justices who are considered likely to vote the way they want.Republican-nominated justices have formed a majority of the Supreme Court for nearly 50 years. The five more conservative justices were appointed by Republicans while the four more liberal justices were Democratic nominees.Republicans would have the opportunity to cement ideological balance in their favor if Justice Anthony Kennedy  the most moderate of the conservatives  or one of the older and more liberal justices were to retire with Trump in office and Republicans in control of the Senate.Trump was citing retired Justice John Paul Stevens, who called in a New York Times article for repeal of the Second Amendment to allow for gun control legislation. Democratic leaders are not proposing repeal of the amendment, as Trump implies. Also noteworthy: Stevens was nominated by a Republican president, Gerald Ford.___WHITE HOUSE SPOKESWOMAN SARAH SANDERS, on the Trump administration\'s decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census: "This is a question that\'s been included in every census since 1965 with the exception of 2010, when it was removed. ... And again, this is something that has been part of the census for decades and something that the Department of Commerce felt strongly needed to be included again."  press briefing Tuesday.COMMERCE DEPARTMENT: "Between 1820 and 1950, almost every decennial census asked a question on citizenship in some form."  statement on Monday.THE FACTS: Sanders is incorrect. The Commerce Department statement is also problematic. Both are trying to play down the risk of a severe undercount of the population if many immigrants, intimidated by the citizenship question, refuse to participate.The Census Bureau hasn\'t included a citizenship question in its once-a-decade survey sent to all U.S. households since 1950, before the Civil Rights era and passage of a 1965 law designed to help ensure minority groups in the count are fully represented.The nation\'s count is based on the total resident population  both citizens and noncitizens  and used to determine how many U.S. representatives each state gets in the U.S. House.The citizenship question was not in the 1960 census, according to a copy of the form posted on the Census Bureau website, and no census was held in 1965.From 1970 to 2000, the question was included only in the long-form section of the census survey, sent to a portion of U.S. households. After 2000, the question has been asked on the Census Bureau\'s American Community Survey, a separate poll designed to replace the census long form and sent only to a sample of U.S. households.The Commerce Department\'s assertion that the citizenship question was asked on "almost" every decennial census between 1820 and 1950 also pushes the limits of reality. According to the Census Bureau, the question wasn\'t asked in four of those censuses 1840, 1850, 1860 or 1880.Between 1820 and 1950, a total of 14 censuses were held. That means more than 1 in 4 surveys during that time period lacked the citizenship question.Not exactly "almost."___Associated Press writers Mark Sherman and Cal Woodward in Washington and Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd

WASHINGTON  When Kevin Carwile arrived to run the Justice Departments death penalty unit in 2010, he had never prosecuted or sat through an entire capital punishment case. He was moved into the job after overseeing the gangs unit, and some prosecutors worried he lacked the expertise to steer the division.Now Mr. Carwile has been removed from his post after The New York Times inquired about a series of grievances against him, including complaints that he promoted gender bias and a sexualized environment. He fostered a culture of favoritism and sexism, according to court records, internal documents and interviews with more than a half-dozen current and former employees. In one episode, his deputy groped an administrative assistant at a bar in view of their colleagues, according to some who were present. Mr. Carwile asked the witnesses to keep it secret, one said.Employees of the unit, the capital case section, complained about the issues to Justice Department officials, the inspector general and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission at least 12 times. Some allegations went unaddressed for years. In cases that were investigated, the accusers were never told what investigators found. Both Mr. Carwile and his deputy, Gwynn Kinsey, remained Justice Department employees despite the inquiries.Six employees, including the administrative assistant, said they eventually left the section or quit government altogether in part because of the toxic climate. A defendant in Indiana has asked in court for the government to drop the death penalty recommendation in his case because of the units emerging conduct issues.Mr. Carwile declined to comment. After The Times contacted the Justice Department for this article, he was demoted and detailed to a different division. Through his lawyers, Mr. Kinsey declined to comment.The Department of Justice takes these allegations extremely seriously but cannot discuss specific employee disciplinary actions, or comment on internally handled personnel actions or matters that may impact personal privacy, said Ian Prior, a Justice Department spokesman. The department confirmed that it referred some allegations made by employees to the inspector general, whose spokesman would not confirm or deny any investigation.The unit is poised to gain power. President Trump has suggested the United States start executing drug dealers, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions has urged prosecutors to seek the death penalty whenever possible in drug-related crimes.The Justice Department created the capital case section in 1998 to help the attorney general decide when to apply capital punishment. The sections prosecutors advise or work with trial teams on cases and a few trials a year. They were involved in some high-profile prosecutions like those of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, one of the Boston Marathon bombers, and Dylann S. Roof, who was convicted in 2016 of murdering nine people at an African-American church in South Carolina.As the death penalty fell out of favor in the United States, the influence of the unit, already one of the smallest in the Justice Department, waned. About half a dozen trial lawyers worked there in the beginning of 2012, along with a lawyer conducting protocol reviews and three others on loan from different parts of the department.Mr. Carwile had arrived just before the public learned of the Fast and Furious scandal, a botched operation in which agents at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives let criminals move guns across the border into Mexico to try to build a bigger case. Many of the firearms were later found at crime scenes. Mr. Carwile incorrectly told superiors that the A.T.F. learned about guns moving illegally only after the fact, according to a subsequent inspector general investigation. He was moved from his post as head of the gangs unit to the much smaller capital punishment division.He quickly gained a reputation as a mercurial manager with a hands-off style that bordered on neglect, according to current and former employees. He rarely responded to emails, four former employees said, and in meetings his questions revealed that he had not read their messages.But after his first year, Mr. Carwile received the Excellence in Management award for the criminal division as the sections lawyers prosecuted more cases.In 2013, Jacabed Rodriguez-Coss, a prosecutor who had herself won one of the departments highest awards, complained to human resources that Mr. Carwile expected her to involuntarily travel far more than her male counterparts.Though she lived in Connecticut and had cases in Rhode Island and Vermont, he assigned her to one in California. She protested that her family needed her nearby. Her husband, an F.B.I. agent, was one of the first on the scene of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School and was confronting the aftermath of having worked on the case.Ms. Rodriguez-Coss filed a complaint to the E.E.O.C., which notified the Justice Department. Mr. Carwile subsequently suspended permission for her to work from Connecticut. She sued the department in 2016, accusing him of gender discrimination and claiming that her permission to work in Connecticut was taken away in retaliation for her complaints.Seven men and women from the unit filed declarations in her support. Two male colleagues said that they had not been assigned so much travel. Bruce R. Hegyi, a former prosecutor, wrote that he left because of plainly unethical and improper conduct.He said in his filing that Mr. Carwile promoted a sexualized environment, took him to a restaurant with scantily clad waitresses and let a fellow prosecutor show naked photographs of a woman during a work gathering of both men and women.Other employees said in their declarations that Mr. Carwile held men-only meetings, sent emails only to men and assigned more desirable and high-profile cases to men. Women only go to law school to find rich husbands, he said, according to a declaration filed by one lawyer, Amanda Haines.Under Mr. Carwile, there was incentive not to stir things up, said Kevin Little, the lawyer representing Ms. Rodriguez-Coss.My client and other of her colleagues feared retaliation, he said.The Justice Department said in its response that Ms. Rodriguez-Cosss claims boil down to her admitted refusal to perform the essential requirements of her position, which included taking on cases that required travel.Around the same time, Ms. Haines, who worked as a federal prosecutor for 18 years before joining the division, alerted Mr. Carwile to persistent work-quality issues, warnings that she later described in a court filing.In one case in Pennsylvania, she said, she received no files describing the governments work by the previous prosecutor, despite numerous requests, and dozens of boxes with discovery materials had sat unreviewed.She told Mr. Carwile and Mr. Kinsey, but the problem went unaddressed. Her colleague instead received a plum assignment: the Boston Marathon bombing trial.In the Indiana case, Ms. Haines said her predecessor interviewed over a dozen witnesses without a law enforcement officer or other witness present, an error that could jeopardize the governments work. She said in a legal filing that the prosecutor, who later won a departmental award, destroyed his interview notes, which he initially denied but later acknowledged.After Ms. Haines took her concerns to Mr. Carwile, a colleague shared them in an email with Sung-Hee Suh, then the deputy assistant attorney general.Ms. Haines also described the errors in a declaration filed in Ms. Rodriguez-Cosss lawsuit. After her accusations became public, defense lawyers in the Indiana case pushed back on the governments recommendation to seek the death penalty for their client, Andrew Rogers, a felon accused of tying up his cellmate and stabbing him to death.The notes the prosecutor is accused of destroying could have been the difference between a verdict for life and a verdict for death, the defense wrote in a brief in January.If you pull on the thread, who knows how many cases could be impacted? said Mr. Little, Ms. Rodriguez-Cosss lawyer.Two years ago, another prosecutor in the section, Ann Carroll, was asked to travel for work after she had surgery. Around that time, she learned that a male colleague was allowed to forgo travel to accommodate his gluten intolerance.Over the 20 years I had worked at the Department of Justice, I had never experienced a complete lack of sensitivity in the immediate aftermath of a serious medical illness, Ms. Carroll wrote in a declaration. I felt Mr. Carwiles response was arbitrary, and gender-based. She quit that June.Before departing, Ms. Carroll said she described ethical violations to Ms. Suh, prompting a management review. Four former and current employees said in court declarations and to The Times that they told Ms. Suh and James Mann, the chief of staff to the head of the Criminal Division at the Justice Department, about the mishandled cases, sexualized culture and gender bias.Ms. Suh ultimately said that Mr. Carwile and Mr. Kinsey, as a result of the review, were now doing their best, according to Mr. Hegyis declaration, and she concluded that employees were unhappy because they wanted to work from home, to choose between trials and case reviews, and to be given more ways to bring concerns to management.Her conclusions dumbfounded employees who said they had shared more serious grievances. A person briefed on the matter said they were not told of steps being taken to address complaints because those were confidential.Ms. Suh, who now works at the asset manager Pimco, said she could not comment on the details of pending litigation or personnel matters. Any allegations of misconduct, discrimination, harassment or bias actually brought to my attention were fully and fairly investigated and addressed appropriately, she said.The years of warnings that their bosses had ignored or condoned misconduct came to a head last May. During a work-sanctioned happy hour at a restaurant near the Justice Department, colleagues watched Mr. Kinsey grope the administrative assistant, Alyssa tenBroek.Mr. Kinsey, who is a married man, began to take what seemed very clearly to be unwelcome liberties of a physical, sexual nature, Luke Woolman, an intern at the time, wrote in his declaration. He said Mr. Kinsey repeatedly touched Ms. tenBroek, whom he identified as A.T., inappropriately, openly and obviously in front of patrons, Mr. Carwile and at least one other Justice Department prosecutor.Mr. Woolman and the prosecutor, Sonia Jimenez, suggested everyone go home, he later told Ms. Haines. Ms. Jimenez tried to discourage Mr. Kinsey from trying to persuade Ms. tenBroek to go to a hotel with him, according to an internal memo by Ms. Haines.As the night wound down, Mr. Carwile pulled aside Mr. Woolman and asked him not to tell anyone what he had seen.He sternly reiterated his request, specifically stating that he was being serious, Mr. Woolman wrote.After that night, tensions in the unit exploded into view. Ms. tenBroek showed colleagues text messages from Mr. Kinsey in which he offered to give her money, pay her bills or take her on a trip. He also sent her photos of herself that he had downloaded from the internet.He signed off XOXOXOX, according to Ms. Hainess memo. In other messages, he appeared to apologize.Ms. tenBroek later told Ms. Haines and Julie Mosley, another prosecutor, that Mr. Kinsey groped her again in the cab and tried to coerce her into checking into a hotel.Ms. Mosley told the E.E.O.C., and Ms. Haines sent her memo to superiors at the Justice Department. I trust you will give this matter the serious attention it deserves, she wrote. Mr. Woolman said in a court filing that he shared his story with Mr. Mann and an investigator from the inspector generals office.Ms. tenBroek did not dispute her co-workers accounts and said in a statement that she had participated in the departments lengthy and taxing complaint process. She has since left the agency.I have always wanted to pursue a career with the Department of Justice, but it failed me when I reported misconduct, she said. No woman should feel compelled to deal with the pervasive harassment that I experienced, much less have her complaint be effectively disregarded.The departments inspector general began investigating, and Mr. Kinsey was demoted and moved to another division. He is appealing. A person close to Mr. Kinsey said that evidence in another investigation is favorable to him, but would not say who was conducting that inquiry.Current and former employees said the public understandably expects death penalty cases to be handled with integrity. As Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump push for more capital punishments, the sections history, they say, could work against the Justice Department.The same month as the happy hour, the inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, sent a memo to Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Sexual harassment, he wrote, profoundly affects the victim and affects the agencys reputation, undermines the agencys credibility, and lowers employee productivity and morale.
