Advocates as well as opponents of gun control, both plotting next steps after the March for Our Lives rally, think their adversaries will eventually tire.
The case, amid a reinvigorated debate over guns, has been closely watched as it tries to pierce the legal shield protecting gun companies from lawsuits.
Authorities in North Carolina say four men suffered gunshot wounds in a "running gun battle" while driving on a highway.
A Thai editor faces possible criminal charges for sharing a student's "disrespectful" picture of historic kings wearing face masks to highlight air pollution in the northern city of Chiang Mai.
A man was shot and wounded after police say he fired a revolver at an officer during an early-morning incident in Louisville, Kentucky.
The family of Stephon Clark joined hundreds of people at a rally urging California's capital city not to let his memory or calls for police reform fade nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old unarmed black man was killed by Sacramento officers.
Rebels in the territory suffered their worst day of casualties in years, with a dozen killed. At least three soldiers and four civilians also died.
Jason Mueller takes us on tour.
A recent court ruling could give a reputed mobster's family access to sealed evidence from a 14-year-old criminal case, materials they say can prove his murder was caused by law enforcement officials outing him as an informant.
Tensions mounted over the fatal police shooting of an unarmed Sacramento, California, black man when a protester sustained minor injuries when struck by a sheriff's patrol car that was under attack by demonstrators, authorities said on Sunday.
At a secure facility outside Washington, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is examining evidence from the deadly Austin bombings.
John Legend steps into the sandals of Jesus. And Benedict Cumberbatch stars in a new movie about grief and loss.
Los Angeles-area voters go to the polls Tuesday in special elections to fill three open Assembly seats. Two spots are vacant because lawmakers resigned amid harassment claims, potentially making room for more female lawmakers, but candidates say i...
The cries for embattled U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty to step down for not protecting female staffers who said they experienced violence, death threats and sexual harassment by her former chief of staff intensified on Saturday, with fellow Democrats sa...
Eric Holder came to town to campaign for the liberal candidate, and his group dumped $165,000 into the race. Joe Biden, Corey Booker and Gabby Giffords endorsed her, and more money came from a fundraiser in San Francisco. Meanwhile, Wisconsin Repu...
Once a battle zone, the traditional baptism site of Jesus on the Jordan River is surrounded by minefields. An operation is now underway to clear them.
Here’s what you need to know about the week’s top stories.
People are increasingly calling for boycotts of the big tech companies amid a backlash. The problem is that Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Google are nearly inescapable.
An operation to smear a nerve agent on Sergei Skripal’s door handle was so risky, it is unlikely to have been tried without Kremlin approval, British officials investigating the case believe.
President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.
