
The 1960s were known for their turmoil, but the degree to which guns were a factor is sometimes overlooked. Not only was a president assassinated, but an ex-Marine opened fire from an observation deck in Austin and the homicide rate leaped by more than 50 percent, driven by fatal shootings. Gun sales soared, prompted by fears of violence and rioting.But the mayhem and violence didnt seem to move a Congress that refused to take gun-control legislation seriously. It would not even approve a proposal to outlaw the mail-order purchase of rifles, like the one Lee Harvey Oswald bought for $19.95, plus shipping and handling, and used to kill President Kennedy.One of the few major gun control measures enacted, in California, was a reaction not to violence but to the Black Panthers exercising their right to bear arms by patrolling with loaded rifles.The political calculus began to change on April 4, 1968. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was gunned down in Memphis. Nine weeks later, Senator Robert F. Kennedy was fatally shot in Los Angeles.Finally, gun control became a possibility  at least in the hands of President Lyndon B. Johnson, a master at turning tragedy into legislative gain. He had used the death of President John F. Kennedy to pass the Civil Rights Act, and wrung the Voting Rights Act from the Bloody Sunday march from Selma to Montgomery. Now he would try for the Gun Control Act.Today, its not clear that any shooting could be awful enough to embolden Congress to thwart the National Rifle Association. But even back then, the N.R.A. throttled much of what Mr. Johnson intended to do.The voices that blocked these safeguards were not the voices of an aroused nation, an angry president said at the bill signing. They were the voices of a powerful lobby, a gun lobby, that has prevailed for the moment in an election year.He called on those of us who are really concerned about crime to fight for stronger laws. We have been through a great deal of anguish these last few months and these last few years  too much anguish to forget so quickly.The new law outlawed gun sales to felons, drug abusers, minors and those with mental illness; banned most out-of-state and mail-order gun sales; and sharply curbed imported weapons, including the cheap, tiny pistols used in many homicides.It remains a cornerstone of federal gun law today.The King assassination spurred the legislation not just because it horrified the nation, but also because it prompted unrest across the country, including in Washington, where lawmakers watched rioters come within blocks of the White House as thousands of federal troops were mobilized.It was in Congresss backyard, so they didnt have to read about it in the newspapers. They could see it, said Larry Temple, a high-ranking aide and special counsel to Mr. Johnson. The death of Dr. King and the resulting riots in Washington had an impact on Congress and what they wound up doing.But it wasnt until June 5, when Senator Kennedy was assassinated, that the logjam looked like it would break. A day later, a modest gun-control proposal that had languished passed Congress, raising the age to buy handguns to 21.Still, Mr. Johnson wanted something far more sweeping. He proposed to treat guns like cars: They would be registered and their owners would be licensed.Had something like this passed, gun-control proponents say, the United States today might look more like Britain or Australia, countries where guns are tracked and gun violence is a fraction of what it is here.He said, We have about 10 days or two weeks to get it passed, recalled Joseph Califano, his chief domestic adviser. If we dont get it out of committee by then, the N.R.A. will kill us.This time, there has been no similar urgency in Washington, even as hundreds of thousands of protesters in the capital and elsewhere have demanded changes after the killing of 17 students and staff at a high school in Parkland, Fla.Crime is less a concern, as the murder rate has fallen sharply since the sixties. But mass shootings have become frighteningly common. Anyone  or anyones child  could be a victim, at a school, a concert, a church, a movie theater or a nightclub.And while a smaller percent of households own guns, the country has more of them, and they are deadlier: Semiautomatic rifles like the AR-15 have become the weapon of choice in the largest recent mass killings, leading to death tolls in the dozens.Most people today favor tighter gun restrictions, polls indicate, just as they did a half-century ago. But the N.R.A. also wields political power disproportionate to the size of its membership, as it did then.In 1968, the organization was not yet as uncompromising as it is today. But it used tactics that would feel familiar now.It flooded its members with sky-is-falling warnings about the government taking away gun rights, and urged them to hound lawmakers. In a letter to 900,000 N.R.A. members in June 1968, the organizations president, Harold W. Glassen, said that the right of sportsmen to lawfully own and use firearms was in the greatest jeopardy in the history of our country.Frustrated gun-control backers called it calculated hysteria and distortion. But it was profoundly effective.In its coverage that month, The New York Times called the gun lobby among the most effective in Washington, citing the associations ability to get sportsmen, farmers and gun lovers to put pressure on their congressmen.Soon, Mr. Johnsons favored provisions were shorn from the bill by his old cadre of fellow Southern Democrats.Strom Thurmond is hostile as hell, and so is Jim,  James O. Eastland, Democrat of Mississippi  and theyre mutilating the bill as it is, the leader of the Senate Republicans, Everett Dirksen of Illinois, told Mr. Johnson in a recorded phone call on July 24, 1968 that is in the Mr. Johnsons presidential library. (Senator Thurmond was by then a Republican.)The licensing and registration provisions passed neither chamber, and triumphant pro-gun forces announced it was now legislation they could live with.To which Representative Charles S. Joelson, Democrat of New Jersey, responded: I suggest that tens of thousands of Americans can die with it.The Gun Control Act was signed into law that fall.Two years later, the N.R.A. helped defeat the re-election bid of a leading Senate proponent of tough gun laws, Joseph D. Tydings, Democrat of Maryland, a man who had won his seat just six years earlier in a landslide.By now the N.R.A. has perfected the art of going after lawmakers who defy the organization. That is one reason the demands of mass shooting survivors and their allies, now led most visibly by the Parkland students, remain so far apart from the measures Congress is considering.In 1956, after his house was bombed, Dr. King applied to the local sheriff for a permit to carry a concealed handgun. He was denied on the grounds that he was unsuitable, according to Adam Winkler, the author of Gunfight: The Battle Over the Right to Bear Arms in America.Friends and relatives who feared for his safety urged him to hire a bodyguard and armed watchmen, he wrote in his autobiography. But soon, he and Coretta Scott King, his wife, reconsidered and gave up the one gun they owned. How could I serve as one of the leaders of a nonviolent movement and at the same time use weapons of violence for my personal protection? he wrote.Fifty years ago, the death of great leaders prodded Congress to act on gun control. Now, at a similar juncture, it is the death of schoolchildren that has stirred the makings of a movement. It remains uncertain whether the current movement for gun restrictions will result in meaningful reform.So far, the main impetus is in state legislatures. Even in Republican-controlled states it appears there is at least some openness to doing something, building on the foundation laid over the last five years in less conservative states, said Adam Skaggs, chief counsel of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. But he said Congress may not do much unless midterm elections shake things up.For Dr. King, who would have turned 89 in January, getting rid of his gun helped him reckon with his mortality and focus on his movement.From that point on, I no longer needed a gun nor have I been afraid, he wrote. Had we become distracted by the question of my safety we would have lost the moral offensive and sunk to the level of our oppressors.
SHEPHERD, Mich.   Prosecutors say no charges will be filed against a county sheriff who accidentally left a loaded service weapon in a Michigan school gym locker room.The Mecosta County prosecutor's office recently made the determination after being asked to review the case by the Michigan attorney general's office. Isabella County Sheriff Michael Main apologized after leaving his backup gun at Shepherd Middle School last month, calling his mistake inexcusable.Main said he used the school locker room to change from street clothes into uniform. Main said he believed the gun was in his bag, but a sixth grader later found it and told a teacher.The Morning Sun of Mount Pleasant reports the gun was found on a bathroom stall toilet paper holder.
LONDON   London police investigated more murders than their New York counterparts did over the last two months, statistics show, as the British capital\'s mayor vowed to fight a "violent scourge" on the streets.There were 15 murders in London in February against 14 in New York, according to London\'s Metropolitan Police Service and the New York Police Department. For March, 22 murders were investigated in London, with 21 reports in New York.In the latest bloodshed, a 17-year-old girl died on Monday after she was found with gunshot wounds in Tottenham, north London, a day after a man was fatally stabbed in south London."The Mayor is deeply concerned by violent crime in the capital - everylife lost to violent crime is a tragedy," a spokeswoman for Mayor Sadiq Khan said in a statement on Tuesday."Our city remains one of the safest in the world ... but Sadiq wants it to be even safer and is working hard to bring an end to this violent scourge."Including January\'s figures, New York had still experienced more murders so far this year than London. The cities have a similar-sized population.Gun violence is much less of a problem in Britain, which has strict gun control laws, than in the United States, and most British police are not equipped with firearms.But British politicians and police are increasingly expressing concern about London\'s rising murder rate, which is driven by a surge in knife crime. Of the 47 murders in London so far this year, 31 have been committed with knives.Britain\'s interior ministry said it was consulting on new laws to further restrict dangerous weapons, including banning online stores from delivering knives to residential addresses and making it an offence to possess certain weapons in public."This government is taking action to restrict access to offensive weapons as well as working to break the deadly cycle of violence and protect our children, families and communities," a Home Office spokesman said.Khan, who has been in office since May 2016, is from the opposition Labour Party. Before him, Conservative Boris Johnson was mayor for eight years. The national government has been run by the Conservatives since 2010, with Prime Minister Theresa May previously serving as interior minister from 2010 to 2016.Britain\'s most senior officer, London police chief Cressida Dick, said gangs were using online platforms to glamorize violence, adding that disputes between young people could escalate within minutes on social media.The Ben Kinsella Trust, an anti-knife crime charity named after a young victim, said social media amplified a range of other factors that have contributed to the crisis.The charity\'s CEO Patrick Green said there had been extra funding to tackle knife crime, which he welcomed, but added that the government needed to act with more urgency and that budget cuts affecting youth services had played a part."This has been a horrendous year. It\'s looking like it\'ll be worse that last year, which was worse than the year before," he told Reuters."The response so far has been too slow... It feels like we\'re in a crisis and we need to respond in that way."(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison and Estelle Shirbon)
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe Second Amendment is just 27 words long. But those 27 words are among the most cryptic and divisive in the United States Constitution  and they are at the heart of one of the most contentious debates in American politics.Why is the Supreme Court so reluctant to clarify them?On todays episode: Adam Liptak, who covers the Supreme Court for The New York Times.Background material: In a video, Mr. Liptak breaks down the Second Amendment and looks at how it is interpreted today. Despite immense pressure to pass gun legislation, members of Congress are deeply divided and the prospects for a consequential agreement seem slim. John Paul Stevens, a retired Supreme Court justice, wrote an Op-Ed in The Times calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment. We also have six stories and charts to help you better understand gun violence in the United States.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
WASHINGTON   It was one week after the fatal shootings at a Parkland, Florida, high school, and Republican Sen. Marco Rubio was looking to show solidarity with an angry crowd of parents and students in his home state. He told them  and a national television audience  that 18-year-olds should not be able to buy a rifle and said, "I will support a law that takes that right away."About 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometers) north, District of Columbia officials could only shake their heads in disbelief. The city already had a law barring 18-year-olds from buying rifles, yet Rubio was the main senator pushing legislation to end that ban, as well as D.C.\'s prohibition of assault weapons."Rubio\'s gun bill should be a public embarrassment as well as a personal embarrassment to him," said Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington\'s nonvoting delegate in Congress.Gun control has long been a sore point in relations between officials in this heavily Democratic city, home to some of the nation\'s toughest gun control laws, and Republicans, who as the congressional majority have power over D.C.\'s laws. The strong feelings have intensified with the nation at a crossroads moment in the gun control debate after the Feb. 14 shootings at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and a subsequent "March for Our Lives" gun-control rally in Washington.Rubio, in particular, is seen as the villain. City officials accuse him of playing cynical political games with the lives of Washington residents to curry favor with the National Rifle Association.Following the town hall, Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser challenged Rubio to withdraw his bill. Rubio sent her a letter saying that he and Bowser "share a common goal" and that his bill seeks only to bring Washington "in line with federal law."  If federal law changes which Rubio said is his goal  then Washington\'s laws would change as well.Bowser, a Democrat, posted the letter on Twitter with her handwritten notes and objections written in the margins. Those notes include Bowser calling Rubio\'s stance "the epitome of hypocrisy.""He\'s just using it to boost his NRA score," Bowser said in an interview with The Associated Press. "What we think Marco Rubio should be focused on is his job."Asked for comment by The Associated Press, Rubio staffers responded by providing the Rubio letter that Bowser had posted.Rubio introduced the bill, known as the Second Amendment Enforcement Act, in 2015 and again in 2017. According to the NRA website, Rubio has an A-plus rating. Among its list of Rubio accomplishments is that he "sponsored legislation that would repeal Washington, D.C.\'s draconian gun control laws and restore the right of self-defense to law-abiding individuals in our nation\'s capital."Norton said she\'s been fighting off similar bills in Congress for years. Another one, sponsored by Virginia Republican Tom Garrett, exists in the House. Neither of them has much chance of passing because the Republican majorities in Congress wouldn\'t hold together on such a divisive issue, she said."The worst part is why he did it. Why would a senator from Florida take on this issue?" Norton asked. "He\'s coming back every year for his NRA payoff."According to public records, Rubio received just under $10,000 directly from the NRA during the 2016 election. However the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics, which combines direct contributions from the NRA with contributions from like-minded affiliates, super PACs and money spent on campaign ads on behalf of the candidate, estimates that Rubio has received more than $3.3 million over the course of his career, making him the 6th-highest recipient in Congress.The Washington government has bristled for years under what officials call the heavy-handed and arrogant oversight of Congress, which has the right to alter or spike all Washington laws.Washington has long fought to defend its strict gun control. A 2008 Supreme Court ruling declared Washington\'s blanket ban on handgun ownership unconstitutional. Washington restrictions such as preventing gun owners from registering more than one gun per month and requiring re-registration every three years also have been struck down by the courts.The issues of Washington\'s autonomy and its gun control laws are deeply intertwined. The closest Washington has come in recent years to having a vote in Congress unraveled over gun control.Republicans have opposed statehood for the District of Columbia, which would boost Democratic power in Congress. Despite the Republican Party\'s general opposition to federal interference in state issues, the official GOP platform stance on D.C. statehood is that it can only be achieved via constitutional amendment. The platform states that "the nation\'s capital city is a special responsibility of the federal government because it belongs both to its residents and to all Americans."A 2009 compromise proposed creating a new congressional district in heavily Republican Utah. In exchange, Washington\'s House delegate seat would be upgraded to full voting status.However, as the D.C. Voting Rights Act worked its way through Congress, Republican Nevada Sen. John Ensign attached a rider that would have required Washington to abolish most of its gun-ownership restrictions. The city government concluded it was too high a price to pay and the bill was shelved.
PHOENIX   A Phoenix woman shocked her teenage son with a stun gun to wake him for church services on Easter, authorities said.Phoenix police arrested 40-year-old Sharron Dobbins on suspicion of child abuse Sunday morning after her 17-year-old son alerted authorities.The teen did not complain of any pain but told police he had two small bumps on his leg where he was shocked, according to police documents.Dobbins said she did not shock her son. She only used the noise from the stun gun to wake her two sons who were refusing to get up for church, she said."I don\'t think I did anything wrong because you\'re supposed to put God first and that\'s all I was trying to do is tell my kids to put God first," Dobbins told KNXV-TV.The teen told police he was unwilling to testify against his mother and he did not want to prosecute, according to the police documents.Dobbins was taken to jail and later released. She is scheduled to appear in court later this month.Police seized the stun gun as evidence."Nobody writes a book on the correct way of parenting," Dobbins said. "I tell my sons to honor thy mother and thy father or their days will be shortened and that\'s my favorite."

WESTON, Fla.   A Florida law prohibiting local governments from enacting their own gun regulations is invalid and unconstitutional, according to elected officials from 10 cities suing the state\'s governor in the aftermath of a mass shooting that left 17 people dead at a suburban high school.The Feb. 14 massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland has renewed criticism of the 2011 law backed by the National Rifle Association and signed by Gov. Rick Scott.A state law to pre-empt local gun regulations was passed in 1987, but the changes made in 2011 threatened local officials with removal from office and fines of up to $5,000.Elected officials from the 10 Miami-area cities told reporters at a news conference Monday in Weston that the law prohibits changes their constituents have asked for since the school shooting."We get phone calls every day: What are you going to do about it? It happened in Parkland. It could happen in Miramar," said Miramar Mayor Wayne Messam.Messam wants a new 5,000-seat amphitheater to be a gun-free venue.In Miami Beach, Mayor Dan Gelber wants to keep guns out of City Hall. Pompano Beach\'s mayor wants to regulate gun shows at public facilities. Coral Gables Mayor Raul Valdes-Fauli wants to block the sale of military-style rifles within his city\'s limits.The lawsuit argues that the 2011 sanctions overstep restrictions on a governor\'s limited ability to remove a local elected official from office. It also says the law violates state rules protecting a municipal government\'s authority to enact laws without fear of legal penalties against local lawmakers.The lawsuit also calls the law an unconstitutional restriction of local democracy  including the responsibility of a city\'s elected officials to respond to constituents petitioning for local action after the Parkland massacre.It cites the threat of removal against Valdes-Fauli and other members of the Coral Gables City Council.Valdes-Fauli won unanimous council support in a preliminary vote for a citywide ban on the sale of military-style rifles, but the measure was narrowly voted down March 20 after the city attorney warned of severe financial consequences under the 2011 state law.Valdes-Fauli said Monday that the law was "unconstitutional because we have the duty to regulate our zoning and public safety. The state is making it impossible for us."Valdes-Fauli still voted for the ban, saying he thought the ordinance would help his city\'s legal case against the 2011 law. "I believe in civil disobedience when the laws are unjust," he said.Scott and Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi are listed among the defendants in the lawsuit filed in Leon County Circuit Court.A Scott spokesman said the governor\'s office was reviewing the lawsuit. A Bondi spokesman said they had not yet received it.Broward County commissioners are expected next week to ask their attorney to sue the state and challenge the laws. The county wants to regulate accessories to firearms such as large capacity magazines and create zoning ordinances that could outlaw guns at all times in some areas such as polling places and school administration buildings."Local residents are demanding these types of actions," said Commissioner Michael Udine, whose district includes Parkland. "We should be able to make these common sense types of ordinances to deal with our local population. I think this is something people are still talking about and I think people want to see common sense regulations."
MONTPELIER, Vt.   A teenager charged with planning a shooting at his former high school never carried out the crime and should be granted bail, his lawyer argued before a state Supreme Court panel on Tuesday.In court filings and during oral arguments, attorneys for Jack Sawyer argued that while Sawyer made preparations for a shooting at the Fair Haven Union High School he didn\'t take any concrete steps that under Vermont law would justify charges including attempted aggravated murder, which allows a judge to reject bail."The evidence in this case shows that the defendant had no plans to commit the target offense for at least a month at the time he was arrested," said attorney Marshall Pahl, who\'s representing Sawyer in his appeal to the Supreme Court.While Sawyer, 18, had moved from Maine back to Poultney, Vermont, and bought a shotgun and ammunition as part of his planning he had not visited his former high school or even visited the town where it\'s located. Pahl said the state Supreme Court has consistently ruled that preparation is not an attempt unless it is more closely tied to the attempt.Court documents said Sawyer had planned to carry out the attack March 14.Rutland County State\'s Attorney Rosemary Kennedy said Sawyer, who kept a diary called "Journal of an Active Shooter," had made detailed plans for a shooting in which his goal was to kill more people than in any other school shooting. Kennedy said the hearing, before a three-justice court panel, was not the penalty phase of a trial but was part of the process that will allow the case to go to a trial to determine guilt or innocence."It we are told we have to wait until this young man shows up on campus with his arsenal, we are not talking about an attempt anymore," she said. "People will die."Sawyer has pleaded not guilty and is being held without bail on a variety of charges. If convicted of attempted aggravated murder he would automatically be sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.Sawyer\'s attorneys are appealing a lower-court decision that he is not entitled to bail. They want the case sent back to the lower court.Sawyer was arrested Feb. 15, the day after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17. A friend had alerted police to some social media posts that Sawyer had made outlining his plans.Sawyer\'s arrest prompted Republican Gov. Phil Scott, who had previously opposed any plans to change the state\'s gun laws, to call for gun restrictions, the first of which passed the Legislature last week.The court didn\'t indicate when it would rule on the bail arguments.
NEW YORK   A former U.S. Army sniper and two other ex-American soldiers agreed to become contract killers for an international crime boss who wanted to settle a score with a real estate agent in the Philippines he thought had cheated him on a land deal, a prosecutor said Tuesday in opening statements at the trial of the three men.Joseph Hunter, a onetime sergeant with a Special Forces background, Adam Samia and Carl David Stillwell have denied they planned the 2012 execution-style hit  a case that\'s provided an inside glimpse into the secret fraternity of private mercenaries willing to kill in cold blood for cash.Prosecutors said the 52-year-old Hunter was working as a security chief for weapons and drug trafficker Paul Le Roux when he recruited Samia and Stillwell to travel from their homes in Roxboro, North Carolina, to the Philippines for what was called "ninja work." Hunter provided firearms and silencers and told them Le Roux would pay them $35,000 a piece to get the job done, Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Egan said in federal court in Manhattan.The broker, Catherine Lee, was on a "kill list" that self-styled assassins with military backgrounds saw as a golden opportunity, Egan said."If Paul Le Roux wanted somebody killed, these guys got the call," he said. "For these men, more murders meant more money."Samia, 43, and Stillwell, 50, did surveillance on Lee before contacting her pretending to be potential clients, the prosecutor said. While returning from a trip to the countryside outside of Manila, Samia pulled out a .22-caliber gun and killed Lee by shooting her twice in the face as she sat in the back seat of a van, he said.Lee\'s body was found on a pile of garbage on the side of the road, Egan said. After being paid, her killers were ordered back to the United States, where they were arrested in 2015.An investigation turned up a picture on Stillwell\'s phone of a bloody head wrapped in a towel that was taken around the time of Lee\'s death, authorities said. He also admitted being behind the wheel of the van when she was shot, they added.Prosecutors said other evidence includes a secretly recorded video of Hunter from a sting in Thailand that resulted in a separate conviction for plotting to kill a Drug Enforcement Administration agent. They said he\'s overheard talking about killing people for Le Roux, including a Filipino real-estate agent.On Tuesday, defense attorneys asked jurors to keep an open mind, saying the case lacked eyewitness, forensic and other conclusive evidence needed to convict. They also told them not to trust shady government witnesses like Le Roux, who has pleaded guilty and is cooperating.Hunter\'s attorney, Cesar De Castro, suggested the government couldn\'t prove its case.Samia only agreed "to do legitimate, legal security work," said his lawyer, Jeremy Schneider. Stillman\'s lawyer, Robert Ray, didn\'t deny his client\'s statements about being in the van but claimed he never joined a murder conspiracy."It just didn\'t happen," Ray said.
SAN BRUNO, Calif.   A woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself was furious with the company because it had stopped paying her for videos she posted on the platform, her father said late Tuesday.Two law enforcement officials identified the suspect as Nasim Aghdam of Southern California. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.YouTube had "stopped everything," and "she was angry," her father Ismail Aghdam said from his San Diego home in a telephone interview with the Bay Area News Group.People who post on YouTube can receive money from advertisements that accompany their videos, but the company "de-monetizes" some channels for reasons including inappropriate material or having fewer than 1,000 subscribers.Ismail Aghdam said he reported his daughter missing on Monday after she did not answer her phone for two days.He said the family received a call from Mountain View police around 2 a.m. Tuesday saying they found Nasim sleeping in a car.He said he warned them she might be headed to YouTube because she "hated" the company.Mountain View Police spokeswoman Katie Nelson confirmed officers located a woman by the same name asleep in a vehicle asleep in a Mountain View parking lot Tuesday morning. Nelson said the woman declined to answer further questions but the police spokeswoman did not respond to a question about whether police were warned Aghdam might go to YouTube.Authorities said earlier Tuesday that the shooting was being investigated as a domestic dispute.Terrified employees huddled inside, calling 911, as officers and federal agents swarmed the company\'s suburban campus sandwiched between two interstate freeways in the San Francisco Bay Area city of San Bruno.YouTube employee Dianna Arnspiger said she was on the building\'s second floor when she heard gunshots, ran to a window and saw the shooter on a patio outside.She said the woman wore glasses and a scarf and was using a "big huge pistol.""It was a woman and she was firing her gun. And I just said, \'Shooter,\' and everybody started running," Arnspiger said.She and others hid in a conference room for an hour while another employee repeatedly called 911 for updates."It was terrifying," she said.A 36-year-old man was in critical condition, a 32-year-old woman was in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman was in fair condition, a spokesman for San Francisco General Hospital said.Witnesses described terror before officers arrived and discovered a victim near a front door and then found the shooter several minutes later with what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound, San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini said.He said two additional gunshot victims were found at an adjacent business minutes later. Barberini initially said there were four people who had been shot but later clarified that a fourth person had suffered an ankle injury.Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said he was at his desk working on the second floor of one of the buildings when the fire alarm went off. He got on his skateboard and approached a courtyard, where he saw the shooter yelling, "\'Come at me, or come get me.\'"He saw somebody lying nearby on his back with a red stain on his stomach that appeared to be from a bullet wound. Vorhies said he realized there was an active shooter when a police officer with an assault rifle came through a security door.He said the public can access the courtyard where he saw the shooter during work hours.Michael Finney, a 21-year-old supervisor at Carl\'s Jr. across from the campus, said he came out of the bathroom to see a woman in a booth bleeding from the calf. Two friends were trying to stop the bleeding, using the victim\'s sweatshirt as a tourniquet, but it wasn\'t helping, he told the San Jose Mercury News."Everyone was figuring out what to do," Finney said. "I was trying to stay calm and see what I could do. Everybody is shocked."Google, which owns the world\'s biggest online video website, said the company\'s security team worked with authorities to evacuate buildings and was doing whatever it could support the victims and their families.YouTube\'s headquarters has more than a thousand engineers and other employees in several buildings. Originally built in the late 1990s for the clothing retailer Gap, the campus south of San Francisco is known for its sloped green roof of native grasses.Inside, Google famously outfitted the office several years ago with a three-lane red slide for workers to zoom from one story to another."Today it feels like the entire community of YouTube, all of the employees, were victims of this crime," said Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman. "Our hearts go out to all those who suffered."The White House said President Donald Trump was briefed on the shooting and that officials were monitoring developments.___Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles, Eric Tucker in Washington and Janie Har in San Francisco contributed to this report.___This story has been corrected with new information from authorities that three victims suffered gunshot wounds and a fourth was taken to the hospital but wasn\'t shot. A reference also has been removed to patients being taken to Stanford Hospital because the facility says it gave incorrect information.
DETROIT   Police are investigating accidental shootings in Detroit and Houston that were livestreamed on social media and that left a teenager dead and a man on life support.Detroit police say two 18-year-olds were live on Instagram Saturday night showing money and a gun when one of them shot the other in the back of the head, killing him. Police say the teen who fired the gun told investigators he accidentally put his finger on the trigger and that the rifle discharged. He was taken into custody.The victim died before paramedics arrived at the home, which is on Detroit\'s northwest side.Police haven\'t released the names of the shooter or the victim.In Houston, a 25-year-old woman shot a male acquaintance early Sunday while waving a handgun inside of a parked car. The shooting, which police are treating as accidental, was streamed on Facebook live.The victim, identified by family members as Devyn Holmes, was sitting in the car when he was hit. He was hospitalized but is brain dead and on life support, authorities said.In the video, Cassandra Damper can be seen waving the handgun while Holmes tells her, "Hey man, you\'re making me nervous."An unidentified third person in the vehicle, a man, is heard saying, "She got no clip bud," a reference to the lack of an ammunition clip in the gun. But seconds later, the gun fires, hitting Holmes on the side of his head. A gun without an ammunition clip can still fire if there was a bullet in the gun\'s chamber, though police are still investigating and haven\'t said that was the case in Holmes\' shooting.Damper has been charged with tampering/fabricating evidence. Authorities say she tried to wipe off any gunshot residue she might have had on her hands.Court records didn\'t list an attorney for Damper, who is free on $2,500 bond.The case will be referred to a grand jury for possible additional charges.It is unclear how many people, if any, were watching the livestreams when the shootings happened.___This story has been corrected to reflect that the Detroit shooting happened Monday night, not Saturday night.
LAUDERHILL, Fla.   Police say a shooting in a crowded mall parking lot in Florida has left two people dead.The Sun Sentinel reports 32-year-old Lawrence Hall and 33-year-old Omarie Stephens died.Lauderhill police Lt. Michael Santiago says a police officer was working security Sunday night at a restaurant when he heard gunshots.The officer found Stephens in front of the mall and paramedics found Hall on the east end of the mall. Another victim drove himself to a hospital and is expected to recover.Police say multiple shell casings were found and that more than one type of gun was fired.Investigators are trying to ascertain whether the assailant used more than one type of gun, or if multiple people were shooting outside the mall.No suspects have been taken into custody.___Information from: Sun Sentinel , http://www.sun-sentinel.com/

SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn had his first major encounter with officers as a kid who witnessed a murder in a tough part of California\'s capital city.His second: as a teenager busted on allegations of assaulting an officer."Nobody in my neighborhood thought about being a police officer," Hahn said in an interview last week with The Associated Press.The unlikely officer is now Sacramento\'s first African-American police chief, on the job less than a year and at the center of the nation\'s latest upheaval over the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man. Hahn has received both support and criticism from some community members and black leaders, forcing him walk the line between protecting officers and supporting protesters as he contemplates changes to his department.Demonstrators angry over the March 18 death of 22-year-old Stephon Clark have interrupted City Council meetings, snarled traffic and delayed thousands of fans heading to NBA games.Two officers responding to reports of a man breaking windows shot Clark in his grandparents\' backyard because they thought he was moving toward them with a gun, police say. They found only a cellphone.A prominent pathologist hired by Clark\'s family says the autopsy shows the officers shot Clark from behind.Hahn, who became chief following other contentious police shootings, said the department is re-examining a generations-old practice of pursuing suspects into dangerous areas when other tactics might be safer. But he warned that every change brings consequences."And so we have to make sure that we look at it holistically and determine, \'Are we OK with those additional or different consequences?\' And if we are, maybe we do make fundamental changes such as that," Hahn said.He\'s also questioning a policy that allowed officers to turn off the audio on their new body-worn cameras, which he said "bred more mistrust." Officers are supposed to mute their microphones only for personal conversations or confidential communications such as talks with informants, Hahn said.It\'s unclear why they did so after shooting Clark and finding he was unarmed.The police chief\'s decision to release audio and video of the shooting just three days later earned him praise from black leaders. Hahn said it likely fueled protesters\' anger but was worth it because it showed the city had "nothing to hide."He also called Clark\'s family in the days after his shooting to offer condolences.Some black leaders are praising his leadership since he became chief of the racially diverse city, even as they demand criminal charges against his officers.Hahn, 49, took over following police shootings that included the 2016 death of Joseph Mann, a mentally ill black man whose case led to increased training for officers on how to deal with individuals with mental illness, updated firearms policies and additional options for using less-lethal force.Betty Williams, president of the NAACP\'s Sacramento branch, called the latest shooting "a great test" for Hahn."He is a young African-American chief of police that\'s been in office for seven months. You\'ve got an opportunity to be the model, to actually change the way they do things around the country  take it," Williams said.California NAACP President Alice Huffman praised Hahn\'s officers for showing restraint as some protesters tried to incite police into overreacting after Clark\'s death."That had to be an order from the top to stay cool," she said.But Curtis Gordon, Clark\'s uncle and a spokesman for the family, is skeptical."I thank him for the condolences, but Stephon\'s still not here. He won\'t be back," Gordon said.And Tanya Faison of Sacramento\'s Black Lives Matter chapter has criticized Hahn for urging protesters to remain peaceful."I was really offended by that because we shouldn\'t be telling people how to mourn and how to be traumatized," she said at a City Council meeting. "We should be providing help for people."Eugene O\'Donnell, a professor of police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said Hahn must balance changes to the department with the possibility of losing his officers\' trust and morale by making them skittish or ineffective against crime."We\'ve got to stop police wrongdoing but we\'ve got to make sure we don\'t stop police right-doing. That\'s a major conversation we\'re having in this country," O\'Donnell said. As for Hahn, "Will he stand up in the gale force that he\'s in the midst of? It\'s an unenviable place for him to be."It\'s one Hahn didn\'t always expect to find himself in.His run-in with police at age 16 came after an argument with his mother, who called authorities. He was held on suspicion of assault on an officer and resisting arrest, though Hahn said he didn\'t assault the officer and wound up spending just four hours in juvenile hall.He later signed up for a junior college criminal justice class because a friend told him it was easy. Then he took the police entry exam because the test site was near his house and the pay of $8.14 an hour was more than he made at a local shopping mall.Hahn\'s roughest day on the force may have been when his younger brother, who was involved with drugs, was killed in 1992. He identified his brother\'s body.Hahn, whose mother died days before Clark\'s shooting, said he knows what it\'s like to grieve. He also knows his department must build better relationships with the residents it serves."We can\'t just be there when we\'re arresting people," he said.

RUD, Kosovo  Fetah Rudi, a former schoolteacher and political activist, has been using a wheelchair for 17 years, ever since unidentified gunmen unloaded 14 bullets into his stomach and shoulder in a drive-by shooting near his small village in central Kosovo.He has no hope of ever walking again but, thanks to a new war crimes tribunal, he finally has some hope that, after 10 years as an independent country, Kosovo will belatedly grapple with a singularly taboo topic: why ethnic Albanians like him kept getting attacked and in some cases killed even after their Serbian tormentors had fled.He has watched in dismay over the years as the United Nations and then the European Union  which have both tried to establish the rule of law in this tiny Balkan nation since it broke free from Serbia in 1999  failed to deliver justice for a wave of violence that followed Serbias retreat.The new court, based in The Hague but governed by Kosovo law, will focus on judging not Serbian atrocities during the 1998-99 war but crimes committed during and after the conflict by the Kosovo Liberation Army, or K.L.A., an ethnic Albanian guerrilla force whose former commanders now run the country.The court, Mr. Rudi said, is the last chance to finally make our people free.In the nearly two decades since it split from Serbia, Kosovo has been governed as a United Nations protectorate and, since February 2008, as an independent state. Throughout that time, it has been dogged by demons left from its violent birth and a culture of impunity left by its failure to come to terms with the fact that some of Kosovos most powerful figures have been accused of major crimes.The special court, which is expected to issue its first indictments soon, is supported by the United States and Europe, Kosovos main backers and funders. But it poses risks for them, too, as it will examine crimes directly related to the foundation of the Wests state-building project in Kosovo: its alliance with the K.L.A. during NATOs bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999; its failure to disarm the K.L.A. after the war ended; and its inability to protect not only ethnic Serb residents who stayed behind, but also the K.L.As ethnic Albanian political rivals.In a sign that United States support for the court is perhaps flagging under President Trump, the American chief prosecutor, David Schwendiman, stepped down recently after the State Department declined to extend his appointment by two years to enable him to complete his term with the court, despite assurances during the Obama administration that he would be able to do so.Mr. Rudi said the bullets that nearly killed him in December 2000  18 months after the end of the war and the departure of Serbian forces  were shot from the same gun that a month earlier had been used to murder Xhemajl Mustafa, a prominent journalist.Both attacks occurred despite the presence of more than 45,000 NATO troops in Kosovo, a force that, wary of confronting the K.L.A., did little to halt post-conflict score settling.Both Mr. Rudi and Mr. Mustafa were outspoken supporters of the Democratic League of Kosovo, an originally pacifist group led by Ibrahim Rugova that shared the K.L.A.s desire to end Serbian oppression but, once the Serbs left, challenged the self-declared right of the groups fighters to run Kosovo as their own fief.The expectation of imminent indictments has delighted Mr. Rudi, who was held in a secret K.L.A. prison and violently beaten toward the end of the war and, after the conflict ended, was targeted for assassination by what he suspected was a K.L.A. hit squad. He said he would leave Kosovo and move to Western Europe with his wife and four children if the court flubbed its mission.The prospect of the courts digging into cold cases left from Kosovos birth as a separate state has sent former K.L.A. members  who include the countrys president, prime minister and speaker of Parliament  into a panic. They tried in December to torpedo the special court with legislation that would have emasculated its function. They backed off after the United States and the European Union protested the move in unusually strong terms. The American ambassador, Greg Delawie, called it a stab in the back.In an interview on the eve of a visit to Washington in February to attend a prayer breakfast with President Trump, President Hashim Thaci  the K.L.A.s political commissar during the war, when he was known to his comrades as the snake  denounced the special court as a historic injustice but pledged to let it proceed.We have nothing to hide, he said, insisting that the K.L.A. as an organization never imprisoned or murdered its ethnic Albanian rivals, massacred Serbian civilians or committed other war crimes, despite the persistent allegations that prompted the establishment of the special court.Mr. Thaci (pronounced THAH-chee) conceded that some individuals in the K.L.A. had taken the law into their own hands, and he said he wanted to see their crimes punished. At the same time, he complained that you cant put an equal sign between the crimes of the Serbs and those of the K.L.A.Few if any Kosovars would dispute that but, with Serbian forces long gone, many are asking why so few of the hopes raised by the K.L.A.s NATO-enabled victory in 1999 have been fulfilled  why nearly 60 percent of young people are unemployed, why corrupt politicians, many of them former K.L.A. fighters, can ransack the economy with impunity, and why witnesses in criminal cases against senior K.L.A. figures keep disappearing or refusing to testify.We thought it would be completely different, said Mr. Rudi, the former teacher. We thought we would have a functioning country with laws, institutions, security and a developed economy. We never thought there would be all this killing and stealing.Beriane Mustafa, the daughter of the murdered journalist, said she did not know who killed her father, but I do know it was a political murder, probably by political opponents. Mr. Mustafas murder and the attack on Mr. Rudi followed the defeat of the K.L.A., which had been reconfigured as a political party, in local elections in early October 2000.The timing, Ms. Mustafa said, suggested a kind of revenge by fighters who, furious at being denied the political support they thought they deserved, calculated that if we kill these people we will come to power.By 2007, the K.L.A.s political party was the countrys dominant political force. Mr. Thaci became prime minister in 2008, one month before Kosovo declared independence, and then president in 2016.Mr. Thaci has become the emblem of two diametrically opposed views of Kosovos liberation struggle and its aftermath. In 2010, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. described him as Kosovos George Washington, the nations heroic founding father. A report issued the same year by the Council of Europe, however, described him as the most dangerous of the K.L.A.s criminal bosses.The report had been commissioned after ghoulish allegations of organ trafficking by the K.L.A. appeared in a book published by Carla del Ponte, the former chief prosecutor at United Nations war crime tribunals in The Hague.Written by the Swiss prosecutor Dick Marty, the report portrayed Kosovo as a failed state run by gangsters and thugs. It caused outrage in Kosovo across the political spectrum, mostly because it repeated Ms. del Pontes claims that the K.L.A. had killed Serbian prisoners for their organs. But it nonetheless set in motion calls for a reckoning that led to the establishment of the special court.The accusation of wartime organ theft has never been substantiated, but the issue continues to haunt Kosovo, fueled in part by the discovery in 2008 of an organ trafficking ring operating out of a medical center near the capital, Pristina. The man accused of leading the ring, an Israeli citizen, Moshe Harel, was arrested in January in Cyprus.Clint Williamson, an American appointed by the European Union in 2011 to head an investigation into Mr. Martys allegations, concluded that the practice of killing prisoners for their organs did occur on a very limited scale but that finding evidence to prove it would be very difficult.Instead, he said, future indictments against former K.L.A. commanders should focus on their responsibility for a campaign of persecution directed at Serbs and other minority groups, as well as toward fellow Kosovo Albanians whom they labeled either to be collaborators with the Serbs or, more commonly, to have simply been political opponents of the K.L.A. leadership.In his interview in February, Mr. Thaci dismissed the Marty report as part of a Russian-orchestrated program of fake news, a farrago of lies and disinformation intended to undermine Western influence in the Balkans.Calling Kosovo the most pro-American country in the world, he said that by blackening its name, Russia, a firm ally of Serbia, wanted to damage the United States. He produced no evidence that Russia had a hand in Mr. Martys report.Whether the special court can get to the bottom of what happened nearly 20 years ago will depend to a large extent on whether witnesses will agree to testify and, if they do, whether they and their family members can survive.When a former K.L.A. commander living abroad, Agim Zogaj, agreed in 2011 to testify against former comrades in a war crimes trial, he was put into a witness protection program run by the European Union. Before the trial could start, he was found hanging from a tree in the western German city of Duisburg.Ms. Mustafa, the daughter of the murdered journalist, said she was not optimistic about the courts ability to succeed where the United Nations and European Union had failed, but added, If you want to consider yourself a real state, a serious state, you have to deal with all crimes, no matter who committed them.
LANSING, Ill.   Police are investigating after a woman apparently shot and wounded her 5-year-old daughter at a party in suburban Chicago.Police officials in Lansing, Illinois, say their initial investigation found the mother was handling a gun when it went off early Monday, striking the sleeping girl.The Lansing Police Department says its criminal investigations division is investigating and declined to comment on whether the shooting was an accident.Authorities say firefighters and police treated the girl before she was sent to a hospital in nearby Munster, Indiana. She was then transferred to a Chicago children's hospital. WGN-TV reports the girl was in serious but stable condition following surgery.Names of those involved weren't immediately released and no arrests were immediately reported.
ASHEVILLE, N.C.   A North Carolina sheriff is criticizing county officials who are calling for training for all law enforcement officers after the release of a video that captured a white police officer punching and choking a black pedestrian.The Asheville Citizen-Times reports the three Democratic Buncombe County commissioners want funding for use-of-force training, a human rights commission and an independent team to review body camera footage.Buncombe County Sheriff Van Duncan said the commissioners used the beating "to drive a very anti-law enforcement agenda" and called the statement a slap in the face.The video showed Officer Christopher Hickman subduing and punching 33-year-old Johnnie Jermaine Rush, whom officers had accused of jaywalking. Rush was also shocked with a stun gun as he screamed in pain.Hickman is charged with felony assault.___Information from: The Asheville Citizen-Times, http://www.citizen-times.com
App Store Official Charts for the week ending April 1, 2018:Top Paid iPhone Apps:1. Minecraft, Mojang2. Heads Up!, Warner Bros.3. Scribblenauts Remix,Warner Bros.4. Plague Inc., Ndemic Creations5. Facetune, Lightricks Ltd.6. Bloons TD 5, Ninja Kiwi7. Geometry Dash, RobTop Games AB8. iSchedule, HotSchedules9. NBA 2K18, 2K10. Toca Life: After School, Toca Boca ABTop Free iPhone Apps:1. Fortnite, Epic Games2. PUBG Mobile, Tencent Mobile International Limited3. Rise Up, Serkan Ozyilmaz4.YouTube: Watch, Listen, Stream, Google, Inc..5. Instagram, Instagram, Inc.6. Flip the Gun - Simulator Game, Playgendary7. Messenger, Facebook, Inc.8. Snapchat, Snap, Inc.9. Facebook, Facebook, Inc.10. Bitmoji, BitstripsTop Paid iPad Apps:1. Minecraft, Mojang2. Toca Life: After School, Toca Boca AB3. Procreate, Savage Interactive Pty Ltd4. Geometry Dash, RobTop Games AB5. GoodNotes 4, Time Base Technology Limited6. Minimoog Model D,Moog Music Inc.7. Five Nights at Freddy's, Scott Cawthon8. Terraria, 505 Games (US), Inc.9. Plague Inc., Ndemic Creations10. Notability, Ginger LabsTop Free iPad Apps:1. Fortnite, Epic Games2. PUBG Mobile, Tencent Mobile International Limited3. YouTube: Watch, Listen, Stream, Google, Inc.4. Netflix, Netflix, Inc.5. Color by Number: Coloring Book, Fun Games For Free6. Flip the Gun - Simulator Game, Playgendary7. ROBLOX, Roblox Corporation8. Partymasters - Fun Idle Game, Playgendary9. The Weather Channel, The Weather Channel Interactive10. Messenger,Facebook, Inc.___(copyright) 2018 Apple Inc.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   The Latest on a proposal to change when police can use deadly force (all times local):7:15 p.m.The largest law enforcement organization in California calls proposed changes to the use-of-force law a "dangerous rush to judgment."State lawmakers proposed a bill Tuesday that would change the current "reasonable force" rule to "necessary force." The bill was proposed in the wake of the police killing of a 22-year-old unarmed black man in Sacramento.The American Civil Liberties Union says it would mean officers could shoot only if there were no reasonable alternatives to using deadly force.The Peace Officers Research Association of California, which represents over 70,000 public safety members, says the measure will require officers in dangerous situations to employ a checklist that ultimately places everyone at risk.The agency released a statement late Tuesday saying officials want to meet with the bill\'s authors.___1:10 p.m.The family of a 22-year-old unarmed black man fatally shot by Sacramento officers says a proposed California law could mean more young African-Americans survive confrontations with police.Curtis Gordon, an uncle of Stephon Clark, is supporting the measure introduced Tuesday that would make California the first state to significantly restrict when officers can use their guns.Officers could shoot only if there were no reasonable alternatives, such as first trying to defuse confrontations or using less-deadly weapons.Assemblyman Chris Holden, chairman of the Legislative Black Caucus, says the legislation would rein in a "shoot-first, ask-questions-later police force."A police expert calls the proposal irresponsible and unworkable.Two Sacramento officers say they fatally shot Clark because they mistakenly thought he had a gun.___11:17 p.m.Several state lawmakers and the family of a 22-year-old unarmed black man fatally shot by police want to make California the first to significantly restrict when officers can open fire.Democratic Assembly members Shirley Weber and Kevin McCarty are proposing a bill Tuesday that would change the current "reasonable force" rule to "necessary force."The American Civil Liberties Union says it would mean officers could shoot only if there were no reasonable alternatives to using deadly force.The goal is to encourage officers to defuse confrontations or use less-lethal weapons.Law enforcement organizations aren\'t immediately commenting.The proposal comes after two Sacramento police officers chased Stephon Clark into his grandparents\' backyard. They say they shot at him because they thought he had a gun.Investigators found only a cellphone.
DUBAI   Spying on your spouse\'s phone in Saudi Arabia now carries a hefty fine and up to a year in prison, under a new law that aims to "protect morals of individuals and society and protect privacy".The punishment will apply to both men and women in the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom, according to a statement  late on Monday by the ministry of culture.But it could tend to protect husbands from their wives.As in many other parts of the Muslim world, Saudi laws on divorce, inspired by scripture, often require wives seeking alimony to provide evidence of abuse or sexual promiscuity. A husband\'s phone can be a rich source of such evidence.Called the Anti-Cybercrime Law, the measure makes "spying on, interception or reception of data transmitted through an information network or a computer without legitimate authorization" a crime. It imposes a penalty up to 500,000 Saudi riyal ($133,000), prison or both."Social media has resulted in a steady increase in cybercrimes such as blackmail, embezzlement and defamation, not to mention hacking of accounts", the ministry said.A similar law on the books in the neighboring United Arab Emirates also bars the practice, carrying a minimum three-month prison term and 3,000 dirham ($817) fine.The oil-rich and tech-obsessed countries are among the most avid social media users in the world, but traditional values remain ascendant, even in courts.(Reporting By Noah Browning, editing by Larry King)

Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.WASHINGTON  In the halls of the Justice Department, regardless of which party is in power, the refrain is always the same. Officials like to say that, unlike at other government agencies, their mission is right there in the name.But Ive covered the Justice Department under five attorneys general from both parties, and its never as simple as that. Each attorney general has strong views about what it means to do justice.Questions of justice animate New York Times readers, too. I rarely get emails or calls about stories on Wall Street swindles or thwarted terrorism plots. But stories about whether terrorism suspects deserve lawyers? Or whether financial fraudsters are getting the kid glove treatment? Those strike at our sense of fairness, and the messages pour in.I remember sitting across from Eric H. Holder Jr. in his fifth-floor office as he argued that state prosecutors should consider refusing to defend bans on gay marriage. I knew immediately that it was a controversial statement (he knew it, too). The story set off a debate over whether this was an act of justice and fairness or a politicization of the department.On Wednesday, April 4, I will talk with Sally Q. Yates, the former acting attorney general, at a Times Insider event at Georgetown University. Ms. Yates is probably best known for being fired for refusing to enforce President Trumps travel ban. She has described it as a moment when the law and conscience intersected.These moments, when we see the personal convictions behind the bureaucracy, bring the Justice Department beat to life. They can be dramatic: John Ashcrofts resistance, from his hospital bed, to White House meddling, comes to mind. But sometimes they are clearest only in hindsight. Michael B. Mukasey promised to stabilize and depoliticize the department, and he is still highly regarded among career officials who say he meant it.I look for stories that surprise. Jeff Sessions, who has reversed civil rights protections for gay and transgender people, dispatched a hate-crimes prosecutor to Iowa last year over the murder of a transgender teenager. I got angry emails from people who said the story gave Mr. Sessions too much credit, but reporters are not in the business of handing out credits and demerits.Mr. Sessions is carrying out one of the sharpest U-turns in Justice Department philosophy in modern history. Times reporters have chronicled his reversals on civil rights, marijuana policy, immigration and more. If we do our job well, readers should get a sense of why these policies are taking shape.Often these issues do not break along party lines, which make them interesting in a city where todays battle lines are so clear.One small example: Ms. Yates pushed for more lenient sentencing laws and an expanded educational system in federal prison. Mr. Sessions is adamantly opposed. But another of her signature decisions was ordering prosecutors not to go easy on Wall Street executives. That fits neatly with Mr. Sessionss philosophy. I was taught, if they violated the law, you charge them, he said in 2010.The politics of law enforcement are as murky now as ever. In the 1980s and 1990s, both parties united in the face of the crack epidemic to pass strict laws and mandatory minimum sentences. President Bill Clinton signed a bipartisan crime bill in 1994 that toughened sentences and paid for more prisons.As a cub reporter in New Bedford, Mass., I covered the cops in a city surrounded by heroin addiction. My editor rightly saw it as the papers job to question the local governments response. The result was a steady drumbeat of stories and editorials about the district attorneys reluctance to use laws that would prompt mandatory minimum sentences. My editor was a Massachusetts liberal, hardly a law-and-order hard-liner. Like so many people, he was simply at his wits end.When prison populations soared  a trend that disproportionately affected young African-American men  politicians began reconsidering their policies. Mr. Clinton said his law went too far. And Mr. Holder found common ground with libertarian-minded Republicans who say long prison sentences are an ineffective and expensive way to fight crime. Conservative states like Texas have helped lead a criminal justice reform movement.Mr. Sessions is not having it. He cut his teeth as a prosecutor during the 1980s, and he credits that eras laws with lowering crime nationwide. I recently wrote about how his views have put him at odds with Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law and adviser. The politics are changing around Mr. Sessions, but he retains the views of justice and fairness that he has held for decades.For many conservatives, that makes him a man of principle. For many liberals, that makes him dangerous.For me, that makes for a great story.
HOUSTON, Mo.   Prosecutors plan to seek the death penalty for one of the suspects in the slaying of a transgender teenager whose eyes were gouged out and her body set on fire in southwest Missouri, court records show.A notice requesting the sentence for Andrew Vrba, 18, was filed Monday. Vrba is charged with first-degree murder in the death of 17-year-old Ally Steinfeld. Vrba's attorney, Michael Barrett, who also is director of the state public defender office, declined to comment ahead of a Tuesday afternoon hearing at which a trial date will be scheduled.Investigators say Steinfeld was stabbed several times, including in the genitals. Authorities aren't saying what led to the killing, but Texas County Sheriff James Sigman and prosecutor Parke Stevens Jr. have insisted the crime was not motivated by Steinfeld's gender identity.One female suspect, Isis Schauer, 18, has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for second-degree murder, while another, Briana Calderas, 24, awaits a first-degree murder trial. A fourth person, James Grigsby, has pleaded not guilty to abandonment of a corpse and tampering with evidence.Steinfeld's remains were found in September in the town of Cabool, near the mobile home of Calderas, with whom Steinfeld was living. Steinfeld had been missing for weeks. Cabool is a rural area about 70 miles (115 kilometers) east of Springfield.Vrba told investigators he initially tried to poison Steinfeld, then described how he stabbed Steinfeld in the living room of Calderas' mobile home, Deputy Rowdy Douglas wrote in a probable cause statement. The female suspects said Vrba bragged to them about how he gouged Steinfeld's eyes and stabbed Steinfeld in the genitals, Douglas wrote.Authorities say the three suspects burned Steinfeld's body, placed some of the bones into a garbage bag and put the bag in the chicken coop. Calderas admitted helping burn the body and led authorities to the knife used in the killing, Douglas wrote.

CONCORD, N.H.   A Vermont man accused by his family of killing his millionaire grandfather and possibly his mother in an attempt to collect inheritance money offered few clues in court regarding the deaths or his possible role in them.Nathan Carman, who fired his attorneys earlier this year and represented himself on Tuesday, came off as composed but a little awkward for most of the 90-minute hearing. Afterward, he walked stiffly past reporters without answering questions and drove off in a beaten-up Ford Focus.Lawyers for Carman\'s family were hoping to compel him to provide documents related to a semi-automatic rifle he bought that was similar to one used in the 2013 shooting death of his grandfather, real estate developer John Chakalos, in Connecticut. The family also has sought answers related to the 2016 disappearance of his mother, Linda Carman, who went boating with him near Rhode Island in 2016. She\'s presumed dead.Carman has denied any involvement in either death. Along with the Rhode Island case, Carman and the insurer for his boat, the Chicken Pox, are fighting over his insurance claim in a Rhode Island court.In the New Hampshire case, Carman has invoked the Fifth Amendment in refusing to provide bank, tax and other financial records. He said Tuesday he couldn\'t provide the records because he didn\'t have them or felt they were irrelevant.He came up with a variety of reasons, including he hadn\'t filed taxes, no longer had bank accounts dating back several years and couldn\'t provide information on the gun due to strict gun laws in Connecticut.Judge David King said Carman could be compelled to provide the information but said he would take the request for documents under advisement. He told Carman the family\'s attorneys could depose him and he could be called as a witness in the case.In July, Carman\'s mother\'s three sisters filed a lawsuit in New Hampshire accusing him of killing his grandfather and possibly his mother. They have asked a judge to block him from collecting money from his grandfather\'s estate.Chakalos left more than $29 million to his four daughters, and $7 million of that could go to Carman.Last month, Carman denied playing a role in the deaths and accused several of his relatives of "being driven by malice and greed" and spreading lies about him.On Tuesday, he mentioned his grandfather and mother and even referenced the fact he was suspected in their deaths. But he didn\'t implicate himself in either case and suggested other relatives could be to blame."My concern, it\'s not the money," Carman told the court. "It\'s not so much even my freedom. It is my reputation and seeing I have a future going forward ... I am very concerned about protecting that future."After the judge said he was concerned Carman was representing himself in a "murder case" in which "the stakes are pretty high for you financially," Carman said he would get new attorneys. Carman said to fund the new legal team he had put his three-bedroom house on the market. The house is listed for $149,000.Carman accused his previous attorneys of lacking basic competence and the time needed to devote to the case. He also said he was worried they could not ensure the best outcome.Attorney Dan Small, representing the sisters, said Carman\'s comments were just another example of him crafting fresh stories to avoid producing documents and answering questions."I came away sensing that he is making up a new round of stories," Small said. "It\'s like the carnival whack-a-mole game where the moles keep coming up and you have to pound them down. That\'s sort of what is going on here with Nathan inventing new stories."Small called Carman\'s implication that other relatives were behind the deaths a "terrible and offensive statement" and said he found it interesting Carman would bring up the deaths and the possibility of being involved."I\'m very clear in my mind that Nathan killed his grandfather and killed his mother," Small said. "There were several times today where he was having trouble navigating around that."
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Bernice King stared with purpose at the video of her father, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., concentrating on the tired look in his eyes as he spoke to reporters in the days before he was gunned down at a motel in Memphis, Tennessee.She was touring a new multi-media exhibit Monday at the National Civil Rights Museum  located at the site of the old Lorraine Motel, where her father was shot  when she stopped at the old newsreel. King was only 5 when her father was killed on April 4, 1968, while supporting a sanitation workers\' strike in Memphis. Still, she noticed something different about her dad, whose popularity had waned after fighting for years for racial and economic justice."I could sense that he was weary and tired," Bernice King said. "It looked like he was here but not here. When I looked at him other times, he seemed a little bit more vibrant in his eyes. But it almost seemed he was at a place of almost like, resignation."Her visit to the museum is one of several events taking place this week to commemorate the 50th anniversary of King\'s assassination, which is Wednesday. Museums, colleges and activists have organized three days of marches, speeches and conferences to remember King and his legacy. Her museum visit came after a speech by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder at the Peabody Hotel during a symposium sponsored by the University of Memphis and the museum.Bernice King walked slowly among the photos, videos and historical accounts that are part of the new exhibit opening to the public Wednesday. Museum officials say the exhibit, which featured photos by Ernest Withers and Art Shay, ties together King\'s experiences leading the civil rights movement with present events, such as protests by the Black Lives Matter movement.The exhibit includes photos of his viewing at a Memphis funeral home and the silent march that took place days after the assassination. It also has a timeline of King\'s final days and a clock that reads 6:01  the time in the afternoon that he was shot.King told reporters that if her father were alive, he would not be shocked or surprised about the racial, social and economic polarization seen today in the United States. Her father would say that society needs to root out the vestiges of institutional racism, "where we don\'t value people the same," she said."When I think about some of the policies that we make in this country, the policies are so self-driven," she said. "For me personally, it\'s on both sides of the aisle. We have not found a way collectively to create a policy that transcends party. Daddy was speaking to all that."Earlier Monday, Holder, the first black U.S. attorney general, made two thinly veiled references to President Donald Trump as he addressed politicians, activists, judges and community leaders during his luncheon speech. Holder was appointed attorney general by Barack Obama, the nation\'s first black president and Trump\'s predecessor.Holder said he is proud that the nation has made progress in the past 50 years achieving racial, social and economic justice. He said women, minorities, students against gun violence and members of the LGBTQ community have been inspired by King\'s nonviolent protests and have launched movements calling for "fairness, opportunity and justice."But in remarks that appeared to reference Trump without mentioning his name, Holder also noted that King\'s dream of equality for all has not been reached."We\'re still marching, we are still striving, and we\'re still calling on our nation\'s leaders to act with a sense of justice, compassion and common humanity," Holder said. "The unfortunate fact is that in 2018, America\'s long struggle to overcome injustice, to eliminate disparities and eradicate violence has not yet ended, and the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us."Holder said he is concerned with gun violence, the disproportional incarceration of young black men, and uneven educational opportunities for minorities. King\'s legacy includes the lesson that "it is necessary to be indignant, and to be impatient, so that it impels us to take action," Holder said.Holder said the "chief civil rights issue of our time" is ensuring minorities have equal voting rights."In many communities, our political system is far from fair," said Holder, who chairs the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a group that is pushing back against gerrymandered political districts nationwide. "It\'s been undermined by spurious and outright false claims of widespread voter fraud and by acts of voter suppression."Holder asked the crowd of hundreds to do more to help realize King\'s dream of racial and social equality and come together to "heal this divided nation.""As easy as it is, we must not look back to a past that was comforting to too few, and unjust to too many," Holder said.Then, in a reference to Trump\'s campaign slogan, he added: "That is not how we make America great."
RALEIGH, N.C.   Weeks after a North Carolina police beating became public, new footage is revealing what was said in the aftermath of the black pedestrian being punched and choked by the white officer.City officials in Asheville, North Carolina, released nine body camera videos Monday of the August 2017 encounter  most of it made public for the first time. Earlier this year, a shorter clip obtained by a newspaper sparked anger in the community and helped lead to assault charges against former officer Christopher Hickman.After being punched, choked and shocked with a stun gun, pedestrian Johnnie Jermaine Rush incredulously asks Hickman\'s supervisor why she appears to find the officer\'s account more believable than his explanation of what happened."You weren\'t even here to know what happened," Rush is heard saying to Sgt. Lisa Taube. "You\'re just going by what your officer told you. There are two sides to every story."Taube then responds: "There are. And, thankfully, I\'ve got body-worn video camera to watch afterward."Taube, who arrived on the scene after the altercation, was disciplined for her handling of the case, police have said.A judge ruled a week ago that the new videos from multiple officers could be made public. North Carolina law generally prevents the release of body camera footage without court approval.In the new clips, Hickman acknowledges several times to Rush and to his supervisor that he struck the pedestrian.When Taube asks if the Taser was effective, Hickman said: "I hit him in the face with it. I hit him in the face as if it was a club. That was effective."The footage stretches into a 20-minute clip of conversation after Rush is released from the hospital and is heading to jail, and the two men have an almost oddly calm conversation.Another of the new clips from an officer arriving as backup appears to show Hickman using both arms to restrain Rush by his neck. Police have previously said Hickman put Rush in a chokehold, but it was difficult to see that on Hickman\'s own body-worn camera that was leaked to the newspaper.Hickman, 31, was arrested in March on a felony charge of assault by strangulation, plus misdemeanor counts of assault and communicating threats.Hickman is shown on the videos subduing Rush, then punching and shocking him with a stun gun. Rush was stopped because officers accused him of crossing outside a crosswalk near a minor league ballpark and a cluster of breweries popular with tourists.While the encounter happened late last year, it took six months for it to become public through the leak to The Citizen-Times. The first video leaked is from Hickman\'s body camera, and footage released Monday shows different angles. Community outrage spilled over with angry comments at a March community meeting with the police chief, and even the City Council expressed anger it wasn\'t informed of the case for months.The former officer\'s lawyer, Thomas Amburgey, released a statement Monday that Hickman showed no criminal intent to harm Rush."It\'s unfortunate that so many individuals have rushed to judge my client. I am confident that when a fair and impartial jury hears the whole story that Mr. Hickman will be acquitted," Amburgey said in the statement.The Aug. 25 encounter came months after the city implemented the use-of-force policy that included training on de-escalating tense situations. The policy was drafted in the aftermath of a white officer killing an armed black man after a high speed chase.An arrest warrant for Hickman said Rush suffered head abrasions and swelling and lost consciousness when Hickman pressed his arm on his throat.In the clip at the hospital, the two laugh and calmly discuss what happened while standing outside the hospital. Hickman called Rush "super cool" as he prepares to take him to jail."Once we get there, is there any way y\'all can have them to let me go to the restroom so I can clean myself up?" Rush asks."Absolutely," Hickman answered. "Soon as they get those cuffs off, that will be the first thing we do."___Collins reported from Columbia, South Carolina.___
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Video shown Monday that was taken by a dashboard camera inside a sheriff\'s vehicle shows it hitting a protester and driving away  the latest flashpoint following the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man in Sacramento.The law enforcement official behind the wheel likely didn\'t know he hit someone, Sheriff Scott Jones said at a news conference where the video was shown, noting that he hasn\'t spoken to the driver, whose name has not been released.The Sheriff\'s Department said the woman who was hit had minor injuries. The California Highway Patrol is investigating.The woman, 61-year-old Wanda Cleveland, is considering her legal options, her attorney Mark Reichel said in a statement.The demonstration on Saturday night followed two weeks of protests over the March 18 death of 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was shot by Sacramento police responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.Police said they thought he had a gun but only a cellphone was found nearby after the shooting.Protesters gathered outside a sheriff\'s facility Saturday because a department helicopter had helped police pursue Clark.Jones took a defiant tone when describing the collision and blamed "paid protesters" for causing chaos at the scene."There\'s still much aggression along the driver\'s side of the unit," Jones said as he narrated the video at the news conference.He said that just before the car struck the protester, "The female protester chose this moment to bring her protest in between the vehicles."Jones, a Republican up for re-election, didn\'t release the video publicly.Reichel disputed that characterization and said Cleveland is a longtime Sacramento resident and activist, not a paid protester."It is not possible that the officer did not see her," the lawyer said. "It appears from all evidence that he hit her intentionally. He drove away from an injured woman intentionally."The collision caused "physical and psychological harm," Reichel said. Cleveland hit her head, injured her arm and spent several hours at a hospital, he said.Jones has created "suspicion and lack of trust about his department," Reichel said in an interview with The Associated Press.

MISSOULA, Mont.   Attorneys for a neo-Nazi website publisher and a Montana woman asked a judge Tuesday to decide whether the white nationalist had a First Amendment right to unleash a "troll storm" of anti-Semitic messages and threats against the Jewish woman\'s family.U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeremiah Lynch heard arguments in Missoula on whether to dismiss a lawsuit by Tanya Gersh, a real-estate agent from the mountain resort community of Whitefish, against The Daily Stormer publisher Andrew Anglin.Lynch didn\'t indicate how soon he would rule, said Marc Randazza, one of Anglin\'s attorneys."It was clear that he\'s been thinking very deeply about the constitutional issues," Randazza said in a text message Tuesday.Lynch previously ruled against Anglin\'s argument to dismiss Gersh\'s claims of emotional distress, intimidation and invasion of privacy because Anglin is "not a citizen of any state" and has been living abroad for years.But the judge wanted to hear from attorneys on both sides in the courtroom before he ruled on another key argument in Anglin\'s motion to dismiss  that the neo-Nazi publisher was engaged in political speech protected under the First Amendment.Gersh sued Anglin last year after he published a post in 2016 calling for an "old fashioned troll storm" with the personal information of Gersh and others whom Anglin accused of "extorting" the mother of white nationalist Richard Spencer.Gersh said she agreed to help Spencer\'s mother, Sherry, sell property she owns in Whitefish. She accused Gersh of threatening and harassing her into agreeing to sell the property.Gersh said in her lawsuit that her family received hundreds of harassing messages from Anglin\'s followers, including one that was just a recording of gun shots. Another message for her 12-year-old son told him to look inside an oven for a free video game console, a reference to a method that Nazis used to kill Jews during the Holocaust.Anglin argues through his attorney that he was only inviting his readers to protest Gersh\'s actions. He also argues that he is not liable for his followers\' actions and that the personal information he published was publicly available.The messages Gersh received were "mean-spirited, nasty, brutish and uncalled for," but also political hyperbole and not a true threat, Anglin\'s attorneys Randazza and Jay Wolman wrote in a court document that lays out their argument."If we are to reject speech because it comes from an unorthodox group, we do violence to the very underpinnings of our notions of liberty," Randazza and Wolman wrote.Gersh, who is being represented by the Southern Poverty Law Center, said in response that the First Amendment\'s free-speech protections do not include a coordinated attack through private communications meant to cause substantial emotional harm.Anglin wasn\'t speaking on any broad public issues, Gersh attorneys David Dinielli and John Morrison wrote. Rather, he directed his followers to terrorize Gersh personally through private means of communication."Severe emotional distress was not only the foreseeable consequence of (Anglin\'s) troll storm but its very end, and (Anglin) cannot wash his hands of it," the attorneys wrote.In a statement released Tuesday, Dinielli said he was encouraged that the magistrate is "examining the claims of our client with such care," and she is eager for the chance to prove her claims to a jury.
JAKARTA   An Indonesian soldier was shot dead and two separatist rebels killed in clashes with security forces near the giant Grasberg copper mine in Papua operated by Freeport McMoRan Inc, an Indonesian military spokesman said on Tuesday.A separatist group, however, said that only one of its members had died and that dozens of Indonesian troops were killed in clashes that began on Sunday.Papua has suffered a simmering separatist conflict since it was incorporated into Indonesia after a widely criticized U.N.-backed referendum in 1969 and foreign media access to parts of the province is often difficult or, at times, restricted.Papua Military spokesman Muhammad Aidi said the soldier was killed during a joint military and police operation to "reclaim villages controlled by armed criminal separatists"."It appears (the separatists) were ready for the security forces and so there was a gun fight with the military," Aidi said in a statement.Six villages were still occupied by separatists and indigenous Papuans after more than 1,000 residents were evacuated in November following a string of shootings, he said.Drone footage showed two separatists were killed and dozens wounded in the clash, he said. No civilians were hurt, but separatists torched a house, a school and a hospital, said Aidi.According to the West Papua National Liberation Army (TPNPB), a separatist group, one of its members was shot dead in a clash with Indonesian special forces near Banti village early on Sunday morning.Hendrikus Uwamang, a spokesman for the group, said at least 28 Indonesian security personnel and several guides were also killed in the clash. Fighting continued on Monday and a 10-year-old boy was also killed, when his house was hit by a shell and caught fire, he said.Papua Police chief Boy Rafli Amar was quoted in state media last week as saying attacks by "armed criminals" had become more frequent lately near the Grasberg mine. Amar could not be reached for comment on Tuesday.Members of Indonesia\'s security forces have been accused by rights activists of abducting and torturing Papuans and using deadly force to quell protests.TPNPB, which is linked to the Free Papua Movement (OPM), says it is at war with Indonesian authorities and wants to "destroy" Freeport in an effort to gain sovereignty for the region.President Joko Widodo, after coming to power in 2014, had pledged to speed up development of Papua and ease media restrictions.But while investment has risen and efforts made to address some human rights concerns, activists say foreign journalists continue to be blocked or face obstacles when trying to report there.Jakarta is currently in talks with Freeport over ownership of Grasberg, and hopes to gain a majority stake in the world\'s second-biggest copper mine this month, with the Papua government and a local regency jointly gaining rights to a 10 percent stake.(Reporting by Fergus Jensen and Agustinus Beo Da Costa; Editing by Ed Davies and Manolo Serapio Jr.)

SAN BRUNO, Calif.  A woman opened fire with a handgun at YouTubes headquarters in California on Tuesday afternoon, shooting three people  one of whom was critically injured  before killing herself, the authorities said.The San Bruno Police Department identified the attacker late Tuesday as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s. The motivation for the shootings was under investigation, the police said, although her social media postings included criticisms of YouTube.Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital received three patients: a man, 36, in critical condition; a woman, 32, in serious condition; and a woman, 27, in fair condition, a hospital spokesman, Brent Andrew, said at a news conference. A fourth person had injuries that werent from a gunshot, the police said.At this time there is no evidence that the shooter knew the victims of this shooting or that individuals were specifically targeted, the San Bruno Police Department said in a written statement.Word of the attack in San Bruno at YouTube, which is owned by Google and is one of the worlds largest social media companies, quickly spread online through employees social media feeds.Vadim Lavrusik, a YouTube employee who formerly worked for The New York Times, tweeted just before 1 p.m. that there was an active shooter at YouTube HQ and that he had heard shots and saw people running while at my desk. He was barricaded in a room with co-workers, he said, but moments later tweeted that he had been safely evacuated.The last known address for Ms. Aghdam was in Menifee, a city in Southern California about halfway between Los Angeles and San Diego.Ms. Aghdam was active on various social media outlets, including YouTube, where she had a number of channels in Persian, Turkish and English. On YouTube, she published an eclectic set of videos, including music parodies and workouts, on topics like animal cruelty and vegan cooking.In February 2017, she recorded a video on Facebook criticizing YouTube for taking measures that decreased the number of views on her videos.She said that she had contacted YouTube, but that the sites support staff told her that her workout videos contained inappropriate scenes and needed to be restricted from younger audiences.This is what they are doing to vegan activists and many other people who try to promote healthy, humane and smart living  people like me are not good for big business, like for animal business, medicine business and for many other businesses. Thats why they are discriminating and censoring us, she said in the video on Facebook.YouTube had pulled down all of her channels as of Tuesday night.A 2009 story by The San Diego Union-Tribune quoted a woman with the same name as Ms. Aghdam at an animal rights protest outside Camp Pendleton, the Marine Corps base in Southern California. Two dozen attended the protest organized by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals against the use of pigs in military trauma training.For me, animal rights equal human rights, said Ms. Aghdam, then 29, who attended the protest carrying a plastic sword and wearing a wig and jeans painted with drops of blood.The shootings on Tuesday took place in a courtyard at YouTubes offices, the police said. Those offices, like other Google facilities, maintain light security, with employees using badges to go through security gates or doors. Usually, the main lobby is attended by a receptionist. There are no visible metal detectors or armed guards.San Bruno is about nine miles south of San Francisco, with a population around 43,000. YouTube is the citys biggest employer, and many workers commute here from San Francisco. Though YouTube is owned by Google, it operates in a separate office, about 20 miles from Googles main campus in Mountain View, Calif.Outside the YouTube headquarters, armed police officers waded into a crowd of 200 or so employees who had evacuated to a nearby parking lot Tuesday afternoon. The police asked for employees who had witnessed something firsthand to come forward, and about two dozen, some visibly distraught, walked over to the officers.Many employees said they had initially thought the episode was a fire drill. Others said they had run when people started shouting that there was a shooter. Two hours after the attack, YouTube employees, including Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive, continued to stream slowly down the hill, away from the office.Footage broadcast by CNN showed people leaving the building in single file with their hands raised above their heads. Separate footage showed a large crowd lining up to be frisked, one by one, by the police.Zach Vorhies, 37, a senior software engineer at YouTube, said in an interview that he had been sitting at his desk when the fire alarm went off. He grabbed his electric skateboard and headed for a back exit, he said. As he rode down a gravel hill, he heard someone shouting and saw a man lying motionless in one of the offices outdoor dining areas.He had a red spot on his stomach, and he was lying on his back, not moving, Mr. Vorhies said. I saw the blood soak through the shirt.About 25 feet away from the victim, he said, a man was shouting, Come at me! Mr. Vorhies thought the man was the attacker, but he did not see a gun and said it was possible that the man had actually been taunting the shooter.A moment later, an armed police officer entered the patio area, and Mr. Vorhies quickly left, he said.The dining area can be reached from an adjacent parking structure without an employee badge, Mr. Vorhies said.By 2:15 p.m., President Trump had been briefed on the attack. He tweeted a short time later: Was just briefed on the shooting at YouTubes HQ in San Bruno, California. Our thoughts and prayers are with everybody involved. Thank you to our phenomenal Law Enforcement Officers and First Responders that are currently on the scene.Cameron Rogers Polan, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Division of the F.B.I., said in an email that the agency was in contact with the San Bruno police. The San Francisco division of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives tweeted that it, too, was responding to the shooting.Google said on Twitter that it was coordinating with authorities.I know a lot of you are in shock right now, Googles chief executive, Sundar Pichai, said in a statement posted to Twitter. Over the coming days, we will continue to provide support to help everyone in our Google family heal from this unimaginable tragedy.Executives at other Silicon Valley companies took to Twitter to send their condolences to YouTube employees.From everyone at Apple, we send our sympathy and support to the team at YouTube and Google, especially the victims and their families, Apples chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, wrote.Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, wrote on Twitter: I cant imagine what our friends at YouTube are feeling and dealing with right now. Were here for you and your families and friends.Others, including a trauma surgeon at the hospital where shooting victims were taken, expressed anger at continued gun violence.Youd think that after weve seen Las Vegas, Parkland, the Pulse nightclub shooting, that we would see an end to this, but we have not, the surgeon, Dr. Andre Campbell, told reporters Tuesday afternoon.
SARAJEVO   Bosnia\'s top court has scrapped court fines issued to rape victims and other survivors of the Bosnian 1990s war after they had reparation claims rejected, in a decision praised by rights lawyers and a victims association on Tuesday.Thousands of war survivors including victims of sexual violence, mainly Muslim Bosniaks, have been hit by hefty fines after their claims were rejected by courts in the autonomous Serb region of post-war Bosnia.Most of those fined are jobless, in poor health since the war, and unable to pay the fees. Those who cannot face seizure of their property or part of their monthly income, if they have any.The Constitutional Court last month endorsed an appeal by a rape victim against rulings by two courts in the Serb Republic ordering her to pay 3,000 Bosnian marka ($1,890) plus interest in court fees, saying the rulings violated her right to a fair trial and her property rights.The court said the rulings obliging a victim of war rape to pay fees for public attorneys over her reparation claim represented a "disproportional and unreasonable burden" for her."This is a very important step both for the appellant, a victim of sexual violence in war to whom the ruling is relating directly, but also for all other victims of war crimes who are in a similar situation," Adrijana Hanui Beirovi, a senior lawyer with the NGO Trial International which provided legal assistance to the victim, said on Tuesday.Trial International is helping some of the thousands of such women who registered and underwent medical check-ups during and after the war, and who are still traumatized by their experience more than 25 years later.Bosnia\'s war prisoner association, which has helped some 30,000 of its members file reparation lawsuits, most of which were dismissed in courts in the Serb region due to the statute of limitations for torture offences, hailed the court\'s ruling as "historic"."This (ruling) is very significant for all former camp detainees/torture victims who have filed reparation lawsuits and which are still under way, because it is applicable for all identical cases and should represent a turning point for Bosnia-Herzegovina institutions towards the war torture victims," the association said in a statement.In 2014, the Constitutional Court said it would recognize the statute of limitations for torture offences, upholding a Serb Republic statute that required victims to file lawsuits within five years of the alleged crime to be eligible for reparations.Bosnia\'s two autonomous regions, the Serb Republic and the Bosniak-Croat Federation, each have their own courts which treat reparation claims differently.The Serb Republic courts recognize statutes of limitations for torture offences, while courts in the Bosniak-Croat Federation do not. There is no political will to adopt a nationwide law on the victims of torture, however.More than 100,000 people died in the 1992-95 conflict between Orthodox Serbs, Muslim Bosniaks and Catholic Croats.Two million were driven from their homes, about 200,000 people were detained in camps where beatings and torture were common, and around 20,000 are estimated to be victims of sexual violence, according to data from war crimes courts and associations of victims.(Reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
GENEVA   Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates drew praise Tuesday at a U.N. conference for offering $1 billion in aid for Yemen, where their air campaign against Houthi rebels has killed thousands of civilians and their crippling blockade has hindered aid delivery.The one-day conference co-hosted by Sweden, Switzerland and the United Nations collected pledges totaling $2.01 billion from 40 countries and organizations.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres acknowledged that some donors were also "parties of the conflict.""We all know who ... the parties to the war (are)," he told reporters. "But the two things need to be seen separately, independently of the fact that there is a war. There are humanitarian obligations that are assumed by countries."With the situation worsening  Guterres called it "catastrophic"  the conference easily surpassed the funding pledges of $1.1 billion at a similar event last year. Overall, the U.N. has appealed for $2.96 billion to provide assistance and protection to people in Yemen in 2018."Several countries have already announced that there will be more donations from now until the end of the year," the U.N. chief said. "So we are quite optimistic."Guterres added that "as important as the financial contributions to this conference is the commitment of the parties to the conflict to come together to put an end to the war."He said information gleaned by his new special envoy for Yemen, Martin Griffiths, during a trip to the region led him to believe there were "positive perspectives" that could possibly lead to an "effective intra-Yemeni dialogue" at some point. Guterres cited an "opportunity to be seized."A Saudi-led, Western-backed coalition has been at war with Iran-allied Shiite rebels known as Houthis for three years in a conflict that has killed more than 10,000 people and left 22.2 million people needing humanitarian aid. The conflict has fanned the world\'s worst recent cholera outbreak and put many on the brink of starvation. Some 8.4 million people do not know how they will get their next meal, according to U.N. estimates.Health and sanitation systems are teetering in Yemen. Guterres noted that a child under 5 dies every 10 minutes from preventable causes.In his prepared remarks, Guterres noted how Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates  who have given military backing to Yemen\'s government, notably with air power and a sea blockade of rebel areas  had "generously provided" $930 million toward the humanitarian response plan even before the conference began.The final list of pledges showed that each country had offered $500 million.The United States announced nearly $87 million in additional humanitarian aid, while the European Union pledged 107.5 million in new funding this year.Thomas Staal, counselor for the U.S. Agency for International Development, or USAID, said the United States extended its "gratitude" to Saudi Arabia and UAE "for their significant contributions to the United Nations\' coordinated response."Amnesty International said it continues to turn up "grave" violations of international humanitarian law on all sides of the conflict."All warring parties must be held accountable," it said in an email. "All countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom, must also halt the flow of all arms to the conflict."Ken Roth, director of Human Rights Watch, said any humanitarian contribution was welcome amid such severe suffering."But that shouldn\'t absolve or change the subject from the Saudi-led coalition\'s primary responsibility for Yemen\'s humanitarian crisis due to its blockade and repeated bombing of Yemeni civilians and critical Yemeni infrastructure," Roth wrote in an email."Sending remedial aid doesn\'t exculpate Saudi Arabia and the UAE for their war-crime strategy of blockading and bombing Yemeni civilians," he added.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump on Friday issued a statement reaffirming Aprils status as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. (The tradition of putting out such a proclamation began under President Barack Obama.)Critics have called the gesture hypocritical, given that Trump stands accused of sexual harassment and assault by dozens of women. On Monday, Jimmy Kimmel and Jimmy Fallon joined those skeptics.Seth Meyers pointed out that as head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt has racked up a costly airfare bill, partly because he insists on flying first-class. Pruitts staff has said that he often gets an earful from dissatisfied citizens when he finds himself face-to-face with them, and therefore must take steps to travel in isolation. Meyers said he thinks the controversial government official should have thicker skin.Tracy Morgan is a virtuoso heckler (and, according to this video, a creator of this utterly bizarre website).Kimmel hosted a spelling bee in which elementary school students were asked to spell words just like the president does.Dwayne Johnson, who recently opened up about his battle with depression in an interview with Express, sits down with Fallon on Tuesday night.Our critic writes that NBCs live telecast of Jesus Christ Superstar, starring John Legend, was a startling success, adding that it may have finally justified the recent live musical fad on network TV.
Fifty years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., American perceptions of progress toward racial equality remain largely divided along racial lines, a recent AP-NORC poll shows . The majority of African-Americans surveyed saw little to no progress toward equal treatment in key areas that the civil rights movement sought to address. White respondents frequently portrayed a rosier picture. A review by the Associated Press shows that the available data more often align with African-Americans\' less optimistic reflection of their reality.The survey asked respondents how African-Americans have fared in topics ranging from access to affordable housing to political representation. Three topics generated the most polarized responses from African-Americans and whites: treatment by police, the criminal justice system and voting rights.TREATMENT BY POLICEKing\'s 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech set police brutality among the chief issues civil rights activists sought to address. Poll responses show that more than 7 out of 10 African-Americans think little or no progress has been made in treatment by police over the last 50 years.Assessing any change in police treatment of African-Americans isn\'t easy because comprehensive data on police interactions and use of force is difficult to obtain, especially in a historical context. However, several studies have attempted to use federal surveys, state administrative data from traffic stops, and FBI arrest data to gauge the scope of the racial disparities. Their findings indicate sustained inequality in this area.Traffic stops are the main reason police interact with the public, and some studies indicate that the experiences of white and black drivers are remarkably different. A Stanford University study pieced together data from 16 states to show that black drivers are more likely to be stopped, ticketed, searched and arrested than white drivers. Another study by a professor at Harvard University compiled data from federal sources and concluded that when black drivers are stopped by police, they are more likely to be grabbed, handcuffed and have a gun pointed at them than white drivers. Similar data from police interactions in the 1960s and 1970s aren\'t available for comparison.CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMAt the time of King\'s assassination, the U.S. prison population was a fraction of its current size, and the rate of incarceration for African-Americans was more than five times the rate for whites, data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics show. In the AP/NORC poll, more than 6 of 10 African-Americans said that little or no progress has been made in the criminal justice system\'s treatment of African-Americans in the last 50 years.By the late 1990s, the rate of black incarceration had risen to over eight times the rate for whites. While that gap has narrowed, data from BJS shows that in 2016 it still remained slightly wider than it was in 1968.The criminal justice system\'s disproportionate impact on the African-American community goes beyond the incarceration rate. African-Americans make up around 12 percent of the U.S. population but account for 38 percent of the population on parole, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics . Of the 3.8 million Americans on probation, nearly a third is African-American. Violating probation terms can result in a longer probation period or further incarceration, and according to a study by the Urban Institute , blacks are significantly more likely to have their probation revoked than whites.VOTING RIGHTSIn his "Give Us the Ballot" speech in 1957, King fiercely called for equal voting rights and emphasized the importance of participation in civic life. In the AP/NORC poll, voting rights was the issue given the most positive response: 63 percent of blacks and nearly 90 percent of whites indicated at least some progress. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 aimed to protect African-Americans from widespread discriminatory practices, and voter registration trended upward shortly after. But critics say new obstacles  such as voter identification laws and regulations for those with felony convictions  limited those rights over the years.The U.S. is one of only a handful of countries that denies those with criminal convictions the right to vote after their release. As of 2016, an estimated 6.1 million people were disenfranchised due to a felony conviction, according to a study by The Sentencing Project. The same study found that one in 13 African-Americans of voting age is disenfranchised, a rate more than four times greater than that of non-African-Americans.____The AP-NORC poll of 1,337 adults was conducted Feb. 15-19 using a sample drawn from NORC\'s probability-based AmeriSpeak Panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 3.9 percentage points.The poll includes a total of 388 black respondents, who were sampled at a higher rate than their proportion of the population for purposes of analysis. The margin of sampling error among blacks is plus or minus 7.3 percentage points. For results reported among all adults, responses among blacks are weighted to reflect their proportion among all U.S. adults.Respondents were first selected randomly using address-based sampling methods, and later interviewed online or by phone.___For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
Fifty years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., American perceptions of progress toward racial equality remain largely divided along racial lines, a recent AP-NORC poll shows . The majority of African-Americans surveyed saw little to no progress toward equal treatment in key areas that the civil rights movement sought to address. White respondents frequently portrayed a rosier picture. A review by the Associated Press shows that the available data more often align with African-Americans\' less optimistic reflection of their reality.The survey asked respondents how African-Americans have fared in topics ranging from access to affordable housing to political representation. Three topics generated the most polarized responses from African-Americans and whites: treatment by police, the criminal justice system and voting rights.TREATMENT BY POLICEKing\'s 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech set police brutality among the chief issues civil rights activists sought to address. Poll responses show that more than 7 out of 10 African-Americans think little or no progress has been made in treatment by police over the last 50 years.Assessing any change in police treatment of African-Americans isn\'t easy because comprehensive data on police interactions and use of force is difficult to obtain, especially in a historical context. However, several studies have attempted to use federal surveys, state administrative data from traffic stops, and FBI arrest data to gauge the scope of the racial disparities. Their findings indicate sustained inequality in this area.Traffic stops are the main reason police interact with the public, and some studies indicate that the experiences of white and black drivers are remarkably different. A Stanford University study pieced together data from 16 states to show that black drivers are more likely to be stopped, ticketed, searched and arrested than white drivers. Another study by a professor at Harvard University compiled data from federal sources and concluded that when black drivers are stopped by police, they are more likely to be grabbed, handcuffed and have a gun pointed at them than white drivers. Similar data from police interactions in the 1960s and 1970s aren\'t available for comparison.CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMAt the time of King\'s assassination, the U.S. prison population was a fraction of its current size, and the rate of incarceration for African-Americans was more than five times the rate for whites, data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics show. In the AP/NORC poll, more than 6 of 10 African-Americans said that little or no progress has been made in the criminal justice system\'s treatment of African-Americans in the last 50 years.By the late 1990s, the rate of black incarceration had risen to over eight times the rate for whites. While that gap has narrowed, data from BJS shows that in 2016 it still remained slightly wider than it was in 1968.The criminal justice system\'s disproportionate impact on the African-American community goes beyond the incarceration rate. African-Americans make up around 12 percent of the U.S. population but account for 38 percent of the population on parole, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics . Of the 3.8 million Americans on probation, nearly a third is African-American. Violating probation terms can result in a longer probation period or further incarceration, and according to a study by the Urban Institute , blacks are significantly more likely to have their probation revoked than whites.VOTING RIGHTSIn his "Give Us the Ballot" speech in 1957, King fiercely called for equal voting rights and emphasized the importance of participation in civic life. In the AP/NORC poll, voting rights was the issue given the most positive response: 63 percent of blacks and nearly 90 percent of whites indicated at least some progress. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 aimed to protect African-Americans from widespread discriminatory practices, and voter registration trended upward shortly after. But critics say new obstacles  such as voter identification laws and regulations for those with felony convictions  limited those rights over the years.The U.S. is one of only a handful of countries that denies those with criminal convictions the right to vote after their release. As of 2016, an estimated 6.1 million people were disenfranchised due to a felony conviction, according to a study by The Sentencing Project. The same study found that one in 13 African-Americans of voting age is disenfranchised, a rate more than four times greater than that of non-African-Americans.____The AP-NORC poll of 1,337 adults was conducted Feb. 15-19 using a sample drawn from NORC\'s probability-based AmeriSpeak Panel, which is designed to be representative of the U.S. population. The margin of sampling error for all respondents is plus or minus 3.9 percentage points.The poll includes a total of 388 black respondents, who were sampled at a higher rate than their proportion of the population for purposes of analysis. The margin of sampling error among blacks is plus or minus 7.3 percentage points. For results reported among all adults, responses among blacks are weighted to reflect their proportion among all U.S. adults.Respondents were first selected randomly using address-based sampling methods, and later interviewed online or by phone.___For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Several lawmakers and the family of a 22-year-old unarmed black man who was fatally shot by police proposed Tuesday that California become the first state to significantly restrict when officers can open fire.The legislation would change the standard from using "reasonable force" to "necessary force."That means officers would be allowed to shoot only if "there were no other reasonable alternatives to the use of deadly force" to prevent imminent serious injury or death, said Lizzie Buchen, legislative advocate for the American Civil Liberties Union, which is among the groups behind the measure."We need to ensure that our state policy governing the use of deadly force stresses the sanctity of human life and is only used when necessary," said Assemblywoman Shirley Weber, a San Diego Democrat who introduced the bill. "Deadly force can be used, but only when it is completely necessary."The goal is to encourage officers to try to defuse confrontations or use less deadly weapons, said Democratic Assemblyman Kevin McCarty of Sacramento, who is co-authoring the legislation."We should no longer be the target practice or victims of a shoot first, ask questions later police force," said Assemblyman Chris Holden, chairman of the Legislative Black Caucus.California\'s current standard makes it rare for officers to be charged after a shooting and rarer still for them to be convicted. Frequently it\'s because of the doctrine of "reasonable fear." If prosecutors or jurors believe that officers have a reason to fear for their safety, they can use deadly force.The tougher proposed standard could require officers to delay confronting a suspect they fear may be armed until backup arrives or force police to give explicit verbal warnings that suspects will be killed unless they drop the weapon," said Buchen of the ACLU.The proposal would open officers who don\'t follow the stricter rules to discipline or firing, sometimes even criminal charges.But some in law enforcement called the proposal irresponsible and unworkable.Officers already use deadly force only when necessary and are taught to try to defuse dangerous situations first when possible, said Ed Obayashi, a Plumas County sheriff\'s deputy and special prosecutor who trains officers and testifies in court on police use of force.Tinkering with legal protections for police could make it more difficult to hire officers and be dangerous because they may hesitate when confronting an armed suspect, threatening themselves and bystanders, Obayashi said.The Peace Officers Research Association of California, which is the largest law enforcement organization in California, released a statement Tuesday calling the proposed changes a "dangerous rush to judgment.""We are concerned that this reactionary legislation will handcuff peace officers and their abilities to keep communities safe," according to the statement. "Uses of force incidents occur quickly, and while we have always supported greater training and body cameras, this legislation takes a dangerous new step."Spokesmen for the California Police Chiefs Association and California State Sheriffs\' Association said they had not seen the proposal and could not comment.Weber, who heads a public safety oversight committee, said she hopes the recent heavily publicized string of police shootings of minority suspects and mass protests over last month\'s death of Stephon Clark will be enough to overcome any law enforcement resistance.Two Sacramento officers chased Clark, who was suspected of breaking into cars, into his grandparents\' darkened backyard and opened fire within seconds and without identifying themselves as police because they said they thought he had a gun. Investigators found only a cellphone.Changing the legal standard might mean that more people confronted by police "could go home. They may be able to wake up" the next day, said Clark\'s uncle, family spokesman Curtis Gordon."A life may be saved in that blink" of time before officers open fire, he said. "If you feel some sort of repercussion, you may act a little more cautiously."Several black community leaders at the news conference called the proposal "a good first step."Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn told The Associated Press last week that he is open to examining the department\'s policies on pursuing suspects and other practices but warned that changes could carry consequences.The ACLU says California would be the first state to adopt such a standard, though some other law enforcement agencies, including San Francisco, have similar or more restrictive rules.Cities\' strict standards are generally for situations where there is time to de-escalate volatile situations, such as with people who are mentally unstable, Obayashi said.The lawmakers and ACLU point to a 2016 study by policy analyst and racial justice advocate Samuel Sinyangwe that analyzed use-of-force policies by major U.S. police departments. He found that officers working under more restrictive policies are less likely to kill and less likely to be killed or assaulted.Officers fatally shot 162 people in California last year, only half of whom had guns, the lawmakers said.They cited studies showing that black people are far more likely than white people to die in police shootings and that California has five of the nation\'s 15 police departments with the highest per capita rates of killings by officers: Bakersfield, Stockton, Long Beach, Santa Ana and San Bernardino.
WASHINGTON   A Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced Tuesday to 30 days in prison in the first punishment handed down in the special counsel\'s Russia investigation. He was also ordered to pay a $20,000 fine.Alex van der Zwaan\'s sentence could set a guidepost for what other defendants charged with lying in special counsel Robert Mueller\'s investigation may receive when their cases are resolved. Among them are a former White House national security adviser and a Trump campaign foreign policy aide.Van der Zwaan, 33, had faced up to six months in prison under federal sentencing guidelines, and his attorneys had pushed for him to pay a fine and leave the country.But U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson, citing the need to deter others from lying in an investigation of international importance, said incarceration was necessary."These were not mistakes. These were lies," Jackson told van der Zwaan as he stood before her. Being able to "write a check and walk away," she added later, would not fit the seriousness of the crime or send the right message.The criminal case against van der Zwaan is not directly related to Russian election interference, the main focus of Mueller\'s probe. But it has revealed new details about the government\'s case against Manafort and opened a window into the intersecting universes of international law, foreign consulting work and politics.The case has also exposed connections between senior Trump campaign aides, including Rick Gates, and Russia. Just last week, the government disclosed that van der Zwaan and Gates spoke during the 2016 presidential campaign with a man Gates had previously described as having ties to the GRU, Russia\'s military intelligence agency. Gates is now cooperating with Mueller.During the hearing Tuesday, van der Zwaan made only a brief statement, telling Jackson, "Your Honor, what I did was wrong. I apologize to the court. I apologize to my wife."Van der Zwaan, who was fired last year by the high-powered international law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, admitted in February to lying to federal agents about his contacts with Gates and the person with ties to Russian intelligence.Van der Zwaan had previously grown close to Manafort, Gates and the person, Konstantin Kilimnik, during his work on a 2012 report commissioned by the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice. The report, written by the law firm, was about the corruption trial of former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko. Kilimnik, who was born in Ukraine while it was a Soviet republic, has previously denied having any relation to Russian intelligence services.Though prosecutors did not take a position on whether van der Zwaan should be locked up, they stressed that he had lied "repeatedly" to investigators. "This is not an isolated instance of bad judgment or criminal conduct," prosecutor Andrew Weissmann said.Van der Zwaan\'s attorneys argued that he had suffered enough already. His life has been destroyed by his "terrible decision" to lie to federal authorities, they said. The attorneys pushed Jackson to allow van der Zwaan to return to London, where he lives with his wife, who is going through a difficult pregnancy."He has been here well over four months without a home, without his wife and without his family," his attorney, William Schwartz, said. "He is literally in limbo."Schwartz stressed that his client had made the effort to return to the U.S. to "correct the record" after he lied to the special counsel\'s office, though prosecutors took issue with the characterization, noting that van der Zwaan was under a grand jury subpoena at the time.Jackson said she recognized that van der Zwaan has been away from his family for months, but the defense\'s attempts to paint him as a tragic figure didn\'t ring true."This is not something that happened to him. He did not suffer unavoidable circumstances of tragedy. This is something he did," she said.Jackson also said his signs of remorse were relatively "muted." He didn\'t write a letter to the judge, as his family and friends did, and hasn\'t used his time in the U.S. to perform community service or other good deeds to make up for his actions, she said.In addition to the prison time and fine, Jackson imposed two months of supervised released. She allowed him to voluntarily surrender to prison authorities.The sentencing came just hours after another development in the special counsel\'s investigation.In a court filing late Monday, prosecutors revealed that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein had in August explicitly authorized the special counsel to investigate allegations that Manafort colluded with the Russian government.Manafort has challenged Mueller\'s authority and asked a judge to dismiss charges against him that include acting as an unregistered foreign agent and conspiring to launder tens of millions of dollars he received from his Ukrainian political consulting. He said Mueller overstepped his bounds by charging him for conduct that occurred years before the 2016 presidential election.But in their new filing , prosecutors revealed that Rosenstein  who appointed Mueller  specifically authorized the investigation of any crimes related to payments Manafort received from the Ukrainian government during the tenure of former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. The description largely captures the charges against him.Rosenstein also empowered Mueller to investigate allegations Manafort "committed a crime or crimes by colluding with Russian government officials" to interfere with the presidential election.None of the charges Manafort faces alleges coordination with the Kremlin. He has pleaded not guilty and denied any wrongdoing related to Russian election interference.___Associated Press writer Eric Tucker contributed to this report.___
LA LINEA DE LA CONCEPCION, Spain   Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each containing 30 kilograms (66 pounds) of Moroccan hashish.Then, somebody yells: "Cut it! Cut it!"As fast as they came, the smugglers find shelter in the narrow streets of the La Atunara fishing neighborhood. The boat vanishes into the night, still holding half of its cargo. When a patrol car arrives seconds later, all that remains is the sound of the waves.Another night, another chapter in the battle between Spanish authorities and the crime gangs who have turned this neglected town in the shadow of the Rock of Gibraltar into a key European entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin."Right now, we are losing this battle," said Francisco Mena, leader of Nexos, a federation of local community action groups. "Trafficking can\'t be stopped with the human resources and material means that we have in place."He insisted the war could still be won. But such optimism flies in the face of the brazen drug operations witnessed by Associated Press journalists, and of the very words of drug chieftains who agreed to rare interviews."Trafficking has always existed, and it always will. If not here, it will move elsewhere along the coast," said one of the area\'s most notorious "narcos,"who like others spoke on condition that they not be named because they feared prosecution.Half a dozen trafficking ring members and their leaders said that shipping drugs is a way of life in this forgotten corner. In a province with a 30 percent jobless rate, the highest in the country, they see their criminal activity as a "necessary bad" feeding hundreds of families directly and thousands more indirectly."Many of us are fathers. We need to take food home," said another gangster who asked to be identified as Pepe. "If we couldn\'t provide for our children this way, another kind of violence would come."Three dozen clans are believed to be working in Campo de Gibraltar, a county of 268,000 that cradles the Bay of Algeciras. On a clear day, the contours of the coast of Morocco, the world\'s top producer of hashish, are visible across a busy shipping waterway at the mouth of the Mediterranean, just 30 kilometers (less than 19 miles) away.A new generation of bolder gangsters is challenging underfunded law enforcement agencies, as local families watch their teenagers lured into a life of easy money.Criminals that in the past dropped their few hundred kilograms of cargo in the sea as soon as they came across a customs surveillance boat are now ready to defend their bigger, bulkier shipments.On land and at sea, traffickers use shuttle vehicles  SUVs or inflatable boats without cargo whose function is to mislead authorities and, increasingly, ram patrol cars and boats."The earlier generation had a respect for police uniform but there is now a new generation that has an absolute contempt for authority," says Juan Franco, the mayor of La Linea, "My worry is that these guys are armed and so far, they are not using them against civil guard or police agents, but that\'s the next step."Fears that civilians could also be caught in the crossfire reached a height last month when a group of drug traffickers stormed the emergency ward in La Linea\'s public hospital. The assailants freed a top aide and nephew to Los Castanitas, two brothers who run the town\'s most influential drug clans.A week after the attack, the country\'s Interior Minister descended on the town with an entourage of bodyguards and special police forces. Juan Ignacio Zoido promised crime squads and additional security measures for the county over coming months.The smugglers take umbrage at their reputation as a violent, fractured community."Police are looking for a war by pitting us against each other, but this is not Medellin or Sinaloa," said a prominent drug lord.Despite its struggles with trafficking, Spain is the European Union member seizing the largest volumes of both cocaine and cannabis. Of the 373 tons of drugs seized in Spain last year, according to the Interior Ministry, 145 tons were cannabis resin confiscated in the Campo de Gibraltar region, a 45 percent increase from 2016.Still, much more slips through the cracks. Investigators said seizures amount to only 4 to 5 percent of the hashish that could be entering the country.Activists, local politicians and police unions want more resources to investigate money laundering that could lead to gang leaders; a regional court specialized in drug trafficking and harsher sentences. Some even ask for regulating the consumption and sale of cannabis.Mena welcomes recent steps toward a bill aiming to restrict the use of large speedboats. He says the European Union should also aid Spain, and pressure Morocco for stronger action on its end.But the biggest challenge is local collusion with the drug networks. Revenues feed the local economy, often laundered through beauty parlors, gyms, clothing stores or other small businesses.In late March, agents in a poor neighborhood fired gunshots into the air to dispel a crowd protecting a trafficker who was on the run from police. Their quarry vanished, leaving behind a car with half a ton of hashish.Still, there are signs that some residents know that drugs are a dead end for their town. On Feb. 27, two weeks after the hospital incident, more than 2,000 people gathered to protest."No more drugs, we want jobs," they shouted.But Franco, the mayor, does not believe that his city has truly turned a corner."Once in a while there is a specific event that creates a catharsis of some kind," he said, "but months on we go back to the same point."___AP photographer Emilio Morenatti contributed to this story.


LA LINEA DE LA CONCEPCION, Spain   Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each containing 30 kilograms (66 pounds) of Moroccan hashish.In little over two minutes, most of the cargo has filled two full-size SUVs. All seats but the drivers\' have been removed. The lights are off and the windows have been darkened with black spray.Then, somebody yells: "Cut it! Cut it!"As fast as they came, the SUVs speed away and the smugglers find shelter in the narrow streets of the La Atunara fishing neighborhood. The boat vanishes into the night, still holding half of its cargo. When a patrol car arrives seconds later, all that remains is the sound of the waves.Another night, another chapter in the battle between Spanish authorities and the crime gangs who have turned this neglected town in the shadow of the Rock of Gibraltar into a key European entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin."Right now, we are losing this battle," said Francisco Mena, leader of Nexos, a federation of local community action groups that offer rehab for drug addicts. "Trafficking can\'t be stopped with the human resources and material means that we have in place at the moment."He insisted the war could still be won. But such optimism flies in the face of the brazen drug operations witnessed by Associated Press journalists, and of the very words of drug chieftains who agreed to rare interviews.One of the area\'s most notorious "narcos" insisted that the illicit trade is here to stay."Trafficking has always existed, and it always will. If not here, it will move elsewhere along the coast," said the gang leader, who like others spoke on condition that they not be named because they feared prosecution. "If drug trafficking didn\'t end in Colombia with death penalties and extraditions to the United States, nobody will end it here."Half a dozen trafficking ring members and their leaders pointed to the 30 percent provincial jobless rate in the Cadiz province, the highest in the country, as a fuel for their criminal activity. They claimed that shipping drugs is a way of life in this forgotten corner, justifying it as a "necessary bad" that feeds hundreds of families directly, and thousands more indirectly."Many of us are fathers. We need to take food home," said another gangster who asked to be identified as Pepe. "If we couldn\'t provide for our children this way, another kind of violence would come."Three dozen clans are believed to be working in Campo de Gibraltar, a county of 268,000 that cradles the Bay of Algeciras. On a clear day, the contours of the coast of Morocco, the world\'s top producer of hashish, are visible across a busy shipping waterway at the mouth of the Mediterranean, just 30 kilometers (less than 19 miles) away.A new generation of bolder gangsters is challenging underfunded law enforcement agencies, as local families watch their teenagers lured into a life of easy money."The national government needs to do more, and not only when the media\'s attention is here," said Mena. "When the state disappears, what appears is impunity."___Criminals that in the past dropped their few hundred kilograms of cargo in the sea as soon as they came across a customs surveillance boat are now ready to defend their bigger, bulkier shipments.The RIBs, or rigid-hulled inflatable boats known as "rubbers," are partially to blame. With three, four and even five 350-horsepower engines, they can ship an average cargo of 1 to 3 tons of hashish in over one hour from northern Moroccan shores. A trafficker told the AP he held the local record: 178 stashes, or 5.3 tons, in a single shipment.Car chases at high-speeds and personal threats to judges, prosecutors and underpaid, short-handed officers have now become common.On land and at sea, traffickers use shuttle vehicles  SUVs or rubbers without cargo whose function is to mislead authorities and, increasingly, ram patrol cars and boats.So far, casualties have been higher on the traffickers\' side. Two years ago, four traffickers died when a patrol vessel sailed over their rubber, prompting angry protests against the authorities.According to police investigators and drug traffickers themselves, the uptick in violence is also related to inter-gang burglaries of drug cargo from beaches or from hundreds of "kindergartens"  storage spaces, often in local homes. These "vuelcos" are often the work of outsiders, the sources said, frequently gangs from Eastern Europe."The earlier generation had a respect for police uniform but there is now a new generation that has an absolute contempt for authority," says Juan Franco, the mayor of La Linea, "My worry is that these guys are armed and so far, they are not using them against civil guard or police agents, but that\'s the next step."Fears that civilians could also be caught in the crossfire reached a height last month when a group of drug traffickers stormed the emergency ward in La Linea\'s public hospital. The assailants freed Samuel Crespo, a top aide and nephew to Los Castanitas, two brothers who run the town\'s most influential drug clans.Police say there were at least 20 attackers, armed with sticks and knives. Witnesses have disputed the official account, saying a handful of unarmed youngsters took Crespo away with little resistance from their two custodians. The attacked policemen said using their guns inside the busy emergency ward would have escalated things.The events hit a nerve in La Linea, a town of 63,000. "How can a handful of young criminals be so bold to act with such impunity in broad daylight?" asks Mena, the activist. "Why were there only two policemen guarding a prominent gangster? And why didn\'t they have any other means to stop the attackers?"Outrage increased when news emerged that the fugitive was taken in a jet ski across the Strait of Gibraltar for treatment in a private clinic in northern Morocco. A police investigation led to the arrests of two of those involved in the attack, in addition to one person that was detained on the spot at the hospital.Crespo himself is now back in Spain according to his aides\' account. He remains at large.A week after the attack, the country\'s Interior Minister descended on the town with an entourage of bodyguards and special police forces. Juan Ignacio Zoido\'s visit was timed to announce a police operation that led to the arrest of 16 people, members of a sophisticated gang that had installed radar to monitor patrol boats. Police found it under rooftop solar panels in a waterfront house. They also snatched 4 tons of hashish, 17 vehicles and four firearms.Zoido promised crime squads and additional security measures for the county over coming months.That same morning, a 90-minute drive away, men in hoods entered a guarded compound and stole a speedboat that had been confiscated and held in evidence, along with a truck to pull it.___The Cadiz province, which at its southernmost tip only 14 kilometers (8.6 miles) away from North Africa, already amounts for 40 percent of the drugs entering Spain, according to Interior Ministry figures.Hashish is arriving on these beaches at the pace of seven to 20 loaded rubbers per day, according to calculations by police and traffickers. A Civil Guard operation last year dismantled a network that used dangerous night helicopter journeys to fly drugs into hideouts further inland.The county is also a main entry point for cocaine, Europe\'s second most popular drug according to the region\'s Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addictions. It makes its way concealed in containers and merchant ships docking in Algeciras, across the bay from La Linea.Some of the smuggled drugs are consumed south of the Pyrenees, but most of it up to 90 percent, by some police accounts travels on land to France, Italy and the Netherlands, which plays a central role as a regional distribution hub, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.As in any other business, shipping a stash of hashish involves plenty of stakeholders. The clans operating in and beyond the Campo de Gibraltar are usually family-run and territorial, but only a handful of them are in control of all the phases of the trade.Sooner or later, the job will be outsourced to gangs offering pilots, rubbers, stolen Land Cruisers the most common SUV in their operations or the army of people watching every corner for police presence. Known as "puntos," spotters, they are placed in strategic locations, often with a non-smartphone to alert others. These low-ranking gangsters can make from 600 to 1,000 euros ($700 to 1,200) in just one day, according to traffickers.The "bushmen," as those unloading speedboats and loading Land Cruisers are called, can earn up to 2,000 to 3,000 euros a day. But the best paid in the chain are SUV drivers (10,000-15,000 euros for one job) and rubber pilots, starting from 30,000 euros and rising with the number of hashish bundles they deliver. The owner of a "kindergarten," which can be a family with a basement rented to the traffickers, can make up to 15,000 euros for each day hiding the stash.The smugglers take umbrage at their reputation as a violent, fractured community."Police are looking for a war by pitting us against each other," said a prominent drug lord speaking in a modest safe house where the leaders of half a dozen local gangs, some of them on the run from the law, convened to discuss business. "But this is not Medellin or Sinaloa, and there is no such thing as a Pablo Escobar among us," he said. "There are no assassins here. There are only groups who are good at what they do and others who make mistakes, the same way as police make them.""We, the veterans, are here to stop this from escalating to any kind of violence," he added, eliciting nods from others in the room.A gang member with a walkie-talkie enters announcing that a rubber has arrived. The group moves quickly to the beach, only a few meters away; in an impressive feat of choreography, more than 100 bushmen and spotters unload the craft as reporters and passers-by look on. Only word that a police patrol car is streets way, driving toward the beach, brings an abrupt end to the operation."You see, this is like a game of cat and mouse, but you won\'t see the guns, at least not on our side," said a top associate of Los Castanitas. "I have never stolen or gotten myself involved in anything else that is not the smuggling. Yes, this is illegal, I\'ll give you that. But we are not hurting anyone."___Despite its struggles with trafficking, Spain is the European Union member seizing the largest volumes of both cocaine and cannabis. In 2015, cannabis seizures accounted for more than 70 percent the drug apprehended in the block, according to Eurostat figures. Of the 373 tons of drugs seized in Spain last year, according to the Interior Ministry, 145 tons were cannabis resin confiscated in the Campo de Gibraltar region, a 45 percent increase from the previous year.Still, much more slips through the cracks. Investigators said seizures amount to only 4 to 5 percent of the hashish that could be entering the country.More resources to investigate money laundering would target gang leaders, says Mena.Police unions say that a regional court specialized in drug trafficking would speed up some of the cases, because drug-trafficking probes require large amounts of judicial red tape for wiretapping and other investigating methods.Other proposed remedies range from harsher sentences Spain punishes hashish-trafficking with up to six years if no other crimes involved, whereas sentences can double that in France and the United Kingdom to regulating consumption and sales of cannabis.Mena welcomes recent steps taken by the Spanish government on a bill to restrict the use of large speedboats. He says the European Union should aid Spain, and pressure Morocco for stronger action on its end.But the biggest challenge is local collusion with the drug networks. Revenues feed the local economy, often laundered through beauty parlors, gyms, clothing stores or other small businesses, creating a "narco-economy" that Franco, the mayor of La Linea, describes as "bread for today and hunger for tomorrow."Unemployment in La Linea, at 35 percent in 2016, reaches 80 percent among the youth in its poorest neighborhoods, the mayor\'s office said.In late March, dozens of people in one of the La Linea\'s impoverished neighborhoods protected a trafficker who was being chased by a national police patrol. Police said agents had to fire gunshots into the air to dispel the crowd, but by then their quarry had vanished, leaving behind a car with half a ton of hashish.Still, there are signs that some residents know that drugs are a dead end for their town. On Feb. 27, two weeks after the hospital incident, more than 2,000 people gathered to protest."No more drugs, we want jobs," they shouted.But Franco does not believe that his city has truly turned a corner."Once in a while there is a specific event that creates a catharsis of some kind," he said, "but months on we go back to the same point."___AP photographer Emilio Morenatti contributed to this story.
MADISON, Wis.   Rebecca Dallet, a liberal Milwaukee judge, easily defeated conservative Michael Screnock on Tuesday in the race for Wisconsin Supreme Court, fueling optimism among Democrats for more victories in the fall midterms.The win in the first statewide general election in the country this year forced Gov. Scott Walker, who endorsed Screnock, to warn his fellow Republicans."Tonight\'s results show we are at risk of a #BlueWave in WI," Walker, who is up for re-election in November, tweeted. "Big government special interests flooded Wisconsin with distorted facts & misinformation. Next, they\'ll target me and work to undo our bold reforms."Although the race was viewed by some as a bellwether, results of past Supreme Court elections have not consistently proven to be predictive of what will happen in November. President Donald Trump won the state by less than 1 percentage point in 2016, while Dallet thumped Screnock by double digits.She won by a nearly 12-point margin with 87 percent of precincts reporting, based on unofficial results.The race for a 10-year seat was nonpartisan in name only, with millions in ad spending and public endorsements from the likes of Joe Biden, Eric Holder and the National Rifle Association.Dallet said her victory, which Democrats quickly seized on as another sign of momentum, was a rejection of special interest influence on Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court."The candidate with the most experience in our courts and standing up for the fairness of our courts won," she said. "I think people are tired of what\'s been going on in our state in terms of the money coming in to buy these elections and people spoke out tonight."Screnock said he was proud of his campaign, in the face of "tremendous outside influence from liberal special interest groups that were willing to say and spend anything to elect their preferred candidate to the bench."Wisconsin Democratic Party Chairwoman Martha Laning said the win was a warning shot to Walker, calling it a "huge loss" for him because his "endorsement, philosophy and politics were on the ballot."One of the Democratic challengers to Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan, of Wisconsin, immediately tried to raise money off the Dallet win. Randy Bryce called the Dallet win "a rallying cry for working folks."Screnock, a Sauk County circuit judge, was endorsed by Walker and backed by about $400,000 from the state GOP.Dallet\'s victory narrows conservative control of the court from 5-2 to 4-3. She also will become the sixth woman on the court. And it\'s the first time a liberal candidate has won a race for an open seat on the court since 1995. The court has been a reliable ally of Walker and Republicans who have controlled the governor\'s office and Legislature since 2011.Voters who supported Dallet said they hoped her win would send a message."People are pretty motivated on the left, from what I can see," said Doug Clawson, 58, a communications professional who cast his ballot at a Madison public library as cold rain fell outside.He said a Dallet win "would send a message that we\'re not kidding around here and maybe to borrow an axiom from the right: We\'re going to take our country back."Dallet\'s victory follows a surprising Democratic win in January in a special election for a state Senate seat held by Republicans for 17 years. Two other special legislative elections are coming this June, giving Democrats more chances to build momentum heading into the fall.Dallet, 48, has been a Milwaukee County circuit judge since 2008 and before that was a prosecutor for more than a decade. She will join the court in August.Screnock, 48, was appointed judge by Walker in 2015. Before that he was part of a team that defended Walker\'s Act 10 law that effectively ended collective bargaining for most public workers.Several voters in liberal Madison said they were motivated to vote against Screnock because of his NRA support."I don\'t want to support anyone who\'s backed by the NRA right now," said Phil Ouellette, 59, who works in advertising.Both candidates argued the other couldn\'t be trusted to serve as an independent voice on the state\'s highest court because of the partisans supporting their campaigns.Dallet ran with a tough-on-crime message, focusing on her 11 years as a prosecutor followed by 10 years as a judge in Milwaukee. She argued that the current conservative-controlled Supreme Court is "broken," and she criticized the justices for not adopting a recusal rule forcing them to step down from cases involving large campaign donors.___
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.Trump, doubling down on his tough stance against illegal immigration, has railed against those making their way from the Guatemala-Mexico border in the past 10 days.Trump repeated threats to torpedo the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which underpins much of Mexico\'s foreign trade, and said he wanted to send troops to the U.S. border to stop illegal immigrants until a long-promised border wall is built.In response, the Mexican government has said the migrants  are being vetted to determine whether they have a right to stay, or would be returned to their countries of origin.Hundreds of men, women and children from Central America were stuck on Tuesday in the town of Matias Romero in the poor southern Mexican state of Oaxaca awaiting clarification of their legal status after officials began registering them.Confused and frustrated by paperwork, many were uncertain what lay in store, and desperate for information."What was the point of all this then if they don\'t let us stay?" Elizabeth Avalos, 23, a migrant from El Salvador who was travelling with two children, said angrily. "There\'s no food, my children haven\'t eaten since yesterday."Hundreds of people camped out overnight in a park near the town\'s train station, with shoes and bags strewn about.Jaime Alexander Variega, 35, sat alone in a patch of shade and cupped his head in his hands, weeping or praying, his feet  still bearing lacerations from walking for four or five days straight through Guatemala from El Salvador."We\'re not safe in El Salvador," said the former security guard, his hat smeared in dirt, explaining he had left his home because of the threats from local gangs. "I know it\'s difficult to get into the United States. But it\'s not impossible."Around them, Mexican migration officials with notepads and pens took basic information from the migrants, asking for names, nationalities, dates of birth and proof of identity.The caravan was organised by U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which seeks to draw attention to the rights of migrants and provide them with aid. The Mexican government says the caravan, which like others travels by road, rail and on foot, has been organised every year since 2010.Honduran Carlos Ricardo Ellis Garcia clutched a handwritten list of names belonging to more than 100 people who joined the caravan in the southern border town of Tapachula, where it began on March 25, reaching a peak of around 1,500 people.But by Tuesday the number was down to about 1,100, according to Pueblo Sin Fronteras spokeswoman Gina Garibo.Many had broken off from the group, eager to move on more quickly, she said. Many others aimed to stay in Mexico because they had family ties there or planned to work, Garibo said."Now they\'re separating these groups," Ellis Garcia said, referring to an estimated 300 people who split from the caravan on Monday. "I don\'t know what\'s the deal, we have no answers."Advocacy groups told Reuters dozens of people left the caravan and travelled to the crime-ridden eastern state of Veracruz, where they were met by migration officials and police.The government said on Monday evening around 400 people in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico\'s ambassador to the United States, told CNN that Mexican authorities were "looking at the status of the individuals so we can proceed either with a repatriation process" or offer humanitarian relief. That could include granting asylum or humanitarian visas.Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala are among the most violent and impoverished countries in the Americas, prompting many people to leave in search of a better life.Trump, who ran for office in 2016 on a platform to stem illegal immigrants from Mexico, said he had "told Mexico" he hoped it would halt the caravan.The migrant caravan also poses a political problem for Mexico\'s unpopular government in a presidential election year.President Enrique Pena Nieto is barred by law from seeking re-election in the July 1 vote, but the ruling party candidate is running third, well behind the front-runner.The government does not want to be seen as kowtowing to threats by Trump, who is deeply unpopular in Mexico.In a country where millions of people have friends or relatives who have migrated legally or illegally to the United States, many Mexicans harbour sympathy for the Central Americans.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Additional reporting by Lizbeth Diaz, Diego Ore and Daina Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Grant McCool)
A persistent complaint about the governments response to the financial crisis has been that the executives who helped push the economy to the brink were not charged with crimes.Prosecutors have not been able to prosecute managers with the usual tools for pursuing white-collar cases, like wire fraud or false statements, because defenses of ignorance or good faith could not be overcome.One way to remedy that problem would be to lower the level of intent needed to establish a violation. Doing so might make it easier to hold an executive who is not part of day-to-day decisions responsible for wrongdoing.Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, is the latest official to try to change the calculus for holding executives accountable for misconduct at financial institutions. She introduced the Ending Too Big To Jail Act last month. The name comes from the notion, bolstered in 2013 by the then-attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., that some banks were so large that it was difficult for us to prosecute them.The legislation requires officers of any bank with more than $10 billion in assets to certify each year that they have not uncovered any criminal conduct or civil fraud to the Justice Department.Even if it did pass  which seems unlikely in the current anti-regulation environment  the proposed certification requirement is unlikely to result in a wave of prosecutions. The criminal law is a blunt instrument for pursuing corporate misconduct, and executives are experts at keeping problems at arms-length, or at least maintaining the kind of plausible deniability that makes it difficult to prosecute them.Prosecuting a bank is easier than proving an individual committed a crime. The intent of all employees is attributed to the organization, which is vicariously liable for what individuals do on its behalf. But prosecuting executives means showing they had knowledge of a violation. That can be difficult.Ms. Warrens bill tries to remedy that by forcing management to make the necessary inquiries to determine that the organization is not violating the law.The bill would add a new offense for an executive who willfully files a false certification, including violations that are part of a pattern of any illegal activity involving more than $100,000 in a year. The maximum penalty would be up to 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine.The challenge for prosecuting such violations would be showing the requisite intent. The Supreme Court noted in Bryan v. United States that willfully is a word of many meanings whose construction is often dependent on the context in which it appears. That means a court could interpret the provision as requiring proof a defendant purposely sought to mislead the government in filing a false certification. Such an interpretation would be a substantial hurdle to proving a violation.Another possibility is having to show merely that executives knew they were engaged in wrongful activity. That is much easier to prove and something that prosecutors would no doubt prefer.Congress adopted a similar certification requirement in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002 in response to the accounting frauds at Enron and WorldCom. Under the law, the chief executives and chief financial officers of publicly traded companies must certify that any report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operation of the company, with a knowing or willful violation subject to criminal prosecution.The first high-profile prosecution under the statute involved Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of HealthSouth. But the case resulted in an acquittal, a black eye for the Justice Department.The Sarbanes-Oxley certification statute has been used in only a few cases since. In each instance, prosecutors had evidence that the executive had direct knowledge of the fraudulent activity.Absent proof of an executives involvement, or at least knowledge, of the fraud, a willful violation of the certification requirement in Ms. Warrens legislation would be difficult to prove. We can expect executives to put in new procedures to show that they tried to comply with the law, which can provide a basis for claiming there was not an intentional violation of the certification requirement.For those reasons, I doubt the Too Big to Jail Act would result in increased criminal liability for executives. There is no simple cure to the challenge of holding senior managers responsible for what takes place within their organizations.
WASHINGTON   His moniker was "DARKKING22," and authorities say he offered a cornucopia of illicit drugs through the click of a mouse.But it was his ads on a hidden website for pure fentanyl, the powerful painkiller driving a record number of overdose deaths across the U.S., that caught FBI agents\' attention. They bought some, and days later it arrived in a small, clear, plastic bag complete with a thank-you card, a sign of how easy it is to buy drugs on the so-called darknet.The dealer did not stay anonymous for long. Federal authorities say "DARKKING22" was 28-year-old Antoin Austin, of Euclid, Ohio. His arrest last week is among the first by a new team of federal agents, computer experts and analysts tasked with fighting the kind of online opioid trafficking that law enforcement officials say can be more persistent and vexing than more traditional trafficking by cartels.Frustrating authorities in their pursuit of online dealers is the anonymity in which they work. Buyers access stores through secret web browsers and make purchases using encrypted channels, code names and virtual currency such as Bitcoin.Attorney General Jeff Sessions said darknet vendors are "pouring fuel on the fire of the national drug epidemic" and this year doubled the number of federal agents working on those cases. It\'s part of the Trump administration\'s tough approach to the drug crisis that has focused on harsh punishments for dealers. Critics say the overall strategy resembles a return to failed drug-war tactics and that the record $4.6 billion included in the spending plan the president signed last month is not nearly enough to establish the kind of treatment system needed to reverse the crisis.But there\'s bipartisan agreement that more resources and new restrictions are needed to stem the stream of opioids entering the U.S. from overseas, especially China, and into households through the U.S. mail.Darknet marketplaces are thriving, even after authorities in recent years dismantled two of the most notorious, the Silk Road and AlphaBay, where hundreds of thousands of customers bought not just illegal drugs but weapons, malware and counterfeit and stolen identification. Authorities on the new task force, the Joint Criminal Opioid Darknet Enforcement team, in this case targeted the vendors who sell illicit fentanyl by mail."It\'s not enough simply to take the sites down," Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Richard Downing said. "Vendors look for another opportunity, another site, another place where they can go and sell their drugs and guns."In its first operation, the team arrested Austin and seven others and seized weapons, computer equipment and more than 2,000 lethal doses of the deadly drug. Investigators uncovered 19 overdose deaths they believe are connected to fentanyl purchased online.Austin\'s public defender declined to comment.Before the team\'s formation, federal agents would dive into complicated investigations largely on their own, sometimes without realizing others were already on the case. But the team has forged a new level of cooperation that its members say is critical in increasingly sophisticated darknet cases that combine tech savvy with old-fashioned drug dealing.Agents in Pittsburgh, for example, have found drug gangs that traditionally peddled narcotics smuggled from beyond the southern border are now also selling drugs from China online, said Shawn A. Brokos, a supervisory special agent there. Buyers sometimes turn to the dark web for drugs to then deal on the street."A lot of them start on a smaller level and then they see how lucrative this can be and they keep expanding," she said.Investigators from several agencies made a list of "targets," not just the fentanyl peddling vendors, but buyers and users, then set out to contact them, building on existing intelligence. They spoke to more than 160 people, getting a clearer picture of the landscape, said Kyle Rau, of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service."They share their secrets, they share their tradecraft," said Emily Odom, chief of the FBI\'s Hi-Tech Organized Crime Unit. "They\'re working together, so we have to do a better job working together as well."

BLUE DREAMS The Science and the Story of the Drugs That Changed Our Minds By Lauren Slater 400 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $28.In 1988, Lauren Slater put a single cream-and-green pill in her mouth and, with a sip of water, became one of the first patients in the United States to take Prozac. She also emerged as one of its most poetic chroniclers when she detailed her heady, complex love affair with the drug in Prozac Diary (1998).Thirty years since that first dose, neither Slater nor the drug has aged particularly well. Slater, who has spent much of her life wrestling with bipolar and obsessive-compulsive disorders, jumped from an initial prescription of 10 milligrams to 20 to 30 to 60, landing at 80 mg, which is where she left off in Prozac Diary. A doctor eventually upped her dose to 100 mg a day  20 beyond whats F.D.A. approved. But the drug that had so magically removed the dead-weight symptoms so that my whole world became a gorgeous glimmer ceased working once again. Many psychiatrists theorize that each relapse makes the brain more vulnerable to future episodes and leads to a lifetime of antidepressants for people who have had depressive episodes. At the same time, Slater notes, few studies have examined the long-term side effects of these serotonin boosters.Slaters current medicine cabinet includes the antidepressant Effexor, the antipsychotic Zyprexa, another antipsychotic, Abilify, the stimulant Vyvanse, the anti-anxiety medication Klonopin, as well as Lisiniprol to combat the high blood pressure caused by Effexor. Add in some of the other psychotropic medications shes tried  Imipramine, Geodon, Risperdal, lithium  and it starts to read like a pharmacists daily fill list.But its Zyprexa and its side effect of increased appetite that particularly shadows Slater. Her mouth waters at the mention of food. She scoops marshmallow fluff out of a jar and downs several enchiladas at a time heaped with mole sauce. Now at 160 pounds on her 5-foot frame, she is diabetic and in kidney failure, her mouth thick with thirst and her urine thick with sediment. A single warning from a single doctor when I was in the depths of despair, she writes, could not adequately convey the message that by swallowing this new drug I was effectively agreeing to deeply damage the body upon which I rely to survive. Her attempts to withdraw from medications have proved disastrous: She once bought a gun and another time wrote suicide letters to her children, before retreating back to the blanket of meds again.The story of Slaters attempts to get and stay well weaves throughout Blue Dreams: The Science and the Story of the Drugs That Changed Our Minds and provides some of the books most poignant and lyrical writing. Just as important, her experience makes her a convincing travel guide into the history, creation and future of psychotropics. She is, understandably, not an uncritical cheerleader. But she resists the facile role of hard-charging prosecutor. And no wonder, really, given that the drugs have allowed her to have two children, write nine books, marry (and divorce) and hold dear friendships.So, when she takes us back to the 1950s and the story of Thorazine, she doesnt just give us a One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest bag of horrors, but also a glimpse into doctors excitement when the drug quelled patients delusions and hallucinations and the once-comatose resumed living. A former barber, who had been in a haze for years and for whom all previous treatments failed, returned to shaving (his first customer: the doctor who gave him Thorazine). A juggler asked for billiard balls and began juggling again. And people on one psychiatric ward picked up musical instruments, used drills and saws, held conversations that had been unthinkable shortly before.In what becomes a through-line in the book, no one fully understood how the drug worked (nor do we know what happened to the juggler or barber once they left the asylum). It was simply enough that it seemed to be working. And yet, in high doses and over the long term, patients often experienced tardive dyskinesia, which includes tongue thrusting, lip smacking, restlessness, involuntary movements of arms and legs, which become twisted like pretzels. When Slater wonders aloud to a psychiatrist why the new class of antipsychotics is really so much better than the old ones, he says: You have to pick your poisons. Which would you rather be in two years  a circus freak or a diabetic?She takes us on similar journeys into lithium and MAO inhibitors, each bringing hope and problems. And then, in the late 1980s theres the arrival of serotonin reuptake inhibitors, known as SSRIs, and their promise to be different from the antidepressants of the past. The standard explanation is that Prozac, Celexa, Zoloft and other SSRIs boost serotonin levels. But studies have never proved that depressed people suffer from low serotonin (some do, some have normal levels and others have high levels). And SSRIs often fare no better than placebos for mild to moderate depression. Still, doctors tend to talk about depression as if the science is settled, often telling patients: If youre diabetic you take insulin; if youre depressed you take a pill. The analogy, of course, doesnt hold. There is no blood test, no X-ray, no urinalysis that pinpoints depression. It is a field, Slater writes, still stuttering, with at best a slippery grasp on the science behind its pills and potions, a legion of medical men and women who can help you in one way but hurt you in another.Hope does arrive in the second half of Blue Dreams, when Slater walks us through emerging interventions. Unfortunately, by this point shes taken us through so much material and still has so far to go  including brain stimulation and memory drugs  that the journey begins to feel too wide-ranging and, occasionally, too thin on details about what were passing along the way.Still, several of the up-and-coming treatments  many of them not new at all  shift our focus from unmediated pill popping. Among them are placebos, which dont work for all patients and have no effect on those with Alzheimers. But, as Slater rightly notes, numerous studies show their amazing potency, which remains too untapped by a psychiatry field still enthralled with drugs.Like placebos, hallucinogens also arent new, of course, but researchers are repurposing them in promising ways. Studies show that psilocybin, the active ingredient in so-called magic mushrooms, curbs smoking addiction, as well as relieves anxiety and depression for people with end-stage cancer. And in clinical trials, psychotherapy combined with MDMA (the chemical more commonly known as ecstasy) offers significant relief for PTSD sufferers. The drug, which creates feelings of empathy and euphoria, allows traumatized victims to recall their terrors in a calm state of mind and establish deep trust with their therapists  ingredients that pave the way for psychological change.One of the keys for MDMA, psilocybin and some placebo therapies is the connection between patient and provider. And connection is exactly what vanishes during Slaters own depressive states. Her primary feeling, she writes, is the loss of love  my people falling away  and the loss of language, my words dwindling so low that my thought seems to move without rhythm or reason.Its no surprise that Slater goes searching for relief among these new treatments. She tracks down a therapist who uses MDMA in her practice. And in the cozy office painted in calming colors, Slater tells the therapist her history and lists her prescriptions. MDMA wont work for Slater, the therapist tells her; her current medications would block the drugs effects. Slater knows from past experiences that she cant risk weaning herself from the prescriptions that keep her stable. Her dependency on our terribly imperfect drugs has ruled out her candidacy for more promising ones.
WEYMOUTH, Mass.  Kyle Corkum imagines a smart city with futuristic amenities like driverless shuttle services, heated sidewalks and a super-resilient energy grid that keeps humming through the harshest of storms.As chief executive of LStar Ventures, a developer of planned communities, he has a chance to build the neighborhood of his dreams from the ground up on the site of a long-shuttered naval air station in this town just 12 miles south of Bostons booming technology hub.LStar, based in Raleigh, N.C., has enlisted General Electric as its partner. Because they are starting from scratch, Mr. Corkum said, the companies can embed smart technology into the energy, water, lighting and transportation systems that will serve the community.The project comes at a time when the tech industry is under intense scrutiny. Facebook is struggling with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm, improperly harvested private information from 50 million of the social networks users. And Ubers travails include a pedestrian death caused by one of its autonomous vehicles last month.Still, LStar is pushing ahead with the smart city, called Union Point. Plans include thousands of housing units and millions of square feet of high-tech commercial space on about 1,500 acres that extend into the neighboring towns of Rockland and Abington. The communitys glass towers, public plazas, clustered housing, scattered parks and retail zones will be contained within 500 acres, leaving the rest as dedicated open space.So far, the community consists of about 1,200 occupied single-family homes, townhouses and apartments, as well as a nearly completed $28 million sports complex with a miniature replica of Fenway Park. A cavernous aircraft hangar will be renovated for use as the centerpiece for a downtown district with shops, restaurants and open spaces with public programming.General Electric will use Union Point as a laboratory for testing new products and as a showroom for working systems. Eric Gebhardt, the strategic technology officer at GE Power, said the communitys energy plan will include micro grid technology, renewable generation and power storage. The company will also install intelligent lighting  streetlights with sensors that can track sound, light and other conditions. The data can be used to monitor traffic, help drivers find parking spaces and alert law enforcement if a gun is fired.G.E. has piloted some of its smart products in existing cities, but Union Point is an unusual opportunity because most of the infrastructure does not exist yet and the developer is open to experimentation, Mr. Gebhardt said.LStar plans to open an innovation center in the air stations old power plant. The center has expressed an interest in featuring an interactive planning tool developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology City Science Group called CityScope, which could aid in Union Points evolution by allowing users to visualize and explore trade-offs around factors like density, transportation and walkability, said David Rose, a researcher and lecturer at MITs Media Lab.LStar wants the center to be a showcase for what the city could be, a place to monitor what it is becoming, and a place to ask existential questions like, Could it be more inclusive, say, or energy efficient? Mr. Rose said.LStar also has an agreement with Optimus Ride, an autonomous vehicle start-up in Boston, to set up a self-driving vehicle service at Union Point. The company is already testing its electric vehicles at the property.Union Points first commercial tenant is expected this spring, when Prodrive Technologies, a Dutch company that develops and manufactures products for the automotive, medical and other industries, will break ground on its 60,000-square-foot United States headquarters. The sites proximity to Boston, access to commuter rail service and ample room for expansion were crucial to the firms location decision, said Roy Willems, the companys general manager of United States operations. He said Prodrive expected to build a second 200,000-square-foot building within three years, and increase its work force to roughly 300 people.LStar had to persuade the three host communities to approve critical zoning changes before it could move forward with the project. They also granted the developer considerable latitude over the design and layout of the community, which will take shape over 15 to 20 years.The three towns recognized an opportunity to do something quite extraordinary on a site where previous development plans stalled, said David P. Manfredi, a founding principal at Elkus Manfredi Architects, which helped create the master plan for Union Point. This is an alternative to what could have been suburban sprawl.Union Point promises to bring badly needed tax revenue to Weymouth, said the towns mayor, Robert L. Hedlund. Its the commercial build-out that were lusting after, he said.Still, similarly ambitious smart city projects have proved perilous. Mr. Rose cited Songdo, a smart city nearing completion in South Korea, as a prime example. The city boasts advanced connectivity, but it has so far failed to meet expectations in attracting international businesses and residents.What they got wrong was any sort of sense of streetscape, said Mr. Rose, who has visited Songdo. Theres no sense of patina, no authentic street life. Its super sterile. It was built as this fantasy of the future, but its a place that humans dont want to occupy.The integration of technology into urban planning has prompted questions about how the data being collected will be used. In Toronto, for example, Sidewalk Labs, a subsidiary of Alphabet, the parent company of Google, attracted considerable publicity when it was selected last year to help create a smart neighborhood of sorts in a waterfront district called Quayside. Some local officials and critics are questioning whether the deal gives too much authority to Sidewalk Labs without putting limitations on Googles collection and use of data.The need for greater regulation of driverless vehicles has also come up for debate after the death last month of a woman who was struck by one of Ubers self-driving cars in Tempe, Ariz.Very few local governments have thought through the long list of public- and private-sector values and concerns that should be deployed to constrain the use of autonomous cars, as well as the technologies being used to monitor city streets, said Susan Crawford, a Harvard Law School professor. Once youve given a developer license to deploy total surveillance, with no public limitations, youre done.LStar has considerable leeway to test technologies at Union Point. The developer is purposely holding on to its roads, rather than asking for them to be made public ways, to maintain flexibility in testing autonomous vehicles, lighting and other technologies, said Robert Luongo, Weymouths director of planning and community development.If these were public ways, we might not be able to give them that flexibility, he said.Mr. Corkum said retaining ownership of the roads would enable them to play with designs for amenities like drop-off areas for driverless shuttles and heated sidewalks. Its better for us to stay in this testing phase until we have good workable solutions, he said.State oversight of autonomous vehicles applies only once there is public use, he said. Even then, the rules are vague. Ryan Chin, the chief executive of Optimus Ride, said his company would adhere to the same high-level safety standards and testing protocols at Union Point that it followed for testing driverless cars in Bostons Seaport neighborhood.As for privacy concerns, Mr. Corkum said that he believed in setting boundaries on data collection and use. There is value in using technology to improve quality of life by, for instance, alleviating traffic jams, but he said he was wary of falling prey to a preoccupation with optimization.The company is working with law firms and consultants on operating guidelines for gathering and anonymizing data and ensuring it cannot be hacked or used to invade privacy, he said.I dont like the Big Brother notion that we know everything about you, he said. We will use data for the benefit of the group, not in a way to leverage the group.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A flip-flop in Israel, insults from Turkey and the worlds first ban on fake news. Heres the latest: Guess its just one of those days.So began a tweet from the European Unions delegation in Israel, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that he had reached a surprise deal with the United Nations refugee agency to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries.But Mr. Netanyahu suspended the deal hours later, after facing a barrage of outrage from his conservative coalition partners angry that half the migrants would be allowed to stay in Israel. His opponents on the left described the reversal as cowardly.The deal, which had brought Israel some short-lived international good will after a deadly clash with Palestinians last week, was intended to avoid a contentious Israeli plan that had offered the migrants a stark choice: forced deportation to Africa or prison.Above, protesting the plan last month in Tel Aviv._____ His favorite script: insulting people his supporters love to hate, like the liberal elite.No, were not talking about President Trumps tweets.Befitting the current era of strongmen, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey also has a well-honed strategy for winning public support. He gives up to three speeches every weekday  two a day on weekends  broadcast live on multiple channels.Another of his preferred targets? European leaders._____ What do a pair of Belarusian sex instructors detained in Thailand have to do with the investigation into Russias meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential race?Alexander Kirillov and Anastasia Vashukevich, above, say they have evidence showing Russia interfered, and they claim to be the targets of a covert Russian plot to silence them because they know too much.That might seem far-fetched, but the seduction coaches have powerful Russian enemies. And the F.B.I. says it tried to talk to them, suggesting that American investigators had not entirely dismissed their story._____ Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____ Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.Thats how our obituary describes Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.She died early Monday at the age of 81.In time, our former international correspondent wrote, her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandelas quest for racial inclusiveness._____ The worlds first ban on fake news.The lower house of Malaysias Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its upper house is expected to rapidly follow suit. Above, an advertisement discouraging the spread of fake news, at a train station in Kuala Lumpur last month.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a forced read of a corporate script from the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair. Critics have accused the company of using its stations to bolster public support for President Trump. The U.S. stock market tumbled, spurred by a flurry of bad news about technology companies and continued worries about a trade war with China. Above, a New York Stock Exchange trader on Monday. Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, its using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Fridays Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.)  Heres a snapshot of global markets. President Trump is renewing a push to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States. Above, a Honduran mother and children next to the U.S.-Mexico border fence in February. [The New York Times] More than one in five British manufacturers are expected to lay off workers because of Brexit, according to a study released on Sunday. [Politico] In India, seven people have died during huge protests against a Supreme Court order that many fear will weaken protections for lower-caste communities, which have long faced violence and discrimination. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus. The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. Thats when the F.B.I.s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agencys oldest case. Above, a team of doctors extracting a tooth from the mummy head in 2009. In the wake of mass shootings in the U.S., a lifelong gun owner questions the weapons he has long believed are essential to protecting himself and his country. The French-Polish photographer Tim Franco used portraits to tell the stories of North Korean defectors, opening a window into the identities of people whose lives are brutally cut into two parts: before and after. A year in a masters life: In 1932 the world was tilting toward catastrophe. Picasso was becoming a god, says our reporter, who reviews the Tates new exhibition in London, Picasso 1932, which is filled with point-blank masterpieces. The redemption of a violin prodigy. Saul Chandler played at Carnegie Hall in New York before he was 11, but the pressure to perform grew so unbearable that he gave up the violin at 16. This riveting story explores how he remade his life  and found peace  by building boats. And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program and about 50,000 rabbits.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip   Israel\'s defense minister said Tuesday that the military will not change its tough response to Hamas-led mass protests near Gaza\'s border with Israel, warning that those who approach the border are putting their lives at risk.Avigdor Lieberman spoke near Gaza, where 18 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire Friday, the first day of what Hamas says will be six weeks of intermittent border protests against a stifling blockade of the territory.On Tuesday, a 25-year-old Gaza man was killed by Israeli fire as he threw stones in the area of the border fence, Gaza\'s Health Ministry said.Lieberman\'s comments raised the possibility of more bloodshed this Friday, when another mass protest is expected.The Palestinians\' ambassador at the United Nations, Riyad Mansour, appealed to the U.N. Security Council for immediate international protection for Palestinian civilians, especially in Gaza. He charged in a letter to the council that Israel has adopted "a shoot-to-kill policy" during what he called peaceful protests.Mansour strongly backed Secretary-General Antonio Guterres\' call for an independent investigation of the killings and accused Israel of "intentionally, grossly and systematically" violating its legal obligation to protect civilians.The international group Human Rights Watch accused Lieberman and other senior Israeli officials Tuesday of unlawfully calling for the use of live fire against Palestinian protesters who posed no imminent threat to life.Last Friday, thousands of Palestinians marched near the border fence between Israel and Gaza, many gathering around tent encampments set up several hundred meters (yards) from the frontier. Smaller groups moved closer to the fence, throwing stones, hurling firebombs or burning tires. Israeli troops were lined up on the other side of the fence, including snipers perched on high earth embankments overlooking Gaza.Palestinian health officials have said 18 Palestinians were killed that day, including 13 involved in the mass protest, making it the bloodiest day in Gaza since the 2014 war between Israel and the Islamic militant group Hamas.More than 750 Palestinians were wounded by Israeli fire, according to Gaza health officials. Mansour told the Security Council the number of wounded was over 1,500, including more than 750 by live ammunition and 148 by rubber-coated steel bullets.The Israeli military has claimed, without elaborating, that it believes the figure was overblown and that dozens, at most, were wounded by live rounds.Israeli officials have said soldiers in the border area had orders to target the "main instigators" and those who approach the border.In Tuesday\'s violence, the military said dozens of Palestinians had participated in "riots" at four locations along the border, and troops had fired toward suspects who damaged the border fence. It issued a short video showing five youths approaching the fence. One of them pounds the fence with a club, while two others briefly cross through before jumping back to the other side.Human Rights Watch said Israel has presented no evidence that rock-throwing or other violence seriously threatened the soldiers on the other side of the fence."The high number of deaths and injuries was the foreseeable consequence of granting soldiers leeway to use lethal force outside of life-threatening situations in violation of international norms, coupled with the longstanding culture of impunity within the Israeli army for serious abuses," the group said.Ismail Radwan, a senior Hamas official, said mass protests would continue as planned, despite Lieberman\'s threats.He said the Israeli defense minister\'s latest comments should be seen as "more evidence of a war crime he (Lieberman) committed in Gaza last Friday."Lieberman has rejected international calls for an independent investigation.On Tuesday, he warned Hamas against what he called "continued provocation.""We have established clear ground rules and we do not intend to change them," Lieberman said during a visit to an Israeli communal farm near Gaza. "Anyone who approaches the border is putting his life in danger."Israel\'s military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, has portrayed stone-throwing, tire burning and other actions by protesters near the border fence as "acts of terror."Briefing journalists Monday, he did not say in what circumstances protesters were killed Friday or why lethal force is justified if soldiers are not in apparent imminent danger. He argued that there would have been far more bloodshed in the event of a mass border breach.In Gaza, protest organizers also prepared for the next confrontation.Plans were circulated on social media to burn large numbers of tires on Friday, in hopes that thick black smoke would block the view of Israeli snipers. Others suggested trying to disrupt the vision of soldiers with mirrors.In the town of Khan Younis in southern Gaza, teenagers collected old tires from repair shops, loading them onto three-wheelers. About 150 tires of all sizes were piled up at a traffic circle Tuesday, waiting to be transported to the nearby tent camp.The planned protests seem to be the last hope for Hamas to try to break a border blockade imposed by Israel and Egypt in 2007, when the group seized Gaza from Western-backed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Two other blockade-busting strategies  war with Israel and reconciliation with Abbas  have failed.Hamas has said the border protests would continue until May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel\'s creation. Palestinians mourn the date as the anniversary of their "nakba," or "catastrophe," when hundreds of thousands were uprooted from their communities in what is now Israel.Two-thirds of Gaza\'s 2 million people are descendants of refugees. Life in Gaza has become increasingly harsh after more than a decade of closures, with residents enduring daily power outages lasting hours.Hamas has said the protests would culminate in a "March of Return," implying the demonstrators would at some point try cross the border fence into Israeli territory.However, Hamas officials have not specifically called for a mass breach of the fence.___Associated Press writer Fares Akram reported this story in Gaza City and AP writer Karin Laub reported from Ramallah, West Bank. AP writer Mohammed Daraghmeh in Ramallah contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON  The White House said Tuesday night that President Trump planned to deploy the National Guard to the southern border to confront what it called a growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America after the president for the third consecutive day warned about the looming dangers of unchecked immigration.Mr. Trumps advisers said Monday that he was readying new legislation to block migrants and asylum seekers, including young unaccompanied children, from entering the United States, opening a new front in the immigration crackdown that he has pressed since taking office. But in remarks on Tuesday that caught some of his top advisers by surprise, he suggested the more drastic approach of sending in the military to do what immigration authorities could not.Speaking to reporters during a news conference with the presidents of three Baltic nations, Mr. Trump described existing immigration laws as lax and ineffective, and called for militarizing the border with Mexico to prevent an influx of Central American migrants he said were ready to stream across it.We have horrible, horrible and very unsafe laws in the United States, Mr. Trump said. We are preparing for the military to secure our border between Mexico and the United States.While the president couched his idea as an urgent response to an onslaught at the nations southern border, the numbers do not point to a crisis. Last year, the number of illegal immigrants caught at the border was the lowest since 1971, said the United States Border Patrol. Still, Mr. Trump seized on what has become an annual seasonal uptick in Central American migrants making their way north to make his case.After the presidents remarks, White House aides struggled for hours to decipher his intentions.Late in the day, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Trump had met with Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense, and members of the national security team to discuss his administrations strategy for dealing with the growing influx of illegal immigration, drugs and violent gang members from Central America, a problem on which she said the president had initially been briefed last week.That strategy, she said, included mobilizing the National Guard  though Ms. Sanders did not say how many troops would be sent or when  and pressing Congress to close what she called loopholes in immigration laws. Also present at the meeting were Jeff Sessions, the attorney general; Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security; Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff.Mr. Trump first began raising new dangers posed by immigration in a series of confusing tweets and public statements that started Sunday and continued on Monday. That prompted White House officials to organize a conference call on Monday afternoon to outline a detailed legislative push they said the president was starting for the new immigration restrictions. Deploying the National Guard was not mentioned during the call.The announcements on Monday and Tuesday appeared to be more about political messaging than practical action. Stung by a backlash from his conservative supporters over his embrace of a trillion-dollar-plus spending measure that did not fund his promised border wall, and lacking a legislative initiative to champion with the approach of midterm congressional elections this fall, Mr. Trump has reverted to the aggressive anti-immigration messaging that powered his presidential campaign and has defined his first year in office.Immigration advocates denounced Mr. Trumps announcement as a political ploy.He cannot get funding for his wall, so instead he irresponsibly misuses our military to save face, Kevin Appleby, the senior director of international migration policy at the Center for Migration Studies of New York.Others said Mr. Trumps sudden declaration was merely an instance of a now-familiar pattern wherein the president reacts angrily to something he sees in the news  in this case, reports of a large group of migrants from Honduras traveling through Mexico with hopes of reaching the United States  and seeks to use it as a cudgel against his political opponents.Some of it is just the guy at the end of the bar yelling his opinions  his gut reaction is to say weve got to send the military, said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates slashing immigration levels. But there may also be an element here of political messaging  and a desire to create problems in November for Democratic candidates who have refused to embrace his policies.Whatever Mr. Trumps motivation, the president floated the idea after days of public stewing about the potential for the group of Honduran migrants to pour into the United States.We have very bad laws for our border, and we are going to be doing some things  Ive been speaking with General Mattis  were going to be doing things militarily, Mr. Trump said Tuesday morning, seated beside the defense secretary at the meeting with Baltic presidents. Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military. Thats a big step. We really havent done that before, or certainly not very much before.The caravan has been a popular topic on Fox News  the presidents favorite news network  and Mr. Trumps aides have argued that weak immigration policies were luring the migrants to the United States from Central America.The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our Weak Laws Border, had better be stopped before it gets there, he posted Tuesday on Twitter. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!Later, Mr. Trump claimed credit for having pressured Mexican officials during a conversation on Monday to block the group from approaching the United States, in part by threatening to rip up the North American Free Trade Agreement if they refused.Ive just heard that the caravan coming up from Honduras is broken up, and Mexico did that, he said during his meeting with the Baltic leaders. And they did it because, frankly, I said, You really have to do it.A White House official said later that Mr. Trump had not, in fact, spoken with President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico on Monday.While the active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border, previous presidents have deployed National Guard troops to act in support roles on the border with Mexico. President Barack Obama sent 1,200 in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006, while governors of border states have done the same when faced with large inflows from the south.Mr. Trump has spoken before about launching a military operation to police the border, only to have his aides walk back the remarks amid a backlash from members of his administration and officials in Mexico.Last February, he called his immigration crackdown a military operation, prompting Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state, and Mr. Kelly, then the homeland security secretary, who were visiting Mexico at the time, to push back vigorously. They told their Mexican counterparts and reporters that the American president did not, in fact, plan to use the military to hunt down and deport unauthorized immigrants. The White House later insisted that Mr. Trump had meant the word military only as an adjective.On Tuesday, though, the president appeared convinced that American troops were needed.I think its something we have to do, he said.
Updated, 8:18 a.m.Good morning on this rainy Tuesday.In a corner of Queens, the subway cars smell of lavender.Walls are wiped of graffiti and grime. Poles are de-boogered. Seats are left sparkling.Welcome to the New York City Transit Corona Maintenance Facility, where subway cars come to be deep-cleaned.You see that shine coming through? asked Corey Skinner, a cleaner, on a recent morning while scrubbing rust off the doors of a 7 train. We call that bright work. We take a lot of pride in that.I recently traveled to the transit depot to answer a question that has been on my mind since my very first subway ride: How does the M.T.A. clean the subway cars?The process, I found out, demands tenacity, a full body suit and gallons upon gallons of Fabuloso.Unlike the subway tracks, which are cleaned with giant battery-powered vacuums, or the platforms, which are occasionally power-washed, subway car interiors are cleaned by hand.Mr. Skinner, 47, walked us through the steps. We watched as he wiped windows, scraped gum, erased graffiti and cleaned dancers footprints off the ceiling  with care and special tools.The doors are like wood, he said as he carefully polished them with a Doodlebug scrub brush and a Chicopee wipe. You got to get into the grain of the door, so it pulls up all the rust and corrosion.Our eyes began to water.Thats the bleach, he said. Or perhaps at fault was the deodorizer, the steel cleanser or a Genie Wipe, used to erase graffiti and powerful enough to peel the skin off your fingertips, Mr. Skinner said.The cocktail of chemicals is needed to rid the cars of the residue of thousands of commuters and kill some of the more than 1,688 micro-organisms  most of them harmless  that a recent study found germinating in the subway.This top-to-bottom scrub happens every two and a half months or so, during the cars regularly scheduled maintenance, at one of 13 facilities around the city.Once a month, the trains are washed and scrubbed on the outside.We can attest that the work drastically improves the subway cars appearance, which has slightly declined over all during the last year, according to the M.T.A.s data.Maybe it was the cleaning fumes, but the freshly polished seats looked particularly inviting. We even grabbed a polished pole, without worry, for the first time.It takes three and a half hours for a cleaner, working alone, to get a subway car this clean, Mr. Skinner told us.Its solitary work, done overnight, he said, and it can sometimes feel like a Sisyphean task.I take the 7 train to work, so a lot of times I see what Im about to get, he said.The train he was polishing was almost ready. Before it returned to the citys greasy tangle of tracks, he took a moment to walk us though the cars and admire his handiwork.I love that smell, he said.Heres what else is happening:Youll also be getting a wash: on again off again showers are on tap today.Todays high: 45.The rain continues through tomorrow afternoon, when the sun will finally reappear and bump the mercury up to 61. When the L train shuts for repairs early next year, it will transform the streets in Lower Manhattan into the busiest bus route in the country. [New York Times] Bronx residents oppose Mayor Bill de Blasios plan to build a jail in their neighborhood, fearing it will undo decades of hard work and triumph. [New York Times] A jury in New York will hear the story of a South African crime lord and the team of former military men he hired to do his dirty work. [New York Times] Marcus Molinaro, a Republican and the Dutchess County executive, has announced his bid for governor. [New York Times] As Richard A. Carranza steps into his new position as schools chancellor, we take a look at some of the biggest issues he will face. [New York Times] Mayor de Blasio signed an executive order requiring that the mayor approve the appointment or removal of the head of the Department of Investigation for the citys school system. [New York Times] Pamela Harris, a Brooklyn assemblywoman who was indicted in January on fraud and corruption charges has resigned. [New York Times] Frustrated drivers flooded social media with complaints about New York Citys decision to retain parking rules on an unusually slushy spring day. [New York Times] Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo declared a state of emergency at the New York City Housing Authority and ordered a monitor to oversee repairs to the agencys deteriorating buildings. [New York Times] Mayor de Blasio hinted at a vacancy fee for landlords who leave their storefronts vacant in an attempt to receive top-dollar rent. [Curbed NY] Did you know that in 1981 the M.T.A. introduced a fleet of white subway cars in a futile attempt to combat graffiti? [Untapped Cities] More than 50 British tourists, most of them teenagers, were hospitalized in Washington over the weekend after getting sick in New York, officials said Monday. [New York Post] Unsurprisingly, Yankees fans outnumber Mets fans in the city, a new Quinnipiac Poll shows. [AM New York] Todays Metropolitan Diary: Matzo for Birds For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing. A production of Shakespeares Henry V by the Public Theaters Mobile Unit at the Roy Wilkins Recreation Center in St. Albans, Queens. 1 p.m. [Free] Two short documentaries about the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Marching to Freedom Land and Martin Luther King Jr.: We Shall Overcome, are screened at the Stapleton Library in Staten Island. 6 p.m. [Free] Queer Insider: How to Survive Putins Russia, a discussion with Lyosha Gorshkov at the Tompkins Square Library in the East Village. 6 p.m. [Free] Enjoy a concert of classical music at Columbia University in Morningside Heights. 6 p.m. [Free] Learn how to fix your bicycle at a bike repair class at La Plaza Cultural Community Garden in the East Village. 6:30 p.m. [Free] Yankees host Rays, 4 p.m. (YES). Nets at 76ers, 7 p.m. (YES). Islanders host Flyers, 7 p.m. (MSG+2). Rangers at Devils, 7 p.m. (MSG+, MSG2). Phillies at Mets, 7:10 p.m. (SNY). Knicks host Magic, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Thursday. For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.You now know how to clean a subway car, but what about your apartment?With spring in the air, its time to rotate your mattress, empty out your refrigerator and face those really tough decluttering decisions. (Will I wear these cutoff shorts again? Do I keep this old printer?)We cant give you advice on whether its time to replace your bath mat, but as you begin to tidy up, here are a few other spring cleaning resources.The New York Times put together a smarter guide to cleaning your living space. Some pro tips include: advice on cleaning a burned pot, how to make a tightly tucked hospital corner for your bed, and a list of some of the best cleaning supplies.This Q. and A. with the guides author offers extra advice on dealing with dirty roommates, managing pet hair, and the tasks that every clean person does every day.If you live in a tiny apartment, here are some tools to make cleaning easier.You can also clean with foodstuffs like ketchup, softened butter and wine  and while youre looking for cleaning supplies in the refrigerator, consider giving it a deep clean.And here are a few apps that can help you manage your checklist.Think youve crossed off everything? Here are five things you probably missed.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.
WASHINGTON  A former lawyer for a powerful international corporate law firm was sentenced on Tuesday to 30 days in prison for lying to investigators in the special counsel inquiry about his communications with a Trump campaign aide and a Ukrainian businessman believed to be a Russian intelligence operative.The former lawyer, Alex van der Zwaan, who is also the son-in-law of a Russian billionaire, was the first person to be sentenced in the investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 presidential election. He was also fined $20,000.Mr. van der Zwaan admitted that he deceived investigators who interviewed him in November as part of their examination of contacts between the Ukrainian and two former high-ranking Trump campaign officials: Paul Manafort, once Mr. Trumps campaign chairman, and Rick Gates, Mr. Trumps deputy campaign manager. People familiar with the matter identified the Ukrainian as Konstantin V. Kilimnik, long Mr. Manaforts right-hand man in Kiev, where he worked for years before joining the Trump campaign.In an hourlong hearing, Mr. van der Zwaans defense lawyer argued that a fine was sufficient punishment because his client revealed what he knew in a subsequent interview.But Judge Amy Berman Jackson of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia said that given Mr. van der Zwaans access to his familys wealth, a fine alone might not send a strong enough message of deterrence to others who might lie to the authorities. While Mr. van der Zwaan might feel his life has been shattered, she said, this glass was dropped on a very thick carpet and it has in effect softened the blow.She also noted that the prosecutors who interviewed Mr. van der Zwaan were in the midst of an investigation of great national and international interest involving possible foreign interference in our countrys democratic process.You knew better, she told Mr. van der Zwaan, a 33-year-old Dutch citizen who lives in London. I cant just say, Pay a fine and go.Mr. van der Zwaans relationship with the other men dates to at least 2012. His law firm, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, assigned him to work with Mr. Gates and Mr. Manafort on a report used to defend their client Viktor F. Yanukovych, the pro-Russia former president of Ukraine, from international criticism over the prosecution and imprisonment of a political rival.Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates have been charged with money laundering and other financial crimes related to their work as consultants in Ukraine. Some of the accusations stem from more than $5 million in payments from the Ukrainian government for the law firms report, which were funneled through a bank account in Cyprus controlled by Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates, court records show.Mr. Gates has pleaded guilty to financial fraud and lying to federal investigators and is cooperating with Mr. Muellers inquiry. Mr. Manafort, who has pleaded not guilty, is arguing that the special counsel overstepped his authority by delving into his payments from Ukraine.But a newly released memo written by Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein last summer shows that he specifically authorized the special counsel to investigate any crimes related to payments to Mr. Manafort from the Ukrainian government as well as allegations that he conspired with the Russian government to interfere in the election. A heavily redacted version of the Aug. 2 memo was released Monday night as part of a court filing in Mr. Manaforts case.Just days after Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates were first indicted, federal prosecutors questioned Mr. van der Zwaan about his contacts with Mr. Gates and Mr. Kilimnik. Mr. van der Zwaan acknowledged that Mr. Gates had told him that Mr. Kilimnik was a former Russian intelligence officer. But he claimed that he had had no substantive conversations with either man in 2016.In fact, he has now admitted, he had had a series of phone calls with both men about potential criminal charges related to payments from the Ukrainian government.That information indicated that Mr. Gates and Mr. Kilimnik were in direct touch with each other as the presidential campaign drew to a close in September and October of 2016, a fact Mr. Weissman argued in court papers was pertinent to the investigation.Prosecutors said Mr. van der Zwaan not only deceived federal agents, but also concealed information from his own law firm, which has since fired him.While the lead prosecutor on the case, Andrew Weissmann, did not explicitly ask for a prison sentence, he insisted that Mr. van der Zwaan told the truth only after he was caught red-handed in various falsehoods and had been handed a grand jury subpoena.During his second meeting with Mr. Muellers team, Mr. van der Zwaan voluntarily turned over the very evidence that resulted in his felony charge, including notes, recordings, laptops and cellphones, his defense lawyer, William J. Schwartz, argued. But Mr. Weissman denied that any of that was crucial, telling the judge that the case was already made.Judge Jackson said Mr. van der Zwaan was guilty of not simply a single lapse in judgment, but a broader pattern of concealment because of a mix of motives that she did not clearly understand.She was unmoved, she said, by his argument that he had been stranded alone in a hotel in the United States since December. She dismissed his brief statement of contrition as lip service. While others had written letters to her asking her to be merciful to Mr. van der Zwaan, she said, the accomplished lawyer did not write one himself.The crime of false statements to federal authorities carries up to a five-year prison term. But sentencing guidelines suggested that Mr. van der Zwaan, who has no prior criminal record, receive at most six months.He agreed to turn himself in voluntarily. It is unclear where he will serve his 30-day term; the judge said he might wind up in the District of Columbia jail. Although she imposed a short probation term, she said that once he is released, Mr. van der Zwaan can collect his passport and return home to London to his wife, who is pregnant.
JERUSALEM   In an abrupt and startling reversal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu nixed his own deal Tuesday with the United Nations to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants in Israel and other Western nations, caving in to nationalist critics who have demonized the migrants for taking over poor neighborhoods in Tel Aviv.The move leaves unresolved one of Israel\'s most charged and divisive issues  what to do with the Africans who say they fled for their lives in search of sanctuary in the Jewish state.The about-face also opened Netanyahu to scathing assaults on his leadership, raising doubts about his ability to make controversial decisions on bigger issues in the future, including how he would respond to a peace plan promised by President Donald Trump.Netanyahu proudly announced the deal Monday in a nationally televised news conference, saying Israel had agreed to cancel a planned expulsion of tens of thousands of Africans that had been widely condemned both at home and among Jews around the world.Under the deal, roughly half of the 35,000 migrants living in Israel would be resettled in the West with the rest absorbed in Israel. Netanyahu praised it as a "good agreement" that marked "an important day" for Israel.But hours later, after heavy criticism among nationalists within his own ruling coalition, he said he was putting the plan on hold. After meeting angry residents of working-class neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv on Tuesday, Netanyahu said he was canceling it outright."From time to time there are decisions that have to be reconsidered," he said. "We will continue to act determinedly to exhaust all our options of removing the infiltrators."A coalition of human rights organizations in Israel said the flip-flop proved the government could not be trusted to fulfil any "moral, legal or international commitments."Domestic critics said it raised broader questions about whether Netanyahu could carry out any proper decision-making process."How will you, as prime minister, handle the Iranian threat? How will you deal with the cost of living?" asked Avi Gabbay, leader of the opposition Labor Party. "Lack of leadership, cowardice, escape from responsibility, incitement, empty slogans, inability to make decisions and zero ability to implement them  this is what we have seen over the past few hours from he who pretends to deal with the real threats and problems of Israel."The aborted U.N. deal had looked to avoid the specter of forced deportations to undisclosed African destinations, widely believed to be Rwanda and Uganda, with which Israel said it had reached a secret agreement. Israel had planned to begin the mass deportations on Sunday.The Hotline for Refugees and Migrants advocacy group said Netanyahu\'s initial announcement revealed there was no such agreement. Rather than resolving the migrants\' status, it said they were once again in limbo while the state had no legitimate recourse to deport any of them."Of course we will continue our struggle and consider all our legal options until every last asylum-seeker gets the status they deserve," said Dror Sadot, a spokeswoman for the group.Rwanda\'s minister of state for foreign affairs, Olivier Nduhungirehe, and Ugandan Foreign Affairs Minister Okello Oryem also said no deal had ever been signed with Israel.While nationalist activists celebrated Netanyahu\'s reversal, dozens of migrants and their Israeli supporters protested in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. Some stripped to the waist, draped themselves with chains and taped their mouths shut at a protest in Tel Aviv. Others waved signs reading, "Human lives are not to play with. Yes to the deal."Teklit Michael, a 29-year-old asylum-seeker from Eritrea, said that while he had unanswered questions about the U.N. draft he was at least encouraged about the efforts to address his needs. Now, he said, he was confused and dispirited."Not only do we have no security, we also have no one to believe," he said. "People have no hope and no trust in the state of Israel."In Geneva, the U.N. Refugee Agency expressed "disappointment" with Netanyahu\'s decision and urged him to reconsider. It noted that the deal had been reached after lengthy negotiations, and reflected a "shared effort" to find a solution that would benefit all parties."UNHCR continues to believe that a win-win agreement that would both benefit Israel and people needing asylum is in everyone\'s best interest," it said in a statement.Nearly all the migrants hail from war-torn Sudan and dictatorial Eritrea. The migrants say they are asylum-seekers fleeing danger and persecution, while Israeli leaders have dismissed them as mere job seekers.The Africans started arriving in 2005, after neighboring Egypt violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel.Tens of thousands crossed the porous desert border before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx. But Israel has struggled with what to do with those already in the country, alternating between plans to jail and deport them and allowing them to work in menial jobs.Thousands have concentrated in poor neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv, an area that has become known as "Little Africa." Their presence has sparked tensions with working-class Jewish residents, who have complained of rising crime and pressed the government to take action.On the other hand, a wide coalition of critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the government\'s deportation plans unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants.Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, Holocaust survivors, rabbis, poets and pilots had all appealed to halt the plan. Several mass protests against it have taken place in recent months.As in other recent moves, Netanyahu appears to have been taking his cues from his education minister, Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home party.Bennett and other nationalist allies who dominate Netanyahu\'s coalition had harshly criticized the deal because it would allow thousands of Africans to remain in Israel, even though it also called for them to be dispersed throughout the country and for investments to be made in rehabilitating Tel Aviv\'s impoverished southern neighborhoods.Ironically, their victory raised the possibility of leaving the migrants in Israel for even longer while their status is resolved.Nduhungirehe, Rwanda\'s foreign affairs minister, said that while no deal was ever signed with Israel, his country has a "general open policy" toward the migrants, as long as they come "without any form of constraint."But Oryem, Uganda\'s foreign affairs minister, said his country was not an option.If any migrants deported from Israel arrive in Uganda, "we will insist that the airlines return them to the country where they came from.""We do not have a contract, any understanding, formal or informal, with Israel for them to dump their refugees here," he said.____Associated Press writers Ignatius Ssuuna in Kigali, Rwanda, and Rodney Muhumuza in Kampala, Uganda, contributed to this report.____
MADISON, Wis.   The Latest on the Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):10:18 p.m.Wisconsin Republican Gov. Scott Walker is warning of a possible Democratic wave in November after the liberal candidate for state Supreme Court thumped her conservative opponent.Walker tweeted Tuesday night after Rebecca Dallet easily defeated Michael Screnock in the Supreme Court race.Walker says the results show "we are at risk of a #BlueWave in WI." Walker is up for re-election to a third term in November.He says, "Big government special interests flooded Wisconsin with distorted facts & misinformation. Next, they\'ll target me and work to undo our bold reforms."Screnock was backed by the state chamber of commerce, National Rifle Association and state Republican Party. Dallet was supported by labor and teacher unions, most of the state\'s judges and a host of current and former Democratic officeholders.___9:50 p.m.The losing candidate for Wisconsin Supreme Court is blaming his defeat on liberal special interests that backed his opponent.Milwaukee Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet easily defeated conservative Sauk County Circuit Judge Michael Screnock. Democrats hailed the win as another sign of momentum for liberals this year. It\'s the first time a liberal candidate has won an open seat for Wisconsin Supreme Court since 1995.Screnock says he was proud of his campaign "in spite of tremendous outside influence from liberal special interest groups that were willing to say and spend anything to elect their preferred candidate to the bench."Both candidates were backed by partisans. Screnock was supported by the National Rifle Association, Republican Gov. Scott Walker and the state GOP, while Dallet was endorsed by former Democratic Vice President Joe Biden and others.___9:14 p.m.Liberal Rebecca Dallet says her victory in Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court race over conservative Michael Screnock shows that voters are tired of special interests and want to have a "fair and independent court."Other Democrats were quick to brand the win for Dallet a defeat for Republican Gov. Scott Walker and others in the GOP. Walker had endorsed Screnock.Dallet tells The Associated Press that her win shows "people are tired of what\'s been going on in our state in terms of the money coming in to buy these elections and people spoke out tonight."Her victory marks the first time since 1995 that a liberal candidate for Supreme Court won in a race where the seat is open.The victory reduces conservative control of the court from 5-2 to 4-3.___8:58 p.m.Liberal Rebecca Dallet has easily defeated conservative Michael Screnock in a Wisconsin Supreme Court race seen as the latest bellwether of voter attitudes ahead of the November election.Dallet\'s victory cuts conservative control of the state\'s highest court from 5-2 to 4-3. She also becomes the sixth woman on the seven-member court.Conservative Justice Michael Gableman did not seek a second 10-year term.Wisconsin\'s high court has become notably partisan in recent years even though it\'s nonpartisan in name.Dallet, a Milwaukee County judge, drew strong Democratic support including an endorsement from former Vice President Joe Biden.Screnock, a Sauk County judge appointed and endorsed by Republican Gov. Scott Walker, had the backing of the National Rifle Association and the Wisconsin Republican Party.___8:45 p.m.The liberal candidate for Wisconsin Supreme Court is leading the conservative in early results of the first statewide general election this year in the United States and the latest measure of voter attitudes heading into the November midterms.The election Tuesday pit conservative Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock, who was appointed by Republican Gov. Scott Walker, against liberal Milwaukee County Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet. She drew support from former officials from Barack Obama\'s administration.Dallet led by 16 points with 30 percent of precincts reporting.The race was nonpartisan in name only, with both sides eager to win the 10-year seat on a high court whose ideological split has been on public display in recent years. Michael Gableman, part of the court\'s current 5-2 conservative majority, did not seek a second term.___8:10 p.m.Polls have closed in Wisconsin where a race for the state Supreme Court is drawing national interest.Both Democrats and Republicans invested heavily in the officially nonpartisan race, which is being viewed as a bellwether for how voters in the state that narrowly went for Donald Trump in 2016 are feeling heading into the November midterms. The race is the first statewide general election contest in the country this year.Liberal Milwaukee County Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet is facing conservative Sauk County Circuit Judge Michael Screnock. The winner will be elected to a 10-year term on a court currently controlled 5-2 by conservatives.Former Vice President Joe Biden and a host of other Democrats supported Dallet, while the state Republican Party and Gov. Scott Walker came out for Screnock.___12:35 p.m.A spring storm that\'s dumping snow across central Wisconsin isn\'t causing any known problems in an election for a new state Supreme Court justice.Wisconsin Elections Commission spokesman Reid Magney said that as of midday Tuesday the commission was not aware of any access issues being caused by the snow storm.Liberal candidate Rebecca Dallet is taking on conservative Michael Screnock for a 10-year term on the court. The race has become a partisan slugfest, with national Democrats spending money and giving endorsements in an effort to win the seat over the GOP-backed Screnock.Turnout in Madison was strong in the morning as a cold rain fell across the reliably liberal capital city. Dane County Clerk Scott McDonell says 14 percent of registered voters had cast ballots by 11 a.m., putting the county on pace for 50 percent turnout. The statewide average is about 21 percent.___11:15 a.m.Voters supporting the conservative candidate for Wisconsin Supreme Court say they cast their ballots with the Second Amendment in mind.Tuesday\'s election between conservative Michael Screnock and liberal Rebecca Dallet has drawn national attention because its results can gauge voters\' mood ahead of the midterms.Sixty-year-old voter Michael George, of Brookfield, says he likes that Screnock supports gun rights because "that\'s what we need right now."The National Rifle Association has endorsed Screnock.Another Screnock supporter from Brookfield, 37-year-old Vincent Bortolotti, says he voted for Screnock for "his conservative values" and thinks the election results will show a favorable trend for state Republican candidates in the midterms.___9:45 a.m.Supporters of the liberal candidate for the Wisconsin Supreme Court say they are motivated to send a message to President Donald Trump and the National Rifle Association.The NRA has endorsed conservative candidate Michael Screnock in Tuesday\'s election. Liberal candidate Rebecca Dallet was backed by former Vice President Joe Biden and a host of other Democratic office holders.Voter Doug Clawson, of Madison, says he voted for Dallet to send a message to Trump and Republicans that "we\'re going to take our country back."Phil Ouellette (EW-let), also of Madison, says he was turned off by the NRA\'s backing of Screnock. Ouellette says "I don\'t want to support anyone who\'s backed by the NRA right now."___8:45 a.m.A spring snowstorm could be a player in Wisconsin\'s election day.Voters statewide are deciding on a new Supreme Court justice, deciding whether to eliminate the state treasurer and taking on a host of local issues.But getting to the polls won\'t be easy for some people. Up to 10 inches (25 centimeters) of snow is expected in the central part of the state. Dozens of schools are already canceling classes.Turnout is usually around 21 percent for Wisconsin\'s spring election.The Supreme Court election has been an expensive and highly partisan race, with Milwaukee Judge Rebecca Dallet backed by liberals and Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock, an appointee of Republican Gov. Scott Walker, favored by conservatives.___7:10 a.m.Polls are open in the Wisconsin race for the state Supreme Court.Voters are casting their ballots Tuesday in the race between Milwaukee County Judge Rebecca Dallet and Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock for a 10-year term on the high court.Dallet drew the support of national Democrats, including former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and former Vice President Joe Biden. Biden recorded a robocall for Dallet that went out on Monday night encouraging people to vote for her.Screnock was the conservative choice  an appointee of Republican Gov. Scott Walker who had the backing of the state GOP and the state chamber of commerce.Both candidates argue the other can\'t be trusted to serve as an independent voice on the state\'s highest court.___12:03 a.m.An expensive and openly partisan Wisconsin Supreme Court race is nearing an end.Voters cast their ballots Tuesday in the race between Milwaukee County Judge Rebecca Dallet and Sauk County Judge Michael Screnock for a 10-year term on the high court.The state\'s spring election is capping weeks of intense campaigning. Dallet drew the support of liberals including former Attorney General Eric Holder and former Vice President Joe Biden.Screnock was the conservative choice  an appointee of Republican Gov. Scott Walker who had the backing of the state GOP and the state chamber of commerce.Both candidates argued the other couldn\'t be trusted to serve as an independent voice on the state\'s highest court.

Lam Wing-kee knew he was in trouble. In his two decades as owner and manager of Hong Kongs Causeway Bay Books, Lam had honed a carefully nonchalant routine when caught smuggling books into mainland China: apologize, claim ignorance, offer a cigarette to the officers, crack a joke. For most of his career, the routine was foolproof.Thin and wiry, with an unruly pouf of side-swept gray hair and a wisp of mustache, Lam was carrying a wide mix of books that day: breathless political thrillers, bodice-rippers and a handful of dry historical tomes. The works had only two things in common: Readers hungered for them, and each had been designated contraband by the Communist Partys Central Leading Group for Propaganda and Ideology. For decades, Lams bookstore had thrived despite the ban  or maybe because of it. Operating just 20 miles from the mainland city of Shenzhen, in a tiny storefront sandwiched between a pharmacy and an upscale lingerie store, Causeway was a destination for Chinese tourists, seasoned local politicians and even, surreptitiously, Communist Party members themselves, anyone hoping for a peek inside the purges, intraparty feuding and silent coups that are scrubbed from official histories. Lam was an expert on what separated the good banned books from the bad, the merely scandalous from the outright sensational. He found books that toed the line between rumor and reality.Other retailers avoided the mainland market, but through years of trial and error, Lam had perfected a series of tricks to help his books avoid detection. He shipped only to busy ports, where packages were less likely to be checked. He slipped on false dust covers. Lam was stopped only once, in 2012. By the end of that six-hour interrogation, he was chatting with the officers like old friends and sent home with a warning.On Oct. 24, 2015, his routine veered off script. He had just entered the customs inspection area between Hong Kong and the mainland when he was ushered into a corner of the border checkpoint. The gate in front of him opened, and a phalanx of 30 officers rushed in, surrounding him; they refused to answer his panicked questions. A van pulled up, and they pushed him inside. Lam soon found himself in a police station, staring at an officer. Boss Lam, the officer cooed with a grin. Lam asked what was happening. Dont worry, Lam recalls the officer saying. If the case were serious, we wouldve beaten you on the way here.Across the table, Lam recognized one of the officers from his run-in at the same border crossing three years earlier. His name was Li. Beside him sat an older man who identified himself as a member of the national police and who handled the questioning. Why were you bringing books across the border? he asked. Im a bookseller, Lam responded. Theres no treason in having books while crossing the border. Li answered with an icy glare.Partway through the questioning, the older officer got up for a break, leaving Lam alone with Li. The two men sat in awkward silence until Lam, reaching for the conviviality of their last encounter, offered a joke. Li exploded. Lam, he said, was trying to disrupt the Chinese system, and as part of a special investigative unit, it was his job to dismantle Hong Kongs illicit publishing scene once and for all. Lam was stunned into silence.Over the next eight months, Lam would find himself the unwitting central character in a saga that would hardly feel out of place in one of his thrillers. His ordeal marked the beginning of a Chinese effort to reach beyond the mainland to silence the countrys critics or their enablers no matter where they were or what form that criticism took. Following his arrest, China has seized a Hong Kong billionaire from the citys Four Seasons Hotel, spiriting him away in a wheelchair with his head covered by a blanket; blocked a local democracy activist from entering Thailand for a conference; and repatriated and imprisoned Muslim Chinese students who had been in Egypt.The campaign signaled the dawn of a new era in Chinese power, both at home and abroad. At a national Communist Party congress in October 2017, President Xi Jinping made clear the partys expansive vision of control. The party exercises overall leadership over all areas of endeavor in every part of the country, he told delegates. No corner of society was out of reach. Even books  socialist literature, in Xis words  must extol our party, our country, our people and our heroes. A few months later, the government erased presidential term limits, opening the way for Xi to rule indefinitely, and put control of all media, including books, in the hands of the Communist Partys Central Propaganda Department.The Chinese government has long sought to shape and control information, but the scope and intensity of this effort was something new  and its origins could be traced to a 61-year-old bookseller and a few stacks of forbidden titles. I never expected anything like this, just as a poor man never dreams of striking it rich overnight, Lam said. Throughout his ordeal, he had to remind himself that in China, as in his books, the line between the outlandish and the ordinary is often too thin to register. Contemporary China, he said, is an absurd country.Ask a publisher in Hong Kong and he or she will tell you that the phrase banned books is something of a misnomer. No one within Hong Kong, a semiautonomous Chinese territory, wanted to squash the publishing industry. That dictate came from Beijing and held limited legal force in Hong Kong. For 60 years the city had protection from direct interference, first as a British colony and then, since 1997, under an agreement with Beijing known as One Country, Two Systems.The first important book to be banned was by Chang Kuo-tao, a founder of the Chinese Communist Party and a Red Army general who was both a colleague and competitor of Mao Zedong. Mao ousted him during the power struggles of the 1930s, and Chang settled just across the border in Hong Kong. After years in exile, living in poverty and anonymity, he was discovered by American researchers  still the same handsome, square-jawed man he had been in his youth  and they provided him with a stipend to translate and publish his memoirs.Changs autobiography, released in Hong Kong in the late 1960s, offered a glimpse into the beliefs, motivations and obsessions of Mao at a time when the mainland was almost totally inaccessible to outsiders. Chang portrayed Mao as a ruthless leader, paranoid and inured to the use of violence in pursuit of his goals. Mainland censors denounced the book almost immediately, but in Hong Kong, it was an instant best seller. Aided by an air of forbidden allure and the indication of a huge, untapped market, an industry of similar books began to form.Bao Pu, the founder and publisher of New Century Press, is one of Hong Kongs most respected independent publishers. When I visited him in November, he found his copy of Changs book, My Memories, easily, even amid the rows of overflowing shelves that house his personal collection. Here it is, he said, carefully turning the yellowed pages. The very first banned book.Changs memoirs spawned an entire subgenre of Mao biographies, with onetime insiders racing to share every detail of their experience with Communist Chinas revered founder. Bao reached for a title written by Maos longtime personal physician. This was the first big banned book after the reforms in the 1980s, he said, handing me a red-and-black hardcover titled The Private Life of Chairman Mao, published in 1994. The book gave an insiders account of party politics and high-level scheming, but it was the description of Maos sexual interests that readers found irresistible. It was the first time the mainland-owned stores refused a book, and the independent bookstores made a killing, Bao said. I thumbed through its pages of Chinese text:In Baos library, you could read an alternate history of China, each neatly arranged stack a turning point in modern Chinese politics. The Chinese elite cant leak out information in official channels, says Bruce Lui, a senior lecturer in the Department of Journalism at Hong Kong Baptist University. So what they can do is use Hong Kong as a platform to spread gossip anonymously, praise their own camp and belittle opponents. Hong Kongs publishing houses became an extension of the political battlefield in Beijing.In 1966, at the start of the decade-long spasm of violence and mass purges known as the Cultural Revolution, universities were closed and millions of supposed bourgeois sympathizers were sent down to the countryside for re-education through labor. Dissidents and defectors smuggled out pamphlets, firsthand accounts and other forbidden materials, which circulated in Hong Kong and beyond. During the crackdown that followed the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989, Hong Kongs magazines, newspapers and bookstores were once again a haven for nonofficial information. In Baos repository, there was an entire shelf devoted to liu si, 6-4, a reference in Mandarin to the date of the Tiananmen crackdown. For Bao, that shelf alone proved the worth of the industry. He was a college student in Beijing in 1989 and witnessed the whitewashing that followed the Tiananmen protests. I hate it when history is lost or revised away, he told me. The erasure of what happened at Tiananmen is something I wont allow. Itll happen over my dead body.One memoir, by a high-ranking Communist official who had been ousted and placed under house arrest for backing the demands of the student demonstrators, revealed in a firsthand account how the leadership grappled with what to do as the protests grew more popular and widespread:Alongside the scholarly works and memoirs on Baos shelves were tawdrier titles, many of them simply compilations of online gossip. For some members of Hong Kongs literati, these books were a stain on the citys reputation. Bao had no interest in publishing fictitious tales of sex and corruption, but he saw a larger purpose in their plotlines. They reach a different audience, and in their rumor-mongering, they share glimpses of truth, he said, as he traced his finger across the spine of a salacious, anonymously published work. They tell the Chinese people that their leaders arent saints, he said. Theyre just like you and me  theyre petty, they make mistakes, they dont act morally. Xi Jinping himself was a popular target in titles like Xi Jinping and His Lovers, which claimed to reveal the president in his most intimate moments:Bao grew somber as he looked over his collection. After Lams disappearance, he said, the mainland had cracked down on banned books with its full might. He knew from his Tiananmen experience what that meant. There is no way to resist, he said. Except to die.The morning after his interrogation, Lam was blindfolded, handcuffed and put on a train for an unknown destination. His captors didnt say a word. When the train came to a halt 13 hours later, Lams escorts shoved him into a car and drove him to a nearby building, where they removed his hat, blindfold and glasses. He took stock of his situation: He was in an unknown location in an unknown city, being held by officers whose identity and affiliation he could not ascertain. He still hadnt been charged with a crime. A doctor arrived to perform a cursory health check. Lam was shown to a cell with a bed and a desk, handed a change of clothes and told to go to sleep.Lying awake, Lam wondered whether anyone in Hong Kong realized he was missing. What would his family think? Who would tell his ex-wife or his girlfriend in Shenzhen? For years, Lam had owned and managed his bookstore independently, but he had recently sold the shop to a publishing house  maybe his predicament had something to do with their titles? The publishing house, called Mighty Current Media, entered the banned-books market in 2012, with impeccable timing. An ambitious Central Politburo member named Bo Xilai, who some China-watchers thought could be the countrys next leader  ahead of the rising star Xi Jinping  had been implicated, along with his wife, in the murder of a British businessman named Neil Heywood in a Chongqing hotel room. In less than two years, Bo was denounced, demoted and expelled from the party. His wife was convicted of murder and Bo of corruption. A potential future president had been deposed with the world watching.For Hong Kong publishers, Bos downfall was a dream: a real-life soap opera playing out at the very pinnacle of Chinese power. As the market for information on Bo reached a frenzied peak, Mighty Current churned out books chronicling every new development in the scandal. In just one year, there were more than 100 books published in Hong Kong about him, with Mighty Current accounting for half. Bookstores reported sales of 300 copies a day. Mighty Currents co-owner, Gui Minhai, is believed to have earned more than $1 million in 2013 alone. He bought houses, cars and a property in a Thai resort town. Lams bookstore was filled with eager new customers, and in 2014 a group from Mighty Current came inquiring about the store in a bid to combine their prolific publishing output with the shops reputation and large customer base. As part of the deal, Lam agreed to stay on as manager  just until he could retire.At sunrise, Lam was questioned by a tall, dour man named Shi. Who were Lams customers? What did they buy? How often did they come in? Later that day, he was presented with forms waiving his right to a lawyer and to contact his family. Still unaware of the severity of his situation, Lam signed them, hoping his cooperation might shorten his detention. The interrogations by Shi and another official continued. As days turned into weeks, Lam began to mark time by secretly pulling a thread off his orange jacket and tying one knot in the string each day. He pretended to use the toilet in his cell in order to climb atop the seat and peer out the window at a few distant hilltops and a handful of nearby buildings, but he saw nothing that would answer the question of where he was being held. In January 2016, more than two months after he began counting the length of his detention, Lam was informed of the charge against him: illegal sales of books.Eventually, the questions shifted to Mighty Currents anonymous authors. Sitting across from Lam, his interrogators produced a stack of banned books, all published by Mighty Current and shipped to China by Lam. One was the companys risqu Xi Jinping and His Lovers; another, published in 2013, outlined the partys so-called Seven Taboos, a list of forbidden topics and ideas like press freedom and civil society; a third book remarkably predicted the ouster of a once-powerful general named Xu Caihou.Who wrote these books? Shi demanded. Lam replied that he was just the bookseller and had never communicated with any of the authors. This was true  most authors requested anonymity from publishers, and it was almost always granted to protect any well-placed sources. Lam had no idea who the authors were.Lams interrogations would end as abruptly as they began, and he would be left alone in the same solitary cell. From day to night, no one would talk to me, he said. You have a complete disconnection from the outside world. You dont know what will happen. They can do anything to you. He grew increasingly desperate. The wait destroys you.In January 2016, unknown to Lam, news of his disappearance spread. Other members of Mighty Currents staff and its owners had also mysteriously vanished. But sitting in his cell, Lam thought he was alone. It was only after several weeks of solitude that he was allowed even a book to pass the time: Dream of the Red Chamber, a classic 18th-century novel. Lams captors wanted him to read something wholesome.That March, more than four months into his detention, Lam met with his interrogator to sign a guilty plea as a precondition for a possible bail arrangement. A few hours later, to his shock, he was put on a train back to Shenzhen, just north of Hong Kong, where he was taken to the Kylin Villa, a sprawling, sumptuous hotel complex usually reserved for foreign dignitaries and high-level delegations from Beijing. The next night, Lam entered an elegant dining room and saw three familiar faces seated at a large circular table  fellow staff members from Mighty Current. Places were set, and the men were served a dinner.The group chose their words carefully. With a guard and three security cameras monitoring every whisper, some topics were tacitly off-limits, like the fate of the one person missing from the table: the co-owner Gui Minhai. As the meal progressed, they established that they had all been held in the city of Ningbo, on Chinas southeastern coast; three, including Lam, on different levels of the same building, and one, the companys other co-owner, Lee Bo, in a secluded villa outside the city. If we cooperate, Lam remembered Lee telling the other men, well be released very quickly.Lee handed each of his colleagues 100,000 yuan, or roughly $15,300  an exit fee to mark the dissolution of Mighty Current. As the men departed, they did not hug or shake hands. There was no need to hug, Lam told me. We already knew how lucky we were to make it to that point.Lam was transferred to a new city for the next phase of his detention. There, he was told he would be permitted to return to Hong Kong, but only on the condition that, upon arrival, he report immediately to a police station and tell them his disappearance was all a misunderstanding. He would then go to the home of Lee Bo and pick up a computer containing information on the publishers clients and authors, which he would deliver to China. Only then would Lam be allowed to return to work in his bookstore  but as a mole, the eyes and ears of the investigation. He would report who bought which books, documenting each client and sale through text and photos. Lam agreed to the proposal immediately. After being in prison for so long, he said, I was used to their way of thinking.On a June morning, Lam arrived in Hong Kong and reported to a nearby police station, as directed. Local officers were expecting him. He cleared his case  telling the police that he had never been in danger  and headed to Lees home in order to retrieve the computer. There, finally alone, the men spoke freely about their situation. Lam learned that his bookstore had been bought by a man named Chan, who promptly closed it. According to Lam, Lee also described his own capture and how he had been snatched from the parking lot of Mighty Currents warehouse building. He urged Lam to comply with the investigators demands.That night, alone in his hotel room, Lam violated the conditions of his limited release, using his phone to search for news about his case. His eyes widened as he scrolled through news reports  hundreds of them, in English, Cantonese, Mandarin, French and Spanish. He saw his name and the names of his Mighty Current colleagues appear again and again. When Hong Kong learned of his abduction, the revelation sparked fear and anger. Headlines denounced the unprecedented capture and Hong Kongs vanishing freedoms. Lam saw photos of thousands of protesters marching through the streets, holding posters of the missing booksellers and demanding their release; Lams shuttered shop had become a site of pilgrimage. He hadnt been forgotten but instead had become the center of a movement. Lam sat up all night, the glow of his phone illuminating each new twist in a case that he had lived through but never understood until now.On the morning he was expected back on the mainland, Lam arrived at the train station with the company computer in his backpack. He paused to smoke a cigarette, then another. Other Mighty Current employees had friends, family or wives on the mainland. Among all of us, Lam told me, I carried the smallest burden. He thought of a short poem by Shu Xiangcheng that he read when he was young: I have never seen/a knelt reading desk/though Ive seen/men of knowledge on their knees.After he finished his third cigarette, he searched for a pay phone to contact a local politician named Albert Ho, who was once a frequent customer at the bookstore. A few hours later, Lam was standing behind a lectern amid hundreds of reporters, photographers and news cameras at the Hong Kong Legislative Council. He spoke for more than an hour, describing his capture and detention. His sudden public appearance riveted Hong Kong. Other Mighty Current employees had been spotted in the city, but none spoke about their experience, and when they did, they parroted the same talking points: that their stay on the Chinese mainland had been voluntary and they were now helping authorities with an important case. It was Lam who put words to what the city had feared and suspected all along.It can happen to you, too, Lam said.At the time of Lams abduction, banned books were everywhere in Hong Kong, sold throughout the city at big-box retailers, specialized cafes and corner convenience stores. Within days of his disappearance, they began to vanish, swept off shelves by mainland-owned shops and frightened independent booksellers. Authors were cowed into silence; presses refused to print sensitive material. The latest act of intimidation occurred this January, when the former owner of Mighty Current, Gui Minhai, who had been granted limited release within China, was abducted again, this time while accompanied by Swedish diplomats on a train to Beijing (he holds Swedish citizenship). When the Swedish government pressed China for details on Guis whereabouts, the authorities refused to acknowledge that he had been taken. Gui soon appeared in a videotaped confession, apologizing for his supposed crimes and saying the diplomats had tricked him into boarding the train.Chinas aggressiveness continues to rattle Hong Kong. In the past, at least they tried to comply with one country, two systems, said James To, a legislator in Hong Kong. This time they were blatant. For many local residents, the lesson was clear. One day they will come and snatch you back, To said. There is no protection at all.When I met Lam one balmy night on the streets of Hong Kong, he radiated a nervous energy, eyes perpetually darting and a cigarette never far from reach. He had thought about leaving Hong Kong and making a new life in Taiwan or the United States, but he didnt want to abandon the city where he was born. Still, he knew that the odds of Hong Kongs remaining autonomous were slim. I think Hong Kong will return to China, he told me. They have the guns, the jails. We have nothing here in Hong Kong. All we can do is protest peacefully and try to make the world pay attention.The police protection that Lam was granted following his return had lapsed by then, and he maintained a studied paranoia about his movements and appearance. I still have to use different routes and be cautious of everything and everyone around me, he told me in a conspiratorial whisper. His old bookstore was blocks away. He pulled on a pollution mask and hat, obscuring his face, and we navigated the thick crowds. On the subway, he waited until the last second to hop off, and never rode the escalator. I use the elevator, he said. If someone is following me, they have to get in with me.We soon reached a small doorway leading to a grimy staircase. On the second floor was Causeway Bay Bookstore, its wooden door hidden behind metal bars. A large yellow sign was filled with the scribbled notes of well-wishers. Fight for freedom, one said. Come back safe, Mr. Lam, read another. There remained an unanswered question at the heart of Lams disappearance: Of all the citys rebellious publishers, why was Mighty Current targeted? Did the company insult Xi personally? Perhaps fittingly, there are few facts, but boundless speculation. Our popularity could not be allowed, Lam told me. It caught up to us.Lam leaned close to peer through the shop window. There were still books inside, scattered on dusty shelves and wooden tables. I sold over 4,000 banned books in the two years before I was captured, he said. This bookstore has always been at the pulse of Hong Kong, and it hasnt stopped breathing. He longed for the stores resurrection, but it wasnt coming back.What youre doing is writing an obituary, Bao, the New Century publisher, told me when we met in November. A post-cremation obituary of these books. He seemed almost shellshocked by the swiftness of the industrys downfall. I didnt realize it could all disappear so quickly.
