A fake Facebook post is spreading fears that venomous snakes are lurking in the sewers of a Georgia town, and the city attorney has expressed concerns to the social media network that it's creating confusion and panic.
It was television, not Facebook, that made him president.
The German photographer, as guest editor of a prestigious annual collection of essays, considers the increasing rejection of facts in political and social discourse.
Pope Francis' communications chief resigned on Wednesday after a scandal over a doctored letter, a public relations fiasco for the Vatican two months after the pope had warned of the dangers of fake news.
Thousands of Brazilians on Tuesday demanded answers about the assassination of Rio de Janeiro councilwoman Marielle Franco, an attack that has shaken the nation and remains a mystery a week later.
The poet lures you with a well-worn phrase and then, at the last moment, yanks you in a very different direction.
Singapore passed a law on Wednesday making it possible to ban photographs or videos of terror attack sites or communicating information about security operations amid criticism from rights groups that the move could curb press freedoms. 
Msgr. Dario Vigano resigned as the head of Vatican communications after an embarrassing attempt to manipulate a letter written by the retired pope, Benedict.
The head of the Vatican's communications department resigned Wednesday after he mischaracterized a private letter from retired Pope Benedict XVI, then had a photo of it digitally manipulated and sent out to the media.
British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the centre of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign. 
“When I listen to your testimony, I hear no sense of urgency to really get on top of this issue,” one member of the Senate Intelligence Committee told Kirstjen Nielsen.
Chris Wylie can't prove the work he did for Cambridge Analytica helped Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election, but he thinks he has pretty good evidence.
Declared this month by supporters as Burundi's "eternal supreme guide," President Pierre Nkurunziza now wants changes to the constitution that would let him rule until 2034. The referendum in May could spark further deadly violence in the African ...
Facebook's latest privacy scandal, involving Trump campaign consultants who allegedly stole data on tens of millions of users in order to influence elections, has some people reconsidering their relationship status with the social network.
Most people who own a smartphone take it wherever they go, a fact of modern life that enabled authorities to hunt down the man suspected in four Texas bombings before he blew himself up Wednesday.
British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the center of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign. 
A German shepherd sniffed suitcases in an airport inspection drill, excitedly pausing near one bag from which a handler then pulled a satchel with plastic explosives.
The president argued that the conversation in which he congratulated President Vladimir V. Putin could help relations with Russia and, in turn, national security interests.
Patrons of the social network are deleting their profiles in protest over reports that the company allowed a political data firm to harvest private information.
Was it the reason Trump won? That’s the wrong question.
