
BEIJING   China has increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, from frozen pork and wine to certain fruits and nuts, escalating a dispute between the world\'s biggest economies in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel.The tariffs, which take effect on Monday, were announced late on Sunday by China\'s finance ministry and matched a list of possible tariffs on up to $3 billion in U.S. goods published by China on March 23.Soon after the announcement, an editorial in the widely read Global Times newspaper warned that if the United States had thought China would not retaliate or would only take symbolic countermeasures, it could "say goodbye to that delusion"."Even though China and the U.S. have not publicly said they are in a trade war, the sparks of such a war have already started to fly," the newspaper said.The Ministry of Commerce said it was suspending its obligations to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to reduce tariffs on 120 U.S. goods, including fruit and ethanol. The tariffs on those products will be raised by an extra 15 percent.Eight other products, including pork and scrap aluminum, would now be subject to additional tariffs of 25 percent, it said, with the measures effective starting April 2."China\'s suspension of its tariff concessions is a legitimate action adopted under WTO rules to safeguard China\'s interests," the finance ministry said.China is moving swiftly with retaliatory action amid escalating trade tension with the United States, which has rocked global financial markets in the past week as investors fear a full-blown trade dispute between the two economic superpowers will damage world growth.In response to China\'s move, Washington said Beijing\'s subsidies and overcapacity were behind the action on steel."Instead of targeting fairly traded U.S. exports, China needs to stop its unfair trading practices which are harming U.S national security and distorting global markets, White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said in a statement.MORE TARIFFS COMING FROM WASHINGTONU.S. President Donald Trump is separately preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act.The U.S. administration says China has systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations China denies.About the Section 301 investigation, China had "yet to unsheathe its sword," the official Xinhua news agency said.Sometime this week, the Trump administration is expected to unveil a list of Chinese goods that could be subjected to new U.S. tariffs.U.S. technology industry officials said they expected the list to target products that benefit from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" program, which aims to upgrade the domestic manufacturing base with more advanced products.China has repeatedly promised to open its economy further, but many foreign companies complain of unfair treatment. China warned the United States on Thursday not to open a Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe."There are some people in the West who think that China looks tough for the sake of a domestic audience, and would easily make concessions," the Global Times said."But they are wrong."The Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily reflect government policy.Reaction to China\'s measures varied on social media, with some saying Chinese customers would be the ones to ultimately pay for a trade war."Why not directly target soybean and planes? The tariffs that China announced today don\'t sound a lot to me," said a user on the Weibo microblog platform.Aircraft and soybeans were China\'s biggest U.S. imports by value last year.In a statement published on Monday morning, the commerce ministry said the United States had "seriously violated" the principles of nondiscrimination enshrined in World Trade Organization rules, and had also damaged China\'s interests."China\'s suspension of some of its obligations to the United States is its legitimate right as a member of the World Trade Organization," it said, adding that differences should be resolved through negotiation.Weibo prominently featured the list of U.S. goods that China is targeting among the day\'s "hot" trending topics."I will never buy fruit from the U.S.," a Weibo user wrote.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe; additional reporting by David Stanway in Shanghai and Stella Qiu and Lusha Zhang in Beijing; additional Writing by Ryan Woo; editing by Eric Meijer, Shri Navaratnam and Jonathan Oatis)
NEW YORK   Wall Street shares plunged on Monday as investors fled technology stocks amid resurgent trade war worries, with key indexes trading below their 200-day moving averages and the S&P 500 closing below that pivotal technical level for the first time since Britain\'s vote to leave the European Union in June 2016.The first trading day of the second quarter began with a broad selloff concentrated in the technology and consumer discretionary sectors, as losses by Amazon.com, Tesla and Microsoft, among others, took center stage from retaliatory trade measures China unveiled on Sunday.With the S&P 500 in a 10 percent correction from its record high in late January, investors were increasingly concerned a nine-year bull market might be in danger of ending."Its more complicated than just a tech selloff. What\'s hurting everything is that the S&P went through its 200-day moving average," said Brian Battle, director of trading at Performance Trust Capital Partners in Chicago. "That attracts momentum sellers and they don\'t care what the fundamentals are."The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 458.92 points, or 1.9 percent, to end at 23,644.19 after dipping below its 200-day moving average. The S&P 500 fell 58.99 points, or 2.23 percent, to 2,581.88 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 193.33 points, or 2.74 percent, to 6,870.12.Amazon.com was the biggest drag on the S&P 500, down 5.2 percent, as President Donald Trump continued his twitter attacks on the online retailer.All 11 major sectors of the S&P 500 closed lower, with the biggest losses seen by the consumer discretionary and technology indexes, which were down 2.8 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively.The tech-heavy Nasdaq was dragged lower by Microsoft, Intel, Apple Inc, Facebook and Alphabet.Shares of Tesla Inc ended the day down 5.1 percent after the company was reported to be making 2,000 Model 3s per week, missing its 2,500 target.The electric automaker\'s losses extend last week\'s near 14-percent decline as investigations of a fatal California crash and a Moody\'s credit downgrade weighed on the stock.Health insurer Humana Inc\'s shares closed up 4.4 percent on news it was in talks with Walmart to expand their partnership or possibly be acquired by the retailer. Walmart stock fell 3.8 percent.U.S. Treasury yields <US10YT=RR> fell to two-month lows as investors fled sliding stocks for safety ahead of Friday\'s closely watched jobs report.Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 4.17-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 4.14-to-1 ratio favored decliners.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.71 billion shares, compared to the 7.29 billion average over the last 20 trading days.(Additional reporting by Sinead Carew; Editing by James Dalgleish)
SPOKANE, Wash.   Cherry and apple growers in Washington state are worried their exports to China will be hurt by a growing trade war that escalated Monday when that country raised import duties on a $3 billion list of products.China buys Washington-grown cherries, apples and pears, which are all included in the trade dispute."Our hope is that the U.S. and China will reach a solution before cherry season starts in June," said Kate Woods, a vice president of the Northwest Horticultural Council in Yakima, Washington.The council handles international trade issues for the agriculture industries in Washington, Oregon and Idaho.Washington is the biggest producer of apples and sweet cherries in the United States.China is the top export market for Washington cherries, buying 2.9 million cases worth $127 million each year, Woods said."It\'s going to be a lot more challenging for cherry growers to find alternative markets when talking about that much volume," Woods said.China also bought about $50 million worth of apples and $1.5 million worth of pears from Washington last year, Woods said.Beijing is imposing a 25 percent tariff on U.S. pork and aluminum scrap and 15 percent on sparkling wine, steel pipe and an array of fruits and nuts including walnuts and grapes.American farm exports to China in 2017 totaled nearly $20 billion, including $1.1 billion of pork products.The government of Chinese President Xi Jinping said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. But it\'s just one facet of sprawling tensions between China and Washington, Europe and Japan over the state-led economic model that other nations say hampers market access, protects Chinese companies and subsidizes exports in violation of Beijing\'s free-trade commitments.Companies are looking ahead to a bigger fight over President Donald Trump\'s approval of higher duties on up to $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Economic forecasters say the impact of Monday\'s move should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if other governments respond by raising import barriers.The tariffs "signal a most unwelcome development, which is that countries are becoming protectionist," said economist Taimur Baig of DBS Group. But in commercial terms, the tariffs are "not very substantial" compared with China\'s $150 billion in annual imports of U.S. goods, he added.
LONDON   Global stock markets fell for a second day Tuesday as investors continued to fret over a looming trade war between the U.S. and China and mounting public scrutiny of technology companies.Stocks have been trending lower for weeks largely because of a series of tariffs announced by U.S. President Donald Trump and the Facebook data privacy scandal, which has raised the prospect of tighter regulation for social media and other tech stocks.In the last week, Trump has also tweeted repeatedly about his new favorite foe, Amazon, whose owner also owns The Washington Post, which has been critical of the Trump administration.Trump has approved possible higher U.S. duties on $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology. Those tariffs come on top of previous proposals to raise tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.In response, China announced it is raising tariffs on $3 billion of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe, increasing the risk of a broader conflict that might depress global trade."The mood remains decidedly bearish, and there is certainly no shortage of reasons to be fearful," said Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at IG. "It\'s times like this when investors face a choice  whether to sit and await developments or plunge back in."That was evident in the performance of stocks on Tuesday.Returning from the long Easter holiday weekend, Europe\'s stock markets tracked others lower, though the scale of the losses were diminished by expectations of a rebound on Wall Street later.In Europe, Germany\'s DAX fell 0.8 percent to 11,999 while London\'s FTSE 100 declined 0.2 percent to 7,037. France\'s CAC 40 was 0.5 percent lower at 5,140.Wall Street was poised for some solid gains at the open Tuesday with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures up 0.5 percent. On Monday, the S&P posted its worst start to a quarter since October 2011 and saw the index fall below its 200-day moving average for the first time in almost 2 years.U.S. technology companies are in the spotlight, notably Amazon, which posted hefty losses of around 5 percent Monday after Trump again voiced his concerns about the company on Twitter.The sector was already in the gaze of investors after Facebook\'s data scandal last month that has raised the prospect of heightened regulation. Netflix, Microsoft and Google parent Alphabet have all seen their share prices decline."Pressure on the sector doesn\'t appear to be going away in the near-term which will continue to act as a drag on indices," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.Earlier in Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.8 percent to 3,163.63 and Tokyo\'s Nikkei 225 shed 0.4 percent to 21,292.29. Sydney\'s S&P-ASX 200 declined 0.1 percent to 5,751.90. Elsewhere, Seoul\'s Kospi ended down 27 points at 2,442.43. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng bucked the trend, ending up 0.2 percent at 30,137.49.Elsewhere, the euro was flat at $1.23 while the dollar rose 0.3 percent to 106.23 yen. In the oil markets, a barrel of U.S. crude gained 22 cents to $63.23 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Bren crude, used to price international oils, rose 29 cents to $67.93 in London.
Few American reporters have spent more time reporting from Iraq in the last 15 years than Alissa J. Rubin, who served as both a correspondent and the Baghdad bureau chief for The New York Times at the height of the conflict. Rubin returned to Iraq in 2014 to cover the rise of the Islamic State and was severely injured in a helicopter crash on Mount Sinjar while reporting on targeted attacks against the Yazidi population. She once again returned to the region in January 2018 for a coming article in The Times Magazine. On a drive to the Iraq-Syria border during her last trip, Rubin found that competing military and militia groups had set up checkpoints everywhere, making travel increasingly difficult. The following is an account of the nine hours it took her and her companions to drive 130 miles through more than 26 checkpoints.[The Times is reintroducing At War, a forum for the firsthand experiences of global conflict.]We were headed from Dohuk, a city in Iraqi Kurdistan, to Sinjar, near the Syrian border  a journey, at slightly more than 130 miles, that should be traversable in three hours. Before leaving, I asked around about the route. Answers were ominous. Its impossible to get there, one person said. Another seconded that wed never get through. There are 40 checkpoints, another man said.A professor described a circuitous route. I went around through Syria, but I dont think you can do that.It seemed that although open conflict was over, the region was partially locked down by a heavy and confusing armed presence, in places with factional undertones. Driving from east to west, the groups governing the roads morphed from the Peshmerga into the Iraqi Army into a variety of Shiite-connected militias and finally into militias run by the Syrian Kurds and Turkish Kurds. Each had their own flags, alliances and reasons for being there.I departed in the freezing fog of a winter morning with two companions: Kamil Kakol, a seasoned multilingual Iraqi journalist, and Khalaf Shamdeen, a Yazidi driver who spoke no English but could translate the Yazidi dialect into Kurdish. He was from Sinjar and knew back roads and shortcuts.The first checkpoints were run by the Peshmerga, the Kurds fighting force. We were waved through. Our names had been sent to each Kurdish-controlled checkpoint, just as Kurdish officials had promised.After the last Kurdish position, everything changed. We were diverted onto a minor road that twisted through the desert scrub of the Nineveh plains. We emerged at a large Iraqi Army checkpoint with cars and trucks parked haphazardly on either side.A soldier asked if I was a foreigner. Yes, we said.We were not allowed to pass. At a dilapidated concrete building surrounded by mud and pickup trucks, we were told we could plead our case.The one dubious comfort was that there seemed to be others waylaid.We entered a room with scuffed walls. Soiled, sunken couches lay along two sides of the room. There was a large battered desk along the third wall. On the fourth wall was an army cot. The only light came through windows so dirty it was hard to see out. A soldier smoked a hookah pipe.A man wearing jeans and a leather jacket restlessly paced. He appeared to be in charge. Papers, he snapped.We produced press cards. Looking around, I saw other idled travelers with forms bearing official-looking stamps. The soldier reviewed each form carefully.He seemed decent enough. He said he would call his supervisor, and if we had permission, we could cross.We called our bureau in Baghdad. We did have government approval. We asked our office manager to try to get someone with authority to call the checkpoint on our behalf.We waited. We waited some more. Other travelers came and went. Our office in Baghdad recommended we call local army commanders. We texted, we called, then we pleaded some more with the checkpoint chief. Nothing happened.I looked at my watch. It had been an hour and five minutes. I turned to Kamil: What can we do?You know Jabouri, right? he said.No, I answered.Kamil was referring to Gen. Najim Abed al-Jabouri, the Iraqi Army commander in charge of Mosul and the surrounding territory, who had a reputation for being reasonable.Even if you dont know him, why dont you call him? Kamil said.More calls to Baghdad. Jabouris number was sent to me. As I typed him a text message, the checkpoint soldier dialed a number on his phone, muttering in Arabic.Kamil had been watching. He spoke softly to me. The guy just made a phone call and said, Now they are calling Jabouri, Im going to let them go. An hour and 15 minutes after arriving, we were free. We rushed to our car before anyone of them could change their minds.Checkpoints, often subject to inscructable rules and the whims of armed men, are hardly an anomaly in Iraq. So it was no surprise finding them on our journey. But with the possible exception of the weeks after the Islamic State seized Mosul in 2014, I had never traveled through a rural area of Iraq with checkpoints as dense and as shifting in their allegiances as the network around Sinjar.The next two checkpoints we encountered were also run by the Iraqi Army. After inspecting our press cards, they waved us through.We approached the Mosul Dam. The water of the Tigris River ran between low hills on either side.The dam ranks among Iraqs most important infrastructure. If the Islamic State had blown it up, as the United States Army Corps of Engineers feared, it would have done untold damage downstream, flooding villages and farmland.Once it was recaptured in August 2014, security was tightened to the point that hardly anyone was permitted to cross the bridge below it, unless they worked there.I had not appreciated what that meant. The checkpoint was manned by Iraqi Counterterrorism Service forces wearing skeleton-face masks and armed almost as if they were U.S. Special Operations troops. One looked into our car.No badge, no permission, he said. Turn around.It was an order. He was not interested in discussion.We retreated about 150 meters. The office manager in Baghdad started calling counterterrorism officers. We waited. Twenty five minutes later, we were summoned. A general in the counterterrorism force had called. We were cleared. It felt miraculous.On we went, past attractive ranch houses where the dams Iraqi and Italian engineers lived, past the playground for their kids, finally over the bridge and through a checkpoint on the far side.It was 1 p.m. We were five hours into a trip that was supposed to take three.The next checkpoint appeared as our car crested a hill. No cars were waiting to go through. But when the soldier took away our passports and press cards to inspect them closely, my stomach tightened. It was better when they just glanced and waved us through.The commander was a second lieutenant from the 15th Iraqi Army Division. He said he had to check with his superiors before letting a foreigner pass.The midday winter sun was high. It was slightly warmer outside than in the car. I walked around. The commander disappeared for lunch.Time passed. The commander reappeared and gave us sugary tea in plastic cups. The cups were too hot to hold, so we kept shifting them from one hand to the other. He tried to make conversation.Where was I from?When was I last in Baghdad? How were things there?How could I leave my family to come here? What did my husband think of my traveling alone?More time lost. Ninety minutes; two hours. The sun began to descend.Finally, someone in the army hierarchy called the commander. We could go.Northern Iraq has a polyglot population of ethnic Kurds, Arabs and Turkmens. Religiously it is just as diverse. Today it is predominantly Muslim, with primarily Sunni but also Shiite populations, although Christian sects have made the area their home almost since the faiths earliest days. It is also home to little-known religions  including that of the Yazidis  that hardly exist elsewhere.Although not truly integrated, these communities lived side by side until the Islamic States incursion upended the entente and displaced many of the local populations. Now, even though ISIS was mostly gone, the area remained partitioned between groups with unclear motives.At the next checkpoint, outside Tal Afar, all Iraqi government flags were gone. A flag bearing the image of Imam Ali waved in the breeze. Another carried the Iraqi colors with a logo at the bottom.The flag belonged to Hashd al-Shaabi, or the Popular Mobilization Forces, an umbrella name for an array of deputized Shiite-majority militias that organized in 2014 to fight the Islamic State as complements to government units. Technically under the authority of Iraq, many of the militias have received extensive assistance from Iran.Because the checkpoint was controlled by a Shiite group and was flying flags typically favored by Shiites, many Sunnis would see it as sectarian, if not threatening.The Hashd were young, tough-looking fighters. At their first checkpoint, they stopped us. We explained where we were going.You cant go that way, one of them said. Two ISIS fighters were arrested on that road last night. No one can go through.True? Not true? We asked if there was another route.Yes, via Rabia.Satisfied that we would not stray where Hashd forces were still operating, they waved us on.Now checkpoints came thick and fast  one every kilometer, some closer together than that.One checkpoint was nothing more than two boys leaning against a wall. They looked into the car, holding their Kalashnikovs awkwardly. We told them we were journalists headed to Sinjar.Write that they should pay us more, one said.The other asked for food.Before we could answer, he opened our cars back door and was reaching into our cooler, taking bananas and drinks.We drove on. Each checkpoint had a slightly different collection of flags. Almost all were Shiite. It seemed that on the Sunni frontier, the Shiite militias had put down markers.The second-to-last checkpoint flew a different flag  an orange sun against a red-and-white background. I recognized it with relief.This was the flag of a Yazidi militia led by Haider Sheshu. Sheshu had refused to leave Sinjar when ISIS came. He stayed on the mountain and led a guerrilla war against them. His fighters waved us through with a nod.I could have hugged them. After more than two dozen checkpoints, a journey that should have taken three hours had stretched to nine. When we pulled into the village of Snuny, at the base of Mount Sinjar, the sun had long since set; it was pitch black.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. The stock market tumbled.The cause: tit-for-tat tariffs imposed by China on Monday, and techs dark hour of the soul.Facebook is trying to contain the loss of about $100 billion in value. Amazon is under presidential attack.And Tesla shares fell amid concerns about the electric car makers quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, the chief executive, joked for April Fools that the company had gone completely and totally bankrupt._____2. DACA is dead.Thus tweeted President Trump, venting about the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and blaming Democrats for failing to salvage it. But if history is a guide, his position on shielding young, undocumented immigrants may remain a moving target.The Trump administration also moved to weaken Obama-era car pollution standards. And the Environmental Protection Agency said it was re-examining a federal waiver that has allowed California and 12 other states to follow more stringent air pollution rules.Last month, when Mr. Trump called Vladimir Putin, he suggested that the Russian leader visit the White House, according to a Kremlin official.As Robert Muellers Russia inquiry intensifies, many have wondered: If he were fired, what are the chances the president would be impeached?_____3. Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma, above, and Kentucky walked off the job, shutting down school districts in protest of cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts add to a wave of strikes in red states that began in West Virginia.Mainly organized on Facebook by teachers fed up with years of funding cuts, the protests have caught lawmakers and sometimes the educators own unions flat-footed._____4. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader of the bloody struggle against South Africas white rulers under apartheid, has died at 81.Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent, our obituary says, Ms. Mandela saw her heroic status eroded by scandal over corruption, kidnapping, murder and the adulterous implosion of her fabled marriage to Nelson Mandela.She came to resent her husbands global celebrity. I am not Mandelas product, she once said. I am the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy._____5. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____6. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness, we devised a bracket-style tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. Above, Sydney University.We wont spoil the results, but heres one (unsurprising) conclusion from our panelists: The best student loan repayment system  which would be based on students incomes and be able to collect automatically through the tax system  is a far cry from whats in place in the United States.The real March Madness ends tonight with the mens title game between Villanova and Michigan at 9:20 p.m. Eastern. Follow our live updates._____7. No sweatpants in public, an ideal weight, instructions on tampon use: These are just some of the extensive controls that N.F.L. teams place on their cheerleaders, according to seven team handbooks that our reporter reviewed. Above, Carolina Panthers cheerleaders.And the philanthropic world is feeling the effects of the #MeToo movement. A number of organizations have lost donors or relinquished gifts because of their ties to powerful men accused of sexual misconduct.One celebrity chef felled by #MeToo is plotting a comeback: Mario Batali. He retreated to near invisibility after reports of abusive behavior in his empire and at restaurants owned by friends, but is said to be exploring ways to jump back into his career._____8. The videos on social media were alarming, showing dozens of local news anchors eerily echoing the same warnings about biased and false news and journalists who push their own personal bias.These scripted speeches were recited to millions of viewers across the country last month at the behest of Sinclair Broadcast Group, the countrys largest broadcaster. The company has been criticized for advancing a right-leaning agenda and renewed a debate over media ownership.The must-reads went a step beyond the must-run video segments Sinclair regularly sends stations, which have included terrorism news updates or commentators speaking in support of President Trump. (He came to Sinclairs defense on Monday.)_____9. Fear is the factor no one wants to address, a lifelong gun owner writes in The Times Magazine, wrestling with the changes to gun laws that he says must come.Theres no simple solution, he writes, to the fear of criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the governments turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another._____10. Finally, what better way to commemorate Easter than a showing of Jesus Christ Superstar?That was NBCs thinking behind a live telecast starring John Legend as Jesus Christ and Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene, above. Our reviewers takeaway: From the multicultural cast to its deconstruction of religious iconography, this Jesus Christ Superstar was as thoughtful and challenging as the show has ever been.And with Passover in swing, read this Op-Ed essay by David Wolpe from Spain. While the country is a land of Jewish ghosts, he writes, there will be Seders for those who seek one.Have a great evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
BEIJING  The Chinese government hit back Monday at President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum by acting on a threat to put tariffs as high as 25 percent on imports of 128 American-made products, including pork and seamless steel pipes.The Chinese Ministry of Commerce indicated that the tariffs, which it first publicly suggested almost two weeks ago, were intended to pressure the Trump administration to back down from a simmering trade war. In addition to imposing additional tariffs on steel and aluminum from China and other countries, President Trump has threatened to put protective duties on other Chinese-made products worth $60 billion.We hope that the United States will rescind its measures that violate World Trade Organization rules as quickly as possible, the ministry said in an online statement about Chinas retaliatory tariffs. China and the United States are the worlds two biggest economies, and cooperation is the only correct choice. Both sides should use dialogue and consultation to resolve their mutual concerns.The Chinese retaliation was no surprise. But Beijing appeared to go a step beyond its initial threat last month to counter the United States tariffs on steel and aluminum.The Ministry of Commerce said then that it could impose tariffs in two stages: first, a 15 percent duty on 120 products, including fruit and wine, and then, after further assessing the impact of the United States tariffs, a 25 percent tariff on eight other products, including pork, an important moneymaker, especially in farming regions in states that voted for Mr. Trump.But the latest announcement said the tariffs taking effect on Monday covered all 128 products, including the 25 percent charge on pork.The ministry said it had Chinese public opinion on its side after asking for views about the trade measures. Over recent weeks, Chinas state-run news media has condemned the Trump administrations protectionist steps and presented China as the innocent defender of open trade. In fact, China imposes relatively high barriers on many imports and on foreign investment in many sectors.Many members of the public voiced their support for the measures and the product list through telephone calls, emails and other means, the ministry said. After an assessment, it was decided to implement the measures described on 128 products imported from the United States.Mr. Trumps threatened tariffs on $60 billion worth of other Chinese-made products are likely to prompt more retaliation from China, which could single out more valuable American exports such as soybeans and hurt Apple and other companies that rely heavily on Chinese consumers.Liu He, a Chinese vice premier and economic adviser to President Xi Jinping, told Steven Mnuchin, the American Treasury secretary, in a phone call just more than a week ago that the two countries should stay rational and work together to maintain the overall stability of their economic and trade relations.But Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has been visiting Beijing, said on Saturday that Chinese officials she met, including Mr. Liu, have not deviated from their talking points about the Trump administrations tariffs.America is waking up to the loss of its technological advantage through Chinas restrictions on access to its internal markets, she told reporters. That is now a place where policy is beginning to change.
NEW YORK   U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell sharply on Monday, undermined by weakness in the technology sector while a growing trade dispute with China has investors pulling back on concerns over economic growth.The S&P 500 index broke below the significant 200-day moving average for the first time since Feb. 9 and a close below would be the first since June 27, 2016.Amazon, led the decline in the technology-heavy so-called "FANG" group of companies. The online retailing giant dropped nearly 5 percent after President Donald Trump launched his latest attack over the pricing of the retailer\'s deliveries through the U.S. postal system and promised unspecified changes.COMMENTS:RICK MECKLER, PRESIDENT, LIBERTYVIEW CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY:I think its really the lack of clarity on the U.S. trade policy combined with nervousness over the selloff in the big tech names. The president continues to attack Amazon. Facebook hasnt done a great job of explaining the problems theyve had. The combination of the two, a reassessment of technology as well as what the trade issues might mean for exporting U.S. companies are hitting the market at the same time.The next big test for this market will be the next earnings cycle. In this pause, theres a lot of back-and-forth trading thats probably not as based on fundamentals.DOUG KASS, PRESIDENT, SEABREEZE PARTNERS MANAGEMENT, PALM BEACH, FLORIDA:"I have argued that the President\'s behavior is now beginning to impact the capital markets - both the averages and individual equities. Acting upon his impulses, growing more isolated and becoming more unhinged. In my view, this is market unfriendly and one of the reasons the markets continue to act so poorly."Past is indeed prologue as Trump\'s White House is now replicating The Trump Organization - both are built on a small body of personnel with policy developed on "gut instincts" - and without thoughtful planning. We witnessed this during the campaign and we now see it in the government of the U.S.ART HOGAN, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, B. RILEY FBR, NEW YORK:The folks that look at this on a technical basis will be keeping close eye on the 200-day moving average. It\'s a rising 200-day moving average, whereas the 50-day moving average is rolling over on the S&P.As we look at that, it\'s going to be important for a lot of reasons because the people that care about it all target the same levels. That\'s why we accelerated - we broke the 200-day moving average on the S&P of 2589, at 2581 (on the S&P.)  There is a lot of space below that.Unfortunately, all the guys that are targeting the same thing had their (stop-loss sell orders) in and that\'s probably what that last blast was.RYAN LARSON, HEAD OF U.S. EQUITY TRADING, RBC GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT, CHICAGO:"A lot of what you\'re seeing in the last hour or so has been technically driven. Failure to hold the 200 day has put downward pressure on the market. Outside of that, looking to the last couple of sessions and weeks the market continues to be very technical.""As key levels are breached or held short term participants are responding. The fundamental picture hasn\'t changed.""The market\'s been very concerned about U.S. trade policy, probably  more supportive of fear than optimism.""Sometimes its as simple as follow the leader. One sells, they all sell and questions are asked later. If there was a specific catalyst today you could probably point to China and trade policy but I think those are taking a back seat to technical indicators.""As fundamentals tend to take a back seat technicals are a few of the indicators that people hold on to in period of extreme volatility.""What else is becoming painfully clear is the markets need to retest the February lows. Again, in a technically-driven environment, the charts are most telling of future (short-term) direction.The longer the action under the 200-day moving average (2589) is suggestive of a retest of the 2532 low from February. Lack of liquidity is exacerbating this move; as it did in February as well.RANDY FREDERICK, VICE PRESIDENT OF TRADING AND DERIVATIVES, CHARLES SCHWAB, AUSTIN, TEXAS:Rough day. Its crazy, its like the confluence of every bad news story you could have all at the same time, its just crazy. (China retaliation) is the biggest component but clearly the FANG stocks continue to deteriorate and they have been the market leaders for so long."You obviously have more turmoil within the Trump administration but I do think it is the China retaliation, which ultimately we all thought was coming, that is probably the biggest piece of it. But there is just not enough good news out there to offset any of that. We might get some good news in about two weeks when we start earnings season. The question is what is going to happen in the next couple of weeks, that is what I am most concerned about.""It doesnt look good, technically you cant be real happy with where this S&P is at right now. If we can close above it at the end of the day that would be great but this definitely is questionable. We have been pounding on the 200-day for the last six sessions and now weve broken through. Really all we can go on at this point is just technicals, there is probably a little bit of support maybe around the 2,537 level but then below that we may be looking at 2,5000 or so again which is pretty scary."The tough part is even if we close above it today, that will be an encouraging thing but what we have seen about these patterns in the past is you get a close above it at the end of the day everybody breathes a sigh of relief and then it gaps down at the open tomorrow. That is what I am worried about. I would be very hesitant to say that even if we do close above it, I wouldnt be willing to wave the all clear flag at that point. I would be just as uncomfortable as if we closed below it, quite frankly.PARESH UPADHYAYA, DIRECTOR OF CURRENCY STRATEGY, AMUNDI PIONEER ASSET MANAGEMENT, BOSTON:We are seeing a safe-haven bid into Treasuries. With the dollar, it has moved up but the yen and the Swiss franc are the real winners. Its an equity induced sell-off triggered by trade concerns. Those concerns raise worries about global growth."Theres going more of a risk premium built in for the euro as well as other export-oriented currencies like the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars."When you look at overall positioning, we have seen a dramatic reduction in long dollar bets and it has settled into a sideway pattern. The Trumps administrations trade policy clearly has muddied the water. Investors want to see how things shake out before jumping back in. We are seeing a cyclical weakening in the dollar. A lot will dependent on the twin U.S. deficits going forward.TOM DI GALOMA, MANAGING DIRECTOR, SEAPORT GLOBAL HOLDINGS, NEW YORK:There are a lot of people off in Europe and this equity markets getting pushed around, that is one of the issues. The Chinese tariffs came into effect today, thats another factor."Another big factor is Trump further going after the tech sector, namely Amazon. I think it casts a shadow effectively around all of the tech sector, whos next is the feeling.""Equities just do not trade well, we just broke the 200 day moving average, once you get below that this market is probably not going to recover for a while. It might attempt to recover. If you close below that today that will put a significant sell side into the market. Breaking the 200 day moving average is just a very, very big level."I think people are getting really nervous about equities and that is going to put a bid into bonds. I think there are a lot of reasons to be nervous on equities, mainly inflation coming back. The ISM number brought back that prices are higher. I think the equity market is running out of steam on the upside.NICHOLAS COLAS, CO-FOUNDER, DATATREK RESEARCH, NEW YORK:"I think this is still primarily a tech-led selloff and what we\'ve learned over the past two weeks is just how overweight investors were in technology. Now there is a fundamental reset on how much tech exposure investors are willing to bear. Its a tech pullback. (I dont think it is) primarily related to China. The tariff war has been a concern for a couple of weeks. The response was probably more muted than most thought. I think this is a follow through from last week\'s tech selloff. Tech has been such an outperformer for so many years. I dont think today is the end of it."The significance of breaching the 200 day moving average " depends on where we close. Intraday breaks of major levels are acceptable if you close at or above (the level). In the short term it doesnt look good either way because the newsflow doesnt feel like it has hit its nadir.""(We could see a) 10 percent pullback, a full blown correction from the end of 2017. We already had it from the highs. Technically people like to count from the highs, but could get full blown 10 percent pullback from last year\'s close.""People are selling because everyone is selling (in tech). There were a lot of overweights. As an active manager if all you did was overweight tech you outperformed for the last 5 years. It is 2/3 momentum and 1/3 fundamental (selling) and then you overlay the technical factor  its a perfect storm. I view today as a follow through from last week. Today\'s the first day of the new quarter, there may have been some false hope on Friday.THOMAS MARTIN, SENIOR PORTFOLIO MANAGER, GLOBALT INVESTMENTS,  ATLANTA, GEORGIA:"It\'s the same type of things that people have been grappling with for the last couple of months. Trade is still an issue - the news from China was not new and was not bearish really, but it is an ongoing uncertainty. What you\'re seeing in the market is a change in leadership, it happened at the end of last month where you had tech starting to do not so well. You had growth in general not doing well and value doing better, and that\'s happening again today as market participants are thinking \'Is this the change in leadership and what should we do about it?\'"SCOTT WREN, SENIOR GLOBAL EQUITY STRATEGIST, WELLS FARGO INVESTMENT INSTITUTE, ST. LOUIS:"We were only 30 S&P points at open from the 200-day moving average and that thing is just going to act like a magnet.""We pushed through there and ran a bunch of stops and now we\'re trying to figure out if were going to hold here or not. I wouldn\'t think there will be a lot of follow through on the downside. This trade thing, yeah, in our opinion the chance of all-out trade war is pretty slim and the announcements out of China are pretty minimal stuff, in reality."PETER KENNY, SENIOR MARKET STRATEGIST, GLOBAL MARKETS ADVISORY GROUP, NEW YORK:"We\'re at the cusp of a fairly significant reevaluation across all market sectors, but largely focused on large cap technology. This selloff that we\'re seeing in large cap technology is affecting the broader market, but as often happens when you see significant moves, that are correlated across indices and verticals, there are multiple reasons for the selloff. When this started on February 2nd, we\'ve had a re-test of a likely fail, which means that going into earnings season, markets and equities generally speaking will likely be at the lowest point in terms of valuation that they\'ve been in some time, which should lead to some comfort, frankly, as odd as that may sound. So earnings season will bring an alternative to what weve seen over the last four to six quarters.DAVID KOTOK, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, CUMBERLAND ADVISORS, SARASOTA, FLORIDA:"This is a Donald Trump market reaction. The president and his behavior and his tariff trade barrier policy and his bellicose bullying are responsible for the stock market selloff. The Chinese are matching the US one-for-one and we are now engaged in a very dangerous game.""The man attacks viciously, so he has attacked Jeff Bezos and Amazon, he\'s attacked one of the two largest trading partners of the US, and his White House is in full disarray.""Markets have broken down, so the momentum optimism has been broken; how much farther they go down remains to be seen. I\'m taking advantage of these markets and am heavily overweighted financials and banks. I didnt buy today, we\'re in free-fall, but I might tomorrow.""We may get to a 20 percent down bear market before this runs its course. The question is when do you take positions and what is your time horizon? And mine is 24 months and I believe we dont get a recession, and I want to be a buyer when markets are ugly and in weakness."FRITZ FOLTS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, 3EDGE ASSET MANAGEMENT LP, BOSTON:"Weve been lightening up (equity exposure). For us its seeing the back-up in short yields. Thats just one of the things when we run our models we pay a lot of attention to. And credit spreads widening out. Those are two things we just take very seriously and we broke below the 200-day moving average today.2017 has left the building and I feel like its hard to get use to an environment that could be dramatically different from what weve been in for a while, and people are just trying to get their feet under themselves.MARKETS:STOCKS: The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 474.76 points, or 1.97 percent, to 23,628.35, the S&P 500 lost 56.76 points, or 2.15 percent, to 2,584.11 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 167.31 points, or 2.37 percent, to 6,896.13.TREASURIES: Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> last fell 1/32 in price to yield 2.748 percent, from 2.744 percent late on Thursday.The 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> last fell 8/32 in price to yield 2.984 percent, from 2.971 percent late on Thursday.CURRENCIES: The dollar index fell 0.04 percent, with the euro <EUR=> down 0.25 percent to $1.229. The Japanese yen strengthened 0.17 percent versus the greenback at 106.11 per dollar, while Sterling <GBP=> was last trading at $1.4031, up 0.11 percent on the day.(Reporting By Wall Street team; Editing by Daniel Bases)
WASHINGTON   White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said on Monday he did not see the United States and China responding to each other\'s tariff moves in a tit-for-tat escalation of trade tensions.Asked on CNBC television what the U.S. response should be to about China\'s tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, wine, frozen pork, steel pipe and aluminum scrap, Navarro said: "I don\'t think this is going to be an action-response, action-response. That\'s not what this should be about, that just leads to escalation spirals."Navarro said President Donald Trump was firmly committed to a course of action that would level the trade playing field between the two countries.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by James Dalgleish)
BEIJING   The Chinese industry body which recommended targeting scrap aluminium in retaliatory trade action against the United States is already exploring what other measures could be taken, an official said on Monday.U.S. scrap aluminium was one of 128 products that China said it was considering for additional tariffs last month, and the Chinese finance ministry late on Sunday confirmed the material will face an extra 25 percent import tariff from Monday.The United States is the biggest supplier of scrap aluminium to China, which is the world\'s top aluminium producer."We are doing research and looking if there is anything else we can do to respond," Wen Xianjun, vice president of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association (CNIA), told Reuters.Chinese aluminium firms had already faced U.S. antidumping and countervailing duties on shipments of aluminium foil before President Donald Trump imposed a 10 percent tariff on U.S. aluminium imports from March 23.The association\'s recommendation to the Chinese government is "if we are going to fight, we should fight hard," said Wen, who led antidumping negotiations with Washington on behalf of Chinese aluminium firms.Scrap aluminium had initially been singled out by the CNIA as a potential target because the volume China imports from the United States - slightly over 600,000 tonnes in 2017 according to Chinese customs data - was roughly equivalent to Beijing\'s aluminium exports to Washington, Wen said.The counter-measures had "only just begun" and China would respond to any further U.S. action, he added.Trump is separately preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods intended to punish Beijing over U.S. accusations that China systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations China denies.The U.S.-based Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries has said that China\'s additional tariffs would not bode well for trading of the commodity.Valuing U.S. scrap aluminium exports to China last year at $1.17 billion, it said a 25 percent tariff "would mean a nearly $300 million price burden on a trade relationship that represents nearly 25 percent of the entire world\'s trade in aluminium scrap," the group said in a statement on March 26 ahead of Beijing\'s weekend decision.But Wen said he saw no impact from the action on the Chinese aluminium industry because China has more than enough primary aluminium at home.(Reporting by Tom Daly; Editing by Manolo Serapio Jr.)
SINGAPORE/BEIJING   Oil prices rose on Monday, lifted by a drop in U.S. drilling activity as well as by expectations that the United States could re-introduce sanctions against Iran.U.S. WTI crude futures <CLc1> were at $65.21 barrel at 0122 GMT, up 27 cents, or 0.4 percent, from their previous settlement.Brent crude futures <LCOc1> were fetching $69.71 per barrel, up 37 cents, or 0.55 percent.Shanghai September crude futures <ISCc1> were at 415.6 yuan ($66.26) per barrel, up 0.9 percent.Stephen Innes, head of trading for Asia/Pacific at futures brokerage OANDA in Singapore, said oil markets remained nervous about "whether or not the U.S. administration will scrap or maintain the fragile nuclear deal with Iran".Innes said prices were also supported by a weekly report that there was a drop in activity of drilling for new oil production in the United States.U.S. drillers cut seven oil rigs in the week to March 29, bringing the total count down to 797 <RIG-OL-USA-BHI>, General Electric Co\'s Baker Hughes energy services firm said in its closely followed report last Thursday. It was the first time in three weeks that the rig-count fell.Baker Hughes published its North American rig count report on Thursday, one day earlier than usual, due to the Good Friday holiday on March 30.Oil prices have generally been supported by supply restraint led by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Russia, which started in 2017 in order to rein in oversupply and prop up prices.Rising trade tensions between the U.S. and China are likely to weigh on sentiment and could make for volatile trading in the coming days, traders and analysts said.China slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as wine and certain fruits and nuts, in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminium and steel, the country\'s finance ministry said on Sunday night."Investors took their cue from falling U.S drilling counts," Wang Xiao, head of crude oil research with Guotai Junan Futures said. "But increasing trade friction between China and U.S. is likely to rock global markets and tarnish bullish sentiment in crude oil markets."Trading volumes on Monday are likely to be low as many countries, especially in Europe, will still be on Easter holiday.(Reporting by Henning Gloystein in SINGAPORE and Meng Meng in BEIJING; Editing by Aaron Sheldrick)
BEIJING   China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products Monday in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.The government of President Xi Jinping said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. But that is just one facet of sprawling tensions with Washington, Europe and Japan over a state-led economic model they complain hampers market access, protects Chinese companies and subsidizes exports in violation of Beijing\'s free-trade commitments.Already, companies are looking ahead to a bigger fight over U.S. President Donald Trump\'s approval of higher duties on up to $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Forecasters say the impact of Monday\'s move should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if other governments respond by raising import barriers.On Monday, the main stock market indexes in Tokyo and Shanghai ended the day down.The tariffs "signal a most unwelcome development, which is that countries are becoming protectionist," said economist Taimur Baig of DBS Group. But in commercial terms, they are "not very substantial" compared with China\'s $150 billion in annual imports of U.S. goods, he said.Monday\'s tariff increase will hit American farm states, many of which voted for Trump in 2016.Beijing is imposing a 25 percent tariff on U.S. pork and aluminum scrap and 15 percent on sparkling wine, steel pipe used by oil and gas companies, and an array of fruits and nuts including apples, walnuts and grapes.American farm exports to China in 2017 totaled nearly $20 billion, including $1.1 billion of pork products.There was no indication whether Beijing might exempt Chinese-owned American suppliers such as Smithfield Foods, the biggest U.S. pork producer, which is ramping up exports to China.The U.S. tariff hike has "has seriously damaged our interests," the Finance Ministry said in a statement."Our country advocates and supports the multilateral trading system," it said. China\'s tariff increase "is a proper measure adopted by our country using World Trade Organization rules to protect our interests," the statement said.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Monday on the television show "Fox and Friends" that Trump was "going to fight back and he\'s going to push back."Deputy Press Secretary Lindsay Walters said China\'s "subsidization and continued overcapacity" were the root cause of low steel prices that have hurt U.S. producers."Instead of targeting fairly traded U.S. exports, China needs to stop its unfair trading practices which are harming U.S. national security and distorting global markets," Walters said.The United States buys little Chinese steel and aluminum, but analysts said Beijing was certain to retaliate, partly to show its toughness ahead of possible bigger disputes.Chinese officials have said Beijing is willing to negotiate, but in a confrontation will "fight to the end.""China has already prepared for the worst," said Liu Yuanchun, executive dean of the National Academy of Development Strategy at Renmin University in Beijing. "The two sides, therefore, should sit down and negotiate."The dispute reflects the clash between Trump\'s promise to narrow the U.S. trade surplus with China  a record $375.2 billion last year  and Beijing\'s ambitious plans to develop Chinese industry and technology.Last July, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin complained the Chinese government\'s dominant role in China\'s economy was to blame for its yawning trade surplus.State-owned companies dominate Chinese industries including oil and gas, telecoms, banking, coal mining, utilities and airlines. They benefit from monopolies and low-cost access to energy, land and bank loans.The ruling Communist Party promised in 2013 to give market forces the "decisive role" in allocating resources. But at the same time, Xi has affirmed plans to build up state industries the party says are the central pillar of the economy."The thing that is going to be more challenging for Beijing is if the U.S., European Union and Japan get together and start taking measures on state-owned enterprises," said Baig. "That for me would be an escalation, whereas product-by-product back and forth, amounting to a few billion dollars here or there, is not a major substantive concern."Foreign governments also accuse Beijing of violating free trade by requiring automakers and other foreign companies to work through state-owned Chinese partners. That requires them to give technology to potential competitors.Last month, a U.S. official cited as "hugely problematic" Beijing\'s sweeping plan to create Chinese competitors in electric cars, robots, advanced manufacturing and other fields over the next decade. Business groups complain that strategy, dubbed "Made in China 2025," will limit or outright block access to those industries.The country\'s top economic official, Premier Li Keqiang, promised at a news conference on March 20 there will be "no mandatory requirement for technology transfers." However, Chinese officials already deny foreign companies are required to hand over technology, leaving it unclear how policy might change.Trump ordered U.S. trade officials on March 22 to bring a WTO case challenging Chinese technology licensing. It proposed 25 percent tariffs on Chinese products including aerospace, communications technology and machinery and said Washington will step up restrictions on Chinese investment in key U.S. technology sectors.Beijing has yet to say how it might respond.Trump administration officials have identified as potential targets 1,300 product lines worth about $48 billion. That list will be open to a 30-day comment period for businesses.The volleys of threats are "a process of game-playing to test each other\'s bottom lines," said Tu Xinquan, a trade expert at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing."We are curious about what the U.S. side really wants," said Tu, "and wonder whether the United States can tolerate the consequences."___Associated Press writers Catherine Lucey and Darlene Superville in Washington and researcher Yu Bing in Beijing contributed to this report.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce announcement (in Chinese with link to list of affected products): http://gss.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/zhengcefabu/201804/t20180401_2857769.html
The Trump Bump is becoming the Trump Slump.In the first year of Donald J. Trumps presidency, ebullient investors propelled stock markets to one record high after another. And Mr. Trump was the bull in chief, celebrating the record-breaking march as validation of his economic policies.Those days are done.Even after a fast start to 2018, stock markets finished the first quarter down for the year  the first quarterly decline since 2015. It suggested that a period of calm and steadily rising markets had given way to a turbulent new era with a bearish bent.The plunge continued Monday, with the Standard & Poors 500-stock index sinking 2.2 percent. Investors jettisoned shares of financial, technology and many other businesses, spooked at least in part by a tweet from Mr. Trump aimed at one of the countrys biggest companies: Amazon.Asian and European markets were down more modestly in midday Tuesday trading.Mondays decline left stocks down more than 4 percent so far in 2018. They are now down more than 10 percent from their peak in late January. That means the market has entered a so-called correction  a term used to indicate that the downward trend is more severe and lasting than simply a few days of bearish trading.The stock market is still up more than 20 percent since Nov. 8, 2016, the day Mr. Trump won the White House  a roller-coaster ride driven in part by expectations about what a Trump presidency could bring to Washington.At first, the prospect of Republicans controlling the White House and both houses of Congress thrilled investors. They anticipated a wave of regulatory rollbacks and the slashing of corporate and personal tax rates. Many of those dreams have been realized, culminating in Mr. Trump signing a huge tax cut into law in December. When the S.&P. 500 notched its high-water mark of 2872.87 on Jan. 26, it represented a roughly 325 percent increase since the bull market began in March 2009.But since February, a toxic stew of factors  many but certainly not all of them emanating from Washington  has polluted what had been the markets placidly rising waters. And theres little prospect of the messes dissipating anytime soon.First there was the risk that the economy might be growing too fast, which could prompt central banks to hike interest rates sooner than expected. Then there was the risk of a trade war ignited by the White House imposing tariffs on certain products, an action that quickly prompted countries like China to erect trade barriers of their own. Next came the threat of a government crackdown on technology companies, after revelations of their misuse of customer data.Mondays dose of unnerving news was a presidential tweet aimed at Amazon, which Mr. Trump accused of hurting the United States Postal Service. Mr. Trumps feud with the company has been going on sporadically since before he became president, but the onslaught has accelerated lately. On Monday, Mr. Trump tweeted that the Post Office loses money by working with Amazon and this will be changed.In the face of these factors, the optimism of just two months ago has all but evaporated.It certainly adds to uncertainty, and the market doesnt like uncertainty, said Ed Clissold, chief United States strategist at Ned Davis Research, a stock market research firm.One thing is clear: The days of calm markets marching steadily higher, shattering one record after another, are gone for now. That carries risks for Mr. Trump, who spent the first year of his presidency as a stock-market cheerleader but in recent months has been mostly silent about the markets gyrations.It also could be a danger for the United States economy. Academic research suggests that long-term market declines can rub off on consumers, leading them to feel less affluent and therefore spend less money. That is bad news for an economy that hinges largely on zesty consumer spending.The markets decline over the past two months has been broad based. Six of the 11 sectors included in the S.&P. 500 index are down more than 10 percent from the market high in late January.On any given day, a particular sector might be clobbered. One day it could be industrial companies such as Boeing or Caterpillar, which export lots of products and therefore could be harmed in a trade war. Another day could bring declines to technology companies like Facebook and Twitter, whose profits are vulnerable to tougher government regulation of social media networks. The next day it could be energy and financial companies, whose fortunes would be diminished if the economy slows.On Monday, just 13 stocks in the S.&P. 500 rose.The meat producer Tyson dropped more than 6 percent, after China imposed duties on pork and fruit from the United States in response to the tariffs that the Trump administration has imposed on products imported from China. China is one of Tysons most important export markets. Lean hog futures  which reflect the anticipated prices of pig carcasses  were down 3.9 percent.After Mr. Trumps complaint about Amazon, it too, was a big loser, falling 5.2 percent. Other giant tech firms were sucked into the downdraft. Microsoft dropped 3 percent. Facebook tumbled 2.8 percent, bringing its year-to-date decline to 14.4 percent. And Intel dove 6 percent after a Bloomberg News report that Apple was planning to use its own chips in its computers instead of Intel processors.And Tesla, reeling amid doubts about its ability to churn out electric vehicles, tumbled more than 5 percent.The tech sector has been the epicenter of stock market pain in recent weeks, hurt by concerns about trade friction with China  a key market and supplier for tech firms  and fears of tighter government regulation. Even before Mondays fall, some $457 billion had been wiped off the sectors total market value.People think that tech is going to go from the Wild West to a much more regulated, scrutinized environment, said Dan Suzuki, an equity strategist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Even the shares of financial institutions  the companies that would most likely benefit from a looser regulatory environment favored by Republicans  have been battered. The sector dropped 2.1 percent Monday, with investors worried about an unfavorable lending environment.For markets, nothing is for sure. They could rebound mightily later this week and shake off jitters about a trade war. But some observers believe conditions may have to get worse before they can get better  and there could be more declines before that happens.In order for the market to bottom, there probably has to be more consternation and more pessimism about the current environment, said Mr. Clissold, of Ned Davis Research.
NEW YORK   The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4 p.m.Stocks closed sharply lower on Wall Street as technology companies took heavy losses and investors worried about escalating trade tensions with China.Big-name tech companies like Microsoft fell more than the rest of the market Monday.Intel dove 6.1 percent following a report in Bloomberg News that Apple plans to start using its own chips in Mac computers as early as 2020Tyson Foods dropped 6.2 percent after China raised tariffs on imported U.S. goods including pork.The S&P 500 fell 58 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,581, slightly above its low for the year reached February 8.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 458 points, or 1.9 percent, to 23,644. It was down as much as 758 earlier.The Nasdaq gave up 193 points, or 2.7 percent, to 6,870.___1:30 p.m.Stocks are falling sharply on Wall Street, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 600 points, after China raised import duties on U.S. pork, apples and other products.Tyson Foods dropped 6 percent Monday, one of the biggest losses on the market.Investors are also dumping some of their recent favorites, including retailers like Amazon and technology companies such as Microsoft.Tesla dropped 5.3 percent after saying the vehicle in a fatal crash last week in California was operating on Autopilot mode.The S&P 500 fell 69 points, or 2.6 percent, to 2,570.The Dow was down 590 points, or 2.5 percent, to 23,512. It was down as much as 639 in early afternoon trading.The Nasdaq gave up 203 points, or 2.9 percent, to 6,858.___11:45 a.m.Stocks are falling sharply on Wall Street after China raised import duties on U.S. pork, apples and other products.Tyson Foods is among the biggest losers Monday with a 6 percent loss.Investors are also dumping some of their recent favorites, including retailers like Amazon and technology companies such as Microsoft.Tesla dropped 5.7 percent after saying the vehicle in a fatal crash last week in California was operating on Autopilot mode.Health insurer Humana jumped 4.9 percent on continued reports Walmart might buy the company or announce a new partnership with it.The S&P 500 fell 59 points, or 2.3 percent, to 2,581.The Dow Jones industrial average fell 476 points, or 2 percent, to 23,624. The Nasdaq composite gave up 190 points, or 2.7 percent, to 6,872.___9:35 a.m.Stocks are opening slightly lower on Wall Street after the long holiday weekend, led by declines in retailers and technology companies.Amazon fell 2 percent in early trading Monday, while Facebook lost 0.7 percent.Health insurer Humana jumped 7 percent following reports that Walmart was interested in a possible deal with the company.The S&P 500 slipped 3 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,637.The Dow Jones industrial average was little changed at 24,101. The Nasdaq composite fell 19 points, or 0.3 percent, to 7,044.
 Good Monday. Heres what were watching. Elon Musk finally responded to last weeks bad news about Tesla. Trump continues to go after Amazon. China retaliated to President Trumps steel and aluminum tariffs. Tech leaders have been keeping mum on Facebook.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.For months, the stock market rally seemed to have the strength to plow through the obstacles that the Trump administration threw in its way.But now, the S.&P. 500 index is down more than 10 percent from its all-time high.President Donald Trumps actions seem to be increasingly taking their toll. When the Trump administration first pushed for steel and aluminum tariffs in February, investors werent happy, but the market soon rebounded. Now investors seem to be growing more nervous as the United States biggest trading partners show signs that they are ready to fight back. Chinas retaliatory tariffs, which appear to be more stringent than expected, suggest the country will take a hard stance.Early in his presidency, investors quickly learned to shrug off  Mr. Trumps criticism of companies. In recent days, though, Mr. Trump has targeted Amazon in tweets, asserting that the company has an unfair advantage. Its not clear what he could do to hurt Amazons business, but the companys stock has plunged. Amazons shares may well bounce back, but the criticism has added to investors concerns about the outlook for large technology companies, whose soaring stock prices spearheaded the rally that took to the S.&P. 500 to its all-time high in January.Too much blame can be placed on the White House, however.Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock markets ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Wall Street analysts expect earnings for the companies in the S.&P. 500 to increase 25 percent this year, according to data compiled by Standard & Poors, an unusually large jump that was reflected in the stock market valuations. Much of that projected earnings increase is coming from tax cuts and some from expectations that companies revenue would grow at a nice clip as global growth stayed strong.The tax cuts are certainly going to improve profits. But rising interest rates around the world could weigh somewhat on companies revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected  a significant possibility when the economy is suffering a shortage of some workers  profit margins could get squeezed. I dont think either of those are in the numbers, said Jim Paulsen, chief market strategist at the Leuthold Group. Peter EavisA little humor has not cleared the clouds over Tesla.Shares in the company were once again sliding on Monday after the companys C.E.O., Elon Musk, joked on April 1 that Tesla had gone bankrupt, an apparent attempt to make light of concerns that the electric car maker is straining under its debt load.Teslas stock is now down 35 percent from its high of last year. A major reason for the slide is the companys struggles to meet production targets for its lower-priced Model 3 car. Delays, of course, raise questions about Teslas ability to become an efficient mass producer of autos. The company needs to sell a significantly higher number of cars to generate the cash to finance its business and meet debt payments. Tesla is expected early this week to release its first-quarter production and delivery numbers.Electrek, a publication that covers electric vehicles, reported late Monday morning that Mr. Musk had sent out an email to employees saying that the company was producing more than 2,000 Model 3s a week. Teslas stock bounced after the report.Teslas technology is also facing intense scrutiny after one of its Model X cars crashed on March 23, killing the driver. Tesla said late Friday that its assisted driving system, called Autopilot, was engaged in the car before its collision with a concrete divider. As our colleague Neal E. Boudette wrote:Teslas website says one of Autopilots safety features is Automatic Emergency Braking. But a Tesla owners manual warns riders that this feature is not designed to avoid a collision. Wired recently reported that systems like Autopilot are not necessarily designed to detect static obstacles. In the words of one expert:Doubts about the fundamental capabilities of Teslas Autopilot could crimp demand for its cars among a customer base that is often seeking the best technology.Questions are also swirling around the timing of Teslas announcement about the crash. In its first communication about the accident, the company said:The investigation is not over. Yet Tesla went ahead and provided its update on Friday. The motive for doing so is not clear. The United States National Transportation Safety Board on Sunday said it was unhappy that Tesla had released information about the crash.- Peter EavisTech companies are again dragging down stocks on Wall Street.The S.&P. 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite are off 3.1 percent and 3.5 percent Monday. The continued fall in the share prices of some of the biggest tech companies is weighing heavily on the indexes.Amazon is down 5.4 percent, Netflix is off 5.9 percent, Facebook fell 3 percent, Google-parent Alphabet slipped 3.6 percent and Apple dropped 5.9 percent.After leading the market higher for much of the past two years, tech stocks have hit some turbulence. Since March 16, Facebook, Alphabet, Netflix and Amazon are all down more than 12 percent, while Apple is down 7.3 percent.Over that period the business models of those companies have come under increased scrutiny. News that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Trumps 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users has weighed not only on the shares of Facebook but on Alphabet as well. Amazon, meanwhile, has come under attack from President Trump.In all, those companies have lost more than $300 billion in market value the past two weeks.President Trump attacked the e-commerce again on Monday morning.Mondays tweet is the latest over the past five days from Mr. Trump criticizing Amazon. Over that period, Mr. Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough taxes, of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and of using the United States Postal Service as its Delivery Boy.Mr. Trumps willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.Amazons shares are down 4 percent and are off nearly 11 percent since Axios reported on Wednesday about Mr. Trumps anger toward the company.Context Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the service, has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one, but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax, a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition, some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.Critics cornerDA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote in a note via Reuters:Shares of the chip maker are down 9 percent, their steepest decline in more than two years, after Bloomberg reported that Apple is planning to use its own chips in Mac computers beginning as early as 2020.Citing anonymous sources, Bloombergs Ian King and Matt Gurman report:Apple provides Intel with about 5 percent of its annual revenue.Kenneth C. Griffins Citadel has just hired Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven A. Cohens investment firm. Mr. Villhauer will become deputy head of global equities at Citadel, a newly created position. He will officially join the Chicago-based hedge fund in the middle of April and work out of Citadels office in New York, a Citadel spokesman confirmed.We see this as a big hire for us, said Zia Ahmed, a Citadel spokesman.Mr. Villhauer left Mr. Cohens family office, Point72 Asset Management, in October after working for the billionaire investor for roughly 15 years. Mr. Villhauer had started at Mr. Cohens former firm, SAC Capital Advisors, and most recently served as head of global trading at Point72.The timing of Mr. Villhauers departure came just months before Mr. Cohen was to begin managing money for outside investors.In January, Mr. Cohen reconfigured Point72 as a hedge fund after establishing it as a family office in 2014 to manage $11 billion of his personal wealth. Point72 has said it has raised between $2 billion and $4 billion in outside money.Mr. Villhauer had been with Mr. Cohen through both the good days and bad days. He was there when SAC turned into a powerhouse hedge fund, and he was there when the fund pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in 2013. The guilty plea required the firm to stop managing money for outside investors.When Mr. Villhauer left Point72, Mr. Cohen, in a letter to employees, called the departure a retirement and said he was sad to see Mr. Villhauer go.Now Mr. Villhauer will start a new chapter in his career at another well-known hedge fund firm.____________________________As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, other tech leaders like Marc Benioff and Tim Cook have criticized the company. But, for the most part, its in their culture to stick together,  Nick Wingfield writes.Customers have less trouble speaking out, but those looking to punish major tech companies are finding that but boycotts are easier said than done.At Facebook, the turmoil continued this weekend after a 2016 memo was leaked in which Andrew Bosworth, a vice president, wrote, Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de factor* good.Mr. Bosworth and Mark Zuckerberg disavowed the memo, but the fallout has been wide, with employees calling for a hunt to find leakers.Critics corner Mr. Zuckerbergs comments suggest he still doesnt get it: What matters is not whether internet companies deserve our private information but why we as consumers do not have meaningful ways to protect that data from being siphoned for sale in the first place, Tom Wheeler, a former F.C.C. chairman, writes in an NYT op-ed.More on data and privacy Hackers have stolen more than five million credit and debit card numbers from Saks and Lord & Taylor, a cybersecurity firm said. Amazon and other companies have filed patents that show how assistants could monitor what people say, information that could then be used for ads and product recommendations. For critics, this highlights the need for regulators to get more involved in data collection. Entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking into whether  blockchain could be the answer to fears about personal data being shared too liberally. President Trump accused The Washington Post of operating as a lobbyist for Amazon, escalating his assault on the company. He also accused Amazon of a Post Office scam, although Amazon brings in money for the Postal Service. (WaPo) A global race to automate stores is underway as retailers seek to prevent Amazon from dominating their market. China has been an especially fertile place for these experiments. (NYT) The tech industry has warmed to the White House. (NYT) The European Commission is preparing to crack down on social media companies accused of spreading fake news. (FT) A Russian man accused of hacking three U.S. technology companies in 2012 has been extradited from the Czech Republic. (NYT) Alibaba is taking full control of the food delivery start-up Ele.me. (Bloomberg) Dara Khosrowshahi is trying to change Ubers image, but can he do it without sacrificing elements that made the company successful? (The New Yorker) 3-D printing technology is moving into the construction business. (WSJ) Beijing has unveiled a pilot program that would allow Chinese tech giants to see their shares bought and sold at home. (Bloomberg) Magic Leap is requiring software developers to keep its mysterious augmented reality headsets under tight security. (LAT)The Chinese government said on Monday that it would place tariffs on the imports of 128 American-made products in retaliation for to President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum.Beijing appeared to go a step beyond its initial threat, Chris Buckley reported. On the list is pork, an important moneymaker in many states that voted for President Trump.The Washington flyaround Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday that there would be no deal to protects thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement. The FirstEnergy bankruptcy could be an important moment for the Trump administration and its commitment to the coal industry. (WSJ) Ties to the White House have proven to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushner family. (NYT) Are undersea cables used to communicate around the world under risk of attack? (AP) The bankruptcy of Remington, one of the countrys oldest gunmakers, has stalled a ruling in a lawsuit by family members of those killed in the Sandy Hook shooting. (NYT) Would firing special counsel Robert Mueller lead to impeachment proceedings? (NYT) John Bolton, the incoming national security adviser, has argued repeatedly that the United States should engage in cyber warfare. (Politico)When the Justice Department allowed Live Nation to merge with Ticketmaster, it tried to assuage concerns that the deal would cripple competitors.But critics have reason to be skeptical. Heres how Beau Buffier, the chief of the New York Attorney Generals Antitrust Bureau, described Live Nation:The Justice Department is looking into complaints that Live Nation has used its control over concert tours to pressure venues into contracting with Ticketmaster, a possible violation of antitrust law.The inquiries come as the department is reviewing two more mergers, between AT&T and Time Warner, and Disney and Fox.The departments new antitrust chief has said that the Live Nation deal and several other deals posed problems because they relied too much on the federal governments ability to police corporate behavior.Even if we wanted to do that, we often dont have the skills or the tools to do so effectively, the antitrust chief, Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, said in a speech.More for your playlistSpotifys shares begin trading on Tuesday with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. But the company still hasnt turned a profit, and its direct listing could spook investors. The streaming service also is looking to take on music labels directly by building a two-sided marketplace for users and artists.The deals flyaround Walmarts takeover of Humana isnt guaranteed, but hospitals are already worried that the deal could hit their bottom lines at a difficult time. (WSJ) Protectionist policies are increasing barriers to deal making. (WSJ) Looking to merge asset management divisions, UBS is asking for discounts from fund managers. (FT) The corporate raider Samuel Belzberg has died at 89. (NYT) Steve Schwarzman has discovered that $25 million doesnt necessarily buy naming rights for a public high school. (The Philadelphia Inquirer) The South China Morning Post has long been Hong Kongs English-language paper of record. Alibaba has made it part of Beijings efforts to project soft power abroad. (NYT) The accrediting council at center of a for-profit college fraud scandal is looking for a comeback. (NYT) Coffee sellers are trying to fight a California judges ruling that would require the beverage to carry cancer warning labels. (NYT) Bill Gross is struggling to attract investors to Janus Henderson. (FT) Nike is reviewing its human resources department after employees raised concerns about pay equity and corporate culture. (WSJ) In a tight labor market, employers are recruiting refugees to fill undesirable jobs. (NYT) Is the storied guitar maker Gibson headed for a bankruptcy filing? (NYT) The new chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America is a Hollywood insider and Washington influencer. (NYT) Companies are loading up on debt in what could be another area of concern for financial markets. (WSJ) Some arbitrage funds are struggling to benefit from a boom in mergers. (WSJ) Devet Capital keeps costs low by flying economy and using Airbnb for business travel. (WSJ)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Clara Ester\'s eyes were fixed on the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as he stood on the concrete balcony of the Lorraine Motel.King was in Memphis to support a sanitation workers\' strike, and Ester, a college student, had been marching alongside the strikers as they sought better pay and working conditions. She and some friends had gone to the motel for a catfish dinner when she saw King chatting happily, not far from where she stood.Then Ester heard the shot. It was 6:01 p.m. on April 4, 1968."I\'m still looking at him," Ester recalled. "He looked like he was lifted up and thrown back on the pavement. Next thing I remember, I was stepping over his body, and I\'m noticing that he\'s struggling for air."King\'s death changed the world and altered the lives of those who lived through it. Some would spend the rest of their lives fighting for racial equality and economic justice. Others, including Ester, would struggle to come to terms with what they saw.___King had won victories on desegregation and voting rights and had been planning his Poor People\'s Campaign when he turned his attention to Memphis, the gritty city by the Mississippi River.On Feb. 1, 1968, two sanitation workers were crushed when a garbage truck compactor malfunctioned, sparking a strike by about 1,300 black sanitation workers weary of horrible working conditions and racist treatment in the dirtiest of municipal jobs. The words that would come to signify their protest  "I Am a Man"  were not a given with everyone in Memphis at that time."We didn\'t have a place to shower, wash our hands, nothing," said Elmore Nickleberry, who at 86 still drives a truck for the department.King tried to lead a peaceful march on March 28, but it turned violent. Storefront windows were smashed, and police wielded clubs and tear gas.King went back to Atlanta but vowed to return to show that non-violent protest still worked. Criticism mounted in the press. He was suffering headaches and feeling depressed. He met with his advisers, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said, and "talked himself out of the depression."He flew back to Memphis on the morning of April 3.Mike Cody was among the lawyers working to persuade a judge to lift an injunction against a new march who met with King in his motel room."King felt strongly that unless he could get a success here in Memphis, with these workers using nonviolent, civil disobedience, then he would never get the Poor People\'s March in Washington that summer," said Cody, 82.Cody was in the crowd later that evening at the Mason Temple. Though King was ill, the Rev. Ralph Abernathy asked him to address the thousands who turned out despite a thunderstorm."It\'s a tin roof, so that\'s banging. There\'s rafters up there above us, and the rafters are blowing with the wind and hitting each other and hitting the walls from the fierceness of the wind and the rain," said the Rev. James Lawson, a prominent civil rights activist.With little preparation, King delivered a speech that, in retrospect, seemed to foretell his death: "Well, I don\'t know what will happen now; we\'ve got some difficult days ahead. But it really doesn\'t matter to me now, because I\'ve been to the mountaintop."When he finished, King slumped into a chair. He looked to Cody like a "toy that had the air taken out of it.""Ministers, men were crying," Jackson said.Cody went to court the next day with King aide Andrew Young, then dropped Young back at the Lorraine Motel in the late afternoon.King had spent most of the day in meetings. He asked Young where he\'d been and then threw a pillow at him. "Then everybody picked up pillows and beat me up," Young said. "All of us were in our 30s, and we were acting like 10-, 12-year-olds. But it was the happiest I had seen him in a long time."As dinner approached, King and his friends moved to the motel balcony. King turned to a bandleader who was standing nearby and made a request: Later, could he play his favorite song, "Take My Hand, Precious Lord"?Then: "Pow! A bullet," recalled Jackson, pointing to the right side of his own face."At first I thought it was a firecracker or car backfiring," Young said.Jackson ran toward the balcony steps."Someone said, \'Doc has been shot,\' and \'Get low,\'" Jackson said.Earl Caldwell, a New York Times reporter who had interviewed King on the balcony the previous day, ran out of his motel room in his boxer shorts. "I was thinking, \'It was a bomb. It was a bomb.\' Because the noise was greater than a gun," he said.A photo shows Jackson, Young and others pointing across the street, where the shot came from."I remember Rev. Abernathy saying, \'Back up, back up, this is my dearest friend. Martin you can\'t give up, don\'t leave us,\'" Jackson said.Ester said she noticed King\'s tie had been blown off. His eyes were open "with almost a pleasant expression on his face," she said.Sirens blared. People screamed. Police rushed to the motel.King was rushed to St. Joseph\'s Hospital, where college student John Billings worked as a surgical assistant on the night shift."Three doctors came over and walked to where I was standing. They said, \'OK Billings, go find somebody in charge and tell them that Dr. King has expired,\'" he said.Billings was then ordered to stay with King\'s body until someone could come get him."I walked over, pulled the sheet back, and there he was," Billings said. "His eyes were closed. I thought, \'How strange this is.\'"Security was heavy when Dr. Jerry Francisco, the Shelby County medical examiner, arrived. Men holding shotguns stood inside and outside the room. After the 1 hour autopsy, Francisco drove home through a city that had been placed under curfew, for fear of rioting."The streets were just virtually empty. I was the only car moving on the street," he said. It was eerie, he recalled.Coby Smith, a leader of the Invaders organization, which had a militant reputation, vividly remembers the aftermath, when tanks rolled into neighborhoods, the National Guard was called in, and police began arresting blacks in the streets."(Police) had put tape over their badges," Smith said. "This was like a war."___Fifty years after King\'s assassination, Ester has trouble talking about the months that followed. Haunted by her memories, she left her hometown.Billings, who is white, came to a new understanding of the struggle Southern blacks faced. He became a private investigator, met James Earl Ray, who pleaded guilty to killing King, and explored the notion that someone else had been involved.Young became a congressman, ambassador to the United Nations and Atlanta\'s mayor.Jackson ran for president twice, then stood in Grant Park in Chicago with tears streaming down his face after a black man was elected president in 2008.Cody continued working in civil rights law in Memphis, eventually serving as a U.S. Attorney and Tennessee attorney general.If King were alive today, "he\'d be in people\'s face" about issues relating to race, poverty and inequality, Cody says."We\'re not past all of that history."____Associated Press staffers Rhonda Shafner in New York; Robert Ray in Atlanta; Krysta Fauria in Los Angeles and Allen Breed in Hampton, Virginia, contributed to this report.____For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump will discuss "reciprocal trade and investment ties" with Japan\'s prime minister Shinzo Abe during a visit later this month, the White House said on Monday.Japan, one of the United States\' closest allies, has not been granted exemptions to the new U.S steel and aluminum tariffs. Abe will meet with Trump at Mar-a-Lago, the president\'s Florida resort, on April 17 and 18, the White House said, where they will also discuss North Korea.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Lisa Lambert)
SEOUL, South Korea   Another spring on the Korean Peninsula, another round of war games by the U.S. and South Korean militaries.This week\'s drills, however, will feature a new and unusually low-key approach, with the allies resisting bringing in their big guns, and the North, for the time being, avoiding its usual belligerent propaganda against exercises that it claims are an invasion rehearsal.The reason for this departure? There\'s interest in Washington and Seoul in nurturing a diplomatic outreach by North Korea\'s young leader, Kim Jong Un, after months of weapons tests and threats of nuclear war by the North.On Sunday, the first day of this year\'s drills, instead of vowing to destroy Seoul, Kim attended a concert in Pyongyang of visiting South Korean pop singers, clapping his hands and asking for more such performances.Some questions and answers about this year\'s drills, which come ahead of two separate historic summits between Kim and his South Korean and U.S. counterparts:___Q: Are the drills really more low-key than in past years?A: Yes, they are.This year\'s exercises were postponed because of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, where the Koreas worked out a series of rapprochement steps, including parading together behind a single flag during the opening ceremony and fielding a unified women\'s hockey team.Seoul and Washington both publicly say the training this time will be similar to previous years. But South Korean defense officials say there are no immediate plans to bring in U.S. aircraft carriers, powerful bombers or other strategic assets that have been deployed in and around the Korean Peninsula during past drills. The North loathes such American weapons.The two sets of drills, one field-training and the other computer-simulated, typically run for two months, but this year\'s exercises are scheduled to last for just one month. The allies also have no immediate plans to publicize the training, according to Seoul\'s Defense Ministry.___Q: How will North Korea react to this year\'s drills?A: North Korea\'s state media haven\'t said anything about the drills since their start. Even if there is some criticism later, it will likely be milder than past warlike rhetoric, which often saw daily threats to launch nuclear strikes on Seoul and Washington or void the armistice that ended the 1950-53 Korean War.Kim told visiting South Korean officials last month that he "understands" the drills will take place and expressed hope that they\'ll be modified once the situation on the peninsula stabilizes, according to the South Korean government.While diplomacy holds, it\'s also unlikely that North Korea will test any weapons, as it has during past drills. Such tests could endanger the North\'s outreach and crush the current rapprochement.South Korea\'s Defense Ministry said Monday that it hadn\'t detected any suspicious activities by the North Korean military.___Q: What\'s next after the drills?A: Kim\'s planned meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27 comes around the time the U.S.-South Korean drills end.The meeting will be the third-ever inter-Korean summit since the Koreas\' 1945 division. It is crucial because it may offer insight about what nuclear disarmament steps Kim could offer, and what concessions the allies might be willing to provide.It is unlikely that Kim will completely give up his nukes. Only last year he claimed to have functional nuclear missiles targeting the entire U.S. mainland, though foreign experts believe the North still hasn\'t perfected such missiles. Kim\'s dictator father and grandfather long aspired to have such power.During Kim\'s visit to China last week, his first overseas trip since taking office in 2011, he indicated that he prefers step-by-step, not immediate, disarmament-for-aid deals with the United States and South Korea. This could spell trouble because some hard-line U.S. officials want the North to take immediate, complete disarmament steps so as not to repeat past negotiations in which the North was seen as winning badly needed aid while covertly continuing its bomb program.Kim and President Donald Trump plan to meet in May, but the exact date and location of their meeting haven\'t been announced.
AUBURN, Maine   A World War II soldier who became a spy in Europe for the forerunner of the CIA has died in Maine. Irving Isaacson was 102.Isaacson was a retired lawyer in Lewiston. The Albert & Burpee Funeral Home in Lewiston confirms he died at Hospice House in his native Auburn last week.He was a U.S. Army soldier assigned to the Office of Strategic Services. The Portland Press Herald reports he was trained to parachute behind enemy lines. He also helped the Dutch resistance effort.Isaacson spied on the Soviets in eastern Europe. He authored "Memoirs of an Amateur Spy: The Story of the First OSS Spy in the Cold War with the Russians" in 2001.Isaacson met his wife, Auschwitz concentration camp survivor Judith Magyar Isaacson, in 1945. She died in 2015 at age 90.___Information from: Portland Press Herald, http://www.pressherald.com
WASHINGTON   The White House on Monday accused China of distorting global markets and said the country should not target "fairly traded U.S. exports" after Beijing increased tariffs on 128 U.S. products in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminium and steel.Chinas subsidization and continued overcapacity is the root cause of the steel crises," White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said in a statement. "Instead of targeting fairly traded U.S. exports, China needs to stop its unfair trading practices which are harming U.S national security and distorting global markets.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; editing by Grant McCool)
PATTAYA, Thailand  A pair of self-described sex instructors from Belarus have been stuck in a Thai detention center for weeks. They say that they have evidence demonstrating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign in the United States, and that they have offered it to the F.B.I. in exchange for a guarantee of their safety.Their claim  that they are targets of a covert Russian operation to silence them because they know too much  might seem outlandish, but their case certainly includes some unusual circumstances.They have influential enemies in Russia. They were arrested with the help of a foreign spy, according to the Thai police, and locked up on what is a fairly minor offense: working without a permit. And the F.B.I. tried to talk to the pair, suggesting that American investigators had not dismissed their account out of hand.They know we have more information, one of the pair, Alexander Kirillov, 38, told The New York Times last month in an unauthorized phone call from the detention center, in Bangkok. Mr. Kirillov said his co-defendant, Anastasia Vashukevich, 27, had angered some powerful people. They know she knows a lot, he said. And thats why they made this case against us.Ms. Vashukevich certainly knows how to get attention. In February, a top critic of Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin, released a video that included footage she recorded during a brief affair she had with a Russian aluminum tycoon while working as an escort aboard his yacht in 2016. The evidence included photos she posted of the tycoon and his guest, Sergei E. Prikhodko, a deputy prime minister, and a recording of them talking about relations between the United States and Russia.The aluminum tycoon, Oleg V. Deripaska, has close ties with Mr. Putin and with Paul Manafort, President Trumps former campaign chairman, who has been indicted on money laundering charges by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel looking into election interference.The escort and her seduction coach have been held largely incommunicado since March 5, when reporters for The Times and other news media outlets were kicked out of the detention center for speaking to them. They now face deportation and fear what might happen to them if they are sent home to Russia, where they live, or Belarus, the former Soviet republic where they grew up, which remains firmly within Russias influence. (Mr. Kirillov was traveling on a Russian passport.)Neither of them is accustomed to silence. They and their circle of friends say they make a habit of recording everything they do as they go about their campaign of teaching seduction techniques and trying their skills on strangers, sometimes in public.The two were arrested along with eight others on Feb. 25 when dozens of plainclothes police officers raided a workshop they were conducting for Russian tourists at a hotel in Pattaya, about 70 miles south of Bangkok.The seminar was aimed mainly at male Russian tourists and offered instruction in how to seduce women. It was not illegal.The police arrest report says that a foreign spy infiltrated the Russian-language seminar and provided the Royal Thai Police with information about the training.Cellphone messages show that the agent signaled the waiting officers when it was time to raid the Ibis Pattaya Hotel conference room.The work permit charge is relatively minor, and Mr. Kirillov had been conducting training sessions in Pattaya for years. But high-level officials appeared to take an unusual interest in this case: Six police generals and two colonels had responsibility for the raid, according to the arrest report.Since the arrests, the government has tried to keep a tight lid on information. Friends said they had not been allowed to visit Ms. Vashukevich and Mr. Kirillov for weeks.A law enforcement official said the F.B.I. tried to speak with the two but was not successful.A Thai police spokesman, Lt. Col. Krissana Pattanacharoen, would not comment on whether Russia was behind the arrests, but he said it was not unusual for the police to use foreign operatives.Investigations are not one size fits all, he said. It depends entirely on the situation.Few other police officials have been willing to talk about the case. The American Embassy in Bangkok declined to comment. The Russian Embassy asked that questions be submitted in writing, but did not answer them.After the pairs arrest, Mr. Kirillov sent a handwritten letter to the American Embassy in Bangkok asking for asylum for all 10 detainees. (At the time, Heather Nauert, a State Department spokeswoman, dismissed the case as a pretty bizarre story and indicated that the embassy had no plans to talk with them.)Financial records show that companies controlled by Mr. Manafort owed millions of dollars to Mr. Deripaska, the aluminum tycoon. During the 2016 race, Mr. Manafort offered to give him private briefings about the campaign, though there is no indication that the tycoon took him up on the offer.Ms. Vashukevich, who goes by the name Nastya Rybka online and recounts her story in a book, Who Wants to Seduce a Billionaire, became an escort under the guidance of Mr. Kirillov, better known as Alex Lesley, who has gained popularity in Russia for his advocacy of sexual freedom.At the time of the yacht visit, Ms. Vashukevich had shaved six years off her age to pose as 19. She was sent by a Moscow modeling agency to a yacht off Norway along with six other escorts, according to her account.She said she followed Mr. Kirillovs instruction to record all her interactions with her target, the yachts owner, who turned out to be Mr. Deripaska.Ms. Vashukevich told The Times  in a brief interview last month at the detention center that she had more than 16 hours of recordings from the yacht, including conversations with three visitors who she believes were Americans.She has called herself the missing link in the Russia investigation.Her posts from 2016 came to prominence only after Aleksei A. Navalny, a Russian opposition leader, included them in a video in early February that made accusations about official corruption. Mr. Navalny also charged that Mr. Deripaska had delivered Mr. Manaforts campaign reports to the Kremlin.Deripaska simply transmits this information to Putin, Mr. Navalny said. Hes very close to Putin after all.Before traveling to Thailand, Mr. Kirillov grew worried about repercussions from the expos and asked a childhood friend, Eliot Cooper, to contact United States authorities on his behalf, Mr. Cooper said.Mr. Cooper, who lives in Canada, said in a telephone interview that he called an F.B.I. hotline in February and proposed trading the recordings for the pairs safety.He said he had told the hotline agent about one recorded conversation in which Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Prikhodko discussed wanting Mr. Trump to win.I explained all of that to the F.B.I., he said. They should have a transcript of everything and a recording of my voice.Mr. Cooper said he had never heard back from the agency. The F.B.I. declined to comment.Mr. Cooper said that Mr. Kirillov had hidden copies and instructed associates to release them if he or Ms. Vashukevich were killed or went missing.There is no investigation, Mr. Cooper said. The Americans are not interested. They want them to disappear, and Nastya in particular, because she is a living witness.By the standards of Pattaya, a city notorious for its adult entertainment, the sex seminar for about 30 Russian tourists was tame.A hotel spokeswoman, Joyce Ong, said the workshop was run like a normal corporate seminar, and she denied earlier reports that the staff had called the police.None of those arrested were charged with sexual misconduct. Ms. Vashukevich was both Mr. Kirillovs star pupil and one of the instructors at the seminars.The chief of Thailands Immigration Bureau, Suttipong Wongpin, said his department had restricted the pairs visitors because letting them talk freely could harm Thailands relations with the United States and Russia.The detainees, he said, will just say whatever they want.
KABUL, Afghanistan  Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious gathering in the northern province of Kunduz on Monday, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others, according to a local official in the area.The official, Nasruddin Saadi, district governor of Dasht-e-Archi, said that the helicopters attacked a religious ceremony for which about 1,000 people had assembled in a mosque and surrounding fields around noon.Witnesses reached by telephone said that the mosque was also a madrasa, or religious school, and that members of the Taliban had been present at the assembly, which had been organized to recognize graduates, appoint mullahs and elevate junior mullahs.Mr. Saadi also said that the event was religious in nature and that the security forces had decided to attack because armed militants were in attendance.However, Brig. Gen. Mohammad Radmanish, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry denied that the gathering had been for religious purposes. The Taliban and other insurgent groups were planning to attack Afghan forces, but their plan was discovered by our forces, he said.During the attack by our helicopters, 21 terrorists, including a Taliban commander, have been killed, he added. It isnt a residential area, and only terrorists and the Taliban were active in the place. There wasnt any civilian in the area.Nonetheless, witnesses said that children and other civilians were among the victims.The district of Dasht-e-Archi is a Taliban stronghold that has often been the scene of heavy fighting. In May, an American drone strike in the district killed Mullah Abdul Salam, the Taliban shadow governor of Kunduz.In 2016, an Afghan airstrike killed another  prominent Taliban commander, Mawlavi Muawiyah, in Dasht-e-Archi, along with 21 other fighters, according to the military. American airstrikes in the area have repeatedly been blamed for civilian casualties, and Afghan forces are increasingly taking over air operations there.A 40-year-old farmer from the district, who gave his name only as Mohammad, said that there had been a small number of armed Taliban fighters among the crowd at the assembly, but that most of the attendees were civilians, including madrasa students and graduates. He said that many children had been present, and that the first rockets fired by the helicopters had hit a group of youngsters. The farmer was unable to say how many had been killed or hurt, but added that one of the wounded was his nephew, age 10.Children come to any gathering where there is a free lunch, he said.A spokesman for the Taliban, Zabihullah Mujahid, said that the death toll was far higher than the official figure and that no insurgents had been present at the gathering, which was strictly religious in nature. Many Taliban commanders are also mullahs.Bombing civilians and then calling them mujahedeen is a habit of the Americans and their slaves, Mr. Mujahid said, adding that 150 people had died in the military strike. Those responsible for killing civilians and insulting religion will be brought to justice.
TOKYO   Asian markets were mostly higher in muted trading Monday, as Hong Kong and Australian markets were closed for Easter, and Wall Street and other global markets have been closed for a long weekend after Good Friday.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 added 0.5 percent to 21,562.01 in morning trading, while South Korea\'s Kospi was up 0.5 percent at 2,458.68. The Shanghai Composite index added 0.4 percent to 3,182.44. Shares in Singapore were higher, while those in Taiwan were lower.WALL STREET: New York trading is off for a long weekend for Good Friday, and will resume later in the day.TRADE FEARS: Asian benchmarks appeared to be shrugging off fears that President Donald Trump\'s tariff programs could set off a trade war. China raised import duties on U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in response to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. A bigger dispute looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods.JAPAN ECONOMY: A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years. The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers was 24 in March, down two points from December.THE QUOTE: "The market\'s biggest fears about escalating trade war and higher U.S. interest rates have tentatively blown over, suggesting investors will shift into bargain-hunting mode," said Stephen Innes, head of trading at Oanda.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 25 cents to $65.19 a barrel. Trading had stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 37 cents to $69.71 per barrel.CURRENCIES:  The dollar inched up to 106.33 yen from 106.23 yen late Friday. The euro inched down to $1.2322 from $1.2329.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
U.S. stocks tumbled Monday after China raised import duties on U.S. pork, apples and other products. Technology companies took some of the worst losses, and while it's too soon to call it the beginning of a trade war, investors aren't sticking around to find out if one is coming.On Monday:The S&P 500 index skidded 58.99 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,581.88.The Dow Jones industrial average declined 458.92 points, or 1.9 percent, to 23,644.19.The Nasdaq composite dropped 193.33 points, or 2.7 percent, to 6,870.12.The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks sank 36.90 points, or 2.4 percent, to 1,492.53.For the year:The S&P 500 is down 91.73 points, or 3.4 percent.The Dow is down 1,075.03 points, or 4.3 percent.The Nasdaq is down 33.27 points, or 0.5 percent.The Russell 2000 is down 42.98 points, or 2.8 percent.
TOKYO   Global markets mostly fell in muted trading Monday, as markets in Hong Kong, Australia and Europe were closed for Easter.KEEPING SCORE: Trading in France, Germany and Britain was closed for Easter and was to resume Tuesday. U.S. shares were set to drift lower with Dow futures down 0.4 percent at 24,061. S&P 500 futures lost 0.3 percent to 2,635. New York trading was off for a long weekend on Good Friday and was resume Monday.ASIA\'S DAY: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 lost 0.3 percent to close at 21,388.58, while South Korea\'s Kospi was down nearly 0.1 percent at 2,444.16. The Shanghai Composite index shed 0.2 percent to 3,163.18. Indexes in Southeast Asia were mixed.TRADE FEARS: Fears are still simmering that U.S. President Donald Trump\'s tariff programs could set off a trade war. China raised import duties on U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in response to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. A bigger dispute looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods.JAPAN ECONOMY: A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years. The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers was 24 in March, down two points from December.THE QUOTE: "The market\'s biggest fears about escalating trade war and higher U.S. interest rates have tentatively blown over, suggesting investors will shift into bargain-hunting mode," said Stephen Innes, head of trading at Oanda.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 18 cents to $65.12 a barrel. Trading had stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 33 cents to $69.67 per barrel.CURRENCIES:  The dollar rose to 106.29 yen from 106.23 late Friday. The euro inched up to $1.2331 from $1.2329.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
___US vs. China: a \'slap-fight,\' not a trade war. So farWASHINGTON (AP)  First, the United States imposed a tax on Chinese steel and aluminum. Then, China counterpunched Monday with tariffs on a host of U.S. products, including apples, pork and ginseng. On Wall Street, the stock market buckled on the prospect of an all-out trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies. But it hasn\'t come to that  not yet, anyway.___China raises tariffs on US pork, fruit in trade disputeBEIJING (AP)  China\'s move to raise import duties on U.S. pork, apples and other products will hit American farm states, many of which voted for Donald Trump in 2016. But spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says Trump isn\'t going to back down in the escalating trade dispute with China. She tells "Fox and Friends" that Trump is "going to fight back and he\'s going to push back." China\'s government says it\'s responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum.___Tech woes, worsening tensions with China sink US stocksNEW YORK (AP)  Stocks tumbled Monday after China raised import duties on a number of U.S. exports, bringing the two economic giants closer to a full-on trade conflict. Big technology companies, long investor favorites, suffered heavy losses. The worries over newly protectionist U.S. trade policies combined with blowback over Facebook\'s ever-widening privacy scandal have prompted investors to take money off the table. That has meant steep drops in former big winners including Netflix, Microsoft and Alphabet.___EPA to ease back emissions standardsNEW YORK (AP)  Environmental Protection Agency has set a plan to roll back emissions standards for cars and trucks but it didn\'t specify details. The regulator said Monday standards set by President Barack Obama were inappropriate and too high.___Facebook CEO defends advertising-supported business modelNEW YORK (AP)  The CEO of Facebook is defending its advertising-supported business model. Mark Zuckerberg\'s defense comes after Apple CEO Tim Cook said his company wouldn\'t be in Facebook\'s situation because Apple doesn\'t sell ads based on customer data the way Facebook does. Zuckerberg responded Monday that an advertising-supported business model is the only way that the service can survive because not everyone would be able to pay for Facebook if it charged a fee.___Pace of US factory growth slipped in MarchWASHINGTON (AP)  U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March. The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, reports that its manufacturing index slipped to 59.3 last month from February\'s reading of 60.8, which had been the highest since 2004. Any score above 50 signals growth. Multiple companies surveyed for the index said that the introduction of steel and aluminum tariffs by President Donald Trump were causing concerns about rising prices.___EPA says Pruitt\'s condo lease didn\'t violate ethics rulesWASHINGTON (AP)  An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitt\'s lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil-fuels lobbyist didn\'t violate federal rules. A memo signed by the official concludes that Pruitt\'s $50-a-night rental payments constitute a fair market rate. Pruitt paid just for nights he occupied the unit, averaging $1,000 a month. Two-bedroom apartments in the neighborhood typically rent for three to four times that amount per month.___Puerto Rico gov defies board, rejects reform, pension cutsSAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP)  The powers of a federal control board overseeing Puerto Rico\'s finances could soon be tested as the U.S. territory\'s governor defies its calls to implement more austerity measures amid an 11-year recession. Gov. Ricardo Rossello on Monday rejected demands that his administration submit a revised fiscal plan to include a labor reform and a 10 percent cut to a pension system facing nearly $50 billion in liabilities. He said the plan he will submit Thursday also will not contain any layoffs.___French train strikes aim to disrupt travel, test MacronPARIS (AP)  Trains around France are grinding to a stop as unions stage a mass strike to challenge President Emmanuel Macron\'s strategy for making his country more economically competitive. Passengers are sharing cars or canceling trips after national railway SNCF said the strike will halt 85 percent of France\'s high-speed trains and 75 percent of regional trains. A quarter of Air France flights will be grounded Tuesday by a separate strike over pay.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index gave up 58.99 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,581.88. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 458.92 points, or 1.9 percent, to 23,644.19. The Nasdaq composite slumped 193.33 points, or 2.7 percent, to 6,870.12. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks fell 36.90 points, or 2.4 percent, to 1,492.53.Benchmark U.S. crude lost $1.93, or 3 percent, to $63.01 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, slid $1.70, or 2.5 percent, to $67.64 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline dropped 5 cents to $1.97 a gallon. Heating oil fell 4 cents to $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas slid 5 cents to $2.68 per 1,000 cubic feet.
TOKYO   Asian stocks began the new quarter on Monday with mild gains following a strong performance by global equities last week, while the dollar held steady ahead of key economic indicators.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose 0.3 percent.South Korea\'s KOSPI gained 0.6 percent and Japan\'s Nikkei advanced 0.55 percent. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng added 0.25 percent and Shanghai was up 0.4 percent.Wall Street surged last Thursday as technology stocks rebounded, ending a tumultuous first quarter on a high note. Many major financial centers were closed for the Good Friday Easter holiday.MSCI\'s world equity index ended up 1.2 percent last week. But it lost about 1.5 percent in the first quarter, pushed away from record highs as tensions over global trade escalated, turmoil in the White House deepened and market-leading technology firms wobbled on fears of regulation and other issues."We expect strong and broad-based growth to continue globally," wrote strategists at Barclays.But they warned that there were looming risks: "Trade protectionism, U.S. economic policy uncertainty, concerns about higher cross-market volatility and risk premium in core rates markets call for a more tactical approach to risk assets."While fears of an all-out global trade war that gripped the financial markets last month have abated somewhat, tensions between the United States and China over tit-for-tat tariffs kept investors on edge.China on Monday imposed extra tariffs on U.S. products including frozen pork, wine and certain fruits and nuts in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel.In currencies, the dollar was steady at 106.340 yen, while the euro was almost unchanged at $1.2327.The greenback had gained about 0.6 percent against a basket of six major currencies last week helped by a combination of factors including perceived progress on North Korea issues.The dollar index still lost more than 2 percent last quarter, marking its fifth straight quarter of declines."A list of important indicators will be released this week, which could help steady market sentiment even though U.S.-China trade concerns and other geopolitical risks continue to linger in the background," said Koji Fukaya, president at FPG Securities in Tokyo.U.S. data due this week include Monday\'s Institute for Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing index, Wednesday\'s ISM non-manufacturing index and the non-farm payrolls report on Friday.Crude oil prices extended gains, lifted by a drop in U.S. drilling activity as well as by expectations that the United States could re-introduce sanctions against Iran.U.S. drillers cut seven oil rigs in the week to March 29, bringing the total count down to 797. It was the first time in three weeks that the rig-count fell.U.S. crude futures rose 0.4 percent to $65.21 a barrel and Brent advanced 0.55 percent to $69.73 a barrel."Investors took their cue from falling U.S drilling counts," Wang Xiao, head of crude oil research with Guotai Junan Futures said."But increasing trade friction between China and U.S. is likely to rock global markets and tarnish bullish sentiment in crude oil markets."(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; additional reporting by Henning Gloystein in Singapore; Editing by Eric Meijer & Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration this week will unveil a list of advanced technology Chinese imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to punish Beijing over technology transfer policies, a move expected to intensify trade tensions between the world\'s two largest economies.U.S. tariffs on $50 billion (35.59 billion pounds) to $60 billion worth of annual imports is expected to be levied on products benefiting from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" industrial development programme, but it may be more than two months before the import curbs take effect, administration officials have said.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s office needs to unveil the list of products by Friday under President Donald Trump\'s China tariff proclamation signed on March 22.The tariffs are aimed at forcing changes to Chinese government policies that USTR says results in the "uneconomic" transfer of U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies.The agency\'s "Section 301" investigation authorizing the tariffs alleges China has systematically sought to misappropriate U.S. intellectual property through joint venture requirements, unfair technology licensing rules, purchases of U.S. technology firms with state funding and outright theft.China has denied that its laws require technology transfers and has threatened to retaliate against any U.S. tariffs with trade sanctions of its own, with potential targets such as U.S. soybeans, aircraft or heavy equipment.On Sunday, Beijing slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as wine and certain fruits and nuts in response to steep U.S. tariffs on imports of aluminium and steel announced last month by the Trump administration.Fears have arisen that the two countries will spiral into a trade war that will crush global growth.TARGETING \'MADE IN CHINA 2025\'White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said last week that Section 301 tariffs would focus on Chinese industries benefiting from the Made in China 2025 plan, which aims to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products."China in my view brazenly has released this China 2025 plan and basically told the rest of the world, \'We\'re going to dominate every single emerging industry of the future and therefore your economies aren\'t going to have any future," Navarro told Bloomberg Television."The Section 301, which is on intellectual theft and forced transfer, is specifically designed to address those kinds of things," Navarro said.The state-led 2025 programme targets 10 strategic industries:  advanced information technology, robotics, aircraft, shipbuilding and marine engineering, advanced rail equipment, new energy vehicles, electrical generation equipment, agricultural machinery, pharmaceuticals and advanced materials."Foreign technology acquisition through various means remains a prime focus under Made in China 2025 because China is still catching up in many of the areas prioritised for development," USTR said in its report justifying the tariffs.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has said that preserving America\'s technological edge is "the future of the U.S. economy."Reports that the tariff list may also include consumer goods such as clothing and footwear drew strong protests from U.S. business groups, which argued that it would raise prices for U.S. consumers.LIMITED TIME FOR TALKSWhile there have been contacts between senior members of the Trump administration and their Chinese counterparts since Trump announced his intention to impose tariffs, there has been little evidence of intensive negotiations to forestall them."The administration is following the Japan model from the 1980s," said a tech industry executive. "They\'ll publish a Federal Register notice of tariffs on certain products, then try to reach a negotiated settlement over the next 60 days."During his first stint at USTR in the Reagan administration, Lighthizer employed similar tactics to win voluntary Japanese export restraints on steel and autos.Wendy Cutler, a former deputy USTR in charge of Asia negotiations, said that addressing the sweeping intellectual property allegations identified by USTR would require major changes to China\'s industrial policy. A 60-day settlement may not be realistic in that case."I think they\'ve set up a high bar for what they need to achieve, in order not to impose these types of tariffs and investment restrictions," Cutler said.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Peter Cooney and Susan Thomas)
TOKYO   Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labour costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.A strong yen and simmering fears of a trade war, triggered by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to impose tariffs on Chinese goods, could further undermine corporate morale if threats of retaliation escalate, analysts say.But few analysts expect the economic recovery to falter as business confidence remains at a decade-high level and companies plan to increase capital expenditure."Yen gains since late January have eroded manufacturers\' sentiment but solid global economic fundamentals helped offset the pain. Overall, you can say that business confidence held firm," said Yuichiro Nagai, an economist at Barclays Securities."Fears of a global trade war have had a limited impact on business sentiment so far. But depending on development of U.S. trade policy, protectionism could weigh on the outlook."An index measuring big manufacturers\' confidence fell by 2 points to plus 24 in March, the Bank of Japan\'s quarterly "tankan" survey showed, roughly matching a median market forecast of plus 25.Non-manufacturers\' sentiment worsened by 2 points to plus 23 against a median forecast of plus 24, deteriorating for the first time in six quarters.Both big manufacturers and non-manufacturers forecast business conditions would sour three months ahead, the tankan showed, reflecting looming uncertainty over the fallout from Trump\'s trade policy and a strong yen."This should not be taken as turning point for Japan\'s economy although sentiment deteriorated slightly," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "Concerns are high over possible retaliation against U.S. tariffs, but the global economy remains in a gradual recovery which is good for Japan\'s value-added exports."About 70 percent of companies replied to the survey by March 12, after Trump unveiled steep tariffs on steel and aluminium imports but before his announcement of anti-China tariffs.Big manufacturers expect the dollar to move around 109.66 yen on average during the year that began in April, much weaker than the current levels around 106 yen.If the yen\'s gains continue, manufacturers may be forced to cut their optimistic profit forecasts - a worry for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who is pursuing growth with reflationist policies.LABOUR SHORTAGESLabour shortages also weighed on sentiment, as economic recovery and a dwindling working-age population push the jobless rate to a near 25-year low.A tankan index measuring capacity constraints showed that companies saw the job market at its tightest since 1991."Labour shortages are having a negative impact particularly on labour-intensive service-sector firms," said Satoshi Osanai, senior economist at Daiwa Institute of Research.He said rising wages could stoke a "virtuous growth cycle" of consumer spending, rising prices and increased investment if    companies could pass on their higher costs to generate profit. "The key to making this happen is whether consumers are willing to spend their increased earnings, but so far there\'s little sign of that happening."Slow wage growth and companies\' reluctance to raise prices have kept inflation well below the Bank of Japan\'s elusive 2 percent target.However, the tankan showed more companies were able to pass  higher costs on to consumers, a hopeful sign for the central bank.A tankan index measuring how big manufacturers saw output price moves stood at plus 4, the highest level since 2008, and showing price pressures continue to rise.Some firms in the construction, restaurant and hotel industries complained that labour shortages were taking a toll on their businesses, a BOJ official briefing reporters on the data said.Firms in the basic materials business such as those selling steel, nonferrous metals and textiles saw sentiment hurt by rising cost of raw materials, the official said.The index measuring steelmakers\' sentiment fell 9 points, the biggest drop among big manufacturers, while confidence also slumped among producers of nonferrous metals and metal products.Still, big firms plan to raise their capital spending by 2.3 percent in the current financial year from April, versus the median estimate for a 0.6 percent gain, the tankan showed.The tankan\'s sentiment indexes are derived by subtracting the number of respondents who say conditions are poor from those who say they are good. A positive reading means optimists outnumber pessimists.(Reporting by Leika Kihara and Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Sam Holmes and Eric Meijer)
TOKYO   Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labor costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.A strong yen and simmering fears of a trade war, triggered by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to impose tariffs on Chinese goods, could further undermine corporate morale if threats of retaliation escalate, analysts say.But few analysts expect the economic recovery to falter as business confidence remains at a decade-high level and companies plan to increase capital expenditure."Yen gains since late January have eroded manufacturers\' sentiment but solid global economic fundamentals helped offset the pain. Overall, you can say that business confidence held firm," said Yuichiro Nagai, an economist at Barclays Securities."Fears of a global trade war have had a limited impact on business sentiment so far. But depending on development of U.S. trade policy, protectionism could weigh on the outlook."An index measuring big manufacturers\' confidence fell by 2 points to plus 24 in March, the Bank of Japan\'s quarterly "tankan" survey showed, roughly matching a median market forecast of plus 25.Non-manufacturers\' sentiment worsened by 2 points to plus 23 against a median forecast of plus 24, deteriorating for the first time in six quarters.Both big manufacturers and non-manufacturers forecast business conditions would sour three months ahead, the tankan showed, reflecting looming uncertainty over the fallout from Trump\'s trade policy and a strong yen."This should not be taken as turning point for Japan\'s economy although sentiment deteriorated slightly," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "Concerns are high over possible retaliation against U.S. tariffs, but the global economy remains in a gradual recovery which is good for Japan\'s value-added exports."About 70 percent of companies replied to the survey by March 12, after Trump unveiled steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports but before his announcement of anti-China tariffs.Big manufacturers expect the dollar to move around 109.66 yen on average during the year that began in April, much weaker than the current levels around 106 yen.If the yen\'s gains continue, manufacturers may be forced to cut their optimistic profit forecasts - a worry for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who is pursuing growth with reflationist policies.LABOR SHORTAGESLabor shortages also weighed on sentiment, as economic recovery and a dwindling working-age population push the jobless rate to a near 25-year low.A tankan index measuring capacity constraints showed that companies saw the job market at its tightest since 1991."Labor shortages are having a negative impact particularly on labor-intensive service-sector firms," said Satoshi Osanai, senior economist at Daiwa Institute of Research.He said rising wages could stoke a "virtuous growth cycle" of consumer spending, rising prices and increased investment if    companies could pass on their higher costs to generate profit. "The key to making this happen is whether consumers are willing to spend their increased earnings, but so far there\'s little sign of that happening."Slow wage growth and companies\' reluctance to raise prices have kept inflation well below the Bank of Japan\'s elusive 2 percent target.However, the tankan showed more companies were able to pass  higher costs on to consumers, a hopeful sign for the central bank.A tankan index measuring how big manufacturers saw output price moves stood at plus 4, the highest level since 2008, and showing price pressures continue to rise.Some firms in the construction, restaurant and hotel industries complained that labor shortages were taking a toll on their businesses, a BOJ official briefing reporters on the data said.Firms in the basic materials business such as those selling steel, nonferrous metals and textiles saw sentiment hurt by rising cost of raw materials, the official said.The index measuring steelmakers\' sentiment fell 9 points, the biggest drop among big manufacturers, while confidence also slumped among producers of nonferrous metals and metal products.Still, big firms plan to raise their capital spending by 2.3 percent in the current financial year from April, versus the median estimate for a 0.6 percent gain, the tankan showed.The tankan\'s sentiment indexes are derived by subtracting the number of respondents who say conditions are poor from those who say they are good. A positive reading means optimists outnumber pessimists.(Reporting by Leika Kihara and Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Sam Holmes and Eric Meijer)
BEIJING   China\'s manufacturing activity expanded at its weakest pace in four months in March as export demand faltered, prompting companies to shed staff more quickly as they looked to cut costs, a private survey showed on Monday.The Caixin/Markit Manufacturing Purchasing Managers\' index (PMI) fell to 51.0 in March from February\'s 51.6, countering economists\' expectations for a slight uptick to 51.7.While the index remained above the 50-point mark that divides growth from contraction on a monthly basis, it was the weakest reading since November and signalled only a marginal improvement in operating conditions at the end of the first quarter.The findings contrasted with official data on Saturday, which showed manufacturing growth picked up more than expected in March in response to stronger domestic and overseas demand. The two reports often diverge, possibly due to differences in the number and type of businesses surveyed.The Caixin PMI, which tends to focus on smaller firms, suggested output and new orders grew only modestly in March, with growth in export orders slumping to a 10-month low even as fears grow of a possible trade war between the United States and China.The survey cited subdued foreign demand, and did not mention if there had been any impact yet from escalating trade tensions.The Trump administration slapped hefty tariffs on steel and aluminium imports last week and then targeted China specifically by announcing plans for additional tariffs of up to $60 billion of Chinese goods, which are expected to focus largely on its tech and telecommunications products.A resurgent yuan <CNY=CFXS> could also be weighing more on smaller exporters. The Chinese currency has gained more than 3 percent against the U.S. dollar this year, on top of a 6.7 percent rise in 2017.Chinese manufacturers also continued to reduce headcounts in March to cut costs, with the rate of job shedding still modest but the quickest since last August, the survey showed."Overall, the manufacturing PMI reading in March showed that demand was not as strong as expected, leading to lower willingness of manufacturers to produce and restock," Zhengsheng Zhong, Director of Macroeconomic Analysis at CEBM Group, said in a note accompanying the release."However, the ability of manufacturers to make a profit was beefed up by the stable increase in new orders and the much slower jump in input costs."Input price inflation continued to cool, hitting a nine-month low, while firms raised their selling prices at a slightly quicker pace than the previous month.But many businesses appear to believe the weakness in March orders was only a soft patch, with optimism about the one-year outlook picking up to the highest in a year, underpinned by expectations that greater investment, improved market conditions and new products will all help to boost demand.Overall, China\'s economic data so far this year suggest the economy has carried solid growth momentum into the first quarter from last year, with a government think tank forecasting the economy will grow 6.9 percent in the first half.But economists are sticking to forecasts that China\'s pace will slow to around 6.5 percent by the end of the year, weighed down by the cooling property market and rising borrowing costs, even if there are no global trade shocks."The growth momentum of the Chinese manufacturing economy may have weakened in March, but at a marginal pace," said CEBM Group\'s Zhong.China is aiming for economic growth of around 6.5 percent this year, the same target as in 2017, while pressing ahead with its campaign to reduce risks in the financial system, Premier Li Keqiang said in March.China economic indicators dashboard -  http://tmsnrt.rs/2iO9Q6a(Reporting by Stella Qiu and Ryan Woo; Editing by Kim Coghill)
TOKYO   A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years.The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers, released Monday, was 24 in March, down two points from December.The forecast continued to be pessimistic with the index expected to fall to 20 over the next quarter.The survey is seen as a major economic indicator.The index is the difference between companies surveyed that have a "favorable" outlook and those with an "unfavorable" outlook.So the reading still shows optimists outnumber pessimists but that difference is starting to shrink.A looming U.S.-China trade war after President Donald Trump\'s tariffs and China\'s action in response could further hurt the Japanese economy.The results also show the momentum of growth under "Abenomics" could be running out of steam.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been trying to wrest the economy out of decades of doldrums by fighting deflation, a continuing spiraling down of prices that deadens the economy  an effort that has met with some success.But the Japanese economy is heavily dependent on exports and hurt by a shrinking of its labor force."Softer than expected tankan for large manufacturers marked by first slippage, albeit modest, in eight quarters being attributed to a stronger Japanese yen," says Vishnu Varathan, of the Asia and Oceania Treasury Department of Mizuho Bank.A strong yen erodes the value of Japan\'s exports when converted into yen.____Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
SAN FRANCISCO   As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy.The president - who frequently touted Wall Street\'s rally following his 2016 election victory - was partly blamed for a sharp stock selloff on Monday that investors believe is likely to continue, deepening cracks in a nine-year-old bull run.The selling was sparked by escalating fears of a trade war as China slapped tariffs on a host of U.S. goods as Trump prepares to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese imports, and by Trump\'s renewed criticism of Amazon.com Inc."The president\'s behavior is now beginning to impact the capital markets - both the averages and individual equities," said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Florida.Particularly worrisome to investors on Monday: more weakness in the tech sector, which led the market up in recent months, and a breach below a major S&P 500 technical level.In a Twitter post, Trump attacked Amazon for a second time in three days over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.Amazon\'s stock slumped 5.2 percent and led the S&P 500 and Nasdaq down, pressuring other high-growth, technology-related stocks, including Microsoft Corp, Apple Inc and Facebook Inc. Outcry in recent weeks over Facebook\'s handling of data about its users has shaken the tech sector with fears of greater governmental oversight."(One) big factor is Trump further going after the tech sector, namely Amazon," said Tom di Galoma, managing director at Seaport Global Holdings in New York. "It casts a shadow effectively around all of the tech sector."TECH SECTOR PAIN = MARKET PAINThe selloff in technology-related stocks was seen as a particularly worrisome sign for investors who have banked on that sector continuing to drive the broader market."It\'s very significant," said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at Weeden & Co in New York. "Selling tech is not a sector rotation story, its a sell-the-market story."Technology stocks have been widely viewed in recent months as a "crowded trade" - with most investors having the same opinion, increasing the potential for a volatile selloff if sentiment changes."What we\'ve learned over the past two weeks is just how overweight investors were in technology," said Nicholas Colas, co-founder of Datatrek Research, New York.Investors saw more selling pressure ahead, particularly after the S&P 500 dipped below a major technical level, the 200-day moving average, for the first time since Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016. The index closed at 2,582, for a year-to-date decline of 3.4 percent."We have been pounding on the 200-day for the last six sessions and now we\'ve broken through," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas. There may be support around the 2,537 level, he said, "but then below that we may be looking at 2,500 or so again, which is pretty scary."In Trump\'s first year as president, the S&P 500 surged 24 percent on bets he would boost the economy with fiscal spending, deregulation and deep tax cuts. Trump tweeted frequently about the stock market as it rallied through 2017. But since a selloff in February, he has been noticeably silent.But this bull market has frequently staged swift recoveries, and some were poised for opportunity."I\'m taking advantage of these markets and am heavily overweighted financials and banks," said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer Of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida. "I didn\'t buy today, we\'re in freefall, but I might tomorrow."(Reporting by Noel Randewich; additional reporting by Kate Duguid, Karen Brettell, Jennifer Ablan and Megan Davies in New York; editing by Megan Davies and Leslie Adler)
Good morning. Our erstwhile colleague and forever friend Nigella Lawson has a new cookbook coming out of the publishing oven soon, At My Table: A Celebration of Home Cooking. One of the things I like about it is how deeply she resents the need to say how many people each dish will feed. When having people over to eat, she writes, I am always stricken with fear that there wont be enough food; there are always leftovers.That is as it should be. Having extras to eat the next morning or noon, or to cook the next night for dinner, can spur a person to new creativity in the kitchen, to an extended sense of the joy delivered by the first meal, in the first place.In her book, Nigella has a recipe for roasted sausages with quartered red onions and Gala apples. You dont need to wait for publication day to make it. Toss the best links you can find with olive oil, the apples and onions, some mustard seeds, dried thyme and a little flaky salt, then roast it all at 400 for around an hour. Serves four.Or, like, eight! But if you reheat the leftovers the next night and slide them into toasted sub rolls with really hefty swipes of good mustard, a little mayo? Thanks, Nigella, two times.So well cook that meal at some point this week  two meals. And make this fine new recipe for one-pot meatballs and sauce.And absolutely take time for a platter of country captain (above) as well. There is no easier, more celebratory meal I can think of, save perhaps that famous old war horse chicken Provenal.Is your home flooded with hard-boiled eggs, after Easter? Heres a collection of recipes that will use them all up.Or are you looking for a simple, deeply flavorful Hakka-style dish of braised eggplant with ground pork and mushrooms? You might be. Its delicious.Youre definitely looking for Pierre Franeys recipe for fettuccine with asparagus. Its spring time at last.Speaking of, have you ever made Kim Seversons recipe for a lazy sonker? Oh, buddy. Serves eight for real.Thousands and thousands of other recipes you could cook this week are on NYT Cooking. (Nigella has rather a few recipes on there herself.) Just sign up for a subscription so you can go click among them.And check this out. When you save a recipe now, our newest home page feature kicks in, a move in the direction of what is called in the digital food trade personalization: a recommendation engine that suggests new recipes for you, based on the ones youve saved. Its neat.Of course well be standing by if anything goes wrong, with the food or the technology. Just write us: cookingcare@nytimes.com. And well endeavor to help.Now, no need to leave your screen just yet! Maybe you could head over to Longreads to read this good-sized excerpt from Andrew Friedmans new book, Chefs, Drugs and Rock & Roll. It documents a cultural pivot: a blue-collar profession becoming one of celebrity, at the start of the era of the American Chef.Nothing to do with cocaine or marjoram, but check out as well this fathers account in The Boston Globe of how a great horned owl attacked his son in the woods. (Yikes!)Finally, a trip in the wayback machine back to August 2017: Ocean Vuongs poem You Guys, in Granta 140. Ill see you on Wednesday. Cook something great.
WASHINGTON   U.S. factory activity slowed in March amid shortages of skilled workers and rising capacity constraints, but growth in the manufacturing sector remains underpinned by strong domestic and global economies.The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) survey published on Monday also showed a surge in the cost of raw materials and worries among manufacturers about the impact of steel and aluminium import tariffs imposed by President Donald Trump last month to shield domestic industries from what he has described as unfair competition from other countries."Demand remains robust, but the nation\'s employment resources and supply chains are still struggling to keep up," said Timothy Fiore, chair of ISM\'s manufacturing business survey committee.The ISM said its index of national factory activity slipped to a reading of 59.3 last month from 60.8 in February. A reading above 50 in the ISM index indicates growth in manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the U.S. economy.The survey\'s prices index jumped to its highest level since April 2011. There were price increases across 17 of 18 industry sectors last month. While a measure of new orders dropped, a gauge of backlog orders rose to levels last seen in May 2004.The survey\'s customers\' inventories index was at its lowest level since July 2011. A measure of factory employment dropped last month and the ISM said there were indications that labour and skill shortages were affecting production.Seventeen industries including fabricated metal products, computer and electronic products, machinery, and chemical products reported growth last month. Apparel, leather and allied products was the only industry reporting a decrease.EYES ON TARIFFSMachinery manufacturers said the tariffs on steel and aluminium imports were "causing panic buying, driving the near-term prices higher and leading to inventory shortages for non-contract customers."Manufacturers of miscellaneous products reported that "new tariffs are causing concern across the supply chain. Full impact will take a few weeks to reveal itself." Primary metal producers reported "significant price increases in the steel commodity" as a result of the tariffs.Trump slapped 25 percent tariffs on steel imports and 10 percent for aluminium in early March. Fiore said 42 percent of survey comments in March were related to prices and tariffs.U.S. financial markets were little moved by the data, with investors worrying about a global trade war after China increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 American products in response to the duties on aluminium and steel imports.Stocks on Wall Street were trading sharply lower and the dollar fell against a basket of currencies. U.S. government bond prices rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to a near two-month low.Still, the outlook for manufacturing remains upbeat amid  dollar weakness, which is boosting the competitiveness of American-made goods on the international market."The near-term prospects for the manufacturing sector and the broader economy still appear brighter than they have been at any point over the past five years," said Michael Pearce, an economist at Capital Economics in New York.A separate report from the Commerce Department on Monday showed construction spending edged up 0.1 percent in February after being unchanged in January. February\'s marginal increase in construction spending supports economists expectations for a slowdown in economic growth in the first quarter.Gross domestic product growth estimates for the January-March quarter are mostly below a 2 percent annualised rate. The economy grew at a 2.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter.Construction spending in February was held back by a 2.1 percent drop in outlays on public construction projects, which almost reversed January\'s 2.3 percent rise.Spending on federal government construction projects plunged 11.9 percent, the biggest decline since October 2004, after surging 13.4 percent in January.State and local government construction outlays fell 1.0 percent after rising 1.3 percent in January. The drop in public construction spending dwarfed a 0.7 percent rise in investment in private construction projects."We expect only limited gains in public construction spending this year, based on the budget constraints at the state and local level," said Gregory Daco, chiefU.S. economist at Oxford Economics in New York.(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Additional reporting by Richard Leong;  Editing by Andrea Ricci)
GOLD COAST, Australia  Amid the skyscrapers and coastline of Surfers Paradise here, you can spot a large surfboard with a digital clock, determinedly counting down. The Commonwealth Games will descend this week onto the Gold Coasts beaches, bringing with it the worlds best athletes and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.The weekslong multisport event has gathered various nations of the British Commonwealth every four years since 1930, barring a few wartime aberrations. It was originally known as the British Empire Games, hosting various combinations of countries, with Australia and Britain among the mainstays. The 2018 Games will draw athletes from 71 Commonwealth nations and territories who will compete in 275 events over 18 sports.[READ MORE: The Lure of Australias Gold Coast]Despite the impending glow of an international audience, familiar concerns over the Games substantial cost and dwindling significance have again come to the fore, this time in the Australian state of Queensland.Theres little doubt the Commonwealth represents a particular, if aging, type of might  it still represents about a third of the worlds population. Set up in the mid-20th century as Britain allowed for the self-governance of many of its territories, the Commonwealth of Nations have no legal obligations to one another, but instead aim to further shared values like democracy and freedom of speech.But, in a post-Brexit landscape, and with many countries shrinking further into isolationism, questions have been raised not only of the Games relevance, but the relevance of the Commonwealth itself.The Commonwealth matters to me, said Jacqui Gooding, a New Zealander who was visiting Surfers Paradise on vacation. The queen is our leader  I dont want a president.Mrs. Goodings husband, John, dismissed the idea that the Games would be absent of sporting and political relevance.Its about bringing all the nations of the Commonwealth together, he said. It shows the power of sport in diplomacy, and the importance of the Commonwealth.And look at what happened with North Korea, he added, referring to the meeting tentatively arranged between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, which has been largely credited to the afterglow of the Pyeongchang Olympics.Organizers on the Gold Coast said they expected the Games to reach a global audience of 1.5 billion. For context, the 2014 World Cup had about 3.2 billion global viewers and the Rio Olympics had about 3.6 billion.The mood of locals varied from enthusiasm to curiosity to, occasionally, eye-rolling frustration at construction and traffic delays.Nick Atkins, who runs a co-working space on the Gold Coast, has been an advocate for attracting and retaining talent in the region. He said he was more excited about the governments spending on infrastructure than the events themselves.For me, personally, I dont know who the Commonwealths best javelin thrower is, or table tennis player or swimmer, he said. But theres an undeniable positivity on the Gold Coast for it.Mr. Atkins added that he felt little emotional connection to the Commonwealth itself.In an identity sense, I would like to become a republic  I dont see the need for us to be part of the Commonwealth, really, anymore, he said.Peter Beattie, a former premier of the state of Queensland, and the chairman of the Gold Coast Games, said that he empathized with those who had reservations about the event.I understand that theres always a bit of cynicism: is this the remnants of the Empire? Look, it came from the Empire Games, but its relevance and relationship with the Empire Games is very tenuous, he said.Mr. Beattie believed that Brexit and its fallout had given the Commonwealth, and its Games, a unique opening to capitalize upon.Brexit, actually, in a converse way, has made the Commonwealth more relevant, not less, he said. Britains now looking at free trade agreements. Part of whats happening here is a meeting of all the trade ministers.Of course, it is difficult to ignore that the Games are, in a way, a sort of Olympics-lite: an athletic coming together of many nations, to be sure, but with the notable absence of medal-winning mainstays like China, the United States and Russia.But organizers, including Mr. Beattie, were quick to paint the Games as more nimble and progressive than the Olympics, and several times implied that the latter could do with some evolution.The Olympics are just a hard, competitive sporting event  and thats terrific, he said. The Commonwealth is more than that.This years Games, for the first time, will feature an equal gender split of events. Women will compete for the same number of medals as men, a feat that organizers said had not been replicated by any other major multisport international event  including the Olympics.Mr. Beattie said that the Games would send a message about the advancement of women that he hoped the Olympics would emulate.Others said the Games presented athletes with a rare chance at higher competition like the Olympics and World Championships  and some athletes with perhaps the peak competition of their careers.I just snuck into the Commonwealth Games. It was the first major team that I made, representing Australia  they have more relaxed standards, said Steve Moneghetti, a retired Australian runner who eventually competed in four Olympic marathons. Its a good steppingstone, and certainly for some athletes it will be the only multisport competition that they go to.It is easy to see why for certain nations these Games may be just as watchable as the Olympics  theres a far greater chance of seeing a fellow countryman win.Australians, were quite competitive. Weve either topped or been second in the medal tally for most Games in history. The Australian public really embrace them, Mr. Moneghetti said. I know this sounds quite nave, but Australians kind of go, Commonwealth Games, Olympic Games, if you won a medal, thats great.Medal count aside, host cities have faced increasing pressure in recent Games to ensure that the economic impact of the event proves both positive and sustainable.Last year the South African city of Durban was stripped of the right to host the Games in 2022, following a series of missed deadlines and financial shortcomings. The African continent has never hosted the Games.Before that, Indias 2010 Games were marred by accusations of substantial overspend and corruption.The 2014 Games in Glasgow proved something of a litmus test for the economic and cultural credibility of the event.There, a large chunk of responsibility fell to an American, David Grevemberg, who had previously been part of a team that secured an agreement that would require Olympic cities to also host the Paralympics.Post India, we had a brand thats relevance was being questioned, said Mr. Grevemberg, who today is the chief executive of the Commonwealth Games Federation.Under Mr. Grevembergs leadership, Glasgow 2014 accomplished an elusive feat: finishing under budget.Mr. Beattie said that much of the 2018 Games $1.1 billion budget had gone toward infrastructure that would continue to be used after the event ends. He added that most of the money had been publicly funded, though these Games had attracted more sponsors than any before it.Regardless of how well this years Games perform, many involved with the event conceded that it must continue to shrug off predictions of its demise.Mr. Grevemberg has seen success and failure in large sporting events, including at the now-defunct Goodwill Games, where he worked with some American athletes.The Goodwill Games were largely spun off of Cold War tensions  Im not sure that its narrative matured beyond that, he said.Mr. Grevemberg emphasized the power of nonsporting stories the Games have seen, from apartheid-era boycotts, to the Australian runner Cathy Freemans decision to drape herself in an Aboriginal, not an Australian, flag as she celebrated a gold medal win.And, with regard to the five-ringed shadow of the Olympic Games, and any perceived inferiority complex, Mr. Grevemberg playfully brushed cynicism aside.You are what you believe you are, he said.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: A week after student-led marches around the U.S. called for gun control, both sides in the debate think they are being underestimated.Itll go away, a 77-year-old gun owner in Virginia said of the protests. Like all the other times.Forty miles away, a high school student had a different take: Theyre looking for us to get bored. Were not going to get bored.The young activists are hoping to drive real change in this falls midterm elections and beyond, but that would hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout for their age group. In an essay for The Times Magazine, a lifelong gun owner wrestles with the changes to gun laws that he says must come, and with his fears of what such changes might destroy. Twelve years ago, Charles Kushner was making wallets at a prison camp in Alabama.So it felt like redemption when the real estate barons son Jared was named President Trumps senior adviser.But being at the pinnacle of American political power has turned out to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushners. Their access to the president has brought criminal and regulatory inquiries, and their business empires deals are scrutinized for hints of federal influence. In a recent interview, Charles Kushner had an invitation for investigators: Go knock yourselves out for the next 10 years, he said. We didnt do anything wrong. Officials across the U.S. are struggling to control the use of e-cigarettes among students.The devices are so easily concealed that its possible to vape in class. E-cigarettes are widely considered safer than traditional ones, but health officials fear that vaping is creating a new generation of nicotine addicts. The Morning Briefing doesnt mention Uzbekistan very often, but the Central Asian nation has recently been a source of (relatively) good news, bucking a global trend toward authoritarian rule.Eighteen months after the death of its longtime dictator, Uzbekistans new leadership has been trying to open up one of the worlds most repressive countries by releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. The ice is melting in this country, a confidant of the new president told our correspondent. China announced tariffs as high as 25 percent on 128 American-made products today. The move is intended to pressure the Trump administration into backing down from a simmering trade war. Anchors at local TV news stations across the U.S. made identical comments last month about media bias. The script came from the stations owner, Sinclair Broadcast Group. In the tight U.S. labor market, positions in out-of-the-way places like poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that presents an opportunity for refugees. Speaking of jobs, the March employment report is among the headlines to watch this week. U.S. stocks were closed on Good Friday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette. Readers wrote to us about whether theyre leaving their children an inheritance and how their decisions have affected their finances and family. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Step by step, this interactive piece gently leads you into the story of a mother whose life was devastated by a gun attack.Somehow, it manages to be as lovely, even whimsical, as it is devastating. [WeTransfer/Five Dials] Sarah Lyall, writer at large Do you remember last year, when an airport in Portugal unveiled a bronze bust of Cristiano Ronaldo, which was widely mocked?A sports site interviewed the sculptor about the experience, and it is an unsettling and at points touching reminder that the social media world is also the real world. [B/R Football, via Twitter] Max Fisher, The Interpreter columnist On Easter Sunday, Pope Francis urged reconciliation in the Middle East and pressed for the fruits of dialogue in Asia. A public relations battle has erupted after violence along Israels border with Gaza left 15 Palestinians dead. President Trump blamed Democrats and Mexico for a dangerous flow of immigrants, and vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL. A Chinese space station the size of a school bus re-entered Earths atmosphere, scattering over the southern Pacific Ocean. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, greeted South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, at a concert in Pyongyang. Steven Spielberg successfully returned to his crowd-pleasing roots, as Ready Player One earned $53.2 million and the top spot at the North American box office. Redemption of a lost prodigyAs a child, Saul Chandler was a promising violinist, playing at Carnegie Hall before the age of 11. But at 16, he had a nervous breakdown and left the world of classical music.Fifty years later, he has found refuge at a boatyard in the Bronx. His story was one of our most popular this weekend. In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was among the pantheon of South Africas liberators, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81.Johan van Hulst helped save as many as 600 children from a Nazi concentration camp. He died at 107.Steven Bochco, a celebrated TV writer and producer, created boundary-pushing dramas like Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law and NYPD Blue. He was 74. Notre Dame 2, Buzzer 0Two days after Arike Ogunbowale hit a last-second shot to beat Connecticut, she did it again on Sunday, giving Notre Dame its second N.C.A.A. womens basketball title. The Fighting Irish beat Mississippi State, 61-58.The mens championship game, between Michigan and Villanova, is tonight. Heres how the teams match up. Quotation of the dayNo, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. Mike Stanton, father of the New York Yankees slugger Giancarlo Stanton, recalling what he told his wife at the time, Jacinta Garay, when she wanted to name their son Fidel. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Abraham Lincoln.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Signs of an assassin in Britain, a thaw in Uzbekistan and a rebel queen in Denmark. Heres the latest: President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a dangerous flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations hard-line stance on immigration.Separately, our reporters examine how Mr. Trumps rise to power has affected the wealthy, scandal-racked family of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and presidential adviser. (Hint: It hasnt been good.)_____ British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on the door handle of Sergei Skripals home, above, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the poison, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional  on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government  could have administered it to the former Russian double agent and his daughter.That theory is raising questions about the role of Russias president, Vladimir Putin, in the attack, which has raised tensions between Russia and the West to their highest point since the Cold War._____ Bucking a global trend toward authoritarianism, Uzbekistans new leader is reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression.Its still too dangerous to utter the name of the countrys vicious security service in public, but human rights activists say repression has eased, if only slightly.The changes reflect a struggle between the new president and the brutal police state he is trying to tame. (Above, a memorial complex near Bukhara, Uzbekistan, in February.)_____ A rebel queen.In Denmark, where most public statues represent white men, two artists unveiled the countrys first public monument to a black woman. The sculpture, above, is a tribute to Mary Thomas, who led a fiery 1878 revolt against Danish colonial rule in the Caribbean._____ Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the carnage in the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria and urged reconciliation in the Middle East. The pope also baptized eight people into the Roman Catholic faith, including a Nigerian migrant who has been called a hero in Italy for foiling a robbery in Rome.Meanwhile, the Vatican will hold an exorcism training course for priests, as demands for the ridding of demonic possession have soared around the world, including in Britain, where the practice has reportedly become a booming industry. Technology companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.) The Chinese government retaliated against President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum by slapping tariffs as high as 25 percent on imports of 128 American-made products, including pork and seamless steel pipes. Facebooks latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending growth at any cost  even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.) People are trying to boycott the big tech companies amid a backlash. The problem is that Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Google are nearly inescapable. In Britain, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees must publish figures by Wednesday showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. Here are other headlines to watch for this week. Many markets are closed for the Easter holiday. Heres a snapshot of other global markets. In the U.S. push for gun control, both advocates and opponents think the other side will eventually give up. Itll go away, said a 77-year-old man, above, who owns about 75 guns. Like all the other times. [The New York Times] North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, was in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times] A Bulgarian government commission alleges that Julia Kristeva, one of Frances most respected philosophers, was also a Communist-era secret agent. Ms. Kristeva dismissed the accusation as fake news and a barefaced lie. [The New York Times] Israel and the Palestinians are waging a public relations battle over the shooting deaths of 15 Palestinians by Israeli troops during violent protests at the Gaza border. [The New York Times] A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old maid from the Philippines, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Deutsche Welle] April Fools? An alligator in the swimming pool, a Trump hotel room jail cell, and other news stories that sound like hoaxes  but arent. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Working out is great for you. Heres how to start. For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo. The U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis, above, was dismissed as a warmonger during the Obama presidency. But as global tensions rise under President Trump, he may be the only reliable voice of caution left in an administration inching closer to the brink. In memoriam: Johan van Hulst, 107, a Dutch educator who helped save 600 Jewish children from the Nazis. Despite his efforts, he was haunted by those he couldnt save. You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on, I asked myself, Why not 13? Can Europe lead on privacy? In an opinion piece, a former U.S. official hails new E.U. rules that let consumers control their private information online and says they can actually help Americans, too  especially since President Trump signed a law prohibiting such safeguards.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.   Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley is demanding information from Facebook following allegations that the social media giant mishandled user data.The Republican Senate candidate announced Monday that his office issued a civil investigative demand, which functions like a subpoena. It seeks details on how Facebook collects and shares user information.Facebook didn't immediately comment when contacted by The Associated Press.Hawley is among 37 attorneys general who signed a letter last week asking Facebook similar questions. The Federal Trade Commission is also investigating.Hawley's announcement follows revelations that a consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump got data on millions of unsuspecting Facebook users. Facebook is also facing criticism for collecting years of data on call and text histories from Android users.Hawley is running for Democratic U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill's seat.
FRANKFURT   Volkswagen\'s premium brand Audi aims to double sales in China over the coming six years, sales chief Bram Schot told Automobilwoche."In 2023 we want to sell 1.2 million cars in China," the German trade magazine quoted him as saying.Audi sold 597,000 vehicles in China, its biggest single market, last year.The company last year resolved a dispute with dealers in China that could have disrupted the luxury carmaker\'s business in the world\'s biggest auto market.The dispute stemmed from a long-term collaboration between Audi and SAIC Motor Corp that had riled Audi store operators in China, who among others sell Chinese-made vehicles as part of Audi\'s existing joint venture with China\'s FAW Corp [SASACJ.UL].Schot said Audi would continue to work with both SAIC and FAW.(Reporting by Maria Sheahan; editing by John Stonestreet)
SILVER SPRING, Md.  With forecasters expecting the unemployment rate to sink further this week, the chorus of complaints about worker shortages  from custodians to computer prodigies  has swelled.Yet companies that turn to labor recruiters like Ray Wiley tend to have an especially tough time: The jobs they offer are in out-of-way places; the work is low-paid and disagreeable; and native-born Americans, particularly white men, are generally not interested.We have employers call us all the time, said Mr. Wiley, who primarily works with meat-processing plants and lumber mills that have trouble retaining workers even when the jobless rate is well above its historically low level of 4.1 percent.The economy is on solid footing in the ninth year of the recovery, and even entry-level workers have more options. So in Atlanta, San Diego and other cities, Mr. Wileys company, East Coast Labor Solutions, finds workers, primarily refugees from war-ravaged countries who dont speak English. Other candidates include Puerto Ricans discouraged by the islands lack of jobs, as well as immigrants  here legally, he emphasizes  who have no problem passing a drug test.If you told me theres 1,000 refugees who need work and want work, I could find them work this month, said Mr. Wiley, whose distinctive drawl pays tribute to his Georgia roots. Employers like refugees, he said. There is no question about their legal status, he noted, and they are generally more motivated and work harder, if only because their situation is more dire.Im ready to go right now, said Ronald Johnson, 37, who showed up one afternoon with two friends at Labor Solutions bare, second-floor office in Silver Spring, Md. He had heard from others in his community of Sierra Leone refugees that this agency could immediately place anyone willing to move to a nearby state. I want to go where they pay the most money and charge the least for rent.Within an hour, all three men agreed to move to a rural town they had never heard of, to take a job they had never done before.Citing the need to protect national security and jobs, however, President Trump has moved to sharply limit legal immigrants and refugees, capping the number of refugees at 45,000, the lowest yearly total since the program began in 1975. The actual pace of admittance has so far fallen below that level, which could make it even harder for meat processors and similarly situated industries to fill their ranks.I appreciate what Trump is doing in trying to create more jobs for Americans, Mr. Wiley said, in response to the presidents argument that immigrants are taking work from native-born Americans. But for some lower-paid jobs that are undesirable, a lot of Americans dont want to do those jobs.Of course they might, if the pay were good enough. When meatpackers were unionized and located in cities like Chicago, hourly wages averaged $20 an hour in todays dollars, plus generous benefits. In the 1960s, though, packers began moving to rural areas, bringing workers to where the animals lived instead of the other way around. The shift enabled companies to cut wages drastically, escape the pressures of collective bargaining and speed output.The move from high-wage locations to low-wage ones has become commonplace as the economy globalized, upending stable middle-class communities.In the international arena, companies like Carrier and Rexnord recently closed factories in the United States and moved operations to places like China, Vietnam and Mexico where labor could be found at cut-rate prices.But long before complaints about the North American Free Trade Agreement or steel imports from China commanded headlines, a domestic version of this pattern was already playing out in some industries. And as the pay changed, so did the face of the work force, once dominated by white males. Women, immigrants and people of color now hang chickens on hooks or hack them into parts on an assembly line. They are paid about half of what their counterparts earned four decades ago (after taking inflation into account), and have fewer benefits and protections. Such conditions dont foster long-term stability. In some plants, employers have to replace up to 70 percent of their staffs every year.Reducing that churn has become harder as the unemployment rate has dropped and several cities have raised the minimum wage.Thats where Mr. Wiley comes in. His recruits come from parts of the globe like Africa and Mexico that President Trump has repeatedly disparaged. Some are new arrivals sleeping on a relatives couch; others are longtime residents struggling with low pay, high rents, long commutes or just a stretch of hard luck. He typically finds work for a few dozen a month.Ill take any job, said Suleiman Kabba, 42, who came to the Labor Solutions office in Silver Spring, a Washington suburb, with Mr. Johnson. He had recently moved to Maryland and was down to his last few dollars. He needed to save up to replace stolen identity documents and buy airline tickets to bring over his two children, still in Sierra Leone. He removed a pair of tinted glasses and pulled at the collar of his U.S.A. T-shirt to show the scars from a bullet that had traveled through his eye and out the left side of his neck when his family was attacked during the civil war there.Haimonet Demcasso, the recruiter, explained, in two languages, the broad outlines of the jobs. The poultry-plant work pays roughly $11 to $13 an hour in small towns in Virginia and West Virginia. Labor Solutions would transport the recruits, find apartments for them to share, help fill out paperwork, and advance them the money to cover their travel, the first months rent, the security deposit, heavy work boots and home essentials. They could pay it back out of their paychecks with no interest at a rate of $60 a week.They are paid the same as other plant workers, but they are employees of Labor Solutions for up to a year, until theyve repaid their loans.More details about the job itself would come once they went through orientation at the plant, Ms. Demcasso said.For Mr. Johnson, who had recently lost his job as a van driver and was already dodging calls from debt collectors, upfront money made the difference. For me to rent an apartment, I need a boatload of money, he said.His wife, Elizabeth, was more skeptical when she heard about the deal. An apartment and two jobs just waiting for them? Money up front? There were plenty of unscrupulous recruiters who made all kinds of promises and deceived trusting job seekers  a cruel and sordid side of the industry that Mr. Wiley acknowledged is all too common.I was dragging my feet, Ms. Johnson said. But after coming up for a day to check the area and the classrooms her two children would attend in Woodstock, Va., she was convinced. I loved the school just by looking at it, she said. Most important, she saw no signs of the drugs, violence and bullying that plagued the White Oak neighborhood of Silver Spring, where they were temporarily doubled up with family. And theres no roaches and mice or rats.Mr. Wiley said that when he started working with refugees, mostly Burmese, in 2008, he didnt offer money and support, but he soon realized that the job placements wouldnt last without it. Resettlement agency assistance was temporary and many job seekers didnt speak English. So he hired case managers to translate, help with school enrollment, drive recruits to the supermarket, find English classes and more.Berhane Teklay, who once hung live chickens upside down in a plant, handles the 30 or so workers Mr. Wiley has placed in Woodstock.Originally from Eritrea, Mr. Teklay arrived after winning a visa in the 2011 diversity lottery  a program that the Trump administration recently vowed to shutter. This year, he became a United States citizen.You need somebody to help you get into the system, Mr. Teklay said, and thats what Labor Solutions does. For refugees who cant speak English well or drive a car, he said, a job in a meat-processing plant is about the best they can do.Fluent in Arabic, Amharic, Tigrinya and English, Mr. Teklay acts as interpreter, administrator, real estate agent, loan office, complaint bureau and overall fixer.For a year, he helped Waleed Kanuo, Elfadil Daoud and Ali Hamid, refugees from Sudan, settle into an apartment in Woodstock and navigate the system, until they transferred to working directly for the poultry-plant operator. Gathered in the living room of the sparsely furnished apartment they share, all three said they were saving money and grateful to Labor Solutions for finding them a job.For others, the experience is more mixed.Mr. Kabba, for instance, said he had not known that he would have to pay an additional $25 every week for the daily mile ride from a co-worker to and from the plant. Nor did he understand that he would be working for Labor Solutions and not the processing plant directly, which he said makes it more difficult to switch departments, and means he is not yet eligible for the health benefits or 401(k) plan.At the same time, plant conditions are regimented and unforgiving, with 30 minutes for lunch and two 10-minute bathroom breaks that workers said dont include time to change out and into cumbersome protective garb. And small infractions can lead to firing.But as a friend of Mr. Kabbas says, thats the way it is in America: They tell you all the sweet stuff, and not the salty. Its a job, Mr. Kabba said of the $11.70-an-hour work, which pays a $1-an-hour bonus if hes on time every day of the week. You cant pick and choose. And he loves Woodstocks quiet.Teddy Marchant, 32, a former housemate of Mr. Kabbas, did not. Within a couple of days, he realized that the small town, without so much as a movie theater, wasnt for him. He needed the cash, he said, but if I had my way, I dont think Id be here. He soon left.Ms. Johnson had time to check out the place but not the $11-an-hour job she was promised. I had no idea of what I was going to see, she said.When she walked into the plant, it was a shock. Oh, my God, I saw chickens  lots and lots and lots of chickens, 350,000 chickens a day, she said, still shaking her head at the looping conveyor belts crowded with birds. If you scratch your face or bend down, you might miss a couple of chickens.She clocked in at 5:30 a.m. and rotated hanging up the dead chickens, cleaning out guts and cutting off legs, wings and backs to ready the meat for packaging, she said.It is physically demanding, repetitive and smelly, Ms. Johnson said.A smell that her husband noted was also the smell of money.Mr. Johnson, who was born in Libya and lived in Sierra Leone before moving to the United States 16 years ago as a refugee, was initially the most enthusiastic about the job. In November, he was jogging with his children in the morning, thinking about getting a second job to build up savings, and dreaming about a music studio where he could compose and record the music that played endlessly through his head.But by January, he was out of a job for a violation of the processing plants policy. A couple months later, Ms. Johnson also left the plant after finding another local job.The work is not for everyone, Mr. Wiley concedes. But he maintains that for many refugees, including Mr. Teklay, his Woodstock branch manager, it provides a foothold.They want the American dream, and they dont mind starting off on the bottom, he said. Theres a lot of unskilled work in the U.S. that Americans will not do, and these people are doing it.
TEL ARBOUSH, Syria   Syria's Assyrian community is marking the New Year by its calendar  and is celebrating its survival.The community, which traces its roots back to ancient Mesopotamia, has been devastated by years of war. The Islamic State group dealt them a near final blow when it overran their villages in 2015.Now some 1,000 remain in Syria, and many turned out to one of the destroyed villages for a New Year's party.
BEIJING   Chinese buyers of U.S. ethanol will have to cut imports because of higher tariffs, but eventually will have to return to the overseas market to meet government targets for using the fuel, industry participants and analysts said on Monday.China said late on Sunday it will slap an extra 15 percent tariff on ethanol imports from the United States, part of its response to U.S. duties on aluminum and steel imports. The previous duty was 30 percent.The tariffs, effective Monday, will neutralize cost savings from importing cheaper U.S. ethanol versus domestic supply, said three sources that participate in the market. Ethanol, an alcohol typically produced from corn or sugar, is often mixed with gasoline to reduce air pollution from vehicle emissions."The price difference is gone. We will suspend imports for now," said a manager at a private oil refinery, adding that he was considering turning to domestic suppliers for ethanol to blend into gasoline.That is good news for domestic producers, who are already ramping up output on cheaper corn and government subsidies."We have so much corn. We will do absolutely fine if we don\'t import ethanol," said a manager at a major ethanol producer in China.But analysts said China will probably need to resume imports to meet the government target of 10 percent ethanol content in all gasoline nationwide by 2020."Demand for fuel ethanol will potentially explode in 2019 and 2020 and we won\'t have enough domestic supplies by then. We might have to turn to overseas," said Michael Mao, an analyst with Zhuochuang, a commodities consultancy based in the Chinese province of Shandong.China said last year the new ethanol mandate would boost industrial demand for corn and help clean up its choking smog. It would mean consumption of around 15 million tonnes of ethanol annually, made from 45 million tonnes of corn, according to Reuters calculations.China\'s current ethanol production is around 2.5 million tonnes a year.It is not clear where future imports will come from. A 30 percent duty on ethanol imports previously levied since January 2017 had already slowed a once-booming trade to a trickle. <ETH/CN>U.S. imports had recently picked up after prices fell enough to be attractive even with the high duties.But the new tariffs will close the arbitrage again, boosting the price of U.S. ethanol to around 6,300 yuan ($1,003.58) per tonne after taxes, on par with domestic prices, market sources said."There\'s not a lot booked past May now and there\'s a fear they are not going to book anything forward," a U.S. ethanol trader said of China.Chicago Board of Trade May ethanol futures <1ZEK8> fell 2.5 percent or about 4 cents to $1.44 per gallon, the lowest since Feb. 9, as trade resumed after the tariff announcement.The refinery manager said prices in Brazil, the world\'s top ethanol producer, are currently too high for exports to China, but could be an option in future.(Reporting by Hallie Gu and Dominique Patton; Additional reporting by Michael Hirtzer in Chicago; Editing by Christian Schmollinger and David Gregorio)
SYDNEY   Asian shares slipped on Tuesday amid escalating trade tensions and worries over the fading outlook for global tech giants, but investors held their nerves to focus instead on prospects for stronger world growth.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.4 percent on Tuesday, compared with losses of more than 2 percent on each of the three Wall Street indices overnight.The U.S. dollar steadied against the safe haven yen after declining for three straight days and gold, which is often seen as a store of value during times of financial or political uncertainty, inched lower.U.S. Treasuries saw a bit of selling too with yields on 10-year notes off two-month lows.Meanwhile, E-Mini futures for the S&P 500 climbed 0.4 percent and Dow futures were also up 0.2 percent."Markets are being supported by global growth, most indicators that have come out recently are pretty solid," said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based chief investment strategist at AMP Capital."Asian investors have looked at the noise recently and said \'well there is nothing really new in all this\'," Oliver added. "Cool heads are prevailing."Asian shares were mostly in the red, albeit off early lows.Japan\'s Nikkei was down 0.9 percent, having gone as deep as 1.6 percent at the open. China\'s Shanghai Composite index eased 0.4 percent and the blue-chip CSI300 was off 0.7 percent.Technology shares were hit hard on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump attacked Amazon.com over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.The selling added to what has been a rough patch for technology shares this year. Facebook, Apple and some of their peers had a woeful last quarter as investors reassessed high U.S. stock valuations in light of a cocktail of negative factors.So called FANG stocks - Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google - have been largely responsible for a multi-year bull run in world shares, although the threat of government regulation has raised worries about their outlook.Investors were also on the backfoot as China imposed extra tariffs on 128 U.S. products, deepening a dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies and stoking concerns about the impact on global growth.China\'s tit-for-tat tariffs hurt the U.S. dollar, although it saw some buying during early Asian trading on Tuesday to last trade at 105.88 yen, from a three-week peak of 107.01.The dollar index was still a shade softer against a basket of currencies.Oil prices ticked higher after falling more than 3.7 percent on Monday although rising Russian output and the escalating U.S.-China trade dispute still weighed. [O/R]Brent crude inched 16 cents higher to $67.80 a barrel. U.S. crude rose 13 cents to $63.14.Spot gold ticked lower to $1,338.91.(Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Jacqueline Wong)
WASHINGTON   U.S. bank regulators on Monday agreed to relax commercial real estate lending rules and allow more deals to go ahead without an independent appraisal of the property\'s value.Under the new rules, commercial real estate worth more than $500,000 must have an independent third-party check on the property value before a bank can lend against it.The threshold had been $250,000. The new standards were agreed to by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)."The increased threshold will not pose a threat to the safety and soundness of financial institutions," the agencies wrote.Regulators had proposed increasing the waiver threshold in line with inflation to $400,000 but later agreed to raise it to $500,000 after lenders and trade groups called for a larger exemption.Consumer advocates have warned that inflated property values worsened the 2007-2009 financial crash and that appraisals are essential to preventing runaway property values.(Reporting by Patrick Rucker; Editing by James Dalgleish)
(Reuters) - Indonesia and Philippine stocks were the worst performing in the Asia-Pacific region in March, when concerns over global trade tensions and rising interest rates gripped markets.MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares fellfor the second consecutive month in March, shedding 2.6 percent.The Indonesian stock market's 6.2 percent fall last month was the biggest since September 2015, while Philippine stocks' decline of 5.85 percent was the steepest since November 2016.Pakistan and Vietnamese stocks led the region with gains of 5.4 percent and 4.7 percent, respectively.Asia-Pacific markets performance March 2018 - https://reut.rs/2JbB18AVietnamese stocks have risen nearly 20 percent so far this year, making them the most expensive market in Asia with a forward P/E of 20.3.Asia-Pacific equities valuations - https://reut.rs/2EcxgfIAsia-Pacific markets performance 2018: https://reut.rs/2pYtxx5Asia-Pacific markets performance March 2018: https://reut.rs/2JbB18AAsia-Pacific markets valuations: https://reut.rs/2EcxgfI(Reporting by Gaurav Dogra and Patturaja Murugaboopathy; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)
NEW YORK   Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Monday:Humana Inc., up $11.87 to $280.70Reports said the health insurer is in talks about a sale or partnership with Walmart.Tyson Foods Inc., down $4.55 to $68.64The Chinese government said it will place a tariff on some U.S. products, including pork.Tesla Inc., down $13.65 to $252.48The electric car maker said semi-autonomous mode was engaged when one of its cars was involved in a fatal crash last week.Live Nation Entertainment Inc., down $3.97 to $38.17The New York Times reported that the Justice Department is probing the concert-promotion and event-ticketing company.Commvault Systems Inc., up $6.20 to $63.40Activist investment firm Elliott Management disclosed a 7.4 percent stake in the security firm.Exxon Mobil Corp., down $1.39 to $73.22Energy companies slumped with oil prices Monday.Cisco Systems Inc., down $1.88 to $41.01Big technology companies and other recent winners declined Monday as investors continued to worry about rising trade tensions.UnitedHealth Group Inc., up $3.20 to $217.20The health insurer said it will work with several other companies to see if blockchain technology can reduce their costs and improve their data.
MOSCOW   How far a row escalates between Moscow and the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain does not depend on Russia, its Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told a news briefing on Monday.In times of cold war there were some rules, but now Britain and the United States had dropped all propriety and were playing children's games, he said.Russia has denied responsibility for the March 4 attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the English city of Salisbury.(Reporting by Maria Kiselyova and Christian Lowe, writing by Denis Pinchuk; editing by John Stonestreet)
PITTSBURGH   Colin Moran\'s name will forever be entwined with Gerrit Cole\'s whether the new Pittsburgh Pirates third baseman likes it or not. It simply comes with the territory when you\'re part of the trade that sends a franchise cornerstone out of town.Moran did little during spring training to hint at the power potential the Pirates saw in him when they made him part of the deal that sent Cole to Houston in January. Even as Pittsburgh led the Grapefruit League in homers, he failed to go deep even once.Then Moran swung at a full-count fastball from Minnesota\'s Lance Lynn with the bases loaded in the first inning on Monday. A minute later he was taking a curtain call after the first grand slam of his young career helped the Pirates edge the Minnesota Twins 5-4 to give the franchise just its third 4-0 start in 35 years."Probably one of the coolest things I\'ve ever experienced on a baseball field," Moran said after hitting his second home run in the majors.Even Pittsburgh manager Clint Hurdle admitted to getting goose bumps, a rarity now for someone entering their fifth decade in pro baseball."To hear our home crowd embrace him like that and ask him to come back out for a curtain call, that\'s never not good," Hurdle said.Moran\'s shot to the seats above the Clemente Wall in right field staked Jameson Taillon to a five-run cushion. Taillon tamped down his pregame butterflies to keep the Twins off balance for 5 1/3 innings and the bullpen narrowly avoided letting things slip away. Taillon allowed two runs and four hits in 5 1/3 innings, but his stellar work was nearly undone by a shaky bullpenMinnesota rallied for four runs in the sixth off Taillon and three relievers then put the tying base on in the seventh and eighth but couldn\'t pull even. George Kontos worked a perfect ninth for his second career save with usual closer Felipe Rivero unavailable after finishing up both ends of a doubleheader on Sunday in Detroit."They put the barrel on us a little bit but we got the outs we needed," Hurdle said.Brian Dozier homered for the second straight day for the Twins. Eduard Escobar had two hits and an RBI. Max Kepler also drove in a run for Minnesota but Lynn lasted just four innings in his first game with the Twins since signing a one-year deal last month. He struggled with his location, walking six and striking out just one.Three walks in the first helped set the stage for Moran, who sent a chest-high offering from Lynn over the 21-foot high Clemente Wall for just the third grand slam in a Pittsburgh home opener according to STATS, joining Hall of Famers Ralph Kiner in 1949 and Roberto Clemente in 1962."I\'ve got to do better than that," said Lynn. "You can\'t put your team in a 5-0 hole in the first inning. That\'s asking a lot for the guys to dig out of. It was a little bit frustrating. I could have got out of the inning giving up one run then I hung a pitch."Instead, Moran found himself being nudged to the top of the steps of the Pittsburgh dugout to acknowledge his blast. He briefly tipped his cap to the announced crowd of 30,186, the smallest ever for a home opener since PNC Park opened in 2001 and the franchise\'s smallest since drawing 28,985 at Three Rivers Stadium.Part of the slide had to do with the 40-degree temperature at first pitch and part apathy stemming from the offseason trades of Cole and 2013 NL MVP Andrew McCutchen for prospects.Either way, the new-look Pirates have a day off on Tuesday before trying to improve to 5-0 for the first time since 1983, a couple weeks before third baseman David Freese  at 34 the oldest player on the roster  was born.TRAINER\'S ROOMPirates: Placed RHP Joe Musgrove on the 10-day disabled list retroactive to March 30 with a muscle strain in his right shoulder. Pittsburgh director of sports medicine Todd Tomczyk said Musgrove, part of the Cole trade, will be shut down for several days. Steven Brault will start in place of Musgrove on Thursday against Cincinnati. ... SS Jordy Mercer left in the sixth inning with discomfort in his right hand.UP NEXTTwins: Jake Odorizzi makes his second start for the Twins on Wednesday after being acquired in a mid-February trade with Tampa Bay. Odorizzi pitched six shutout innings in his 2018 debut last week against Baltimore.Pirates: Ivan Nova (0-0, 3.60 ERA) is 2-0 with a 1.93 ERA in two career starts against Minnesota.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
MONTERREY   Mexican left-wing presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has an 18-point lead ahead of the July 1 election, according to a poll published on Monday that showed him with a growing advantage at the start of formal campaigning.Lopez Obrador, who launched his campaign on Sunday, holds 38 percent of the vote, according to the poll by Parametria, published by Reuters on Monday ahead of wider distribution. That compared to 35 percent in its previous poll.A Lopez Obrador victory could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.Lopez Obrador has backed the North American Free Trade Agreement, but his plan to review newly issued oil contracts sparked worries he will deter foreign investment.One of the factors that appeared to extend his lead was the expulsion of two independent hopefuls from the ballot for not reaching the required number of signatures.The previous poll is not an exact comparison because it included the now-disqualified candidates.Neither second-place Ricardo Anaya nor third-place Jose Antonio Meade showed any sign of catching up with former Mexico City mayor Lopez Obrador."Lopez Obrador is breaking his ceiling ... he\'s growing in a way that wasn\'t expected," Parametria founder Francisco Abundis said.Anaya, running for the right-left "For Mexico in Front" coalition, holds 20 percent of vote preferences, compared with 21 percent in the previous poll.Former finance minister Meade, running for the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), stood still on 16 percent of the vote, while independent candidate Margarita Zavala rose to 13 percent of the vote from 10 percent previously.The youngest candidate, Anaya, 39, launched his campaign on Thursday, pitching himself as a forward-thinking alternative both to the unpopular PRI and Lopez Obrador\'s personalized leadership.Meade\'s launch on Sunday highlighted his experience in government under two different political parties, unusual in Mexican politics.But the focus was mostly on silver-haired Lopez Obrador, who struck a more nationalistic tone in his speech in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, demanding respect from U.S. President Donald Trump.He also repeated a promise to cancel Mexico City\'s new $13 billion airport, the country\'s largest infrastructure project.All major polls show Lopez Obrador far ahead, with most showing his lead growing, although Parametria gives him the widest advantage. One poll in March put Meade in second place, although most show Anaya ahead of him.Attention has turned to which party will hold sway in the Senate and lower house of Congress, with some believing that Lopez Obrador\'s party, the National Regeneration Movement, could win the biggest share in both.One game-changer could be the first television debate between the candidates on April 22.Thirteen percent of those polled either did not answer, responded that they did not know or could not choose a candidate listed.The poll of 800 people had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points. It was taken face-to-face from March 23-28, before campaigns officially started.(Reporting by Christine Murray; Editing by Paul Tait)
BEIRUT   The last Syrian rebel group in eastern Ghouta near Damascus began withdrawing on Monday under an agreement with the government, state media said, though a military source said a group of insurgents were still rejecting the deal.Jaish al-Islam, which has been defending the eastern Ghouta town of Douma against a ferocious onslaught by Russian-backed Syrian government forces, has not confirmed the agreement with the government.If confirmed, the departure of Jaish al-Islam from Douma would mark the end of the war for eastern Ghouta, wiping out an opposition stronghold near Damascus and underlining President Bashar al-Assad\'s unassailable position in the war.It will mark his biggest victory over rebels fighting to unseat him since the recovery of eastern Aleppo in 2016.Indicating divisions in Jaish al-Islam, a Syrian military source told Reuters some of the fighters were rejecting the deal and the army would use force unless they accepted it."They will all have to agree to the settlement in the end," the source said.Syrian state TV said eight buses carrying 448 people - fighters and their families - had left Douma so far on Monday, en route for the north. State media has said the rebels are due to go to areas near the Turkish-Syrian border that are controlled by opposition groups.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the war, said dozens of buses had entered Douma early on Monday in readiness to evacuate the rebels and their families to the northern towns of Jarablus and al-Bab, near the Turkish border.The towns are located in a section of the Turkish-Syrian frontier where Turkey has carved out a buffer zone controlled on the ground by its military and allied fighters from Free Syrian Army rebel groups that are hostile to Assad.RETAKING CONTROLUnder the deal, Syrian state media said Jaish al-Islam would hand over heavy and medium-sized weapons and acknowledge the restoration of the Damascus government\'s control of Douma.The government lost control of Douma, the largest urban center in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, in the early phase of Syria\'s civil war, now in its eighth year.Thousands of rebels, their families and other civilians have already departed other parts of eastern Ghouta for Idlib province, another insurgent-held area of northern Syria.Tens of thousands more people have fled to shelters in government-held territory near Ghouta.The government offensive on Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Observatory. The government says it is restoring security to Damascus, which was regularly shelled from eastern Ghouta during the war.Assad, who has military support from Iran and Russia, now controls the bulk of Syria, though it may be difficult for him to recover much more territory without risking a collision with other foreign powers that have forces inside the country.The second largest chunk of Syrian territory is controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of militias spearheaded by the Syrian Kurdish YPG and supported by the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State.U.S. President Donald Trump added fresh uncertainty to the outlook for the conflict last week by indicating that the United States would soon be leaving Syria.Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria, two senior administration officials said on Friday, a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.Turkey, alarmed by the growth of Kurdish influence in Syria, has recently expanded its foothold in the north of the country by seizing the northwestern Afrin region from the YPG, supported by Turkey-backed Syrian militias.Rebels also still control a significant chunk of territory on the frontiers with Jordan and Israel, which are both anxious about the growth of Iranian influence in Syria.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme; additional reporting by Firas Makdessi, editing by Tom Perry/Gareth Jones)
WASHINGTON   U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March, with many factories saying they\'re having a tough time getting supplies in order to meet demand from customers.The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, reported Monday that its manufacturing index slipped to 59.3 last month from February\'s reading of 60.8, which had been the highest since 2004. Any score above 50 signals growth."The details of the March data point to the steady growth in the factory sector seen over the past several quarters being sustained," said Richard Moody, the chief economist at Regions Financial.The categories of new orders, production and employment each fell in March for manufacturers, even though the underlying numbers remained positive. But companies surveyed for the index highlighted another issue: a shortage of raw materials that is causing them to lose out on possible sales.Multiple companies also said that the introduction of steel and aluminum tariffs by President Donald Trump was causing concerns about rising prices. Some companies bought up the metals ahead of their implementation, driving up costs. Trump is trying to support U.S. steel and aluminum mills, though his tariffs include exemptions for allies such as Canada and Mexico.Any supply shortage and price increases could further worsen as Trump is imposing up to $50 billion worth of tariffs on Chinese imports in response to concerns about Beijing stealing foreign companies\' technology or forcing these firms to share their innovations in order to have access to Chinese customers. China responded Monday to the tariffs by announcing $3 billion of additional tariffs on U.S. pork, apples and other products.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Tuesday:1. TRUMP OPENS DOOR TO POTENTIAL MEETING WITH PUTINIt would be the first time the Russian leader has been at the White House in more than a decade and come at a time of rising tensions between the two global powers.2. WALL STREET GIVES BACK GAINSStocks tumble after China raises import duties on a number of U.S. exports, bringing the two economic giants closer to a full-on trade conflict.3. NELSON MANDELA\'S EX-WIFE DIES AT 81Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was an anti-apartheid activist in her own right whose reputation was sullied by scandal.4. \'AFFLUENZA\' TEEN WALKS FREEA 20-year-old Texas man who as a teenager invoked the burdens of his family\'s wealth as part of his defense after killing four people in a drunken wreck is released from jail.5. NETANYAHU BACKTRACKS ON MIGRANTSAfter announcing an agreement with the U.N. to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries, Israel\'s prime minister suspends the deal.6. WHO\'S CALLING IT A CAREERDemocratic Rep. Elizabeth Esty says she won\'t seek re-election amid calls for her resignation over her handling of a former chief of staff accused of harassment.7. GOVERNMENT REVISING POLLUTION RULESU.S. environmental regulators are easing emissions standards for cars and trucks, saying that President Obama set the rules "too high."8. WHAT\'S GAINING FOOTHOLD IN US SCHOOLSCellphones are still absent from most classrooms. But that\'s changing as administrators increasingly bow to parents\' wishes to keep tabs on their kids and teachers find ways to work them into lessons.9. JURY SELECTION BEGINS IN BILL COSBY\'S RETRIALPicking jurors for the entertainer\'s sexual assault retrial is expected to be difficult since it\'s taking place amid the powerful MeToo movement.10. WHICH SPORT FACES UNCERTAIN FUTUREAs the NCAA Tournament wraps up, scandal-marred college basketball will begin to wrestle with the changes it must make to keep the sport vibrant.
NEW YORK   Alibaba Group Holding Ltd on Monday sued a Dubai-based firm it said has caused confusion by using its trademarked name to raise more than $3.5 million in cryptocurrency known as "Alibabacoins."In a complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, Alibaba said Alibabacoin Foundation\'s "prominent, repeated, and intentionally misleading" use of its trademarks is designed to confuse consumers to think its products are affiliated with or endorsed by the Chinese online retailer.Neither Alibabacoin, which is also known as ABBC Foundation, nor its law firm immediately responded to requests for comment outside regular business hours.Hours after the lawsuit was filed, U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood issued a temporary restraining order directing Alibabacoin to explain on April 11 why it should not be enjoined from further alleged infringements.The lawsuit seeks a halt to alleged further infringements, plus compensatory, punitive and triple damages for alleged violations of federal and New York law. Reuters obtained a copy of the TRO, which was not available in online court records.Alibaba is periodically involved in lawsuits, as a plaintiff and as a defendant, over the alleged sale of counterfeit goods on its website.Like many companies, it also uses litigation to defend against what it considers improper efforts to trade off its reputation and goodwill.Alibaba accused Alibabacoin of using its "single-minded focus to capitalize on plaintiff\'s reputation for success" by using its trademarks "without alteration, in countless instances" to sell cryptoassets.Despite Alibaba having repeatedly said "it is not interested in moving into the cryptocurrency space," confusion over its role has spread through media, and Alibabacoin has "done nothing to combat or correct this confusion," the complaint said.A lawyer for Alibaba declined additional comment.The case is Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd v. Alibabacoin Foundation et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 18-02897.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)
King in the Wilderness looks at a lesser-known side of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.s life. And The Good Karma Hospital returns on Acorn TV. KING IN THE WILDERNESS (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms. As the country honors the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 50 years after his assassination, this new documentary sheds light on the final chapters of his life. Two of Dr. Kings most notable accomplishments came with the passing of the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act in 1964 and 1965. Yet the period that followed found him castigated by longtime friends and allies as he focused on economic justice and vehemently opposed the Vietnam War. In an interview with The New York Times, the director Peter Kunhardt said that while researching Dr. Kings life, he realized that most accounts summarized his legacy with the I Have a Dream speech. He added: It never went beyond that. So we were pleased to not deal with that aspect and look at the nightmare the dream turned into.THE CROSSING 10 p.m. on ABC. Some elements of this pilot parallel real-life stories of refugees fleeing their homelands in recent years. After dozens of people wash up on a shore in a small fishing town, a man describes the war they fled as a holocaust. A daughter says her father offered all he had for someone to get her across a checkpoint. Yet 10 minutes into the episode, one survivor reveals that the conflict hasnt happened yet, setting this sci-fi drama in motion. Steve Zahn plays Sheriff Jude Ellis, whos tasked with unspooling the mystery with a Department of Homeland Security agent, Emma Ren (Sandrine Holt).WHEN GOD SLEEPS (2018) 10 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). In 2012, the Iranian musician Shahin Najafi released a satirical rap song that sparked outrage among the countrys hard-line clerics. Many called for his death, and an Islamist website placed a $100,000 bounty on his head. Directed by Till Schauder, When God Sleeps is an intimate portrayal of Mr. Najafis life in exile (he now lives in Germany) that looks at oppression and resilience in Iran.DR. STRANGELOVE OR: HOW I LEARNED TO STOP WORRYING AND LOVE THE BOMB (1964) on iTunes, Amazon, Starz and Sundance Now. If the prospect of nuclear war chills your bones, you may want to skip this dark Cold War satire. An out-of-control American general (Sterling Hayden) orders a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union, causing chaos and panic within the administration. Peter Sellers stars in three roles; George C. Scott plays the hawkish Gen. Buck Turgidson.THE GOOD KARMA HOSPITAL on Acorn TV. Amrita Acharia (Game of Thrones) returns as Dr. Ruby Walker in the second season of this British medical dramedy. A year after her move to India from Britain, Dr. Walker has settled into her new life and is gaining confidence at work. But shes still put to the test by Dr. Lydia Fonseca (Amanda Redman) at the local hospital.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump intends to nominate Justin Muzinich, an aide to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, to be the deputy secretary of the Treasury, the White House said on Monday.Muzinich advises Mnuchin on tax reform and other domestic and international policy initiatives, the White House statement said. Before joining the Treasury Department, he was president of Muzinich & Co, an international investment firm, and taught at Columbia Business School, the statement added.The New York Times said the Treasury had operated without a full-time deputy secretary, a position that includes overseeing a broad portfolio of policy matters such as taxes, financial regulation, trade and economic sanctions, since Mnuchin was confirmed early last year.Trump has been revamping his economic team in recent weeks, including appointing Larry Kudlow as director of the National Economic Council to replace Gary Cohn."Far from a flamethrower, Mr. Muzinich, who spent most of his career on Wall Street, will add a more moderate voice with traditional conservative economic ideas to the table," the Times said.It said Muzinich, 40, had been serving as Mr. Mnuchins tax counselor and played a central role in drawing up and negotiating the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed by the U.S. Congress late last year.The Times said Mnuchin welcomed the nomination in a statement and added: "Justin has established himself as a leader in the department, and played a key role in the passage of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act.""He brings significant experience in financial services and in public policy and has become a reliable and trusted adviser on a number of important issues," the secretary said.During the 2016 presidential campaign, the Times said, Muzinich served as policy director for former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, one of more than a dozen Republican candidates defeated by Trump, and helped to craft Bushs tax plan.(Reporting by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Eric Beech and Peter Cooney)
The Charlotte Hornets have formally offered their vacant general manager position to the longtime Los Angeles Lakers executive Mitch Kupchak, according to three people with knowledge of the offer.The Hornets, who are owned by Michael Jordan, are confident they will soon seal a new contract with Kupchak to take over their basketball operations and are progressing toward a deal, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the negotiations publicly.Kupchak, like Jordan a former collegiate star at the University of North Carolina, quickly emerged as the favorite for the post after Charlotte announced in late February that their former general manager, Rich Cho, who was in the final year of his contract, would not be retained.The Hornets have not responded to repeated requests for comment. Kupchak declined to comment on Monday.Cho was hired as the Hornets general manager in 2011 and became the lead voice in Charlottes front office in 2014. The Hornets are likely to miss the playoffs for the third time in the five-season tenure of Coach Steve Clifford.Kupchaks lengthy run with the Lakers, which spanned nearly four decades and began when he joined them as a player in 1981, included 30 years in the front office and 17 as the head of the Lakers front office until his abrupt dismissal in February 2017  19 days after Magic Johnson returned to the Lakers in an executive role.The Lakers won four championships with Kupchak in charge  two of them after his acquisition of Pau Gasol in a February 2008 trade with the Memphis Grizzlies.But Kupchak gradually fell out of favor with the Lakers owner Jeanie Buss after the teams steady decline in recent seasons, which resulted in the dual dismissals of Kupchak and Jeanies brother, Jim, last February. Those moves were followed by the installation of the legendary former Lakers point guard Johnson and the longtime player agent Rob Pelinka as the Lakers new front-office tandem.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Monday:1. \'NO MORE DACA DEAL!\'President Trump insists a program to help "Dreamer" immigrants is finished, and he threatens a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S.2. WHO MAKES IT CLEAR HE WAS FIREDFormer Veterans Affairs chief David Shulkin says he had no plans to resign, and was only told of Trump\'s decision to replace him shortly before the president\'s Twitter announcement.3. IN EASTER MESSAGE, POPE APPEALS FOR PEACE IN SYRIAThe pontiff calls for a "swift end" to seven years of carnage.4. WHERE MLK LEGACY STANDS, 50 YEARS AFTER HIS DEATHMartin Luther King\'s work continues today in a new generation protesting many of the same issues the civil rights icon confronted: inequality, police brutality and poverty.5. OUTRAGE SIMMERS OVER 64 DEATHS IN SIBERIAN MALL FIRE"This tragedy reflects all of Russia\'s problems  the corruption of officials who closed their eyes to problems with fire safety, uncoordinated work of the special services, the imperviousness of authorities," says Rasim Yaraliyev, head of a citizen\'s group.6. WHAT 8.5-TON OBJECT IS HURTLING TOWARD EARTHChina\'s defunct Tiangong 1 space station is expected to re-enter the atmosphere within hours.7. COSBY RETRIAL SET TO STARTThe #MeToo movement will loom over the proceedings when jury selection gets underway in Bill Cosby\'s sexual assault retrial.8. SAKS, LORD & TAYLOR SUFFER DATA BREACHESThe disclosure comes after a New York-based security firm reveals that a hacking group began boasting on dark websites that it is ready to sell up to 5 million stolen credit and debit cards.9. ROCK & ROLL HOF TO RECEIVE $4.1M GRANTPNC Bank pledges the money to support free events, interactive exhibit storytelling and live music.10. \'READY PLAYER ONE\' TOPS WEEKEND BOX OFFICESteven Spielberg\'S action-adventure film earns solid $53.2 million.
PHOENIX   Arizona outfielder Yasmany Tomas cleared waivers and was assigned outright to Triple-A Reno by the Diamondbacks, who are responsible for the $42.5 million he is owed in the remaining three seasons of a $68.5 million, six-year contract.Tomas, signed in December 2014 when Dave Stewart was Arizona's general manager, slumped to a .241 average with eight homers and 32 RBIs in 47 games last year, when he did not play after June 2. Sidelined by right groin tendinitis, he had core surgery on Aug. 22.He hit .273 with nine homers and 48 RBIs in 2015, then .272 with 31 homers and 83 RBIs the following year.Tomas is owed $10 million this year, $15.5 million in 2019 and $17 million in 2020 as part of the contract he signed after defecting from Cuba. The 27-year-old had the choice to reject the outright assignment but doing so would have eliminated the remaining years of his contract.Arizona wants Tomas to work on his defense. The Diamondbacks filled his spot on the 40-man roster by acquiring right-handed reliever Stefan Crichton from the Baltimore Orioles for $100,000.The 26-year-old Crichton made eight appearances for the Orioles last season but spent most of the year with Triple-A Norfolk, going 7-2 with a 3.02 ERA. The Diamondbacks optioned him to Reno after Monday's trade.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
(Reuters) - British passport-making company De La Rue Plc said on Monday it would appeal a decision by the British government that would allow Franco-Dutch company Gemalto NV to make new blue national passports from 2019.De La Rue\'s current contract, which ends in July 2019, is worth 400 million pounds ($561.96 million)."Based on our knowledge of the market, it\'s our view that ours was the highest quality and technically most secure bid," a De La Rue spokeswoman said in a statement. While accepting that its tender represented a significant discount on the current price, the company said "we can accept that we weren\'t the cheapest."De La Rue\'s appeal to the court decision was first reported by the Financial Times on Monday.When Gemalto was awarded the passport-making contract, the decision was roundly criticised, especially from U.K. citizens who recognised the return of blue-coloured passports as a patriotic Brexit bonus, the FT said.The Daily Mail newspaper led an extended campaign against the governmental decision and organised a petition inclusive of over 227,000 signatures, according to the FT.On Sunday, the British Home Office extended the original deadline for legal challenges to the decision from April 3 to April 17 as De La Rue sought further information from the ministry on its decision-making process, the FT reported.De La Rue executives, the newspaper said, perceive that Gemalto is in a favourable position simply because it has undercut its competitors.The news produced awkward headlines for Prime Minister Theresa May, who announced in December that Britain, which adopted burgundy passports in 1988 in line with EU recommendations, would switch back to the "iconic" dark blue it had used for decades.Britain\'s biggest trade union Unite hit out at the government\'s choice and said the French government would never have made such a move.($1 = 0.7118 pounds)(Reporting by Shalini Nagarajan in Bengaluru; editing by Grant McCool and Diane Craft)
NEW YORK/LONDON   Trading firms are negotiating buying, selling and lending digital currencies like bitcoin and ether over Skype, catering to big investors looking to avoid rocking already volatile online exchanges.Some 20 traders as well as clients such as wealthy investors, bitcoin miners, payment processors and, increasingly, hedge funds, have in around five years spawned an over-the-counter market moving hundreds of millions of dollars of cryptocurrencies daily, mostly via online messaging, participants told Reuters.Generally, you would go trade through an OTC desk when you have a large block trade you want to do without moving the market too much or incurring too much slippage, said Kevin Zhou, founder of cryptocurrency-focused hedge fund Galois Capital.    The traders work at firms including Chicago-based Cumberland Mining, a division of proprietary trading firm DRW Holdings; Goldman Sachs Group Inc-backed bitcoin payments firm Circle and New York-based broker-dealer Genesis Global Trading, owned by Digital Currency Group.OTC trades are not reported and independently audited, but some dealers said their desks often handle more than $100 million of cryptocurrency trades daily with minimum ticket sizes between $75,000 and $250,000.OTC trading may appeal to those wary of stashing coins and fiat currency with digital exchanges after high-profile hacks and other issues.When the big [exchange] hacks happen we tend to see business go up, said an OTC trader who asked to remain anonymous.The OTC transactions are settled through bank wire transfers and by sending cryptocurrencies to digital wallets.To be sure, OTC trading carries its own risks to participants. Price discovery is murkier, and there is higher settlement risk. Clients also need to trust brokers to vet counterparties to avoid inadvertently helping launder illegal funds.VOLUME SPIKEGenesis on average handles $75 million to $80 million in trades daily, 10 times year-ago volumes, Chief Executive Michael Moro said, and in December hit record monthly volume between $1.5 billion and $2 billion.Boston-based Circle handled up to $4 billion in OTC trades monthly over the past year, spokeswoman Jennifer Hanley said.Cumberland has been adding employees and opening offices in Asia and Europe, said global head of trading Bobby Cho. Cho previously worked at exchange itBit and SecondMarket, DCGs Genesis\' predecessor.      Most investors message traders directly, but are required by firms to undergo know-your-customer and anti-money laundering checks with their compliance departments, traders and investors said. Trades are settled bilaterally, generally by the firms back office.We needed a tool that was global and more or less free and Skype provided that, said Cho. Skype declined to comment for this article.Still, Cho said some dealmaking has started shifting from Microsoft Corps Skype to more mainstream platforms.To ask to meet in the middle of a bid and offer, one party might say Benji me - referencing short story and movie character Benjamin Button who ages backwards and is the same age as his wife mid-life. Less romantically, traders sometimes say butt to mean bitcoin.Specialized crypto traders are rare, Cho said, so hires should have a good grasp of risk management and interest in the new asset class.Nearly all traders on major desks are men in their mid-20s or early 30s. Genesis posted a junior trader job and all 60 applications were from men, Moro said.REGULATORY MUDDLEWhile business is growing, OTC desks are grappling with an absence of clear rules from regulators.The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission calls bitcoin a commodity. The Securities and Exchange Commission has said some cryptocurrencies may be securities without specifying further.What type of asset is traded and whether it must be traded with an accredited investor dictates if desks register with U.S. regulators and what compliance rules they follow, said Joel Telpner, partner at Sullivan & Worcester.Genesis has registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. It only offers trading in seven coins and, like other firms, records trader-client conversations.     Were about as highly regulated as you can possibly be in the digital currency space, said Moro.Circles OTC desk trades a "very limited selection of cryptocurrencies aligned to its regulatory licensure, said Hanley, and was working closely with regulators to foster transparency in this developing market.Cumberland trades 25-30 cryptocurrencies and encourages regulators to work with participants to fully understand the market and the implications of any new laws and rules, a DRW spokeswoman said.(Reporting by Anna Irrera in New York and Jemima Kelly in London; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli and Susan Thomas)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump, who has taken a hard line toward immigration, said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can remain in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.It was unclear whether Trump, in any new immigration legislation, would support safeguards for people protected by DACA. The White House did not respond to requests for comment on Trump\'s tweets.Democrats blamed Trump for the tenuous status of a program that shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said on Twitter that the president created his own crisis."The President is blaming everyone under the sun, but he only has to look in the mirror to find the person who turned down six different bipartisan DACA deals from Congress - a few that included funding for his useless wall," Durbin said.Democrats had offered at one point to fully fund the wall Trump wants along the U.S.-Mexican border but rescinded the offer in January, accusing the president of reneging on elements of a tentative agreement."He walked away - not Democrats," Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein wrote on Twitter."Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People ... Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" Trump said in another Twitter post.Congress cannot pass any legislation immediately as lawmakers are on their second week of a spring recess, but taking a tough stance on immigration appeals to Trump\'s conservative base.Senate Republican leaders have ignored previous calls from Trump advocating the so-called nuclear option, which would involve changing Senate rules so Republicans could more easily overcome Democratic opposition to legislation in a chamber they control with a thin majority of 51 out of 100 seats.Cindy Agustin, 28, a DACA recipient and immigration activist in Chicago, said the impasse over the program breeds fear and uncertainty."It\'s frustrating because we\'re in limbo right now," Agustin added.Trump also reiterated his call for Mexico to stop people from entering the United States, after saying on Sunday he would terminate a major trade accord with Mexico if it does not do more to secure its border with the United States.The United States is currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.BACK AGAINST THE WALLTrump made building a border wall - and making Mexico pay for it - one of his top campaign pledges when he ran for president in 2016. Mexico has refused to pay.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday he indicated that time had passed, writing on Twitter: "\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are traveling in a "refugee caravan" organized by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump\'s requirements.In light of Trump\'s call for the "nuclear option," a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Monday noted that Republican senators oppose changing existing rules governing the debate and passage of legislation.Major legislation usually needs a supermajority to pass the Senate. Without 60 votes in support, the Democratic minority can sink a bill.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu in Washington and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)
HODEIDAH, Yemen   An air strike by the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen killed 12 civilians on Monday in the coastal city of Hodeidah, medics and a witness said, and the Houthi rebels later targeted Saudi Arabia\'s southern border area with a missile.Medics and a civilian who saw the wreckage said the air strike had destroyed a house in the al-Hali district, where displaced civilians from other provinces were settled.The 12 victims were all from the same family including seven children, they said.A spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition said: "We take this report very seriously and it will be fully investigated as all reports of this nature are - using an internationally approved, independent process. Whilst this is ongoing, it would be inappropriate to comment further."Hodeidah is home to the impoverished country\'s biggest port from where most of the humanitarian aid reaches millions of civilians on the brink of famine. The operation of the port, controlled by the Iran-aligned Houthis, was not affected by the air strike.Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates intervened in a civil war in Yemen in 2015 against the Houthis to restore the internationally recognized government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi.The alliance, which includes other Sunni Muslim states, has conducted thousands of air strikes targeting Houthi fighters and has often hit civilian areas, although it denies ever doing so intentionally.The war has killed more than 10,000 people, displaced more than 2 million and driven the country - already the poorest on the Arabian Peninsula - to the verge of famine.The Houthis, in turn, have launched rockets into Saudi territory with mixed results.On Monday, a missile targeted the border area of Dhahran al-Janub. The coalition said it fell 1.75 km inside Yemen, but the Houthi-run Saba news agency said it hit a Saudi military base causing unspecified casualties. Reuters was unable to independently verify those claims.Last week the Houthis launched a flurry of missiles which Saudi Arabia said it had intercepted over Riyadh. Debris from the missiles fell on a home, killing one person.Rights watchdog Human Rights Watch on Monday said the Houthi attack had violated the laws of war by indiscriminately targeting populated areas."The Houthis should immediately stop their indiscriminate missile attacks on populated areas of Saudi Arabia," said HRW\'s Middle East director Sarah Leah Whitson."But just as unlawful coalition air strikes don\'t justify the Houthis\' indiscriminate attacks, the Saudis can\'t use Houthi rockets to justify impeding life-saving goods for Yemens civilian population."When the Houthis fired missiles at Riyadh last November, the coalition responded by shutting Yemens airports and ports. The United Nations said that blockade raised the danger of mass starvation, and it was partially lifted.(Reporting by Dubai newsroom; Editing by Alison Williams and Robin Pomeroy)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):4:20 p.m.Trump administration officials are working on a new package of legislation aimed at closing what they describe as immigration "loopholes."Among the measures they want Congress to address: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children traveling alone from countries that don\'t border the U.S.They also want Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to caretakers while their cases are making their way through immigration court.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House wish list on immigration that was released in October.It\'s unclear, however, whether there is any appetite in Congress for such changes, especially now that the president has said he is no longer interested in protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.___2:05 p.m.Political groups backed by the conservative Koch brothers are criticizing President Donald Trump for declaring that an effort to protect young immigrants from deportation is dead.Freedom Partners is backed by the wealthy Charles and David Koch. Its executive vice president is James Davis, and he says it would be "irresponsible and represent a grave injustice" not to compromise with Democrats on permanently protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for border security.Trump has rejected such a deal.Officials with Americans for Prosperity and The LIBRE Initiative released similar statements. LIBRE Initiative President Daniel Garza says Dreamers "have contributed to our economy and our communities."The Kochs didn\'t support Trump\'s 2016 presidential bid. They\'ve previously criticized his immigration stance but have backed many of his other policies.__12:55 p.m.President Donald Trump is attacking his own Justice Department and the FBI on Twitter, accusing them of withholding information and "slow walking" the production of documents to Republicans in Congress.Trump is also appearing to question the integrity of the Justice Department in his Tweet by putting quotation marks around the word "Justice" in referring to the department. He says the conduct of the agencies overseen by his appointees is an "embarrassment to our country."The criticism comes about a week after Trump-appointed FBI Director Christopher Wray assigned 54 FBI staff to work from 8 a.m. to midnight collecting and reviewing documents requested by various congressional investigations.The president could expedite the release of the documents on his own by declassifying the information in full.__11:20 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the state of the nation\'s economy at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.Trump spoke briefly to hundreds of guests on the South Lawn, pointing to a "special year" for the country and progress on the economy.The president and first lady Melania Trump, joined by 12-year-old son Barron, then walked over to the station where kids are rolling dyed, hard-boiled eggs across the lawn.Trump addressed reporters briefly, reiterating that Democrats have "really let" down young immigrants seeking a deal on protections from deportation.Trump has been trying to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Although he says he has been open to a law extending it, he and Congress have been unable to come to terms.__7:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is calling for new border wall and immigration legislation, tweeting that moving to the "nuclear option" in the Senate is only way to muscle such a measure through Congress. But that would require changing Senate rules, something for which Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has shown no enthusiasm.In early morning tweets Monday, Trump says "Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People." He added, "Act now, Congress, our country is being stolen."Trump also tweeted that the U.S. must build a border wall, but argued that "Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime!" He also said that a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants is "dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act."The $1.3 trillion funding package Congress passed last month included $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.__12:48 a.m.President Donald Trump has declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they\'re coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted Sunday one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.
TOKYO   Japanese flea market app operator Mercari Inc targets rapid expansion in the United States, its founder and chief executive told Reuters on Monday, after a recent funding round boosted its value beyond $2 billion.Mercari offers an online marketplace for individuals to trade used items primarily through a smartphone app in Japan, Britain as well as the United States, where its business is led by former Facebook Inc executive John Lagerling.Founded in 2013, Mercari is a rare example of a Japanese unicorn - a startup with a valuation in excess of $1 billion."We can\'t be successful globally without success in the U.S.," Shintaro Yamada, 40, said in an interview. "If a service is accepted in the U.S., it tends to become universal."Mercari raised 5 billion yen ($47 million) last month giving it a valuation of 252 billion yen, double that of its last major funding two years ago when investors included Japanese trading house Mitsui & Co Ltd and Development Bank of Japan. It has not disclosed backers of its latest funding round.The firm applied to list on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in July and is also widely expected to conduct an initial public offering this year to fund overseas expansion. Yamada declined to comment on timing.In the United States, Yamada said Mercari "has no direct competitor" concentrating exclusively on the peer-to-peer resale of everyday goods, unlike firms such as eBay Inc which is also used by businesses or Poshmark Inc which focuses on fashion.The United States, home to tech giants such as Amazon.com Inc, has long been a challenge for Japanese internet firms.The largest Japanese e-commerce firm, Rakuten Inc, has been relying on acquisitions for its U.S. market expansion, including the 2014 purchase of San Francisco-based rebate website operator Ebates Inc.Line Corp, Japan\'s biggest messaging app operator by active users, narrowed its focus to Asia after being eclipsed by Facebook\'s Messenger and WhatsApp."I know it won\'t be easy," said Yamada, who founded Mercari after selling his first startup on social gaming to Zynga Inc. "But perhaps others have not tried enough times."Yamada hired Lagerling last year, tasked with localizing the Mercari marketplace in the United States. The U.S. team now has about 100 employees, many locally hired, compared with 600 in Japan.The Mercari app has been downloaded over 30 million times in the United States, versus 60 million in Japan.(Refiles to remove extraneous word from headline.)(Reporting by Makiko Yamazaki and Yoshiyasu Shida; Editing by Christopher Cushing)
MOSCOW   Shares in Russian transport companies that are part-owned by Summa Group fell on Monday after its billionaire owner Ziyavudin Magomedov was detained on embezzlement charges.Fesco was hardest hit, plunging 19.18 percent after Russian authorities arrested Magomedov and his brother on Saturday on charges of embezzling more than $35 million. It was one of the highest-profile prosecutions of a Russian tycoon in years.Summa Group and U.S. private equity fund TPG own 49.9 percent of Fesco shares.Summa also owns smaller stakes in Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port Group (NCSP), which was down around 1 percent, and Russia\'s largest freight container operator Transcontainer which dropped 0.61 percent.They bucked a rise in Russian stock indexes.Summa Group owns 25 percent of NCSP and is currently involved in a dispute with state-owned oil pipeline operator Transneft over control of Russia\'s largest port operator.Russia\'s anti-monopoly regulator has given Transneft the green light to acquire control of NCSP but a final agreement has not been reached yet.If Transneft does increase its stake in NCSP, "it could be a trigger for the stock and imply the prospect of higher dividends," analysts at Alfa bank said in a note.Transcontainer, meanwhile, is 25 percent owned by Fesco and analysts said Magomedov\'s detention could give Russian businessman Roman Abramovich, a co-owner of Transcontainer, an opportunity to increase his stake in the company.Russia\'s dollar-denominated RTS index was up 0.69 percent by 1005 GMT at 1,256 points. The rouble-based MOEX Russian index was 0.90 percent higher at 2,291 points.The Russian rouble weakened on Monday as many markets around the world were closed for Easter holidays and as investors fretted about geopolitical tensions between Russia and the West.The rouble was 0.44 percent weaker against the dollar at 57.36 <RUBUTSTN=MCX> and had lost 0.45 percent to trade at 70.76 versus the euro <EURRUBTN=MCX>.Oil prices rose, lifted by a drop in drilling activity in the United States. [O/R]Brent crude oil <LCOc1>, a global benchmark for Russia\'s main export, was up 0.55 percent at $69.72 a barrel.(Reporting by Polina Nikolskaya; Editing by Susan Fenton)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. CHINA TARIFF RESPONSE RAISES GLOBAL COMMERCE CONCERNSBeijing raises import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.2. AUTHORITIES: SUV CRASH INTENTIONALInformation pulled from the vehicle\'s software shows it was stopped at a pull-off area before it sped off a cliff in Northern California and plunged 100 feet, killing a family of eight from Washington state.3. WHO WON COSTA RICA ELECTIONCarlos Alvarado, a novelist and former Cabinet minister running for the ruling Citizen Action Party, won by a wide margin in a race that hinged on the same-sex marriage question.4. IN MISSOURI, CANDIDATE WALKS TRUMP TIGHTROPEThe president carried the "Show-Me" state by 18 points, yet prized U.S. Senate Republican candidate Josh Hawley struggles to fully embrace the commander in chief.5. TURNING \'AN ALREADY BAD SITUATION INTO SOMETHING FAR WORSE\'Surges in use of meth and cocaine in mixes with a powerful synthetic opioid are contributing to rising drug overdose death tolls in the already hard-hit state of Ohio, coroners say.6. WITNESSES FOREVER CHANGED BY MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.\'S FINAL DAYSAs the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the civil rights leader nears, some would spend the rest of their lives fighting for racial equality and economic justice. Others would struggle to come to terms with what they saw.7. TEACHER PROTESTS IN OKLAHOMA NOT QUITE OVERThousands of educators are expected to descend on Oklahoma City to demand lawmakers approve more education funding just days after the Legislature did just that.8. WHERE CHINESE SPACE CRAFT ENDED UPThe defunct Tiangong 1 space station mostly burns up on re-entry into the atmosphere over the central South Pacific.9. MARCH MADNESS POISED FOR RIVETING CONCLUSIONVillanova and Michigan, prolific offense vs. stifling defense, will meet in the national title game in San Antonio.10. EMMY AWARD-WINNING PRODUCER DIESSteven Bochco, a writer and producer known for creating the groundbreaking police drama "Hill Street Blues," is dead at 74.
TOKYO   Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday he plans to visit the U.S. this month to discuss North Korea with President Donald Trump ahead of expected summits between the North and the U.S. and South Korea.Abe said he will travel to the U.S. from April 17 to 20 and hold two days of talks with Trump at the president\'s Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida to discuss North Korea and bilateral issues. Trump has said he will meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un by the end of May."I hope to thoroughly discuss North Korea and other issues of mutual interest between Japan and the U.S.," Abe said at a meeting of representatives of his ruling coalition and the government.In Washington, the White House said the meeting between the two leaders will "reaffirm the United States-Japan alliance as a cornerstone of peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region." Besides North Korea, they will "explore ways to expand fair and reciprocal trade and investment ties," it said.Abe has said he wants to remind Trump of shorter-range missiles and other North Korean security threats for Japan, and seek U.S. help on the issue of Japanese abducted by North Korea decades ago.Abe is also expected to discuss stiff U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and urge Trump to exclude Japan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters.The abductees\' families last Friday urged Abe to seek Trump\'s help, saying this could be their last chance to win their aging loved ones\' release.Japan has said North Korea abducted at least 17 Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s to train agents in Japanese language and culture to spy on South Korea. North Korea, after years of denials, acknowledged in 2002 abducting 13 Japanese. It allowed five of them to visit Japan later that year  and they stayed  but said the other eight had died, though their families say the North\'s comments cannot be trusted.Abe visited Trump\'s resort in February 2017, soon after the president took office.___Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey in Washington contributed to this report.___Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchi
MOSCOW   Russia\'s foreign minister accused Britain and the United States of spreading "lies and disinformation" about the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in England, declaring Monday that East-West tensions are worse now than during the Cold War.Britain has blamed Russia for the March 4 nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia. Britain and two dozen of its allies have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats. Moscow, which vehemently denies any involvement, has responded tit-for-tat.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov denounced the British accusations on Monday as a "mad and horrible provocation." He argued that Russia had no motive to attack Skripal, who was released in 2010 spy swap from a Russian prison where he was serving time for spying for Britain."If there were any gripes against the man, he wouldn\'t have been swapped," Lavrov said.Russia\'s top diplomat also mocked Britain\'s claim that there was no plausible alternative explanation for the poisonings of the Skripals. British intelligence agencies could have been involved and the case helped distract public attention from the British government\'s difficult talks to exit the European Union, Lavrov said."There are other explanations besides those put forward by our Western colleagues, who declare that it can only be the Russians who are responsible," Lavrov said. "It could also be advantageous to the British government, who clearly find themselves in a difficult situation having failed to fulfill their promises to voters over Brexit."British officials have previously rejected similar Russian allegations.Lavrov said that Russia has called a meeting of the international chemical weapons watchdog for Wednesday to discuss the case and asked it to provide details of its cooperation with Britain in the poisoning probe.Alexander Shulgin, the Russian representative at the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said Monday in televised remarks that the organization must conduct an "open, thorough and unbiased investigation" with Russian experts\' participation.British authorities invited OPCW experts to take chemical samples from Salisbury, the English city where the father and daughter were sickened, and to analyze them. Shulgin warned that Moscow won\'t accept the agency\'s conclusions unless Russian experts are allowed to take part in the process.Lavrov also assailed the British authorities for stonewalling Russia\'s request for consular access to Yulia Skripal, 33, a Russian citizen whose condition has improved since she and her father fell critically ill on March 4."Many say that the situation now is worse than it was during the Cold War because some rules existed and decorum was observed back then," he said.  "Now, Britain, the U.S. and a few countries blindly following them have dropped all decorum and engaged in blatant lies and disinformation."
GAZA BORDER   Several thousand Palestinians remained in tent camps along the Gaza border on Monday, continuing their protest for a right of return for refugees and their descendants to what is now Israel even after 16 demonstrators were killed by Israeli troops.The numbers were far smaller than at the peak of the demonstration over the weekend, which saw the worst violence in Gaza since the 2014 war between Israel and Hamas, the armed Islamist group that controls the sealed-off coastal enclave.Many protesters on Monday stayed back a safe distance, wary of Israeli soldiers who remained in position on the other side of the barrier.The Israeli military said some of those who were shot on Friday, the first day of the protest, had fired at soldiers, rolled burning tires and hurled rocks and fire bombs toward the border.Hamas said five of the dead were members of its armed wing. Israel said eight of the 15 killed on Friday belonged to Hamas, and two to other militant factions.However, Hamas denied that its fighters had fired on Israeli forces, using the crowds as cover.On Monday, the Palestinian death toll rose to 16, after Palestinian medical officials said that a 29-year-old man died of wounds he suffered on Friday. The armed wing of Islamic Jihad claimed him as a member.Gaza health officials said 12 people were wounded by Israeli fire on Monday and a military spokeswoman said she was checking the details.Those who have stayed in the camps seemed to have divided into three groups. One, mostly youths, sometimes pushed to within a few dozen meters of the fence to hurl rocks at Israeli soldiers, who fired live and rubber bullets, and teargas canisters.Others watched the stone-throwers from a distance. A third group stayed further back, sitting in and around the tents about 700 meters from the frontier. The mood there was calmer, with people snapping selfies and sharing stories about the protest while vendors sell ice cream, cigarettes and sandwiches.HILLTOP VIEWGaza is home to 2 million Palestinians, the majority of them refugees. The protest, known as the "Great March of Return" is intended to culminate on May 15.That is the day that Palestinians mark the 70th anniversary of the "Nakba" or "Catastrophe" when hundreds of thousands of Palestinians fled or were driven out of their homes amid violence culminating in war between the newly created State of Israel and its Arab neighbors in May 1948.At one protest site on Monday, Medhat Basal brought seven of his grandchildren to a hilltop to look out over the border toward the town where his parents lived before 1948.Basal, 69, said his mother gave birth to him while she was fleeing to Gaza from the family home in Beersheba, which is today an Israeli city which lies 25 miles (40 kms) from the Gaza border."If I don\'t make it to Beersheba, one of my grandchildren may do," Basal said.Israel has long ruled out any right of return for the refugees, fearing that it would lose its Jewish majority.Last week\'s deaths prompted U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the European Unions top diplomat, Federica Mogherini, to call for an independent investigation. In his Easter address, Pope Francis also referred to "the wounds of ongoing conflict that do not spare the defenseless".But Israel\'s government has rejected the criticism, saying it had to prevent infiltration from Gaza. A spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Hamas, the armed Islamist group which controls Gaza, of sending "children to war zones".Hamas rejected Israeli accusations as "lies aimed to justify Friday\'s massacre".Avigdor Lieberman, the Israeli defense minister, said its soldiers did what was necessary to protect Israel\'s border.(Writing by Nidal Almughrabi; Editing by Alison Williams and Adrian Croft)
Today in HistoryToday is Monday, April 2, the 92nd day of 2018. There are 273 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 2, 1968, "2001: A Space Odyssey," the groundbreaking science-fiction film epic produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick and starring Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood, had its world premiere in Washington, D.C.On this date:In 1792, Congress passed the Coinage Act, which authorized establishment of the U.S. Mint.In 1800, Ludwig van Beethoven premiered his Symphony No. 1 in C Major, Op. 21, in Vienna.In 1865, Confederate President Jefferson Davis and most of his Cabinet fled the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, because of advancing Union forces.In 1917, President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress to declare war against Germany, saying, "The world must be made safe for democracy." (Congress declared war four days later.)In 1932, aviator Charles A. Lindbergh and John F. Condon went to a cemetery in The Bronx, New York, where Condon turned over $50,000 to a man in exchange for Lindbergh\'s kidnapped son. (The child, who was not returned, was found dead the following month.)In 1942, Glenn Miller and his Orchestra recorded "American Patrol" at the RCA Victor studios in Hollywood.In 1956, the soap operas "As the World Turns" and "The Edge of Night" premiered on CBS-TV.In 1974, French President Georges Pompidou, 62, died in Paris.In 1982, several thousand troops from Argentina seized the disputed Falkland Islands, located in the south Atlantic, from Britain. (Britain seized the islands back the following June.)In 1986, four American passengers, including an 8-month-old girl, her mother and grandmother, were killed when a terrorist bomb exploded aboard a TWA jetliner en route from Rome to Athens, Greece.In 1992, mob boss John Gotti was convicted in New York of murder and racketeering; he was later sentenced to life, and died in prison.In 2005, Pope John Paul II died in his Vatican apartment at age 84.Ten years ago: President George W. Bush suffered a diplomatic setback when NATO allies rebuffed his pleas to put former Soviet republics Ukraine and Georgia on the path toward membership. Irish Taoiseach (TEE\'-shuk) Bertie Ahern, who helped broker peace in Northern Ireland but couldn\'t survive a scandal over his collection of cash from businessmen, announced he would resign.Five years ago: North Korea said it would restart its long-shuttered plutonium reactor and increase production of nuclear weapons material in what outsiders saw as its latest attempt to extract U.S. concessions by raising fears of war. Pope Francis prayed before the tomb of Pope John Paul II on the eighth anniversary of the beloved pontiff\'s death. Irish character actor Milo O\'Shea, 86, died in New York.One year ago: President Donald Trump brought Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., to his Virginia golf course to talk health policy with the outspoken critic of the failed plan to repeal and replace so-called "Obamacare." Jason Aldean was named entertainer of the year at the Academy of Country Music Awards held in Las Vegas; Miranda Lambert\'s "The Weight of These Wings" won album of the year, Florida Georgia Line\'s "H.O.L.Y." won single of the year, and song of the year went to "Die a Happy Man" by Thomas Rhett. A\'ja Wilson scored 23 points to help coach Dawn Staley and South Carolina win their first women\'s NCAA championship with a 67-55 victory over Mississippi State.Today\'s Birthdays: Actress Sharon Acker is 83. Actress Dame Penelope Keith is 78. Actress Linda Hunt is 73. Singer Emmylou Harris is 71. Actor Sam Anderson is 71. Social critic and author Camille Paglia is 71. Actress Pamela Reed is 69. Rock musician Dave Robinson (The Cars) is 69. Country singer Buddy Jewell is 57. Actor Christopher Meloni is 57. Singer Keren Woodward (Bananarama) is 57. Country singer Billy Dean is 56. Actor Clark Gregg is 56. Actress Jana Marie Hupp is 54. Rock musician Greg Camp is 51. Rock musician Tony Fredianelli (Third Eye Blind) is 49. Actress Roselyn Sanchez is 45. Country singer Jill King is 43. Actor Pedro Pascal is 43. Actor Adam Rodriguez is 43. Actor Jeremy Garrett is 42. Actor Michael Fassbender is 41. Actress Jaime Ray Newman is 40. Rock musician Jesse Carmichael (Maroon 5) is 39. Actress Bethany Joy Galeotti is 37. Singer Lee Dewyze (TV: "American Idol") is 32. Country singer Chris Janson is 32. Actor Drew Van Acker is 32. Actress Briga Heelan (TV: "Great News") is 31. Actor Jesse Plemons is 30. Singer Aaron Kelly (TV: "American Idol") is 25.Thought for Today: "Failure has a thousand explanations. Success doesn\'t need one."  Sir Alec Guinness, British actor (born this date in 1914, died 2000).
AL MUKALLA, Yemen  The heat was stifling, the power out. So the transients, mostly women and children displaced from nearby towns, ventured outside their temporary housing on Monday for some air, witnesses said. Then the Saudi warplanes struck.In what medics and residents in Yemens western port city of Al Hudaydah described as an instant midmorning slaughter in a residential housing area, the warplanes fired missiles at the civilians, cutting them to pieces as they sought relief from the 92-degree temperature. At least 14 were killed and nine wounded.The Saudi authorities, who contended that the targets had been military, said they were looking into the circumstances behind the airstrike in Al Hudaydah, the only Yemeni port that remains under the control of Yemens Houthi rebels after more than three years of war.But the airstrike was a reminder of the lethal hazards facing unarmed Yemenis from the firepower wielded by the Saudi-led coalition, despite its repeated pledges to spare civilians in its campaign to crush the Houthi-led insurgency.The ambulances could not cross into the targeted areas due to intensity of the jets, Abdulrahman Jarallah, director of the city health bureau in Al Hudaydah, said by telephone. He said there had been no military presence nearby.Medics in Al Hudaydah said that when they finally reached the missile-strike site, only two bodies could be identified. Most of the dead were in pieces.We believe that the targeted people were in the open to cool themselves as there was not electricity in the complex, Mr. Jarallah said. So missiles touched bodies directly.The missiles hit multistory housing units on the eastern edges of Al Hudaydah, where many people who had fled contested districts south of the city were staying, residents reported.The Saudi-owned Al Arabiya television news channel said that the warplanes had bombed Houthi military gatherings and arms caches in the targeted area, and that the airstrikes had set off large explosions.The United Nations, which has described Yemen as the worlds worst man-made humanitarian disaster, has said that the coalition is responsible for a majority of the roughly 10,000 civilians killed since the Saudis began bombing in March 2015.Human rights groups have increasingly criticized Saudi Arabia over what they call indiscriminate bombings and the severe restrictions the Saudis have imposed on the flow of humanitarian aid to Yemen, where most of the population lacks food. A growing number of lawmakers in the United States, which has been providing military support to the Saudi coalition in Yemen, including refueling, intelligence and targeting guidance, have called for such assistance to be terminated.Last month, as Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, was visiting the United States on a friendship tour, the Senate defeated a bipartisan effort to end the assistance in a 55-to-44 vote, but only after extensive lobbying by top Pentagon officials.The Houthi insurgents, who are supported by Iran, Saudi Arabias regional rival, have given no indication that they are prepared to negotiate an end to the conflict.Last week, on the third anniversary of the Saudi-led bombing campaign, the Houthis fired seven missiles into Saudi Arabia, the single-biggest barrage they had ever undertaken, in what they called a justified response to Saudi bombardments.On Monday, the Houthis launched a missile toward the Saudi city of Dhahran, according to the news agency of the United Arab Emirates, a Saudi coalition ally, but the missile landed in Yemen near the Saudi border.Human rights groups have criticized the Houthis for the missile strikes. On Monday, Human Rights Watch called the strikes a violation of the laws of war.Nonetheless, said Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, the Saudis cant use Houthi rockets to justify impeding lifesaving goods for Yemens civilian population.
DANVILLE, Ind.   Several volunteers helped restore a car for a World War II veteran who was cheated by someone he paid more than $8,000 to do the work.The Finer Details shop handed Harry Donovan his restored 1967 Ford Mustang on Saturday in Danville, the Indianapolis Star reported . Donovan bought the vehicle for his late wife Marie in 1969.Donovan, 96, had hired Dennis Lee in 2009 to restore the car, but Lee disappeared with the car and money in 2012. The vehicle was eventually found stripped of its engine, transmission, hood and other parts.Donovan\'s family created a GoFundMe that raised more than $23,000 to help cover the cost of parts and other expenses.The Finer Details team spent 18 months restoring the vehicle. They put in about 1,500 hours, often working at night and on the weekends.The original plan was to just replace the missing parts and paint the car, said Ken Mosier, who runs the restoration shop."Our name is The Finer Details and we couldn\'t just do that," Mosier said. "It\'s brand new  every piece."All the work on the vehicle is worth about $75,000, he said.Lee was sentenced last month to 545 days in jail for theft, but was placed on probation after most of the sentence was suspended. The court also ordered Lee to pay Donovan more than $15,000, which covers the $8,000 Donovan originally paid him as well as the value of the parts stripped from the car.Donovan\'s family said they plan to donate that money to veterans groups.The veteran said the only thing left to add to the car is a customized front license plate that reads "For Marie."___Information from: The Indianapolis Star, http://www.indystar.com
WASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO   The U.S. Justice Department sued California over a state law that aims to stop the Trump administration from selling or transferring federal lands to private corporations, hitting the state with yet another legal challenge.The lawsuit, filed in federal court on Monday in Sacramento, the state capital, comes less than a month after the Justice Department brought a legal action targeting three California laws largely aimed at protecting illegal immigrants from deportation."California has once again passed an extreme statute found in no other state to obstruct the federal government, this time by interfering with the conveyance of federal land," the Justice Department\'s acting No. 3 official, Jesse Panuccio, told reporters.California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is prepared to protect the state\'s resources."Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder," Becerra said.Governor Jerry Brown accused the Trump administration last month of declaring war on the most populous U.S. state after the Justice Department sued over the California immigration laws. A hearing in that case is set for June.The latest legal action involves California\'s Senate Bill 50, which was signed into law in October and gives the state right of first refusal over many federal land conveyances.If the California State Lands Commission waives its right of first refusal, it issues a compliance certificate. Without this document, the land transfer cannot be legally recorded in a county property office.The Justice Department in its lawsuit argues that Senate Bill 50 is preempted by federal law.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Additional reporting by Dan Levine in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler and Steve Orlofsky)
ANKARA   Turkey has ordered the arrest of the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen and seven others over the 2016 assassination of the Russian envoy to Turkey, the Haberturk newspaper said on Monday, a day before Russian President Vladimir Putin visits the country.Andrei Karlov was shot dead by an off-duty policeman while speaking at an Ankara exhibit opening in December 2016. The gunman shouted "Allahu Akbar" and "Don\'t forget Aleppo!" as he opened fire, apparently referring to Russia\'s involvement in neighboring Syria. He was shot dead by police at the scene.Putin arrives on a two-day visit on Tuesday and will meet President Tayyip Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. Their three countries are the guarantors of the Astana peace talks that has set up "de-escalation" zones across war-torn Syria.Erdogan said Gulen\'s movement was behind the assassination, a charge the cleric has denied. Erdogan also blames the preacher\'s network for an attempted military coup in July 2016.Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in the United States since 1999, has denied the charge and condemned the coup.Haberturk said the authorities ordered the arrests of the eight as the killing was carried out on their orders.Authorities have so far arrested seven others, including three policeman, in relation to the killing, the Hurriyet newspaper reported.No one was immediately available for comment at the Ankara prosecutor\'s office.The gunman came from Soke in southwest Turkey, considered one of the country\'s most secular regions. His father said his son\'s behavior started changing after he joined the police academy, where he became more pious, according to media reports at the time.While the slogans he shouted suggest he was sympathetic to radical Islamist ideology, Gulen\'s network preaches interfaith dialogue. The Turkish government says such teachings are designed to mask the true nature of what they call a dangerous, secretive organization.(Writing by Ece Toksabay; Editing by David Dolan and Hugh Lawson)
JAKARTA, Indonesia   Indonesia\'s military said Monday that one solider has been killed in an ongoing clash between security forces and Papuan independence fighters near the U.S.-owned Grasberg copper mine in the country\'s east.Military spokesman Col. Muhammad Aidi said the soldier was shot in the head and died Sunday afternoon.He said that a joint military and police force was hunting an "armed separatist criminal group."Aidi denied a purported statement from the National Liberation Army of West Papua that numerous Indonesian soldiers were killed in the clashes and a 10-year-old boy had died in a fire caused by the Indonesian attack.The liberation army said one of its fighters was killed.Aidi said the dead Indonesian soldier\'s body has yet to be evacuated due to bad weather and difficult terrain in the mountainous area.An insurgency has simmered in Papua since the early 1960s when Indonesia annexed the region that had remained under Dutch control following Indonesian independence nearly two decades earlier.Attacks by rebels near the Grasberg mine have spiked in the past year after liberation army figures declared the area a war zone.The Grasberg mine\'s vast gold and copper reserves have been exploited for decades by the U.S. mining company Freeport, damaging the surrounding environment while providing significant tax income for the Indonesian government.But indigenous Papuans have benefited little and are poorer, sicker and more likely to die young than people elsewhere in Indonesia.
SANAA, Yemen   An airstrike by the Saudi-led coalition near Yemen\'s Red Sea port of Hodeida killed at least 14 people on Monday, according to a senior health official.The airstrike hit a compound housing displaced people in the town of al-Hami, according to Walid al-Emmad, the deputy health minister. He says at least eight women and five girls were among those killed.The Saudi-led coalition has been at war with Iran-allied Houthi rebels for more than three years, a conflict that has killed more than 10,000 people and devastated the Arab world\'s poorest country. Saudi-led airstrikes have killed thousands of civilians and destroyed hospitals, schools and markets.A leading human rights group on Monday called on Saudi Arabia to lift its blockade on Yemen, and for the Houthis to stop firing missiles across the border into the kingdom. "The Saudis can\'t use Houthi rockets to justify impeding life-saving goods for Yemen\'s civilian population," said Sarah Leah Whitson, the Mideast director for Human Rights Watch.The coalition has imposed a blockade on the country since 2015.The Houthis, who control much of northern Yemen, including the capital, Sanaa, fired seven ballistic missiles into Saudi Arabia on March 26, killing one person. Saudi Arabia has repeatedly accused Iran of supplying the rebels with missiles and other arms, accusations denied by Tehran.
When touring a potential apartment, many New Yorkers would be alarmed to see a construction shed next door, let alone a demolition site in the backyard. But Jeremy Vieira wasnt the least bit concerned when his broker took him to see an apartment in the middle of Hudson Yards, the largest construction site in the city.In fact, he was delighted that he could see several buildings going up around the studio apartment. What could be more fitting for a would-be developer, Mr. Vieira thought, than watching a new neighborhood rise outside his windows?I love to see how things get created, said Mr. Vieira, 34, who moved to New York last May to enroll in the masters program in real estate development at Columbia University. Its almost like watching a baby grow. Even though I dont have anything to do with it, its satisfying.He has quite an action-packed view: On a recent afternoon, no fewer than three construction cranes were visible from the windows of his 21st-floor apartment at 435 W. 31st Street, including one whose operation had shut down a block of West 32nd Street. Directly beneath him was a staging area that will someday be a public plaza, and on the far side of that plaza, a construction elevator was chugging up the side of One Manhattan West, the tallest building in Manhattan West, Brookfield Properties section of the mega-project.Alluring as it was, living in a construction zone wasnt the only thing that drew Mr. Vieira, a former financial analyst from Boston, to his building, known as The Eugene. On previous visits to the city, he always ended up hanging out by the High Line, so he started his apartment search in the West Village.But everything was so small, he said. And those prewar walk-ups  Im not one for exercise.His broker, intuiting that an older studio might not be for Mr. Vieira, suggested they check out The Eugene. With a listed rent of roughly $3,500 a month, the studio they saw cost more than Mr. Vieira had been looking to pay. But as soon as I walked in, I was like, All right, this is it, he said. I recognized the designers right away, and I was like, This is the one.As luck would have it, Brookfield Properties was offering two months of free rent  perhaps suspecting that not all potential renters would be as enthused by the hubbub of development as Mr. Vieira was. And that brought his net-effective rent down to about $3,000 a month.While some might have been inclined to penny-pinch in his situation  seeking out a spot in more budget-friendly neighborhoods, as many Columbia grad students do  Mr. Vieira reasoned that coming here was going to be expensive regardless. And I was like, If Im going to do New York, Im going to do it big.Mr. Vieira decided to attend the program at Columbia after renovating one single-family house and building another in the Boston area, saving the money to buy the first by living with his parents.He had studied architecture in college, but found he disliked the work. Renovating the two houses, though, was an entirely different experience.I loved it when they put in the cabinets. I loved it when they put in the countertop. I loved to see every little iteration, said Mr. Vieira, who hopes to work for a large affordable-housing developer when he graduates this spring.As part of his program, he often tours new developments, which never fails to validate his decision to move into his building. All of them are shiny and glamorous  thats what draws you in, he said. But usually the man at the front desk is very disinterested. Thats not the experience here. Here theres Justine and Kevin and Stefan and Gerard and Jeremy and Achilles and Liam.Having come from living in a three-bedroom house, he is also grateful for the shared spaces afforded by a building with amenities: He regularly uses the rooftop for grilling and as a place to do homework, and uses the library for studying. And he recently hosted a viewing party for New England Patriots fans in the media room.He even decided to start taking piano lessons  something he has wanted to do for years  after seeing the grand piano in an upstairs lounge.I decided I was doing all these new things, I might as well do that, too, he said. With the fireplace there, its enough ambience to convince me to practice. And its a nice break from school: I pour myself a glass of wine and go up.He added: Right now, Im trying to learn to play Can You Feel the Love Tonight. But its not going well.His 14-month lease is up in July, at which point, job-permitting, he intends to stay and maybe even upgrade. He has his eye on a one-bedroom on the 56th floor, from which you can see One World Trade Center and the Statue of Liberty.The only drawback? The construction-free view.
MEXICO CITY   Jose Antonio Meade\'s race for Mexico\'s presidency so far has looked more like a slog through mud  a struggle to free himself from the scandal-stained reputation of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party that chose the seemingly apolitical economist as its standard-bearer.A string of governors from the party have been imprisoned  some after fleeing the country as fugitives  or are under investigation for corruption, and many Mexicans blame the party known as the PRI for failure to halt the growth of violence across much of the country. So Meade, a man who has worked in Cabinet for presidents of two different parties, is stressing his own, relatively untarnished record."I\'m the candidate," he said in an interview with The Associated Press. "And there is not just the perception, but the certainty of 20 years of an honest and transparent life and an honorable trajectory."So far, with the election three months away, that hasn\'t been enough. Nearly all polls say Meade is running third, favored by less than 20 percent of likely voters."Mexico\'s long-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party is now so linked with corruption that it may be hobbled in the 2018 national elections," the U.S. Congressional Research Service wrote in a March analysis.Meade argues that all the country\'s parties have a similar bad image and says he is the best-equipped candidate to tackle corruption. He has proposed eliminating presidents\' immunity against prosecution, increasing the autonomy of the Attorney General\'s Office and seizing the property of politicians found to be corrupt."To take on corruption what we have to do is give more tools to the government, and the only one who has put forward a serious proposal about this topic is me," Meade said.This is the first time that the PRI, the dominant force in Mexican politics for most of the past century, has ever named a non-member as its presidential candidate. The choice was widely seen as the only good option for a party tainted by scandals.It\'s also the first time Meade, 49, has ever run for public office, though his father  also a long-time government administrator  served a term in congress for the PRI.The lack of stump-speech experience shows. His speaking style often reflects his policy wonk background as a Yale-educated economist who also has a law degree.Meade served in a series of bureaucratic posts before joining the Cabinet of President Felipe Calderon, a member of the conservative National Action Party, as energy secretary in 2011 and as treasury secretary a year later. Incoming PRI President Enrique Pena Nieto kept Meade on as the head of foreign affairs, then social services, and finally the treasury again.Meade had left his job as Mexico\'s top diplomat before the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, whose repeated criticisms of Mexico and Mexicans have strained ties and whose demand for a renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement has created economic uncertainty.If he wins, Meade said, he will seek dialogue at all levels of government to preserve a relationship that is deeper than many believe and that goes beyond topics such as the current renegotiation of NAFTA, which Trump has said is unfair to the U.S.NAFTA doesn\'t anchor the relationship, Meade said. "The infrastructure anchors it, the communication links anchor it, the business ties, the investments."He also said he would continue to work with the U.S. on security issues, a key part of the current bilateral relationship, but added that Mexico has to look to itself for solutions. "The challenge is our challenge," he said.Security "is a goal that will be achieved when we have a sufficient police capacity, when we have a good capacity to control the flow of arms, when we have a good capacity to take money from organized crime," he said. His platform proposes legal reforms to make it easier to seize ill-gotten property.Pena Nieto, who leaves office Dec. 1, became president vowing to cut crime, much of it tied to drug gangs. Homicide rates initially dipped during his administration, only to soar back to historically high levels over the past year.The Calderon administration, in which Meade served as finance and energy secretary, launched an unprecedented offensive against drug trafficking and deployed thousands of soldiers and marines across the country, and Pena Nieto has continued to lean heavily on the military for police work despite complaints by human rights groups.Meade said public safety has to be the responsibility of civilian authorities, but the armed forces have to play a role.

VANCOUVER, British Columbia   Vancouver Canucks forwards Henrik and Daniel Sedin announced they will retire at the end of the season.The 37-year-old twins disclosed their plans Monday in a letter on the team\'s website before addressing media later.The Sedins are in their 17th season in the NHL, all with Vancouver. They led the Canucks to within one game of winning the 2011 Stanley Cup."There\'s been a lot of talk," Henrik Sedin said at Rogers Arena. "We felt the longer the season went, it became clearer to us this was going to be our last year.""It\'s a happy day for all of us," Daniel Sedin added. "We\'re really comfortable where we\'re at."They relived the tough early times when they were criticized for being too slow and soft, the high-flying glory days, the crushing defeats, and the last three seasons that have seen the Canucks lose more combined games than any other team in the league."It\'s always tough losing," said Daniel Sedin, who along with his brother will play just three more NHL games. "But with the team we had, you have to stay positive, you have to keep playing the right way, and trying to teach the young guys."Heading into the final year of their contracts, the Sedins penned an open letter in the fall stating their desire to remain with the only franchise they\'ve ever known  even if it meant forgoing the chance at a Stanley Cup elsewhere."We know we had the best jobs in the world," Henrik Sedin said Monday. "We tried to treat it that way. ... We haven\'t looked too far ahead or we haven\'t looked back. I\'m sure we will after this is done."The twins said in their letter Monday that they originally wanted to wait until after this season to make a decision, but they decided the time was right to make the call.Selected second and third overall at the 1999 draft after the Canucks made a series of trades to grab both brothers, the Sedins have been the faces of the franchise for more than a decade. However, it wasn\'t initially a smooth transition from Sweden to North America."There\'s lot of people that believed in us early on that were part of this organization," Henrik Sedin said. "If they would have listened to a lot of voices out of this room, it would have been easy to trade us because we didn\'t live up to the hype."The Sedins would eventually do so to become one of the most fearsome duos in the league, with what sometimes seemed like a telepathic ability to find each other with passes. Their vision and ability to find each other on the ice often left opponents shaking their heads."We\'ll miss them as people and as players," said Canucks president of hockey operations Trevor Linden, who played six seasons with the Sedins. "Happy for them because I know this is a decision they\'ve come to for the right reasons."Two likely Hall of Famers when their numbers are eventually called, Henrik Sedin has 1,068 points (240 goals, 828 assists) in 1,327 regular-season games, while Daniel Sedin has 1,038 points (391 goals, 647 assists) in 1,303 outings.Henrik added 23 goals and 55 assists in 105 playoff games, with Daniel adding 25 goals and 46 assists in 102 games.Henrik won the Art Ross Trophy as the league\'s top scorer in 2009-10 with 112 points. He also won the Hart Trophy as league MVP that year.Daniel won the Art Ross in 2010-11 with 104 points. He also won the Ted Lindsay Award as the league MVP voted on by the players."When they dropped the puck, we wanted to be on the ice," Henrik Sedin said. "We wanted to be the go-to guys."The Sedins plan to stay in Vancouver for the time being and are looking forward to spending more time with family."Going on the road, leaving the kids home, family, that\'s been the toughest part," Daniel Sedin said. "It will be fun to be around them a lot more."The core that got so close to a Stanley Cup title in 2011 has been slowly stripped away, with the Sedins among the only players left.With players like Brock Boeser and Bo Horvat at the front of a new wave under the leadership of rookie coach Travis Green, the Sedins said they feel they\'re leaving the franchise in good hands.The Canucks also now have some holes to fill. Daniel Sedin has 21 goals and 31 assists in 78 games this season, while Henrik Sedin has three goals and 45 assists in 79 outings  a combined 100 points Vancouver will have to replace."It\'s the right time for us to leave," Henrik Sedin said. "We\'ve been part of a coaching staff and a group that we really enjoyed working with."The Canucks host the Vegas Golden Knights on Tuesday before the Sedins\' final home game Thursday against the Arizona Coyotes. The twins will then wrap up their careers Saturday at Edmonton."It\'s a chance for us to thank the fans," Daniel Sedin said. "We told our teammates this morning they should be regular games. Treat us the same way."It should be no different this last week."___More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
WASHINGTON  President Trump on Monday will tap Justin Muzinich, a top aide to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, as the Treasury Departments deputy secretary, a powerful role that includes overseeing a broad portfolio of policy matters like taxes, financial regulation, trade and economic sanctions.The nomination fills a void in the top ranks of the department, which has operated without a full-time deputy secretary since Mr. Mnuchin was confirmed more than a year ago. Mr. Trumps previous picks, the longtime Goldman Sachs executive James Donovan, and Brian Brooks, a Fannie Mae executive who was not formally nominated, withdrew their names from contention last year. Mr. Mnuchin later said that he was not going to fill the position.The ascendance of Mr. Muzinich comes as Mr. Trump reshuffles his economic team, most notably replacing Gary D. Cohn with Larry Kudlow as the director of the National Economic Council. Far from a flamethrower, Mr. Muzinich, who spent most of his career on Wall Street, will add a more moderate voice with traditional conservative economic ideas to the table.Mr. Muzinich, 40, has been serving as Mr. Mnuchins tax counselor and played a central role in crafting and negotiating the terms of the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul that Congress passed late last year. He was previously under consideration to be promoted to under secretary for domestic finance at the Treasury Department, but now is in line to be Mr. Mnuchins No. 2.I am delighted by the presidents decision to nominate Justin to serve as deputy secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Mnuchin said in a statement. Justin has established himself as a leader in the department, and played a key role in the passage of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act.He added: He brings significant experience in financial services and in public policy and has become a reliable and trusted adviser on a number of important issues.A relative newcomer to Washington, Mr. Muzinich has brought a mix of financial and political experience to the Treasury Department. During the 2016 presidential campaign, he served as policy director for Jeb Bush and helped to craft Mr. Bushs tax plan. He also previously taught at Columbia Business School and has published essays on foreign aid and the role of the Federal Reserve.Mr. Muzinich, who holds an M.B.A. from Harvard and a law degree from Yale, has also worked as a banker at Morgan Stanley and was the president of Muzinich & Company, an international investment firm founded by his father.During the development of the tax legislation last year, Mr. Muzinich was frequently by Mr. Mnuchins side or negotiating on behalf of the Treasury Department during meetings with congressional staff members. Tax policy staff members on Capitol Hill often noted that Mr. Muzinich was a good listener and fast learner considering that he was not steeped in the arcana of the tax code.Those abilities will be crucial as deputy secretary, as Mr. Muzinich will have a much wider mandate. While the tax law has been passed, the carrying out of such a major piece of legislation will be a consuming task for an understaffed Internal Revenue Service, which is part of the Treasury Department. The department is also responsible for developing and executing economic sanctions on terrorist groups and on countries such as North Korea and Russia. And the department is at the center of Mr. Trumps effort to prevent China from capturing intellectual property through corporate mergers and acquisitions.Mr. Muzinichs portfolio will also include the departments debt management, a critical role given the governments increasing borrowing needs stemming from the new tax law.It has been mystifying to me that they could go so long without a deputy at Treasury, said Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served as Treasurys deputy secretary during the Obama administration. Its not an easy role to keep vacant. It seems to have taken Treasury off the field in several major policy battles.Mr. Muzinichs nomination will require Senate confirmation. Given his role in the tax law, Democrats are likely to grill him on the merits of deep tax cuts for the rich and for corporations. He will also have to publicly defend the Treasury Departments position that the tax cuts will be self-financing despite many mainstream analyses that project they will add heavily to the deficit.Josh Bolten, a former chief of staff for President George W. Bush who got to know Mr. Muzinich during Jeb Bushs campaign, said that Mr. Muzinichs range of experiences would serve him well in a position that will require him to frequently speak on Mr. Mnuchins behalf.Hes a high-quality person who, I think, will in the most civil of ways always speak up when he thinks something is wrong and will always, again in a very civil way, give a good, reasoned judgment, Mr. Bolten said.
VANCOUVER, British Columbia  Vancouver Canucks forwards Henrik and Daniel Sedin announced they will retire at the end of the N.H.L. season.The Sedins, 37-year-old twins, disclosed their plans Monday in a letter on the teams website before addressing the news media later.The Sedins are in their 17th season in the N.H.L., all with Vancouver. They led the Canucks to the Stanley Cup finals in 2011, when they lost to the Boston Bruins in seven games.We felt the longer the season went, it became clearer to us this was going to be our last year, Henrik Sedin said at Rogers Arena.Its a happy day for all of us, Daniel Sedin added. Were really comfortable where were at.They relived the tough early times when they were criticized for being too slow and soft, the high-flying glory days, the crushing defeats, and the last three seasons that have seen the Canucks lose more combined games than any other team in the league.Its always tough losing, said Daniel Sedin, who along with his brother will play just three more N.H.L. games. But with the team we had, you have to stay positive, you have to keep playing the right way, and trying to teach the young guys.Heading into the final year of their contracts, the Sedins penned an open letter in the fall stating their desire to remain with the only franchise they have ever known  even if it meant forgoing the chance at a Stanley Cup elsewhere.We know we had the best jobs in the world, Henrik Sedin said Monday. We tried to treat it that way.The twins said in their letter Monday that they originally wanted to wait until after this season to make a decision, but they decided the time was right to make the call.Selected second and third overall at the 1999 draft after the Canucks made a series of trades to grab both brothers, the Sedins have been the faces of the franchise for more than a decade. But it wasnt initially a smooth transition from Sweden to North America.Theres lot of people that believed in us early on that were part of this organization, Henrik Sedin said. If they would have listened to a lot of voices out of this room, it would have been easy to trade us because we didnt live up to the hype.The Sedins, probable Hall of Famers, would eventually do so to become one of the most fearsome duos in the league, with what sometimes seemed like a telepathic ability to find each other with passes.Well miss them as people and as players, said Canucks president of hockey operations Trevor Linden, who played six seasons with the Sedins. Happy for them because I know this is a decision theyve come to for the right reasons.Henrik Sedin has 1,068 points (240 goals, 828 assists) in 1,327 regular-season games, while Daniel Sedin has 1,038 points (391 goals, 647 assists) in 1,303 outings.Henrik added 23 goals and 55 assists in 105 playoff games, with Daniel adding 25 goals and 46 assists in 102 games.Henrik won the Art Ross Trophy as the leagues top scorer in 2009-10 with 112 points. He also won the Hart Trophy as league most valuable player that year.Daniel won the Art Ross in 2010-11 with 104 points. He also won the Ted Lindsay Award as the league M.V.P. voted on by the players.When they dropped the puck, we wanted to be on the ice, Henrik Sedin said. We wanted to be the go-to guys.The Sedins plan to stay in Vancouver for the time being and are looking forward to spending more time with family.Going on the road, leaving the kids home, family, thats been the toughest part, Daniel Sedin said. It will be fun to be around them a lot more.The core of the team that got so close to a Stanley Cup title in 2011 has been slowly stripped away, with the Sedins among the only players left.With young players like Brock Boeser and Bo Horvat at the front of a new wave under the leadership of the rookie coach Travis Green, the Sedins said they feel theyre leaving the franchise in good hands.The Canucks also now have some holes to fill. Daniel Sedin has 21 goals and 31 assists in 78 games this season, while Henrik Sedin has three goals and 45 assists in 79 outings  a combined 100 points Vancouver will have to replace.Its the right time for us to leave, Henrik Sedin said. Weve been part of a coaching staff and a group that we really enjoyed working with.The Canucks host the Vegas Golden Knights on Tuesday before the Sedins final home game Thursday against the Arizona Coyotes. The twins will then wrap up their careers Saturday at Edmonton.Its a chance for us to thank the fans, Daniel Sedin said. We told our teammates this morning they should be regular games. Treat us the same way.It should be no different this last week.


RIYADH   Saudi Arabia\'s crown prince said Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land in an interview published on Monday in U.S. magazine The Atlantic, another public sign of ties between Riyadh and Tel Aviv appearing to grow closer.Asked if he believes the Jewish people have a right to a nation-state in at least part of their ancestral homeland, Mohammed bin Salman was quoted as saying:"I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."Saudi Arabia - birthplace of Islam and home to its holiest shrines - does not recognize Israel. It has maintained for years that normalizing relations hinges on Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war, territory Palestinians seek for a future state."We have religious concerns about the fate of the holy mosque in Jerusalem and about the rights of the Palestinian people. This is what we have. We don\'t have any objection against any other people," said Prince Mohammed who is touring the United States to drum up investments and support for his efforts to contain Iranian influence.Increased tension between Tehran and Riyadh has fueled speculation that shared interests may push Saudi Arabia and Israel to work together against what they see as a common Iranian threat."There are a lot of interests we share with Israel and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries", Prince Mohammed added.Saudi Arabia opened its airspace for the first time to a commercial flight to Israel last month, which an Israeli official hailed as historic following two years of efforts.In November, an Israeli cabinet member disclosed covert contacts with Saudi Arabia, a rare acknowledgment of long-rumored secret dealings which Riyadh still denies.Saudi Arabia condemned U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel last year, but Arab  officials told Reuters at the time that Riyadh appears to be on board with a broader U.S. strategy for an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan still in its early phases of development.(Reporting by Stephen Kalin; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
BEIRUT   The Latest on the Syria conflict (all times local):10:15 p.m.The Russian military says rebels are leaving the town of Douma in the suburbs of Damascus.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, of the Russian military\'s Reconciliation Center in Syria, said Monday that 1,146 rebels and their relatives have left Douma, in the eastern Ghouta suburbs, for the northern province of Idlib over the past 24 hours.Yevtushenko said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies that a total of 30,376 people have left Douma since Wednesday.The Syrian government and the Russian military backing it have demanded that the Army of Islam rebel group leave the area for northern Syria, following a devastating five-week government offensive in eastern Ghouta.The Russian military said the rebels will surrender maps of mined areas and underground tunnels when they leave Douma.___2:15 p.m.Russia\'s top diplomat says he is encouraged by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s talk of reducing the U.S. military presence in Syria.Trump said at an event in Ohio last week that the United States would be pulling out of Syria "very soon" despite the fact that that the State Department had been insisting for months that the U.S. needs to remain engaged there.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told reporters on Monday that Moscow is concerned that the United States has been "gaining a serious foothold" on the east bank of the Euphrates River despite Trump\'s earlier promises that the U.S. would leave when the Islamic State group is defeated. Lavrov said Trump\'s latest remarks show that "at least he is committed" to his original statements.Russia has been a key backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad, ultimately helping to turn the tide of the devastating civil war in his favor. The United States helped Kurdish-led forces drive IS from much of northern and eastern Syria, and has hundreds of troops embedded with them.___11:50 a.m.Syrian state media say the largest rebel group in Damascus\' eastern Ghouta, the Army of Islam, has begun to evacuate from the area\'s last holdout town. The government is waiting for the rebels to leave the besieged town of Douma, just east of Damascus, before it can say it has full control of the area, after seven years of revolt. Douma is the last town to hold out against government forces in the once rebel-held suburbs.The SANA news agency says two buses carrying the rebels left Douma on Monday morning, heading for Jarablus, a town in north Syria shared between rebels and Turkish forces.There was no immediate comment from the Army of Islam. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group also reported the rebels\' leaving Douma.
BEIRUT   Syrian state media said Monday that the largest rebel group in the suburbs of Damascus has begun evacuating its last stronghold after seven years of war, but the rebels refused to say whether they had surrendered, and it was unclear who was on board a dozen buses seen leaving the town.Residents trapped inside Douma expressed fear that further foot-dragging could provoke another major government offensive, like the one that killed an estimated 1,600 people across the eastern Ghouta suburbs in February and March."We don\'t know what our choices are, we don\'t know what\'s in store for us," said local media activist Haitham Bakkar.Douma was one of the earliest hubs of the Arab Spring uprising against President Bashar Assad that swept through the country in 2011. Just 11 kilometers (7 miles) from the Old City of Damascus, it was part of the capital\'s Ghouta hinterland, once famed for its orchards and produce. The government responded to the protests by putting Douma and other suburbs around Damascus under siege, bombing hospitals and residential areas, and blocking the entry of food and medical relief.On Monday, more than 600 people evacuated the town on buses sent by the government and the Syrian Red Crescent to take them to Jarablus, a northern Syrian town controlled by Turkish troops and allied Syrian forces.State media said those on board were fighters and family members belonging to the Army of Islam, the largest rebel group in eastern Ghouta. The Saudi-backed group, which has deep roots in the region, has held firm in recent weeks as virtually all the other insurgents of eastern Ghouta have reached deals to relocate to the rebel-held north.The Russian military, which is allied with Assad\'s forces, said 1,146 rebels and their relatives have left Douma for the northern province of Idlib over the past 24 hours. Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, of the Russian military\'s Reconciliation Center in Syria, said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies that more than 30,000 people have left Douma since Wednesday.The Army of Islam has refused to respond to media requests for comment. Syrian activists say the group has told them it is determined to remain in Douma. The group is estimated to command 10,000 fighters in the town, and possess a formidable arsenal of tanks and other heavy weaponry, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the civil war through a network of activists on the ground.Observatory head Rami Abdurrahman said the Army of Islam is divided over whether to evacuate Douma, with hard-liners demanding they stay and fight.He said the buses leaving Douma on Monday were transporting wounded fighters as a first step in the evacuations. Bakkar, the media activist, said the evacuees were wounded civilians. Douma local council member Iyad Abdelaziz said the buses were for medical evacuations and "humanitarian cases."The Army of Islam ruled Douma with an iron fist, and embodied a more conservative and intolerant vision for Syria than the one promoted by the civil uprising of 2011. It has been accused of abducting human rights activists and committing abuses as it crushed rival groups. Its power largely derived from Saudi aid and its control of an extensive smuggling network in eastern Ghouta.In the spring of 2015, it held a massive military parade that included thousands of opposition fighters marching in formation and a striking display of tanks and armored vehicles at the doors of the Syrian capital.As government forces have steadily reclaimed towns and villages in eastern Ghouta, they have given rebels and men of fighting age the choice of accepting amnesty and serving in the Syrian military, or relocating to rebel-held areas in northern Syria. More than 40,000 rebels and their family members have chosen to relocate, according to the Russian military.Russia is a key backer of Assad and supported the latest government offensive. More than 120,000 people fled their homes under the five-week assault, seeking safety behind government lines, according to the Russian military.Local activists say over 100,000 civilians are trapped inside Douma, which has suffered catastrophic damage.On Sunday, the Syrian government-linked Central Military Media outlet said that once the evacuations are completed, a local council for Douma would be formed with the approval of the central government.It said Russia, Iran, and Turkey  which have negotiated local settlements in different parts of Syria  would oversee the handover of prisoners held by the Army of Islam to the government. Iran has backed Assad throughout the civil war, while Turkey has cast itself as a sponsor of the opposition, along with the Arab Gulf countries.The government was not party to the negotiations over Douma, which were conducted between Russia and the Army of Islam. Ahmad Ramadan, an opposition figure, revealed on Sunday that Turkey was party to the talks as well."If there is an agreement, the Russian military police will enter and be a buffer force between us and the government," said Abdelaziz, the local council member.Turkey, with the support of allied Syrian opposition forces, is carrying out its own military operations in northern Syria, against a U.S.-allied Kurdish militia.Abu Ali Nejm, a commander in the Kurdish-held town of Manbij, said reports of the relocation of the Army of Islam to the nearby town of Jarablus were troubling."For sure this is not in our interest," he said in a series of messages. "But there are currently reinforcements from the coalition forces and things are now ok. " He said U.S.-led forces have increased their presence along the front line opposite the Turkey-led forces.___Associated Press writer Sarah El Deeb in Qamishli, Syria contributed to this report.


GOLD COAST, Australia   Facts on the Commonwealth Games to be held in Australia's Gold Coast:WHENApril 4-15, 2018WHEREThe majority of the events will be held in three clusters on the Gold Coast, with the opening and closing ceremonies and athletics at the Carrara Stadium.Track cycling and the shooting competitions will be held in Brisbane.Preliminary round games in the basketball competition will be held in Townsville and Cairns, in the far-North of Queensland.BY THE NUMBERS18 sports; seven para-sports10 core sports -- athletics, badminton, boxing, hockey, lawn bowls, netball, rugby sevens, squash, swimming, weightlifting.Eight optional sports -- basketball, beach volleyball, cycling, gymnastics, shooting, table tennis, triathlon, wrestling.275 gold medals6,600-plus athletes71 nations and territoriesCOMMONWEALTH GAMESFirst contested in 1930 as The Empire Games (a title that lasted until in 1950) in Hamilton, Ontario. Just 400 athletes from 11 countries attended.Contested every four years, except for 1942 and 1946 due to World War Two, until 1950. Was renamed as the British Empire and Commonwealth Games in 1952 with the 1954 event in Vancouver the first to use the title.The last BE&C Games were held in Kingston in 1966, the first time they had been held outside of Britain, Australia, Canada or New Zealand.Renamed the Commonwealth Games for the 1978 Edmonton event.Kuala Lumpur becomes the first Asian city to host the Games in 1998.Questions raised over the future of the Games after the 2010 event in Delhi is blighted by construction delays, budget over-runs, poor living conditions at the athletes' village, a number of high-profile withdrawals and low spectator numbers.Only one city, South Africa's Durban, bid for the 2022 event, with the bid rubber-stamped at Commonwealth Games Federation meeting in Auckland in 2015 giving Africa its first Games.The coastal city, however, was stripped of the event last March after a failure to meet promises contained in its bid, with the 2022 event awarded to Birmingham.THE GOLD COAST GAMESBid was initiated by the Queensland state premier Anna Bligh in 2008.Was the only bidder until Sri Lankan city Hambantota entered the race in 2010.Awarded the 2018 event on Nov. 11, 2011, becoming the fifth Australian city to host the Commonwealth Games (Sydney, 1938; Perth, 1962; Brisbane, 1982; Melbourne 2006)More than 80 percent of the venues had already been built prior to the bid being awarded.State and local government invested more than A$1 billion  ($767.80 million) in upgrading the public transport system, with an extension to the light rail tram network connecting key venues.The mascot Borobi is a blue koala with indigenous markings on its body. Borobi is an Aboriginal term for koala.Beach volleyball and women's sevens are making their debut.(Compiled by Greg Stutchbury; Editing by Amlan Chgakraborty)
ANKARA, Turkey   Ties between Russia and Turkey are growing closer than ever, as Russia runs into widespread diplomatic fallout from the poisoned spy scandal and Turkey\'s relations with its Western allies worsens over human rights issues and its military operations against Kurdish militia in Syria.Russian President Vladimir Putin heads back to Turkey on Tuesday, joining Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at a symbolic ground-breaking ceremony for a Russian-made nuclear power plant being built on Turkey\'s Mediterranean coast at Akkuyu. On Wednesday, Putin, Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani are expected to hold a summit in the Turkish capital of Ankara to discuss Syria\'s future.Turkey and Russia have put aside their traditional rivalries and differences on regional issues to forge strong economic ties. In December, they finalized an agreement for Turkey to purchase Russia\'s long-range S-400 missile defense system, a deal that raised eyebrows among some of Turkey\'s NATO allies. Aside from the power plant, the two countries are also building the "Turkstream" pipeline to transport Russian gas to Turkey."Turkish-Russian relations are in a better mood compared with two years before . both parties are working together," said Mitat Celikpala, a professor of international relations at Istanbul\'s Kadir Has University."They managed to compartmentalize issues," Celikpala said, citing Turkish and Russian divisions, including over the divided island of Cyprus and Russia\'s 2014 annexation of Crimea. "If you set aside all those issues . they are good partners for the resolution of immediate interests."Their warming relations come as ties between European Union nations and Turkey have become increasingly testy.Turkey\'s EU membership talks have stalled and many EU countries have voiced concerns over the Turkish government\'s growing authoritarian turn and its crackdown on rights and freedoms, especially following an attempted coup in 2016 that Turkey blames on aU.S.-based Islamic cleric.Turkey in turn, accuses EU countries of supporting Kurdish rebels as well as the alleged perpetrators of the 2016 failed coup.Turkey\'s relations with the United States have fared even worse, with Turkey accusing Washington of harboring the cleric, Fethullah Gulen, and backing Syrian Kurdish militia that Turkey considers to be terrorists.Last week, Turkey announced it would not be following NATO and EU allies in ousting Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning in Britain of a former Russian spy. Britain has accused Russia of being behind thenerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, prompting nearly two dozen nations to expel over 150Russian diplomats. Russia has responded by expelling a similar number of envoys.Turkey condemned the nerve agent attack on British soil without naming Russia, adding that it enjoyed "positive" relations with Moscow."Just because some countries took a step based on an allegation, we don\'t have to take the same step," Erdogan said.Putin and Erdogan have met several times in the past year and regularly speak on the phone.Russia and Turkey  along with Iran  are also working together to create "de-escalation zones" to reduce the fightingin Syria and bring the sides of the conflict together to negotiate Syria\'s future.The cooperation comes despite their positions on opposing sides in the Syrian conflict with Moscow siding with Syrian President BasharAssad and Turkey supporting his foes since the start of the Syrian war seven years ago.The conflicting interests led to the downing of a Russian warplane by a Turkish jet at the Syrian border in November 2015, which put the two nations on the verge of a direct military conflict.Russia responded by barring packaged tourist tours to Turkey and halting the imports of agricultural products. The two reconciled after Erdogan issued an apology.__Wieting reported from Istanbul.

SHANGHAI/SINGAPORE   When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators\' watchful eyes.Li, a Canada-based Chinese banker in his 20s, is one of these underground traders. He buys cryptocurrencies in other markets and sells them at a premium to investors in China, who cannot otherwise get them.At the height of the frenzied demand for bitcoins in January, when prices of the digital currency were hovering close to $20,000 after a 20-fold jump during 2017, Li and other traders were able to sell bitcoins in China for 30 to 40 percent more than they cost elsewhere.But in a matter of months, the premium for bitcoins in China has fallen to around 7 percent or less as a flood of bitcoin mules, who physically carry cash across borders for the trades, has swamped the arbitrage business. Cryptocurrency funds and individual computer-assisted traders have also piled into the market.The boom has eaten away the spreads and shown how fast the galloping cryptocurrency markets can change course."The market\'s kind of taken a downturn; there is less general appetite in this space," said John DeCleene, an assistant fund manager running the fintech and cryptocurrency investments at Overseas Chinese Investment Management."It is too many players entering this market, but also less of the hype we saw in December-January, when people were paying a 30 percent premium because they expected 10 times gains overnight."DeCleene launched a $5 million Singapore-based global fund in November to invest in cryptocurrencies, blockchain-related equities and some exploratory arbitrage trading. He said it has generated a 58 percent return so far.BITCOIN MULESBitcoin arbitrage thrived last year as the cryptocurrency grew more volatile and some governments stepped in with rules to curtail trading.The simplest geographical arbitrage involved buying bitcoin in unregulated markets such as Thailand, or ones that have legalised bitcoin trading such as Japan, and selling them in banned markets such as South Korea, China or India.A second form occurred between exchanges, when nimble-footed traders bought cryptocurrencies cheaply on lesser-known exchanges and sold them for a profit on more liquid and widely used platforms.There were huge price differences to exploit.In early January, when the price of bitcoin was $17,600 on Bitstamp, the Luxembourg-based digital currency exchange, it was being quoted at 25 million won ($23,630) in South Korea, implying a 34 percent "kimchi premium".As China\'s ban expanded from an initial prohibition on issuing new cryptocurrency to a shutdown of exchanges, premiums rose and traders quickly found new ways of doing business.At first, it was limited to closed groups on the popular messaging platform WeChat and meetings at bars, where potential bitcoin buyers could meet sellers.Then peer-to-peer platforms such as CoinCola, websites belonging to former Chinese exchanges Huobi and OKCoin, and even the retail platform Taobao became hubs for "over-the-counter" (OTC) cryptocurrency trading, conducted outside of formal exchanges and far more difficult for regulators to police."The big Chinese traders are all using CoinCola or going direct to each other through other OTC platforms," like WeChat or AliPay, said Christian Grewell, a professor of business and interactive media arts at NYU in Shanghai who has lectured extensively on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology.AliPay is China\'s leading online payment platform.Another option, bank transfers between buyers and sellers, is "almost untraceable", Grewell added, as it is difficult to prove that a transfer is related to a cryptocurrency transaction.A trader in her 20s in Shanghai said she buys bitcoins in the United States to sell over the counter in China. On each trip to the U.S., she illegally carries $30,000 to $40,000 in cash, she added."Selling and buying bitcoins on those OTC websites is the same as shopping on Taobao," said the trader.BIG COMPETITIONHedge funds that can execute arbitrage trades quickly and at a fraction of the cost are squeezing individual traders, said Ramani Ramachandran, the chief executive of digital exchange Zenprivex.Peter Kim of KIT Trading, part of Vulpes Investment Management, manages a $10 million cryptocurrency arbitrage operation."In the beginning, when there is 30 percent arbitrage, obviously you can travel to Thailand, buy bitcoins, send them to China, Japan, Korea and sell them. That\'s easy," said Kim, who was formerly an options arbitrage trader."But that opportunity is not going to last very long. And even though it is not as blatantly there, there are still many ways to profit from it, especially for someone like me who is used to making 3 basis points on a trade," he added.The arbitrage funds operate much like retail traders, buying and selling cryptocurrencies simultaneously on two different platforms, but on a much larger scale. That allows them to profit from smaller spreads.Some retail traders, including Li, have turned to lesser-known cryptocurrencies such as Tether, which bills itself as being pegged to the U.S. dollar.Tether is popular with Chinese seeking to move their cash discreetly overseas, as it is not volatile. That demand means it trades at a 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent premium in China, although the number was as high as 10 percent in January.Li said his arbitrage activity nets him about $18,000 a month on a trading volume of about half a million dollars.Although that is a tidy sum, it is far less than what frantic traders made late last year."The easy arbitrage is going to be much less prevalent now than it used to be," Kim said.(Reporting and writing by Vidya Ranganathan; Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
MUMBAI, India  Growing up in Mumbai, Manan Gandhi was entranced by the smells of the geranium, patchouli and rose oil extracts that his father brought home from business trips to Egypt, Indonesia and Turkey.I was like, Why do we have all this stuff at home, he recalled, and why is it in the safe?He said his early impressions of the essential oils trade, where today some rare ingredients sell for as much as $20,000 per liter, made him eager to follow in his fathers footsteps. And eventually he did, founding an essential-oil trading company in France in 2012 after earning an undergraduate business degree in the United States and a masters in France.But after about two years of crossing the globe as a trader supplying oils to major European fragrance houses, Mr. Gandhi, now 32, felt an urge to return to his hometown  which is still widely known by its former name, Bombay  and start a high-end perfume company.The result was Bombay Perfumery, a label that Mr. Gandhi introduced in late 2016 and whose name plays on one of his fathers old ventures, Bombay Perfumery Products. Bombay Perfumerys eau de parfum fragrances are manufactured in the French city of Grasse, the perfume capital of the world, but sold through the businesss website and at 15 high-end concept stores and multibrand boutiques across India.Bombay Perfumery took this very strong tradition of scents in India, and they packaged it in a European way, said Cecilia Morelli Parikh, one of the founders of Le Mill, a Mumbai fashion boutique that sells the labels eight fragrances alongside clothing by high-end foreign and Indian designers. But its not a European product; its strongly both.Mr. Gandhis business is one of several independent perfume brands that have sprung up recently in India, a country with a strong domestic perfuming tradition but a luxury fragrance sector dominated almost exclusively by imports.Bombay Perfumerys fragrances, which sell online for $80 to $90 for 100 milliliters, do not exclusively feature Indian ingredients. The fragrance Sulawesi is named for the Indonesian island where Mr. Gandhi buys patchouli, for example, while Moir highlights a synthetic ingredient engineered in a laboratory to resemble the smell of leather.Yet the fragrance line is full of subtle allusions to Indian scents, places and history. Mr. Gandhi said the aim of his branding and marketing was to conjure nostalgia for bygone eras and local fragrance traditions. Calicut, for example, highlights black pepper and uses the former name of the southern Indian city of Kozhikode, while Madurai Talkies pays homage to jasmine from around the southern city of Madurai.(And talkies was slang for talking pictures, the term used in the 1920s for the first movies with sound. Its a very romantic fragrance, Mr. Gandhi said, and Indian movies, at least in the past, were all about romance.)The nostalgic theme is enhanced by the collages printed inside the perfume boxes, juxtaposing images of the ingredients with those of old Mumbai buildings. And the glass perfume bottles are made in the shape of a matka, a jug commonly used in Indian villages to store water.Yet, Mr. Gandhi said, he tried to avoid the kitschy, traditional stereotype of what Western people have about India, in part by using a minimalist design on the outside of the boxes  a look that matches the aesthetic of his sleek office in central Mumbai.He also commissioned a modern twist on chai, a milky sweet tea ubiquitous in India. Mr. Gandhi said his Chai Musk fragrance includes two actual chai ingredients  ginger and lemongrass  along with sandalwood to suggest what he called a milky note and osmanthus for a fruity pop.The fragrance reminds me of home a little bit, which I find quite nice, said Lekha Washington, an artist from southern India who lives in Mumbai and has collaborated with the brand.She added that she appreciated how Bombay Perfumery played on a range of emotions beyond the one that perfume brands typically target: lust.Mr. Gandhi said the eight fragrances were created, after much trial and error, by two French perfumers in Grasse and two in Paris. He gave them general guidance on which ingredients to highlight, he said, but more creative license than they normally receive from major perfume brands and fragrance houses.He said the overall idea was to make the final creations polarizing enough for people to remember, and that Chai Musk, what he called the lines most out there fragrance, was suggested by a Paris perfumer who had traveled widely in India and wanted to celebrate a citrusy chai she once tasted in Mumbai.Maybe a lot of brands would have been like, No, we dont want anything to do with that, Mr. Gandhi said over chai in his office. But I was like, Yeah, lets go ahead  why dont we explore that direction? So it was really fun for them because they had a chance to really go wild.Maurice Roucel, a master perfumer in France who has created fragrances for major luxury brands (but not Bombay Perfumery), said he was impressed by the quality of the labels fragrances and that they certainly could appeal to consumers in Europe, the United States and South America.Perhaps not France, he added, because in France we are very picky.Although Mr. Gandhi plans eventually to introduce his perfumes in Europe and the United States, for now his primary market is young, fashion-forward Indians who, he said, are embracing other homegrown independent labels in clothing, food, music and design.When we were younger there was this notion that all things luxury were better only if they were European, but now its not the case, he said, referring to his own generation of Indian consumers. Most young people now give homegrown brands a chance  as long as they ensure the quality is there.However, he added, he sees his competition as independent foreign perfume labels, not Indian ones. As for the most popular ones in India now, he listed Amouage, a fragrance company based in Oman; the Dutch brand Nasomatto; Tom Ford; and Jo Malone London as among the top choices.He declined to provide sales figures, but said Bombay Perfumery was adding nearly one new boutique a month and making 40 percent of its sales online, mostly to clients in India.To help grow a domestic fan base, the label holds occasional events at cafes, boutiques and art galleries in major Indian cities. Mr. Gandhi said the goal was to encourage leaders in various creative fields to use fragrance as a muse for artistic projects.Ms. Washington, for example, created an experiential installation that featured a wall covered with drawings of windows. A collection of about 200 stamps, some of which were meant to represent Bombay Perfumery fragrances, sat on a nearby table, and visitors were encouraged to select stamps that reflected their impressions of Mumbais smell and vibe and use them on the wall.Another event was a storytelling workshop geared to olfactory memories. Mr. Gandhi said some participants came away saying that it helped them remember their childhoods  an aquatic scent, for example, triggered a distant memory of the Goa seaside.He said the events were primarily brand-building exercises.Its not a hard sell, an audience member told him after the storytelling workshop. Youre not even trying to sell me perfume.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip   Israel\'s military rejected new allegations Monday of unlawful use of force against unarmed Palestinians during mass protests in Gaza last week, as the Palestinian death toll rose to 18.Israeli troops prevented a mass breach of the border fence and an attempt by Gaza\'s Islamic militant Hamas to "drag us into a catastrophe," said Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, an army spokesman. He denied soldiers acted unlawfully, but said some mistakes might have been made and would be investigated.Israel\'s defense minister had previously rejected international calls for an independent investigation.Allegations of excessive force and unlawful shootings were prompted by the death toll  Friday was the bloodiest day in Gaza since the 2014 Israel-Hamas war  and comments by military officials that the "main instigators" were targeted. Amateur video has emerged showing one Palestinian being fatally shot from behind while carrying a tire as he ran from the border area.Hamas, which organized Friday\'s mass march, has hinted that future protests  to be staged off and on for the next six weeks  could culminate in a mass border breach, referring to a Palestinian return to Jerusalem. However, Hamas leaders have not said specifically that large crowds would attempt to tear down the fence.Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh on Sunday hinted at an escalation, saying last Friday\'s protests had a "limit," but that it\'s not clear where that limit would be next time.In Friday\'s march, thousands of Palestinians  Israel estimated a turnout of 35,000  headed toward the border area along several points. Smaller groups moved closer to the border fence, throwing stones, hurling firebombs or burning tires.Manelis alleged Monday that Hamas staged the mass march as a cover for attacks. He said there were five attempts to cross the fence, including with cutters, and that three explosives were planted.He said at least 11 of those killed were members of militant groups, including two who opened fire on soldiers near the border, but would not say how the others were killed. He defined a wide range of actions near the fence as terrorism, including throwing stones and burning tires.The military\'s open-fire policies came under more scrutiny as amateur videos emerged purportedly showing two Palestinians being shot  one killed and one wounded  while not posing any apparent immediate threat to soldiers.In one video posted on social media, a young man later identified as Abdelfatah Abdelnabi is seen being fatally shot from behind while carrying a tire as he ran away from the border.Majd al-Omari, who filmed the incident on his smartphone, told The Associated Press on Monday that just before the shooting, Abdelnabi had been involved in burning tires about 200 meters (yards) from the fence.Manelis said that the man in the video "had carried out acts of terror along the fence for several hours," an apparent reference to the burning of tires, but said the military would investigate.In another video, a man is seen kneeling in the first of two rows of worshippers Friday, facing the fence at a distance of 150 to 200 meters (yards). Suddenly, he stands up, limps a few meters, collapses and is carried away by young men who shout "Allahu Akbar," or "God is Great."Adli Abu Taha, who filmed the incident on his mobile phone, said the man, later identified as Ibrahim Abu Shanab, had thrown stones close to the fence before joining the group for prayers. Local hospital records indicate Abu Shanab was shot in the leg.Manelis alleged that the video was fabricated, without elaborating.He said soldiers followed strict rules of engagement, but would not say in which cases they used lethal force.  He said a 100-meter wide area in Gaza, along the fence, had been defined as a no-go zone.Rights groups said it\'s unlawful to use lethal force when protesters don\'t pose an imminent threat."An army can use reasonable force to defend a border," said Omar Shakir, of Human Rights Watch."This was an incident where soldiers were firing from behind the fence, separated by buffer zones and other objects, firing on individuals well behind the fence, in some cases retreating, not moving forward, or advancing without posing imminent threat," he said.The Palestinian Health Ministry said Monday that the number of Palestinians killed Friday rose to 18, after a 29-year-old man died of his injuries. The total included 13 demonstrators and five Palestinians killed by Israeli fire near the Gaza border in other circumstances that day, including two gunmen who had opened fire on Israeli soldiers.The ministry has said 758 people were wounded by live fire on Friday  a figure disputed by Manelis, who said he believed several dozen Palestinians at most were wounded by live rounds and the rest by tear gas and rubber-coated steel pellets.The Palestinian Red Crescent Society said Monday that its ambulances had transported 615 people with bullet injuries from the border area to hospitals Friday. Health Ministry ambulances also evacuated some of the wounded to hospitals.The idea for the mass marches was first floated by a Gaza social media activist several months ago, and was later adopted by Hamas, which seized power in Gaza in 2007. In response to Hamas rule, Israel and Egypt enforced a crippling blockade of Gaza\'s borders. Israel and Hamas have fought three cross-border wars.Protests are to continue until May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel\'s founding. The date is mourned by Palestinians as their "nakba," or catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands were uprooted in the 1948 Mideast war over Israel\'s creation. Most of Gaza\'s 2 million people are descendants of Palestinian refugees.Gaza\'s continued border closure has made it increasingly difficult for Hamas to govern.Life in the coastal strip has deteriorated further in recent months, with rising unemployment, grinding poverty and daily blackouts that last for hours.__Laub reported from Ramallah, West Bank. Associated Press writer Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed to this report.
JERUSALEM   Israel announced a deal with the U.N. on Monday to resettle African migrants in Western nations, but hours later put the agreement on hold.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had announced the deal on national TV, saying Israel agreed to cancel the planned expulsion of tens of thousands of African migrants. He said the deal with the United Nations called for sending half of them to Western nations and allowing the rest to remain in Israel.Late Monday, Netanyahu said he was "suspending" the deal in order to discuss the arrangement Tuesday with Israeli residents of south Tel Aviv areas with large migrant populations."After meeting with the representatives I will re-examine the agreement again," he said.Under the deal, roughly half of the 35,000 migrants living in Israel would be resettled in the West. But the rest would stay in Israel.The migrant community is concentrated in south Tel Aviv, angering longtime Israeli residents of the working-class area. Israeli hard-liners had criticized the deal for allowing so many Africans to remain.The late-night turnaround threw into limbo the surprise agreement, which had finally offered a solution to an issue that has divided Israel for a decade. The deportation plan had been widely criticized at home and abroad, even by some of Israel\'s closest supporters."It\'s a good agreement," Netanyahu told reporters earlier in the day. "It enables us to solve this problem in a way that serves, protects the interests of the state of Israel and gives a solution to the residents of southern Tel Aviv and other neighborhoods, and also for the people who came into Israel."Most of the African migrants are from war-torn Sudan and Eritrea, the latter having one of the world\'s worst human rights records. The migrants say they are asylum-seekers fleeing danger and persecution, while Israeli leaders have claimed they are merely job seekers.The Africans started arriving in 2005, after neighboring Egypt violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel. Tens of thousands crossed the porous desert border with Egypt before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx.Israel has struggled with what to do with those already in the country, alternating between plans to deport them and offering them menial jobs in hotels and local municipalities.Due to the large migrant presence, poor neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv have become known as "Little Africa." Working-class Jewish residents have complained of rising crime and pressed the government to take action.But the migrants also found wide pockets of support, with many Israelis arguing that the country, founded in the wake of the Holocaust, had a special responsibility to help those in need.Thousands of Africans and their Israeli supporters held a demonstration in February claiming the deportation plan amounted to racism. Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, poets, Holocaust survivors, rabbis and pilots also objected to the planned expulsion.Critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the government\'s deportation plans unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants.Before Monday\'s announcement, the government had remained steadfast, bristling at what it considered cynical comparisons to the plight of Jewish refugees during World War II.Over the years, Israel threatened the migrants with prison, placed them in a now-shuttered desert detention camp and tried to persuade them to leave by offering them money and a one-way ticket to Africa. After those options failed, it announced plans to begin deporting them to an unidentified African country  believed to be Rwanda or Uganda  on April 1.Netanyahu said the plan was scrapped after it became clear that the "third country," which he again did not identify, could not handle the influx."From the moment in the past few weeks that it became clear that the third country as an option doesn\'t exist, we basically entered a trap where all of them would remain," he said.He described Monday\'s compromise as the best available option.In his Facebook post announcing the deal\'s suspension, Netanyahu accused the New Israel Fund, a liberal advocacy group, and "elements" in the European Union of derailing a deal with Rwanda.Migrants who earlier agreed to return to Africa had reported abuses and broken promises after arriving in Rwanda. In some cases, their travel papers were confiscated or they were quickly sent to Uganda. Both Rwanda and Uganda denied having any agreement with Israel.Meir Ben-Shabbat, Netanyahu\'s national security adviser, said the U.N. plan would be carried out in three phases over five years.In all, the United Nations would resettle about 16,250 people, while Israel would absorb the same number. "A committee will be formed in order to identify them and find agreed solutions," Ben-Shabbat said.Shlomo Mor-Yosef, a senior official at Israel\'s Interior Ministry, said migrants would be taken in throughout the European Union as well as in Canada and the United States.Italy and Germany, two countries identified by Netanyahu as likely destinations, both denied having any agreement in place.Canadian officials said they were in touch with Israel about the matter. Mathieu Genest, a spokesman for Canada\'s immigration minister, said his government was reviewing over 1,800 requests by Eritreans to resettle in Canada. He noted that Canada has pledged to resettle a total of 4,000 Eritrean refugees by the end of the year.As part of the framework, Israel said it would rehabilitate and develop affected neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv, while also resettling African migrants elsewhere in the country.The U.N. refugee agency said it signed a framework of common understanding "to promote solutions for thousands of Eritreans and Sudanese living in Israel." The UNHCR said it would work to relocate about 16,000 Sudanese and Eritrean nationals and that others would receive "suitable legal status in Israel."Monim Haroon, a 28-year-old university student in Jerusalem who fled Darfur five years ago, expressed relief after the deal was announced."As asylum seekers we don\'t care where we are going to be as long as it is a safe place, and these countries are willing to protect us and we can live with human dignity," he said.In a joint statement, a group of Israeli rights organizations praised Monday\'s agreement and vowed to monitor it to make sure it was respected."We are extremely happy for the refugees," said Sigal Rozen, of the Hotline for Refugees and Migrants. "We really hope that the Israeli government will stop abusing them and will respect their rights as refugees."Mark Hetfield, president of HIAS, a Jewish nonprofit in the U.S. that protects refugees, praised the deal as "responsible" and "consistent with Jewish values." He said the group would work with Israel and resettlement countries to aid the migrants."The timing of this announcement, during Passover, could not have been more appropriate as these asylum seekers, like our ancestors, all crossed the Sinai in search of freedom," he said.Not everyone was pleased. Cabinet Minister Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home party, said the deal turned Israel into a "paradise for infiltrators." He called for the plan to be brought to the Cabinet for a vote.___Associated Press writers David McHugh in Frankfurt, Colleen Barry in Milan and Rob Gillies in Toronto contributed to this report.

Environmental regulators announced on Monday they will ease emissions standards for cars and trucks, saying that a timeline put in place by President Barack Obama was not appropriate and set standards "too high."The Environmental Protection Agency said it completed a review that will affect vehicles for model years 2022-2025 but it did not specify details on new standards, which it said would be forthcoming. Current regulations from the EPA require the fleet of new vehicles to get 36 miles per gallon in real-world driving by 2025. That\'s about 10 mpg over the existing standard.The agency said in its decision that the regulation set under the Obama administration "presents challenges for auto manufacturers due to feasibility and practicability, raises potential concerns related to automobile safety, and results in significant additional costs on consumers, especially low-income consumers."The EPA, in partnership with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, will work to come up with new standards.Automakers applauded Monday\'s decision, arguing that the current requirements would have cost the industry billions of dollars and raised vehicle prices due to the cost of developing the necessary technology."This was the right decision, and we support the Administration for pursuing a data-driven effort and a single national program as it works to finalize future standards," said Gloria Bergquist, vice president, communications and public affairs for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, in a statement. "We appreciate that the Administration is working to find a way to both increase fuel economy standards and keep new vehicles affordable to more Americans."Environmentalists, meanwhile, warned the proposed rollbacks will make U.S. cars more expensive to fill up."No one in America is eager to buy a car that gets worse gas mileage and spews more pollution from its tailpipe," said Fred Krupp, president of the Environmental Defense Fund. "Designing and building cleaner, more cost-efficient cars is what helped automakers bounce back from the depths of the recession and will be key to America\'s global competitiveness in the years ahead."Any change is likely to set up a lengthy legal showdown with California, which has the power to set its own pollution and gas mileage standards and doesn\'t want them to change. About a dozen other states follow California\'s rules, and together they account for more than one-third of the vehicles sold in the U.S. Currently the federal and California standards are the same.Some conservative groups are pressing EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to get rid of the waiver that allows California to set its own rules. Pruitt said in a statement Monday that the agency will work with all states, including California, to finalize new standards."Cooperative federalism doesn\'t mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country," he said. "EPA will set a national standard for greenhouse gas emissions that allows auto manufacturers to make cars that people both want and can afford  while still expanding environmental and safety benefits of newer cars."California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said his team is reviewing the EPA\'s determination."We\'re ready to file suit if needed to protect these critical standards and to fight the Administration\'s war on our environment," Becerra said in a statement. "California didn\'t become the sixth-largest economy in the world by spectating."A joint statement by the governors of California, Oregon, and Washington, as well as the mayors of Los Angeles, Oakland, San Francisco, Portland and Seattle, also decried the EPA\'s decision."This move sets us back from years of advancements by the automotive industry put in motion by states that took the lead in setting emission standards," the statement said. "These standards have cleared the haze and smog from our cities and reversed decades of chronic air pollution problems, while putting more money in consumers\' pockets."Sen. Edward J. Markey said the existing standards are "technically feasible and economically achievable," and added that he would use every legislative tool to block the moves."Slashing these standards would amount to turning the keys to our energy policy over to Big Oil and the auto industry," said the Massachusetts Democrat, who is a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee and chair of the Senate Climate Task Force.According to Markey, the standards are projected to save nearly 2.5 million barrels of oil a day by 2030, around as much oil as is imported from OPEC countries every day.It could take a couple years for the EPA to propose new rules, gather public comment and finalize any changes. In the meantime, automakers have to proceed with plans for new cars and trucks under the current gas mileage requirements because it takes years to develop vehicles.
LONDON  Goldsmithing hammers, tubes of oil paint, dress forms and photographic equipment, and even stuffed shrimp by the contemporary taxidermist Harriet Horton, were among the items scattered around the ground-floor studios and corridors of the Sarabande Foundation during a recent visit.Upstairs, in a gallery space that doubles as an auditorium for educational talks (including one that night by the fashion designer Thom Browne), fabrics dyed by John Alexander Skelton had been hung across the ceiling rafters to dry. Mr. Skelton was preparing for a March 23 show at the Victoria and Albert Museum, part of its Fashion in Motion series.Since 2015, when the foundations headquarters opened in the East End neighborhood of Haggerston, the former Victorian-era stables have housed 12 artists studios that thrum with activity day and night. The occupants run the gamut of creativity from painters and multimedia artists to photographers, jewelers and fashion designers.Sarabande is a charitable trust established in 2007 by the fashion designer Lee Alexander McQueen, who used the title of his spring collection for its name. It became the major beneficiary of his estate after his death in 2010 and, by the end of 2016, had received 10.6 million pounds ($15 million). The money funds graduate and postgraduate scholarships and subsidizes the studio space, for which scholarship recipients can become priority candidates to use for free for a year and then for a further year to rent at a low rate of about 1 per square foot. Other studio occupants pay the same rate throughout their tenancy.Sarabande is unique as a hub of creativity and an incubator of young talent, Andrew Bolton, curator in charge of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a patron of the foundation, said in an email. In only a few years, it has established itself as one of the most important and exciting community of artists in Britain.Residents say the studios are affordable sanctuaries, allowing them to develop their creative practices while benefiting from the organizations business education programs, networking opportunities and mentoring support. It brings some much-needed freedom to what I can do, said Katie Roberts Wood, a womens wear designer who has been using a studio since October. I have to run a business but I also have to be able to function fully from a creative side, or it doesnt work. I feel like Sarabande pays equal attention to both these aspects, which is so rare.That dual emphasis is thanks to Trino Verkade, a founding trustee and driving force behind Sarabandes development. In 1994, she became Mr. McQueens first employee and stayed for 18 years, providing the business acumen to support his creative talent. She also brought to the foundation years of experience as an executive vice president at Thom Browne and, most recently, chief executive at Mary Katrantzou.During a recent interview at the foundation, Ms. Verkade said that providing financial support and expert advice to artists was important for their development but also for Britains, referring to government research that found that creative industries add almost 9.6 million per hour to the national economy. And, despite a decade of austerity, cuts in education funding and the uncertainty over Britains departure from the European Union, the research also showed that the art, fashion and film industries have grown at almost twice the rate of the overall economy, and that they are worth 84 billion a year.Ms. Verkade said Sarabandes goal was to plug the gaps left by reduced government support, rising college fees and a dearth of practical business advice for fledgling operations. Britain has done a good job exporting talent, she said, but theres all this untapped potential here. Thats a real business opportunity.She and her team help successful studio applicants focus on what they want to achieve during their residence, which begins with one year but may be extended to two.Mr. Skelton, a mens wear designer who uses hand-dyed vintage fabrics and hand-spun, hand-woven material from Indian farmers in the Himalayas for his bespoke collections, said starting a business was overwhelming, prompting countless questions including how to create a costing sheet, to handle exports and to protect intellectual property. The business support from Trino has been really invaluable, he said.Advice for both scholars and studio occupants also comes through regular talks (also open to the public) from the likes of the jewelry designer Solange Azagury-Partridge and the artist Mat Collishaw as well as guidance on finding gallery representation or raising money on Kickstarter. Theres nowhere else young artists are going to get this stuff, Ms. Verkade said.Given his labor-intensive materials and processes, Mr. Skelton needs to limit the numbers of stores that carry his collection. The likelihood of commercial success on a large scale is not part of Sarabandes selection criteria, however. Not everyone needs to be Craig Green, Ms. Verkade said, referring to the mens wear designer who left Sarabande in November having become a star of London Fashion Week. The artists should have their vision and stick to it.Residents also benefit from the mentoring and contacts provided by the foundations patrons, many of whom were friends and colleagues of Mr. McQueens. In addition to Mr. Bolton, they include the film director Sam Taylor-Johnson; the jeweler Shaun Leane and the photographer Nick Knight.The patrons, along with supporters like the fashion designer Giles Deacon, and Matthew Slotover, the co-founder of the Frieze art fairs, help review scholarship and studio applications but, to ensure a diverse range of talent, other sources also are considered. Saelia Aparicio Torinos, an artist who now works in a Sarabande studio, made the connection through a partnership between Sarabande and Bloomberg New Contemporaries, an annual arts exhibition where she showed in 2016.With a constant flow of visitors coming to events or scheduled tours like a recent one by patrons of the Royal Academy of Arts, the studios are rarely quiet. The gallery owner Sadie Coles came by to order a custom ring from Castro Smith, the current jeweler in residence, and the actress Gwendoline Christie (Game of Thrones, The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi) to buy one of Ms. Hortons stuffed shrimp for her boyfriend, Mr. Deacon  the kind of traffic that Ms. Verkade said had the foundation looking for more studio space.Along with Mr. McQueens estate, Sarabande relies on personal donations and company sponsorships. Jasmin Reif is one of two resident artists who received a commission from Ketel One Vodka, the brand owned by the Dutch liquor company Nolet. It asked her to create an artwork inspired by its more than 300-year-old distillery in Schiedam, the Netherlands. So she is working on a mask made of copper, the traditional material used to make their stills, which she will photograph in one of her old masters-inspired self-portraits.It is the kind of thing Mr. McQueen might have done. Trained as a tailor on Savile Row and with a place at the University of Londons Slade School of Fine Art at the time of his death, Lee worked across different creative disciplines, Ms. Verkade said. He worked with jewelers, milliners, even glass blowers.The sense of community among the residents, she added, also has led to interdisciplinary collaborations.Ms. Reif, who now knits pieces for Mr. Skelton, considers herself an artist and a designer. In both industries, you normally have to choose to be on one side or the other, she said. This is the first place where I no longer had to do that.The artists and designers at Sarabande studios work across a wide variety of creative disciplines, reflecting Mr. McQueens passion for art in all its forms. They include: Mr. Smith, who learned the ancient art of engraving by hand during an apprenticeship in Hatton Garden, the historic center of Londons gold and diamond trade, and studying with masters of the art in Japan. His intricate signet rings were discovered on Instagram by Dickon Bowden, vice president of Dover Street Market, who, in turn, introduced him to Sarabande. Being here has plugged me into a network, said the 29-year old-jeweler, whose bedroom formerly doubled as his work space. Ms. Roberts-Wood, who completed five years of medical training before switching to fashion design. The 32-year-old womens wear designer uses her science background to create innovative techniques such as layering fabric to create a dress that is not stitched together. My clothes are made in an intelligent and engineered way but this is offset by a very romantic sensibility, she said. Ms. Reif, a German artist and designer whose candlelit self-portrait photographs feature handmade props, like masks knitted from recycled plastic bags and donated yarn. The 34-year-old has just been shortlisted for a Villa Massimo fellowship, a prestigious German award that offers a study visit in Italy. Mircea Teleaga, who was selected for a Sarabande scholarship by the artist Dinos Chapman. Mr. Teleaga attend the Slade school and then, in 2016, began a studio residence. On April 11, the Romanian painter, 29, will open his solo show, curated by William Davie, an image archivist at the Gagosian Gallery in London. It would have been impossible to do this kind of show if I was on my own, Mr. Teleaga said.




SEOUL   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the North\'s capital. Kim was seen clapping in time to the music and later took photographs with the performers."Our dear leader comrade said his heart swelled and he was moved by the sight of his people deepen their understanding of South Korean popular culture and cheer with sincerity," the North\'s KCNA state media said.The audience cheered and sang along to songs during the two-hour concert and the South Korean performers were later presented with bouquets."(Kim Jong Un) showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics," Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters after the show.Tension over North Korea\'s tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to North Korea\'s threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But tension has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February. The neighbours are technically still at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce.The performance coincided with the beginning of annual joint South Korean-U.S. military drills, which have previously been met with denunciations and missile launches by the North. The exercises were delayed and shortened this year in order not to spoil the Olympic detente.The two Koreas have set a date for their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, and Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump could meet in May.The concert, billed as "Spring is Coming", was put on a the East Pyongyang Grand Theatre by an lineup of top South Korean performers including veteran vocalists Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sun-hee, rock star Yoon Do-hyun and singer Baek Ji-young, as well as K-pop girl band Red Velvet.Echoing the concert theme, Kim said the performance had brought a "spring of peace" to the two Koreas, and expressed wishes for a "prosperous autumn", according to the North\'s news agency.The North Korean leader appeared in a group photograph with the performers, distributed by North Korean media. He was also seen talking to members of Red Velvet, who have more than 4.6 million followers on Instagram.The South Korean delegation travelled to Pyongyang on Saturday in a reciprocal cultural visit after North Korea sent performers to the South in February, the South\'s Culture Ministry said.A taekwondo performance was staged earlier on Sunday.BANNED MEDIAThe images of Kim posing and laughing with South Korean pop stars and applauding in the stands contrasts with reports from North Korean defectors who say he has overseen a crackdown on anyone caught listening to foreign media."North Korean refugees overwhelmingly and consistently report that it has become more dangerous to consume foreign media under Kim Jong Uns crackdowns," Sokeel Park, the South Korea country director for refugee aid organisation Liberty in North Korea, said on Twitter.A 2015 survey of North Korean refugees by the U.S. government\'s Broadcasting Board of Governors found that 77 percent of respondents said it had become more dangerous to listen to foreign radio under Kim.South Korean movies were often reported to be especially taboo compared with Chinese films, according to a report by the InterMedia consultancy group, with North Koreans facing prison time if caught.Seohyun, an actress and vocalist with South Korean girl group Girls\' Generation, sang a North Korean pop song called "Blue Willow Tree". She had performed with the North\'s Samjiyon Orchestra in Seoul in February.Cho Yong-pil, 68, sang a string of hits including "The Cafe in the Winter", "Short Hair" and "Let\'s Go on a Trip". Cho staged a solo concert in Pyongyang in 2005 - the last concert by a South Korean artist in the North before Sunday\'s performance.The same South Korean singers will hold another concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Kim Yong Chol, North Korea\'s former intelligence chief who now handles inter-Korean affairs, met South Korean journalists on Monday to apologise for the fact they were unable to cover the concert after being invited to the country do so.Kim "asked pardon" from the "valued guests"."Having invited South Korean journalists to the North, we have a duty to ensure that you can gather news freely and film comfortably", Kim was quoted as saying.Kim said the journalists\' inability to cover the concert stemmed from a breakdown in cooperation between Kim Jong Un\'s security detail and concert organisers.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang and Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Josh Smith and Joyce Lee; Editing by Louise Heavens, Peter Cooney and Paul Tait)
OKLAHOMA CITY   The state Capitol in Kentucky filled with teachers protesting pension changes and demanding generous school funding Monday, and thousands of Oklahoma educators walked out of classrooms in the latest evidence of teacher rebellion in some Republican-led states.Many Oklahoma schools were closed Monday, and districts announced plans to stay shut into Tuesday with teacher demonstrations expected to last a second day.Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin signed legislation last week granting teachers pay raises of about $6,100, or 15 to 18 percent. But some educators  who haven\'t seen a pay increase in 10 years  say that isn\'t good enough and walked out.The state\'s largest teachers union has demanded a $10,000 pay raise for educators over three years, $5,000 for support personnel and a $75 million increase in funding this year."If I didn\'t have a second job, I\'d be on food stamps," said Rae Lovelace, a single mom and a third-grade teacher at Leedey Public Schools in northwest Oklahoma. Lovelace, among many teachers who moonlight for extra pay , works 30 to 40 hours a week at a second job teaching online courses for a charter school.Fallin on Monday praised the Oklahoma\'s GOP-led Legislature\'s achievement in approving part of what teacher\'s want."Significant revenue-raising measures were approved to make this pay raise and additional school funding possible," the Republican said in a statement. "We must be responsible not to neglect other areas of need in the state such as corrections and health and human services as we continue to consider additional education funding measures.But Democratic lawmaker Collin Walke said teachers should keep up the pressure. Two separate bills pending in the Legislature to expand tribal gambling and eliminate the income tax deduction for capital gains could generate more than $100 million in additional funding each year."I think the Republican strategy is to wait the teachers out," Walke said.Oklahoma ranks 47th among states and the District of Columbia in public school revenue per student while its average teacher salary of $45,276 ranked 49th before the latest raises, according to the most recent statistics from the National Education Association.The demonstrations were inspired by West Virginia, where teachers walked out for nine days earlier this year and won a 5 percent increase in pay. Teachers in Arizona are now considering a strike over their demands for a 20 percent salary increase. Many Arizona teachers wore red clothes to school Monday in solidarity with protests in Oklahoma and Kentucky, said Joe Thomas, president of the Arizona Education Association.National Education Association President Lily Eskelsen Garcia spoke to thousands during the rally in Oklahoma, saying lawmakers need to do more."We are through correcting their mistakes."In Frankfort, Kentucky, teachers and other school employees chanted "Stop the war on public education.""We\'re madder than hornets, and the hornets are swarming today," said Claudette Green, a retired teacher and principal.Schools across Kentucky were closed, due either to spring break or to allow teachers and other school employees to attend the rally.Amid a chorus of chants from teachers rallying in the Capitol, Kentucky lawmakers approved a new state budget that includes higher spending for public education.Budget negotiators unveiled a spending plan Monday that includes increased spending for the main funding formula for K-12 schools and restored money for school buses that the state\'s Republican governor had proposed eliminating.The additional education spending would be paid for by a 6 percent sales tax on a host of services that had previously been tax-free. The proposal now heads to the governor\'s desk.Language arts teacher Lesley Buckner was reluctant to give lawmakers much credit."We\'re sending a message," she said. "If we continue to stay united, they cannot turn away from us, they cannot turn their backs on us."The rally happened after hundreds of teachers called in sick Friday to protest last-minute changes to their pension system. Teachers have rallied several times during Kentucky\'s legislative session to protest the pension bill, but Monday was by far their biggest event.Republican lawmakers in Kentucky passed a pension overhaul Thursday that preserves benefits for most workers but cuts them for new teachers. The move was done in response to chronic underfunding of the state\'s teacher retirement system and in defiance of a powerful teachers union that vowed political retribution. Opponents objected that the pension changes were inserted into an unrelated bill without a chance for public input, and worry that the changes will discourage young people from joining the profession.Republican Gov. Matt Bevin has not yet signed the bill, but last week tweeted his support, saying public workers owe "a deep debt of gratitude" to lawmakers who voted to pass it.During Monday\'s rally, some teachers, angry at lawmakers who supported the bill, chanted "Vote them out."Melissa Wash, a first-grade teacher form Gallatin County who has been teaching for 19 years, said she voted for Bevin, but now plans to become a Democrat. To the lawmakers who voted for the pension overhaul, she said: "You better not count on another year in office."___Schreiner reported from Frankfort, Kentucky.  AP writers Tim Talley in Oklahoma City and Morgan Lee in Santa Fe, New Mexico, contributed to this report.
SEOUL, South Korea  South Korean reporters visiting North Koreas capital to cover a K-pop performance there received a surprise on Monday: an unusually graceful apology from a senior North Korean official.The official, Kim Yong-chol, a vice chairman of the Norths ruling Workers Party, visited the reporters hotel and apologized for their having been denied entry to a theater in Pyongyang, the capital, where the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, watched  South Korean musicians perform Sunday evening.We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage, Kim Yong-chol was quoted in the reporters dispatches from Pyongyang as saying. On behalf of the Norths authorities, I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed.It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything. The rare gesture from a senior official reflected the Norths efforts to work toward a political dtente on the Korean Peninsula that Kim Jong-un helped start in February by sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.Still, the apology was all the more striking not only because the totalitarian state does not have a free press but also because it came from Kim Yong-chol, an army general considered hard-line even by North Korean standards.He is widely believed in the South to have masterminded the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010, when he served as director of the Norths main spy agency. South Korea says a North Korean torpedo attack sank the ship, killing 46 sailors, but the North denies it.On Sunday evening, several South Korean pool reporters were barred by their North Korean minders from entering the concert hall.The South Korean government later lodged a protest. On Monday, Kim Yong-chol explained that the minders had been overruled by Kim Jong-uns bodyguards. The vice chairman apologized for the lack of coordination between different branches of the Pyongyang government.After North Korea conducted a series of nuclear and missile tests last year that increased tensions, Kim Jong-un has shifted to dialogue in recent months. He has agreed to meet with South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, on April 27, and has offered to sit down with President Trump. Mr. Trump has agreed to do so by May, in an attempt to persuade him to give up his nuclear weapons.In the past week alone, Mr. Kim has stunned the region with his breathtaking pace of diplomacy.Last week, he met President Xi Jinping in Beijing, for his first known trip outside North Korea since he became leader. On Friday, he met with the International Olympic Committee president, Thomas Bach, in Pyongyang. On Sunday, he clapped and laughed while watching South Korean pop singers, whose influence on North Koreas isolated populace his government has been trying to block. Afterward, he shook hands with each performer and posed for a group photograph.His welcoming of K-pop icons, and Kim Yong-chols apology, are a stark departure from just a few years ago, when South Korea began blaring K-pop songs across their shared border as a psychological warfare tactic. The North Korean military warned of an all-out war if the South did not turn off its loudspeakers, and it even fired warning shots across the border.In North Korea, all radio and TV channels are controlled by the government and filled with propaganda. The regime has been cracking down on K-pop music that has entered the country via bootleg DVDs from China.But on Sunday, the same day the United States and South Korea started joint annual military drills, which usually draws warlike rhetoric and even missile tests from the North, South Korean K-pop singers were allowed to perform in Pyongyang.On Monday, the Norths official Korean Central News Agency quoted Kim Jong-un as saying that he was deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the south side.
For the first time in its nearly 200-year history, the Mormon Church on Saturday appointed a person of color  into the upper echelons of its leadership, a group that has previously been occupied by white men.Gerrit W. Gong, who is Chinese-American, will join the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, which is the second-highest governing body in the church. The group helps make policy decisions in tandem with the churchs president and his two counselors.Further diversifying the ranks of the senior leadership, the Church also selected its first-ever Latin American apostle, Ulisses Soares, a Brazilian.Because the presidency is filled by the longest-serving member of the quorum, the two newest apostles could eventually gain enough seniority to occupy the highest position within the church. Several of the churchs senior leaders were born before World War II. The president, Russell M. Nelson, is 93, and the next man in line for the position is 85.In the near future, however, it is more likely that either of the new apostles could be chosen as a counselor to the president, a position that does not require seniority.Although the appointments are historic and might help retain members, they are unlikely to change the status quo, said David E. Campbell, a professor of political science and a religion expert at the University of Notre Dame who has written about Mormonism.These are company men who have been socialized and indoctrinated in the ways the church works, he said, adding that therefore, it is very unlikely that they would come to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and have any new radical ideas.Even if they did, he added, they are only two votes out of 12.Mr. Gong, 64, a former special assistant to the United States ambassador in Beijing, and Mr. Soares, 59, a onetime accountant and auditor for multinational corporations in Brazil, have both served as second-tier leaders within the church for many years.They were unavailable for interviews, Karlie Brand Guymon, a spokeswoman for the church, said on Sunday.While recent data show that church membership in the United States has leveled out, areas like Africa and Latin America have seen surges.Latin America remains and has been for the past three decades the area of the largest church growth, said Patrick Mason, an expert on Mormonism and chairman of Mormon studies at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, Calif.The church also hopes to expand in Asia and beyond. At the general conference, the large biannual gathering where the apostles were announced, leaders shared plans to build the churchs first temples in India and Russia.The face of Mormonism is increasingly going to be people from the global south and people of color, Professor Mason said.The Mormon Church does not release statistics breaking down its members by race, but according to a 2014 Pew Research Center report, about 1 percent of Mormons in the United States are Asian and 1 percent are black. The largest number of minorities in the church  8 percent  identify as Latino, the study showed, while 5 percent identify as other or mixed.When minority church members dont see themselves represented among the leadership, theres a feeling of I might not be as wanted as I thought I might be, said Paulette L. Payne, a Mormon in Atlanta who is black.The church has a painful history of excluding African-Americans. From the mid-1800s until 1978, it did not ordain black men to its priesthood or allow black men or women to participate in important rituals. The rules changed, the church said, when top leaders prayed and received a revelation that everyone deserved inclusion.There are a few black men serving on the Quorums of the Seventy, the churchs second-tier group of leaders.Women remain the final frontier. Church doctrine does not allow women to be ordained into the priesthood or hold top leadership positions. The highest-ranking women run councils that cater to women and girls, and occupy the lowest rank in the churchs organizational chart.At its conference, the church took a step toward elevating womens voices by reorganizing local congregations and allowing men and women to have more similar experiences, Professor Mason said.It will change the way people experience their Mormonism on a week-to-week level when they go to church on Sunday, he said. And thats not a small thing.Ms. Payne, 43, who has been an active church member since 1989, said she is cautiously optimistic about the changes.Im very pleased with the direction, but there still needs to be greater representation, she said. If I had a child, I would want her or him to see themselves reflected not only in the local leadership or the general congregations, but in the presidency.
ALBANY, N.Y.   Republican Marc Molinaro vowed Monday to change what he called Albany\'s climate of corruption and behind-closed-doors deals as he formally kicked off his campaign for New York governor.Taking aim at two-term Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo, Molinaro criticized "leaders who squander the public\'s trust by putting the personal politics of ambition and greed above government\'s true purpose" of serving the people.If he gets his party\'s nomination, Molinaro faces a daunting task in trying to beat Cuomo, son of the late former Gov. Mario Cuomo. The younger Cuomo has about $30 million in his campaign war chest, and registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by a 2-1 margin in New York state.Molinaro, a 42-year-old married father of three, was elected county executive of Dutchess County in November 2011. He\'s the top elected leader in one of New York\'s more affluent counties, where a mix of high-tech industries, rural charm and proximity to New York City generally have shielded it from the economic stagnation still plaguing many upstate counties.A graduate of a local two-year community college, Molinaro lacks a four-year degree but has plenty of on-the-job experience for public office. He was elected a village trustee at age 18 in 1994, then was elected Tivoli\'s mayor later that same year, making him the youngest mayor in the U.S. at the time. After 12 years as mayor, he served in the Dutchess County Legislature and followed that up by serving in the state Assembly from 2007 to 2011."It is here, in this very building, for over 4,000 days I learned about the importance, the privilege and the responsibility of holding elective office," Molinaro said at his campaign kickoff event at Tivoli Village Hall.Molinaro initially had said he wouldn\'t seek the Republican nomination for governor but changed his mind last month after state Sen. John DeFrancisco, of Syracuse, announced he would seek the party\'s nomination to challenge Cuomo. Since then, Molinaro has picked up support from most county GOP leaders across New York. The state Republican Party will select its candidate in May."Whether it\'s Molinaro or DeFrancisco, it\'s clear that the New York GOP is intent on pushing an ultra-conservative Trump agenda, and a candidate that has the same positions as Trump with a different hair color," said Geoff Berman, executive director of the state Democratic Party.At Molinaro\'s second campaign Monday afternoon at an Albany hotel just down the street from the Capitol, he continued to criticize Cuomo, who faces a Democratic primary challenge from "Sex and the City" star Cynthia Nixon."When this governor came into office, I had the same belief that many had, that perhaps he\'d sweep in a new day," Molinaro said after his speech. "But instead we\'ve had seven years of a new normal where pay-for-play politics and this corrosive corruption and culture of more corruption continues to paralyze the way in which state government is supposed to function."During his earlier remarks, he referred to last month\'s conviction of the governor\'s former top aide on corruption charges. A Manhattan jury found Joseph Percoco guilty on federal bribery and fraud charges stemming from acceptance of more than $300,000 in bridges from companies looking to do business with the state.Cuomo wasn\'t accused of any wrongdoing, but the trial and others on the upcoming docket involving former high-profile state government figures highlight Albany\'s pay-to-play culture."Whether you know it or not, whether Albany accepts it or not, all New Yorkers are paying a corruption tax," Molinaro said. "It\'s a hidden, undermining, corrosive tax on every single New Yorker."___This story has been corrected to show Molinaro was elected village trustee in 1994, not 1995, and his mayoral election also was in 1994.


MOSCOW  Russia sought to move beyond last weeks diplomatic confrontation with the West on Monday by pressing President Trump for a White House meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin that would undercut the perception that the angry reaction to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain has left it isolated from the international community.The Kremlin foreign policy adviser, Yuri Ushakov, said in Moscow that Mr. Trump, in a telephone call with Mr. Putin on March 20, proposed that the two leaders meet at the White House in the near future. Mr. Ushakov made clear that the Russian leader would like to take him up on the suggestion. This is a rather positive idea, he said.Mr. Trump mentioned to reporters on the day of the phone call that he expected to be seeing President Putin in the not-too-distant future, and the White House confirmed on Monday that it was among a number of potential venues discussed. But the phone call came before last weeks tit-for-tat mass diplomatic expulsions sparked by the nerve agent attack on Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian spy living in Britain.It is not clear whether such a meeting is still viable, and both sides issued vague or even conflicting statements on Monday. Within hours of Mr. Ushakovs comment, the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, discounted it, saying the presidents adviser was not correct.In her own statement, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, confirmed that a White House meeting was discussed but played down the prospect, saying, We have nothing further to add at this time.The idea of a personal get-together between the two presidents after each of them expelled 60 diplomats and closed consulates underscored the volatile nature of the Russian-American relationship these days. Mr. Trump has remained on friendly terms with Mr. Putin personally even as ties between their countries spiral toward Cold War depths.But a meeting between the two leaders at this point would seem to conflict with the attitude of Mr. Trumps incoming foreign policy team, including Mike Pompeo, his nominee for secretary of state, and John R. Bolton, his  new national security adviser, both of whom are considered Russia hawks.I think the Russians are looking for an off-ramp at the moment, said Angela Stent, a former national intelligence officer on Russia during President George W. Bushs administration and now director of the Center for Eurasian, Russian and East European Studies at Georgetown University. Perhaps they have followed news accounts about divisions over Russia policy and they want to set a possible meeting in motion before Bolton and Pompeo assume their new jobs.Sarah E. Mendelson, a former State Department official under President Barack Obama now at Carnegie Mellon University, suggested it may be part of a strategy on the Russians part to engage Trump as if he were disconnected from his advisers. Just as Mr. Trump engages Mr. Putin as if there were not tension because of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and the special counsel investigation into contacts with his campaign, Mr. Putin may simply ignore that as well.It all seems to be happening in parallel universes, she said, one in which Russia poisons and interferes, and another in which none of this happened.Other analysts said the discussion of a possible meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin may be more for domestic consumption in a Russia that sees itself excoriated by the international community after the poisoning of Mr. Skripal and his daughter, Yulia.People are realizing what a major hit they took, said John R. Beyrle, a former American ambassador to Russia. Its a way to say, See, its not so bad, Putin is still welcome in polite society. I was in Moscow last month just before the elections and was struck by how fed up some members of the Russian elite are getting at their perpetual pariah status  and this was before Skripal.A White House visit would be a significant gesture toward the Russian leader. Mr. Putin has not been to the White House since 2005, when Mr. Bush hosted him there. Other than United Nations sessions, Mr. Putins last visit to the United States for a presidential summit meeting came in 2007 when Mr. Bush and his father hosted him at the family compound in Kennebunkport, Me. Mr. Obama never invited Mr. Putin to the White House during his eight years in office, and the Russian declined an invitation to Camp David in 2012 for a meeting of what was then called the Group of 8. The two did meet in New York in 2015 during a United Nations session.Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin have met in Germany and in Vietnam on the sideline of international summit meetings and currently have no plans to get together before November, when both are expected to attend a Group of 20 gathering in Argentina.Mr. Ushakov said the two sides had not started any preparatory talks for a White House meeting because of the tailspin in relations. He nonetheless voiced a desire that Mr. Trump not drop the idea. I hope the Americans wont abandon their proposal to discuss the possibility of holding the summit, he said.Just as Mr. Trump has shown a striking reluctance to criticize Mr. Putin, even when the two countries are ejecting each others diplomats, the Kremlin and the Russian news outlets it controls have often avoided criticizing Mr. Trump directly.Soon after news of a possible White House meeting broke on Monday, a discussion on Rossiya 1, a state-controlled television channel, focused on a host of conspiracy theories to explain why the nerve gas attack in Britain had so disrupted relations between Moscow and Washington. Most revolved around the premise that American interest groups opposed to Mr. Trumps desire for rapprochement with Russia had staged the poisoning as a provocation to drive a wedge between Europe and Russia.Particularly popular was the idea that the attack was an attempt to get Europeans to stop importing natural gas from Russia and shift to supplies from the United States. None of the participants in the discussion faulted Mr. Trump for the sharp deterioration in relations.In a debate on state-controlled television on Sunday evening, a weekly shout-fest often dedicated to screaming about American perfidy, Sergey Mikheev, one of the participants, put forward what seems to be the consensus view of Russias establishment: Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin are both eager to meet as soon as possible so they can stabilize relations but are prevented from doing so by opposition in the United States.Its not because Putin isnt ready, and not because Trump doesnt want to meet Putin, he said. No such thing at all. Trump said that he is, in fact, even ready to meet Kim Jong-un. It is internal problems that prevent Trump from meeting anyone. Americas internal political crisis, he added, prevents Trump from solving this problem. Current domestic political situation in the U.S. is such that Trump cant afford meeting Putin.
Finally, Duc Bayer-Boatwright gets his moment in the sun. Dont get too excited; its not that he has a psychological breakthrough or stops being a jerk or even has a particularly substantial story line in this weeks episode of Here and Now. For the second week in a row, hes gritting his teeth through a colitis flare-up  and Ramons poop jokes arent helping. Ducs big scene takes place during a hike with his love interest, Carmen. Doubled over in pain, he gets so frantic about finding a place to relieve himself that he falls down a hill and exits the date in an ambulance.Duc is, in other words, as hapless as ever in Episode 8. But that makes him the ideal avatar for this weeks theme, as revealed in Gregs lecture. As an introduction to a lesson on The Myth of Sisyphus, Albert Camuss essay on embracing the absurdity of a meaningless life over suicide, Professor Boatwright alarms his students by pressing a gun to his chin and demanding a reason not to pull the trigger. By persisting, he explains, We become the absurdist hero, seeking meaning we know is not there, living life to its fullest in the face of a consistent and continuous struggle and inevitable failure. When the stunt ends in an involuntary six-month leave, the irony is that Gregs message to students was actually pretty life affirming, for once.Sisyphus, a character from Greek mythology, was condemned to spend eternity pushing a boulder up a hill, only to watch it fall each time to the bottom. Grim as that fate may seem, Camus reframes Sisyphus as an absurdist hero, scrambling fruitlessly but nobly to make meaning for as long as he can keep the rock that is his life rolling. The struggle itself toward the heights is enough to fill a mans heart, Camus writes in the essays famous conclusion. One must imagine Sisyphus happy. Considering that few afflictions scream absurdity like a benign yet incurable bout of diarrhea, I assume theres some symbolism in Ducs tumble down the hill.Usually, Ramon and Audrey are the shows great rock pushers, fighting tirelessly for empathy in a world that keeps knocking it down in favor of fear. But this week, both characters take some time off from their respective forms of martyrdom. Audrey, who is always there to comfort and nag her husband and children, skips a family dinner to consummate her flirtation with Steve. (She can thank Ashley for giving her the sexy heels that catch his eye.) Arriving at home next morning, she takes pleasure in informing a gloomy Greg of her conquest.Ramon, for his part, hasnt been the same since his hallucination at the video game expo. After blowing up at Farid, he flees his parents house for his own apartment and buries his sorrows over his deteriorating mental health (and perhaps his uncertain future as a game designer) in casual sex. I feel fire, Carmen, who comes across as a sort of New Age palm reader, tells him in their first session. She also mentions that hes heading for big changes and prods him about a mysterious near-death experience.When her intuition comes up short, she assures Ramon, The answers are in you. Whether she knows it or not, shes likely referring to his game and his therapy with Farid  neither of which look especially promising by the end of the episode.Farid seems to be approaching a breaking point. His dreams are haunted by butterflies. Hes seeing 11:11 everywhere. Out to dinner with Layla, he flies into a rage when the host asks her to remove her head scarf. And hes become so desperate for insight into his psychic connection with Ramon that he violates doctor-patient confidentiality by appealing to Audrey for help. Still convinced that her son is schizophrenic, she decides that Farid has come unglued and orders him to stay away from Ramon.Later in the episode, theres an awkward encounter at the store his uncle Amir used to own. Propelled by a dream involving the store, Farid stops by for the first time in quite a while. The shops new owner recognizes him and saddles him with a box of things Amir left behind. Inside, Farid finds an answering machine that he remembers from childhood, along with a tape. When he plays it, he hears what we can assume is his mothers voice. This is huge: Decades before, she had tried to contact him, but Amir lied to keep him from picking up the phone.Ramons and Farids mothers, who are prominent in their visions, clearly play a significant role in whatever connection the characters have to each other. So, if Farid manages to find some answers about his mom, those revelations could have major implications for both men  and for the shows supernatural plot, which is still creeping along at a frustratingly slow pace.At least weve got Kristen and Navid, whose quest to get even with Madison results in some satisfying mean-girl screams and a triumphant kiss between the two masked avengers. Like Ramon, they are among the shows best characters because their story lines revolve around who they are as individuals, rather than their identity markers. (Pity Ashley, whose slightly unbelievable confrontation with a middle-aged, white, male Black Lives Matter activist drives her to the gun range.) I love that Navid is attracted to girls, despite being drawn to womens clothing and makeup, and that his quiet iconoclasm seems to electrify the chronically bored Kristen.With only two episodes left in the season, Here and Now is going to have to cover a lot of ground to provide a satisfying finale. The future of Greg and Audreys marriage remains uncertain; Farid and Laylas relationship is also starting to look pretty fragile. The story of Ramon and Henry feels unfinished. Ashley and Duc have yet to become fully fleshed-out characters. Wonderful as they are together, Navid and Kristen are fighting a war with Madison that comes straight out of a teen comedy and isnt really connected yet with the rest of the show.Most of all, even if we dont get a full explanation of the connection between Ramon and Farid, weve got to have something more than just these dreams and hallucinations, which are becoming redundant. We need the show to stop throwing philosophical theories at us and start sketching out a distinctive point of view. Gregs lecture suggests that it is possible to find some fleeting semblance of meaning in an indifferent universe. Here and Now may not have a cure for our modern ailments, but it could at least give us a reason to keep pushing that boulder up the hill.


Counterpart is a weird show, the creator and showrunner Justin Marks admits.Its a science fiction story that reexamines the Cold War spy thriller genre, where instead of the Berlin Wall being a physical construct, its a metaphysical one: the Crossing, a rift between two parallel dimensions. But in Sundays season finale, diplomacy finally fails and the Crossing is closed down, stranding each version of Howard Silk (both played by J.K. Simmons) on the other side. (Another complicating factor: Nearly every character has a doppelgnger.)In its first season, which ended Sunday night, Counterpart explored heady, existential questions about the nature of identity and what it means to confront ones self. Thats not to say the show is without its shocking twists, sexy scenes and sudden violence  its just meted out more judiciously than one might expect for a prestige cable thriller.We had this phrase that we wrote on the white board, Mr. Marks said. Unsexy is the new sexy. I really believe that if you get audiences addicted to cocaine, you cant ever offer them a glass of wine. It works better the other way around. Before flying back to Berlin, where the show takes place, Mr. Marks discussed how Season 1 came together and what fans can expect from Season 2, now in production.This is a show which would benefit from freeze-framing, especially when it comes to the Crossing. Or even with the zany Management set-up in the finale.I really hope people do freeze-frame. I want to invite people to watch it on that level of detail. I wanted the show to feel like a Robert Altman version of science fiction more than Fritz Lang. Altman left all these windows open where you could see Lyle Lovett wandering around in the bushes back there, and youre like, What is he doing and why is he doing that? It feels like the frame is alive more than just its four borders. One of my favorite things to look at in freeze-frame are all the Interface documents, all that code. Thats the kind of stuff we really live for, because the weirder, the more out there, the more zany the concept is, the more rigid the execution has to be.For the Crossing, everyone wanted to turn the lights up and let it be seen. I said, No, lets pull out all of these lights, and make it really dark, and leave people craving more detail. If you freeze-frame it, look at the dead center of the Crossing the details on the walls speak to the origins of the Crossing. Management, we had so much fun with that. We found the two strangest, most brilliant actors to play the respective Operators on either side in the finale. What kind of governing body protects the Crossing between two parallel worlds? The second season focuses in large part on the history and origins of Management.This is a spy story, for the most part. And in some ways, its a spy story about spy stories, and about women in spy stories  the femme fatale, the sexy assassin, the doting wife. Were you trying to upend these tropes?Its something we worked really hard to do, because women dont traditionally belong in this genre of British spy fiction, outside of the cowering prostitute in the shower, or the one who got away. We wanted to introduce them in that context, but turn them inside out and make them three-dimensional women. If it had been left to me, I dont think Baldwin would have survived that fourth episode, but the women in the room really fought for Baldwin to stand on her own two feet. This is a woman who doesnt have to be defined by, Oh, shes just a sexy assassin. We can tell the story of a woman who, in this moment of existential crisis, decides to escape the confines of her own identity. And it became a coming out story, because I dont think sexuality was something that Baldwin ever saw as a two-way street. So by the final episode, she survived, but quite scarred and quite damaged.The reveal that Claire Prime had taken this deep cover assignment to impersonate Claire Alpha was a major shock, not least of which to her husband, Peter Quayle, which continues that theme of men underestimating women.I dont think theres anyone less qualified to have the job that he has than Peter Quayle. The person whose job it is to look for people whove infiltrated the organization doesnt realize the woman hes been sleeping with [is a mole]. There is a black comedy here, in Peter Quayles character, because Quayle  this philandering, underqualified, good-looking young guy  is a manifestation of privilege. We get to turn that inside out. And in the satirical manner of the last episode, Peter Quayle gets everything he ever wanted at the worst possible time.I want to fill in Mira, the woman who trained Claire at the Indigo school for sleeper agents, because their ideology is a very important story for us in Season 2.What about Emily Alpha? She figured out all the intrigue before anyone else did, and then spent the season in a coma. But now shes starting to wake up.There is always a temptation when you have that wife in a coma to idealize her, which is a little misogynistic, too. The only way we could convince Olivia Williams to do this show was to pitch her the two-season plan of who both Emilys are, and that the woman in the coma is in fact much more complex than any other character. Both Emilys, those are job descriptions that are typically reserved for the George Smileys of the world, the James Bonds of the world. [During filming] Olivia was walking through one scene with another male character, whose position is actually underneath her in the hierarchy of the show, but even then, the background actors look at the male shes walking with and sort of nod, Yes, sir to him, not realizing that shes the one whos actually in charge in that scene. The clichs that abound, they speak to a certain gender norm that we didnt want the show to reflect.Between Quayle and Claire and Howard and Emily, this is also a show about marriage. Does the writers room feel like a therapy session sometimes? All we do is therapy on this show! We spend most of our time talking about ideas of identity and relationships. Emily Alpha has her own flaws, and own methods that shes gone through that are less wholesome, lets say? But Howard Alpha is aware of that, and thats okay. This is a contract that they have as husband and wife. So we wanted to be able to invert that and be able to create a marriage that felt very human, and very true to the marriages I know. Two of our writers are actually married. Which two writers, I will leave for their own privacy, but they met in the room as well, so you can imagine it brings us all into very close proximity with each other, when it comes to being honest and vulnerable.You play a character as well, as a cameo.The smarmy teenager who walks Stephen Reas dog! We love Stephen Rea, so all I will say is that despite Alexander Pope Primes death, hes already popping back in certain ways this next season. But my own character, oh yeah. Im flying out to Berlin to shoot another one of those. More than anything, I wanted to play a character who had to clean up after another characters poop. As a showrunner, as a writer, it fit. [Laughs.]

LONDON  As the sun set on the last day of 1932, President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt waited to take office, while American banks continued to buckle. The last chancellor of Weimar Germany sat in a Rococo palace in Berlin; the last emperor of China was installed on a puppet throne in Manchukuo. The globe was agitated, and art was not exempt. The Nazis forced the Bauhaus out of Dessau in 1932, and in the same year the Soviet Union dissolved independent artists unions and promulgated the single style of socialist realism.Pablo Picasso, in his studio on Pariss Rue la Botie or from his chateau in Normandy, barely noticed. For him, the year 1932 was a cavalcade of public praise and private indulgences, a year when stylistic invention tipped into frenzy. Always overproductive, Picasso supercharged his career in 1932, the year his first retrospective exhibition took place and when the first volume of Christian Zervoss mammoth catalogue raisonn was published. In 1932, the world was tilting toward catastrophe. Picasso was becoming a god.What the Spaniard made in 1932 is the subject of an uncommon exhibition at Tate Modern with an almost irresponsibly simple premise: one year, in chronological order, in the life of an artist. At its initial outing last fall, at the Muse Picasso in Paris, it bore the title Picasso 1932: Anne rotique, which, while candid, raises the question of whether every year in his priapic life might not be designated an erotic one.Here at Tate Modern, the show has a tamer, Anglo-Saxon name: Picasso 1932  Love, Fame, Tragedy. (The London version of Picasso 1932 has been organized by Achim Borchardt-Hume, Tate Moderns director of exhibitions, and Nancy Ireson, a curator at the museum; Laurence Madeline and Virginie Perdrisot-Cassan were responsible for the Paris edition.)A years work, for most artists, would fill just one gallery, if that. Picasso gives us enough for a feast. More than 100 paintings, sculptures and drawings from that year are here, representing just a fraction of his output, and theyre accompanied by copious archival materials  a butchers bill, a family photo album, a manuscript by Andr Breton  and earlier works that appeared in the retrospectives of that year.Here at the Tate are point-blank masterpieces, above all the plaster and cement busts of his young lover Marie-Thrse Walter; wonderful and underrated drawings, including a suite of scenes from the Crucifixion translated into strange surrealist tableaux; frankly amateurish sketches of Boisgeloup in the rain; and a hefty amount of cruise-ship Picasso, such as the Tates own Nude Woman in a Red Armchair, with a face only an oligarch could love.And if, like me, you look askance at overly biographical readings of modern art  not least as regards old male geniuses and the mute, pliant muses who love them  you will have an extra task in Picasso 1932, which in some spots reduces the art into mile markers in the life of a lech. Each work here, dated to the day and even the hour in some cases, serves as a page in a diary. Your mission is to treat them as more than that: to untangle the artists interwoven threads, and to reckon with the multiplicity of Picassos anne rotique in stylistic and social terms that intersect with, but cant be reduced to, a mere life story.One painter, one year. He was 50 years old at the start of 1932, and the previous Christmas hed painted a brace of pictures, on view in a prologue here, that prefigure the dreamlike, indulgent, violent year to come. One, the 1931 oil Woman With Dagger, is a riff on Jacques-Louis Davids The Death of Marat, in which the Girondin murderess appears as an ectoplasmic gray lizard, fangs bared as she soars above Marats bathtub. The other is a languorous portrait of a woman seated in a striped red chair, her hands an icy lavender, her single breast as round and rigid as a softball, her face liquefied into a heart-shaped squiggle.The subject of that painting is Marie-Thrse, who was 22 on New Years Day. Picasso 1932 is as much her show as his, and the young Frenchwoman, lithe, athletic, untroubled, appears again and again in uncanny states of bodily deliquescence.The role she would play in Picassos art is visible as early as January. In Le Repos (Rest), painted on the 22nd day of the year, Picassos wife Olga lazes in a chair in front of Matisse-echoing floral wallpaper. Olgas right breast soars creepily upward; her head is thrust to the right, her dark hair rendered as bristling parallel cilia. Marie-Thrse, blonde, sits with a look of postcoital bliss in front of the same wallpaper in Le Rve (The Dream) from Jan. 24  which became world-famous when its previous owner, the now-disgraced casino magnate Stephen A. Wynn, agreed to sell it to the financier Steven A. Cohen and then promptly punctured its surface with his elbow. (Mr. Cohen eventually bought the restored painting in 2013.) Le Rve hangs here in a plexiglass vitrine, and you cant detect any injury, even if you can look away from her closed left eye, transmuted into the glans of a tumescent penis.Le Rve is not a particularly accomplished painting, and indeed many works in this exhibition are garish, hasty and unremarkable. Moments of intense breakthrough  above all in early March, when he painted the surreal Nude in a Black Armchair and Nude, Green Leaves and Bust, which treat Marie-Thrses mauve flesh as a source of vegetal growth, and the ultradense, psychologically troubling Girl Before a Mirror, on loan from the Museum of Modern Art in New York  coexist with fallow months. (In summer, Picasso really checked out.) Thats not a knock on the curators of Picasso 1932. It can be bracing to see Picasso shuttle between triumph and kitsch in the space of a week.What endures through the year are the erotic and artistic drives to dominate and to reshape: drives that play out, more than anywhere, on the surface of Marie-Thrses body. Endlessly pliable: She sleeps, she stretches, she dives, she undulates. That spring, in Reclining Nude, Picasso transmutes her into a sunbathing cephalopod, head thrust back in pleasure and flippers cast up to the sky. (The curators have winningly paired it with a 1928 film of a rippling, capering octopus.) In his sculpture studio in Boisgeloup, he turned her face into serene but sexualized busts, with noses that resemble a bodily appendage women do not possess. (Marie-Thrse did not visit the studio; Picasso never worked from life, and indeed they might not have seen each other all that frequently in 1932.)Why was Picasso so hyperproductive in 1932? This show stacks the deck in favor of emotional explanations  his strained marriage with Olga, his new infatuation  but those of us cursed by the procrastination gene will clock the real reason: He was racing to prepare his first retrospective, at the Galeries Georges Petit in Paris, which opened on June 16 and featured a painting made as late as April 11. Picasso hung that show out of chronological order, and one of the sharpest moves of Picasso 1932 is its partial reconstruction of this historical exhibition smack in the center of the current one. A Blue Period self-portrait and a proto-Cubist profile of a woman rupture the timeline in a way Picasso, ever a disrupter, would have smiled to see.Later in 1932, after a sojourn in Switzerland, Picasso turned to ink drawing and completed a bakers dozen of works on paper that reimagined Matthias Grnewalds Isenheim Altarpiece (1512-1516) as assemblages of acrobatic shapes and body parts. But in September, on the river Marne, Marie-Thrse tumbled out of her kayak and nearly drowned. She was hospitalized; she contracted a viral infection that would cost her her hair. Even those suspicious of such biographical readings will note the darker tones of this shows later galleries, and the recurrence of scenes of rape, diving and drowning. In the masterly Rescue, painted on Nov. 20, a gasping woman is pulled from the waters by an equally nude savior, their bodies flattened and distended into supple panels of lilac and blue.Rescue, like all of Picassos best works from 1932, was born out of desire for Marie-Thrse  but it exceeds that desire as well, and exceeds, moreover, the life of any one artist. In the last gallery, we come across a quotation from Michel Leiris, the French ethnologist, whose fatalistic interpretation of art in 1932 rings truer than the first-person-singular orientation that this show both indulges and disclaims. He wrote: Everything we love is about to die, and that is why everything must be summed up, with all the high emotion of farewell, in something so beautiful we shall never forget it.Even Picasso, ensconced in his chauffeur-driven Hispano-Suiza, could not keep the outside world at bay for long. In three years, civil war would break out in his native Spain. The bodies in extremis he painted in the fall of 1932  terrified, hungry, surging past their physical limits  would re-emerge in a Basque village called Guernica.

Two weeks before Christmas, I had a 9-millimeter pistol concealed in my waistband and a rifle with two 30-round magazines in the passenger seat beside me. I was driving down from the mountains to meet a fellow I didnt know at a Cracker Barrel off I-40 in the North Carolina foothills. He was looking to buy a Kel-Tec Sub-2000, and I had one for sale. Other than that, I didnt know him from Adam except for a few messages back and forth on Facebook.We were both members of a Facebook group where people post pictures of firearms and buyers private-message to ask questions and make offers  sometimes cash, sometimes trade. I needed money to pay a buddy for an old 70s model Lark teardrop trailer, and that rifle wasnt doing anything but taking up space in the safe.What I was doing was perfectly legal. In North Carolina, long-gun transfers by private sellers require no background checks. Likewise, its perfectly legal to sell a handgun privately so long as the buyer has a purchase permit or a concealed-carry license. But as I headed up the exit to the restaurant where we agreed to meet, I felt uneasy. I was within the law, but it didnt feel as if I should have been.He was backed into a space parallel to the dumpster, a black Ford F-250 with a covered bed, just as he described on Facebook Messenger. As I pulled in, he stepped out. He smiled, and I nodded.You can just leave it in the seat so we dont make anybody nervous, he said as I rolled down my window. There were families in rocking chairs in front of the restaurant. Customers were walking to their cars to get back on the road.I climbed out of my truck so he could look the rifle over while I counted the money hed left on his seat. He was about my age, somewhere in his early to mid-30s, white guy with a thick beard. He spoke with a heavy Southern accent not much different from my own. Said he built houses for a living, and that was about all the small talk between us. He liked the rifle. I needed the cash. We shook hands, and off we went.There is rarely a moment when Im not within reach of a firearm. When I lie down at night, there is an old single-shot New England Firearms Pardner leaned against the headboard, a loaded Smith & Wesson M&P Shield pistol on the nightstand. When I sit on the couch to work on an essay or a novel, there is a CZ 75 pistol on the coffee table. When I go to town for groceries, one of those two pistols is concealed inside my waistband.Where I live in the mountains of North Carolina, I am not alone. With fewer than a dozen guns in the safe, I wouldnt even be considered a gun nut. Most of my friends have concealed-carry licenses and pistols on their person. If there are 10 of us in a room, there are most likely 10 loaded firearms, probably more, with a few of us keeping backups in ankle holsters. Rarely do we mention what we carry. We dont touch the guns or draw them from their holsters. They are unseen and unspoken of, but always there.I cant remember a time in my life when I wasnt around guns. When I was a kid, there was a gun rack hanging on the wall in the living room. My father kept a single-shot .410 and an old bolt action .22, small-game guns, though he didnt hunt anymore. I can remember watching older boys shoot skeet at a junkyard in the woods behind my house, my fingers plugged in my ears while orange clays turned to smoke against a backdrop of post oak and poplar. I can remember the first time my father taught me to shoot a rifle, how he had me sit on the concrete driveway and use my knee for a rest, aiming for a cardboard target in a honeysuckle thicket across the road. I think I was 8 or 9. I pulled the stock in too high on my shoulder, and craned my neck awkwardly to line up the iron sights. I didnt know what I was doing, but I knew the rules: Always assume a firearm is loaded. Always keep the gun pointed in a safe direction. Know your target and whats beyond it.I come from a country people whose culture was destroyed by bulldozers and buildings. My fathers family settled in and around Charlotte in the late 1700s. As a child, I would ride around with my grandmother in her light blue Oldsmobile. Where Winn-Dixies and Food Lions stood, she remembered fields where she worked tobacco and picked cotton. I grew up in a tiny holdout spot of country where I ran through a pasture of chest-high field grass to fish a farm pond most evenings, where just a mile down the road my uncle still kept a kennel of hounds to run rabbit each fall.Guns were often a bridge between father and son. But my dad didnt keep a .38 Special on the bedside nightstand like my best friends father down the street. I never walked into the house and found him cleaning and oiling a dozen pistols at the kitchen table the way I did with my next-door neighbors dad. For my family, guns had always been a means of putting food on the table. My father never owned a handgun. He kept nothing for home defense.I was in eighth grade the first time I had a gun put to my head. It was December 1997, a year and four months before Columbine, at my middle school in Charlotte.A teacher named Mr. Madison sent me and three other boys outside to look for stuff to put under a microscope  rocks, tree bark, empty snail shells, anything we could find. The school was located in a neighborhood three miles from downtown. A sewer line ran parallel and cut a wide trail through the woods between two residential streets. We were at the edge of the clearing. I saw someone walking up with a hood over his head. When he got close, he pulled the gun and jammed it into my temple.I can remember that it was a little snub-nosed revolver, a brushed-steel frame. I can remember what it felt like pressed into the side of my head, how my heart raced when I went for my wallet, how I couldnt breathe. I had $50 my grandmother sent me for my birthday. My mom was going to take me to a skateboard shop after school to buy a new deck. There have been times I wondered what mightve happened if itd been like every other day, if I hadnt had a dollar to my name. If my wallet had been empty, would he have just walked away or become so frustrated that he pulled the trigger? Luckily, I had the money, and he took the $50 and ran.When he was gone, the four of us rushed for the classroom and tried to tell Mr. Madison what happened, our words broken by shattered breath, him screaming: Slow down! Slow down! The rest of the day we recounted our story over and over to the principal. In the end, what happened was swept under the rug. My parents said the school was probably trying to keep the story off the news.When I was 14, I couldnt imagine the impact that robbery would have on the rest of my life. I couldnt foresee a grown man feeling uncomfortable when he was corralled by passers-by on the street, an unnerving anxiety turning him to stone when he was surrounded by strangers. I remember an afternoon in my early 30s at a therapists office describing the years that followed that incident, and she speculated that I surrounded myself with the people I did as a form of protection. Theres a part of me that thinks thats too easy an answer, that its passing the buck instead of taking responsibility. But for those next few years, I ran around wild.I sat in the back of a police cruiser praying the officers wouldnt pop the trunk on the car parked in front of my truck, knowing my friend had a shotgun and a quarter pound of weed sitting on the spare. I rode in the passenger seat while a buddy rolled down the window and fired a pistol into the night, blowing off steam after a breakup, empty casings spitting against the windshield. I dropped to the ground as gunfire rang from a car at a bonfire party. I pushed friends behind the brick foundation of a house as a shootout erupted over pills. There were times when someone could have easily been shot and killed.The second and last time I had a gun put to my head it was by the police. After a drunken fight, I left a friends apartment to walk five miles and sleep on the porch of a buddys house across the river. I was walking down the side of Wilkinson Boulevard in Belmont. I was carrying a shoe box. I saw a police cruiser pass me and make a U-turn at a stoplight up ahead. When the Crown Vic came back, the driver jumped the median and next thing I knew there were multiple cars, lights flashing, officers ordering me to the ground.They had their guns drawn. There was a K-9 unit, and the German shepherd wouldnt quit barking. I was lying flat on my stomach, and one officer came forward and put his knee in my back, his service weapon pushed into the base of my skull. They let the dog close enough that I could feel him barking against my ear. They said I matched the description of someone whod burglarized some houses nearby. They asked what was in the shoe box, and I stuttered, Papers. They asked if they opened the box if there was anything inside that would hurt them. With my face in the grass and the officers weight making it hard to breathe, I was so terrified that I couldnt mutter a single word. I just shook my head, and they opened that box to find nothing but a stack of notebook papers, a pile of half-assed stories Id written. They told me I could get up, and I stood there trembling while they apologized. They gave me a ride across the river and dropped me off at the Mecklenburg County line, told me they were sorry but they couldnt take me any farther.I moved to the mountains not long after that. As soon as I arrived in Jackson County, I knew Id never leave. A hundred and fifty miles west of where I grew up, I found a community that reminded me of my grandmother, where folks still kept big gardens and canned the vegetables they grew. They still filled the freezer with meat taken by rod and rifle  trout and turkey, dove and rabbit, deer, bear, anything in season.I keep a close-knit group of friends here, most of whom are at least 20 years my senior. Our generational difference is erased by a shared passion for wilderness and time spent in the field with gun in hand. This past Christmas, one of the men I hunt with, a man we call Son in Law, handed down a Model 94 Winchester to his grandson. The grandson would be the fourth generation to hunt with that rifle. A few weeks later, the boy took that .30-30 lever action into the field and killed his first deer with it  the same as his uncle, his grandfather and great-grandfather. Those types of things are rare now, even in places like Appalachia.Im the youngest member of my hunting camp  me 34, everyone else in their mid-to-late 60s, a few on up past 70. Among these men, there are centuries of experience gathered around the campfire each night. After more than 40 seasons wandering the same woods, theyve come to know the land intimately. They toss around names  the Owl Boxes, the U.F.O. Hole, the Refrigerator Stand  places theyve killed deer for decades. They tell stories about men who have died, hunters like Goat Man, who carried an onion in his pocket and plowed down trees in his beat-up Bronco; or Hawkeye, who ran moonshine and damn near drank a boy to death after the kid slapped a sack of weed on the poker table and declared, Boys, thats the shit that killed Elvis. The old men talk, and I listen.I killed my biggest deer to date on the 2nd of November from a tree one of those men sent me to. Fifteen feet up a hickory, I watched a tree line at the edge of a clear cut. I heard heavy footsteps and eased around the right side of the tree for a look, and there he stood. The buck walked to my left, and I slipped behind the trunk, shouldered the rifle and balanced the fore end on a tree step Id augured into the opposite side for a rest.He was broadside when I slid the cross hairs onto his shoulder. The clear cut, strewn with downed timber and studded with sawed stubs, was too rough to track and drag, so I didnt want to risk a shot for heart and lungs and have the deer run a hundred yards. I wanted to drop him where he stood. Pin his shoulders together and buckle him.Just before the deer strolled behind a cedar sapling, I touched the trigger, and the .308 blew apart the morning. A hundred and fifty grains of copper-jacketed lead hit just behind the shoulder and blood-shot the backside to pudding. The buck stooped forward and sprinted, back legs driving him over tangled ground. He made it 40 yards before he crashed. From my stand, I could just make out the white of his stomach through the brush. I watched his ribs rise with each breath, that breathing slowing, slowing, then gone.There is a sadness that only hunters know, a moment when lament overshadows any desire for celebration. Life is sustained by death, and though going to the field is an act of taking responsibility for that fact, the killing is not easy, nor should it be.I climbed down a half-hour later but didnt walk straight to the deer. Instead I went to the place where I shot him, a yard shy of that cedar sapling, and followed the blood trail to where he lay. He was a big-bodied eight-point that would feed me for a year. I knelt there and ran my hands across his coat. It took nearly an hour to drag him back to the trail, another half-mile from there to the truck.A few days later, I was driving back home from hunting camp in McCormick, S.C., with the head of that eight-point in a cooler in the truck bed, the rest of the deer hanging to age at the processor. On a long straightaway, I passed a state trooper driving in the opposite direction. In the rearview, I saw him slam on the brakes and make a U-turn in the middle of the road, blue lights flashing. I was running just under 60 in a 55 and didnt think there was any way he was pulling me over.The 9-millimeter I always carry was loaded and concealed on my side. Until that moment Id never been pulled over while carrying a concealed weapon. I knew the protocol. I knew what I was legally obligated to say. But I was nervous as hell as the trooper stepped out of his cruiser, situated his campaign hat and approached the side of my truck.He was a young black man with braces on his teeth. He looked to be in his early 20s, had kind eyes and was built like a linebacker. He asked for my license and registration, and I told him I needed to inform him that I had a concealed-carry license and that there was a weapon on my person. He asked where the gun was located, and I told him roughly 4 oclock. He asked if I could get to my wallet, and I told him the pistol was pretty close to my back pocket. There was a moment of hesitation when he considered what to do next. Then he told me to move slowly as I took my wallet from my pocket.When the trooper had my license and registration, he went to his cruiser. In a few minutes, he came back to the window and issued me a warning for speeding. I asked if there was anything I couldve done differently to make him more comfortable when he first approached the truck. The trooper told me what Id said was fine. He said that some officers might have been uncomfortable with where the pistol was located, being holstered near my wallet, but that he felt we had a good rapport. Depending on the officer, some might have asked me to step out of the truck so they could remove the weapon. He smiled and told me: But this is South Carolina. Most every car I pull over has a gun.As I headed toward the mountains, all I could think about was Philando Castile, the young African-American man who had a permit to carry and was shot to death in his car in front of his girlfriend and her young daughter by a Minnesota policeman after notifying the officer that he had a weapon. All I could think about was how things might have been different if the situation was reversed and that young black state trooper with braces had been behind the wheel, a white trooper cautiously approaching the car. It was impossible not to think that if I were black, Id be too scared to carry a gun. It was impossible not to recognize how gun culture reeks of privilege.Last summer I drove back to Charlotte to visit my father for his birthday. While I was there, I went into a Cabelas store in Fort Mill, S.C., to buy him a new depth finder for his fishing boat. After I found what I was looking for, I headed across the store to see if there were any good deals on ammo.There were floor displays of AR-15s, and probably a hundred or more other rifles and shotguns for anyone to walk up and hold. I watched a kid about 8 or 9 pick up one of those ARs and shoulder it to the center of his chest. He held the gun awkwardly, cocked his head hard to the side, squeezed one eye closed to aim and dry-fired the weapon. I watched two men, presumably his father and grandfather, smile and laugh, then break out their cellphones to snap a few pictures.I remembered how when I was his age, I used to love going to the sporting-goods section of Walmart to look at fishing lures and camouflage clothes. Id walk over near the register and push the manual turntable on the curio display to look at all the rifles and shotguns. There were usually a few big game guns  a gray stock Remington 783 in .30-06, maybe a Marlin 336 lever action  a couple of pump shotguns, a single shot .410 or 20-gauge. There were always Ruger 10/22s and Marlin Model 60s, the .22LRs kids unwrapped when their grandfathers gave them their first rifles for a birthday or Christmas. There were always guns, but nothing like the assault weapons that line the shelves today.Maybe its how I was raised and the types of firearms my family kept, but the idea of owning a rifle designed for engaging human targets out to 600 meters just never interested me. I keep a Savage 10 in .308 to hunt whitetail and hogs. I have a CZ 920 thats absolute hell on a dove field. I have a handful of .22 rifles that I use for plinking at the range and hunting squirrels and rabbits each winter. Then there are the weapons I keep for defense  the shotgun by the bed, the pistols  firearms whose sole purpose would be to take human life if I were left with no other choice. Ive witnessed how quickly a moment can turn to a matter of life and death. I live in a region where 911 calls might not bring blue lights for an hour. Whether its preparation or paranoia, I plan for worst-case scenarios and trust no one but myself for my survival.My friends see no difference between the guns I own and their ARs. One or two of them rationalize assault weapons the same way I justify what sits by my bed. When I ask if those rifles are really the best option for home defense, they joke about the minute hand of the doomsday clock inching closer to midnight. They post Instagram photos of Sig Sauer MCXs and tac vests loaded with extra magazines, their bug-out bags by the door as they wait for the end of the world.But a majority defend their ARs the same way I defend the guns I use for plinking and hunting. They say they own them because theyre fun at the range and affordable to shoot. They use the rifles for punching paper, a few for shooting coyotes. Every weekend they fire hundreds of rounds from custom rifles theyve spent thousands of dollars building. They add bump stocks and Echo Triggers to increase rates of fire and step as close to Title II of the federal Gun Control Act as legally possible without the red tape and paperwork. They fire bullets into Tannerite targets that blow pumpkins into the sky.None of them see a connection between the weapons they own and the shootings at Sandy Hook, San Bernardino, Aurora, Orlando, Las Vegas, Parkland. They see mug shots of James Holmes, Omar Mateen, Stephen Paddock, Nikolas Cruz  crazier than a shithouse rat, they say. If it hadnt been that rifle, hed have done it with something else. They fear that what starts as an assault-weapons ban will snowball into an attack on everything in the safe. I dont believe that politicians are going to ban ordinary guns or overturn the Second Amendment, but I understand their reasoning because I understand whats at stake. I think about that boy picking up that AR in Cabelas, and Im torn between the culture I grew up with and how that culture has devolved. There are changes I know must come, changes to what types of firearms line the shelves and to the background checks and ownership requirements needed to carry one out the door. And there is an unrelenting fear of what could be lost  a subsistence culture already threatened by the loss of public land, rising costs and a widening rural-urban divide; the right of individuals to protect their own lives and the lives of their families.A few days after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., in February, I sat down with a buddy over coffee at the firehouse where he works. The news was on in the background. I told him Id be fine with an assault-weapons ban. He cut a look in my direction as if Id absolutely lost my mind. I asked him why anyone needs to own an AR, an AK, an SKS. He said that the question is irrelevant, that the reason doesnt supersede the right. I could feel my blood pressure rising and my face getting warm. I could see in his eyes that he was equally agitated. Despite everything we have in common, despite the fact that hes my best friend and we were going squirrel hunting in a few days, the two of us fundamentally disagree. Someone came into the room and changed the subject, and I could sense that he was as thankful as I was. As sad as it is to say, the silence is easier. While the two of us sat there sipping coffee, there were kids on the television in the background, high school survivors who were willing to say what we are not, and I was ashamed.One recent afternoon I rode with my girlfriend, Ashley, an hour east to Asheville. It was the first week of March, but a warm spell had the willows green along the creek in the pasture at our house. It was one of those pretty, late-winter days with bluebird skies when the trees are still naked on the mountains and you can see every shadow and contour of the landscape. Knowing how I hate going to the city, she bribed me with a trip to the Field & Stream sporting-goods store if I would ride along.As we pulled into the parking lot, I thought about the last time we were there, back before Christmas. Ashley didnt grow up with guns as I did. Shed never owned one before I gave her a shotgun to keep by the bed when Im away from home. For a year or so, shed been considering a pistol. Shed held dozens of models but still hadnt decided on anything.We were at the back of the store looking in the glass case at 1911s. All of a sudden, her eyes got big and she raised her hands then ducked behind me and grabbed onto my arm. I turned and stared down the aisle where a kid who looked about 18 was aiming an AR-15 the salesman had handed him. The muzzle was pointed in our direction. Ashley was terrified. Ive been at the counter enough to know the predicament  wanting to shoulder a rifle to test the feel but having nowhere sensible to aim. The kid lowered the rifle and went back to talking to the salesman, neither seeming to notice us standing there, Ashley frozen behind me.On the way out, she just kept saying: He was a kid. He looked like he shouldve been in high school. What does a kid need a rifle like that for? What does anybody need a rifle like that for? And the truth was, I didnt have an answer. The truth is, there are guns I feel justified in owning and guns I feel belong on battlefields. I know the reasons my friends give for owning these weapons, and I know that their answers feel inadequate to me. I know that part of what theyre missing or refusing to acknowledge is how fear ushered in this shift in gun culture over the past two decades.Fear is the factor no one wants to address  fear of criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the governments turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another. Theres no simple solution like pulling fear off the shelf. Its an intangible thing. I recognize this, because I recognize my own and I recognize that despite all I know and believe I cant seem to overcome it. Im sure that part of why I carry is having a pistol put to my head when I was 14. Im sure that part of it is having hidden behind walls while shots were fired. Maybe its a combination of those two things coupled with headlines and hysteria, the growing presence of mass shootings in American culture.I dont like being in places where I cant find the exits. I dont like crowds and being surrounded by more people than I can keep my eyes on. For the most part nowadays, I stay at the house. When I have to leave, I slide my holster into my waistband before I put on my boots. When a book tour sends me out of North Carolina, 36 states honor the concealed-carry license in my wallet. Unlike a lot of those who carry, I dont buy into that only-way-to-stop-a-bad-guy-with-a-gun-is-a-good-guy-with-a-gun bravado. I have no visions of being a hero. Instead, I find myself looking for where Id run, asking myself what I would get behind. The gun is the last resort. Its the final option when all else is exhausted.When Ashley and I left the store, we headed toward the Levis outlet, where she planned to buy a new pair of jeans. The walkway narrowed, and the sidewalks were filled with people and noise. Even though I knew the risk was remote, my mind raced with all those questions of what Id do if someone suddenly opened fire. As we walked, I could feel the pistol holstered on my side, the weight of my gun tugging at my belt. The fear was lessened by knowing that there was a round chambered, that all it would take is the downward push of a safety and the short pull of a trigger for that bullet to breathe. I felt safer knowing that gun was there.

