Tensions rise as the West and Russia trade insults and expulsions. But the old Cold War restraints and channels of communication have been dismantled.
‘Oklahoma’ revolutionized Broadway, and gave a war-weary country reason to hope.
With no other choice, tens of thousands of Syrians have fled to Idlib, a rebel-held province, where they are caught between government attacks from the sky and Islamists on the ground.
Germany's economy minister says he is confident that Europe and the United States can reach a "sensible compromise" by summer to resolve tensions over trade.
Fifty years later, what does the Vietnam War mean? And how should we remember the men and women who served in it?
Amira Gharmoush's family has been a victim of both sides of the war for the eastern Ghouta region near Damascus. The 67-year-old Syrian mother of nine is now hoping to piece back together what's left of it.
The International Criminal Court on Saturday said it has taken into custody at its detention center in the Netherlands a Malian man accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity.
A world away from Iraq's battlegrounds, Basra's cat-lovers have found a haven for their favorite pets.
Germany's finance ministry expects interest rates to rise in coming years, causing new Minster Olaf Scholz to take steps to cushion additional costs to meet budget goals, Der Spiegel weekly reported on Saturday.
In Sioux County, where swine barns interrupt the vast landscape of corn-stubbled fields, exports of meat, grain and machinery fuel the local economy. And there's a palpable sense of unease that new Chinese tariffs pushed by President Donald Trump ...
India is exploring new duties on the import of a key smartphone component, according to two government sources, the latest in a series of moves aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing in the world's second-biggest smartphone market.
As a challenge to the country’s collective memory, two artists unveiled a monument to a 19th-century figure who led a fiery revolt against Danish colonial rule in the Caribbean.
China wants to share its development opportunities with other countries, but protectionism will mean closing the door into China, the country's top diplomat said, amid a festering trade dispute with the United States.
Political leaders in Albany leave an ambitious Manhattan congestion zone out of the state budget, but include new surcharges on Uber and taxi rides
Though Facebook gets the attention because of a recent privacy gaffe, the social network is far from alone in collecting massive amounts of data on you to help marketers sell you stuff.
The death of the world's last male northern white rhinoceros  this month led a Kenyan government official to declare anyone caught possessing ivory should be sentenced to life in prison.
The leaders of six countries along the Mekong River on Saturday adopted an ambitious investment plan worth $66 billion over the next five years.
A fire broke out at the Houthi-controlled Yemeni port of Hodeidah early on Saturday, destroying warehouses filled with cooking fuel and foodstuffs, port workers said.
An Israeli drone crashed in southern Lebanon overnight between Friday and Saturday, the Israeli military and Hezbollah's al-Manar TV reported. 
The Israeli military says one of its drones has crashed in southern Lebanon because of a technical failure.
A massive fire broke out on Saturday and engulfed storage facilities belonging to the World Food Program in the Yemeni Red Sea port city of Hodeida damaging humanitarian aid inside, Yemen's official news agency said.
Christian Yelich tied his career high with five hits, and the Milwaukee Brewers swept the San Diego Padres with a 7-3 victory on Saturday night.
Today in History
Saudi air defense forces intercepted a missile fired by Houthi fighters in neighboring Yemen at the southern Saudi city of Najran on Saturday, the Saudi-led coalition said.
China will prosecute a former senior provincial official for corruption after an investigation found he illegally accepted gifts and abused his power, the ruling Communist Party's anti-graft watchdog said on Saturday.
A Burundian man recently deported from the United States after failing to receive political asylum has been detained without charge back home, activists said Saturday.
Carolina is a long shot to make the playoffs. Coach Bill Peters is still looking for a strong finish for the Hurricanes.
Here are some of our favorite recent pieces.
Bulgaria needs more time to decide whether to follow NATO and EU allies in expelling Russian diplomats over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy, its deputy prime minister said on Thursday.
The delicacy once smothered local reefs in South Africa, but the shellfish has become more difficult to find as a result of overfishing, luring untrained divers into more deadly waters.
Voting appeared to be peaceful on Saturday in Sierra Leone's runoff presidential election, which had been delayed by a few days after a court challenge of the first round.
The Chinese government will spend 1.875 billion yuan ($298.92 million) to improve irrigation systems in the heavily ethnic Uighur southern part of the violence-prone far western region of Xinjiang, state news agency Xinhua said on Saturday.
Thatcher Demko couldn't stop grinning the whole game in his first NHL start despite giving up the tying goals before the Vancouver Canucks won it in overtime.
Drive past clustered hog sheds containing thousands of animals in the country's No. 2 pork-producing state on the wrong day and the reason hundreds of North Carolina neighbors are suing in federal court is clear: it really stinks.
It's Philadelphia's other bell, the bigger, uncracked twin of the Liberty Bell. Britain bestowed the Bicentennial Bell to the city as a gift for America's 200th birthday, but it's been out of sight and out of mind since 2013. Now, a nonprofit grou...
Russia expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries on Friday and said it reserved the right to take action against four other nations in a worsening standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.
President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation, including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.
Sierra Leone voted on Saturday in a poll delayed by fraud allegations to choose a successor to President Ernest Bai Koroma who leaves a country struggling after the Ebola epidemic and a commodity price crash. 
A group of childhood friends wants to create a safer community and challenge the notion that African-Americans can’t be cowboys. 
Britain's Anthony Joshua moved a step closer to becoming undisputed heavyweight champion of the world on Saturday after beating New Zealander Joseph Parker on a unanimous points decision in their title unification bout.
Violence along the Gaza-Israel border significantly diminished Saturday, a day after 15 Palestinians were killed during a confrontation. Israel said it would target “other places” if unrest went on.
Israel will target militant groups inside Gaza if violence along the territory's border with Israel drags on, the chief military spokesman warned on Saturday, a day after 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire in the area's deadliest violence...
Moscow has told Britain it must cut just over 50 more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia as a standoff deepened over the poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter in England, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.
Really, it’s O.K. if we all don’t agree about everything.
The Syrian army command said on Saturday it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta and was pressing its military operations in the last rebel bastion of Douma. 
The Latest on protests over the police killing of an unarmed black man in Sacramento (all times local):
The Syrian army command said on Saturday it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta and was pressing its military operations in the last rebel bastion of Douma. 
A Kremlin-funded tour by a biker gang known as Putin’s Angels, agents of meddling and mayhem, stoked fears about what Russia is up to in Bosnia.
In the latest flare-up of tensions between California and Washington, President Trump criticized the governor for granting the pardons.
It’s a pop culture stereotype and a term we apply to loved ones. But people should know who it honors.
President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon," while at odds with his own policy, was not a one-off: For weeks, top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has inc...
A look at some of the anniversaries this year at the Masters:
Our attitudes are finally catching up to gambling’s long history with sports — and a billion-dollar industry.
A tale of two Kushner brothers, on either side of the fractious Trump divide.
When you’ve done the makeup of basically everyone in the world except the queen of England, what else could be next?
He was a man of faith, but his faith demanded action.
