President Donald Trump first tried to disarm Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago with smooth talk and hospitality. A year later, he's resorted to hardball and found that Xi is willing to throw it back.
Malaysia's Prime Minister Najib Razak announced on Friday the dissolution of parliament, paving the way for a general election in which he faces an unprecedented challenge from his former mentor turned opposition leader Mahathir Mohamad.
South Korea said on Friday it has notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) that it seeks to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods worth $480 million, in response to U.S. measures against South Korean imports.
Victory could be difficult to verify, much less achieve, as the U.S. protests Beijing’s effort to retool Chinese industries for the 21st century.
South Korea's rapidly worsening air pollution has forced the country's professional baseball league to postpone three games.
The Chinese government's top diplomat hopes that planned summits between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and the presidents of South Korea and the United States will "take the fuse" out of the situation on the Korean peninsula. 
China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump's threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.
Li Haotong made his first bogey in his first Masters, and he was lucky it wasn't worse.
Unwilling to yield, President Donald Trump and China's government escalated their trade clash Friday, with Beijing vowing to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in...
Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. The latest drop came as the White House proposed tripling ...
All of the weddings right here on one handy page for you. 
Companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s trade policies. With first-quarter earnings imminent, will that now change?
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
The six-month closure of the Philippine tourism island of Boracay for a revamp after the country's president branded it a "cesspool" reflects the growing pressures on beach resorts across Southeast Asia as visitor numbers surge.
European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.
Spanish and Portuguese authorities announced Friday that they have taken down a criminal network that has been making large profits by smuggling glass eels to Asia.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
South Carolina’s former first lady wasn’t looking to remarry after her high-profile divorce, until her sister played matchmaker.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
President Trump says foreign workers on H-1B visas take jobs away from Americans. Employers say they fill a labor shortage. Who’s right?
