Tension in the South China Sea will hurt PetroVietnam's offshore exploration and exploitation activities this year, the state-run oil and gas group said on Tuesday, weeks after the Southeast Asian nation suspended a project under pressure from Chi...
China's new defense minister says his visit to Russia is a signal to the United States about the increasingly close military ties between Moscow and Beijing.
The United Nations has blacklisted a North Korean ship for receiving oil in an October transfer that breached U.N. sanctions, as first revealed by Reuters.
Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told North Korea's foreign minister on Tuesday that Beijing supports the North's planned summits with South Korea and the United States.
China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora's Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in a deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute. 
China imposed tariffs on 128 U.S. products ranging from wine to oranges in order to "balance the losses" caused by U.S. duties and to protect China's national interests, according to a commentary on the front page of the official People's Daily. 
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday told President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe that they should work towards a new chapter in ties, during the African leader's first state visit to China since he seized power last year.
Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday China and the United States  should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease access for American businesses, as China scrambles to avert a trade war.
Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa thanked Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday for Beijing's political support and pledged to strengthen ties with the Asian giant on his first visit since his dramatic rise to power last year.
South Korea's government official in charge of foreign exchange  said on Tuesday that authorities will act to curb sharp fluctuations in the won if necessary.  
China appreciates North Korea's "important efforts" to ease tension on the Korean peninsula, senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told the North's foreign minister on Tuesday, hours after he called on all sides to stay focussed on talks.
Asian stock markets were mixed in early trading Wednesday as investors pondered the latest volley of tariff measures and threats between the U.S. and China.
The Mexico economy ministry said on Tuesday it has formally imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of carbon steel pipe from South Korea, Spain, India and the Ukraine after completing an investigation into "unfair" trade practices.
Retaliatory tariffs are a blow to exporters increasingly catering to young, newly wealthy Chinese looking for bottles with cachet.
A writer, executive and Republican fund-raiser who dabbled in Cold War foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, a famous general in World War II.
When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators' watchful eyes. 
Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The Latest on charges filed in the 2016 death of a 10-year-old boy at a Kansas water park (all times local):
One of the designers of a massive Kansas water park slide that decapitated a 10-year-old boy has been arrested in Texas, federal authorities said Tuesday.
Art dealers, collectors and gallery owners gather in Hong Kong for the annual Art Basel exhibition this week at a time when fairs are increasingly driving growth in the sector and collectors from across Asia are flocking to the financial hub.
A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea's Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant's governance.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Their wedding announcement appeared on the same page as news of a Sotheby’s auction selling Andy Warhol cookie jars for $247,830.
Tesla Inc sought to squash any speculation it might need to raise more capital this year on Tuesday, driving the company's battered shares higher as it announced it built 2,020 of its cheaper Model 3 sedans in the last seven days.
European stocks retreated on Tuesday as investors began the second quarter in a fragile mood amid international trade tensions and mounting pressure on big technology companies.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The European Union and Gazprom are poised to settle a long-running antitrust case after the Russian gas company agreed to price reforms and to allow rivals to gain a foothold in eastern Europe, people familiar with the matter said.
A woman said Tuesday that she told Oregon child welfare officials in 2013 that Jennifer and Sarah Hart &#8212; who plunged off a California cliff with their children last month in an SUV &#8212; had been depriving the kids of food as punishment.
Jon O'Neill flew 23 hours from Florida to the mountainous jungles of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific in search of clues to the life of his war hero father, whom he can barely remember.
Seasonal and new American in Long Island City, Queens; and more restaurant news.
The search for Nirav Modi captivates a country increasingly frustrated by corruption cases involving state banks that could cost taxpayers dearly.
On April 4, 1968, a movement lost its patriarch when the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was killed on a hotel balcony in Memphis.
Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each c...
