HONG KONG  On a recent afternoon, the staff of The South China Morning Post, a 114-year-old newspaper, gathered around roast suckling pig in their lavish new headquarters in Hong Kong to celebrate a remarkable turnaround.Readership has been surging. The Post has launched new digital products and added dozens of journalists. After more than a decade of decline and editorial chaos, the newsroom now buzzes like a tech start-up, with table tennis and an in-house pub serving free craft beer.The revival began with The Posts acquisition two years ago by the Alibaba Group, the Chinese technology and retail giant. But if Alibaba is breathing new life into the paper, it has also given it a new mission: improving Chinas image overseas and combating what it sees as anti-Chinese bias in the foreign media.In effect, Alibaba has taken Hong Kongs English-language paper of record since the days of British rule and put it on the leading edge of Chinas efforts to project soft power abroad. Every day, The Post churns out dozens of articles about China, many of which seek to present a more positive view of the country. As it does, critics say it is moving away from independent journalism and pioneering a new form of propaganda.Alibaba, which has been open from the start about its ambitions for the newspaper, envisions a day when The Post is the dominant news organization in the world, riding the momentum of Chinas rise as a superpower.We are going to be watched, and people are going to pay attention to us, Joseph C. Tsai, a co-founder of Alibaba, said during the celebration last month, comparing The Post to an underdog competing for the first time at the Olympics.But journalists worry that Alibaba, which has become one of the most highly valued companies in the world in part by maintaining good ties with the Chinese government, is abandoning The Posts history of scrappy reporting to please Beijing.By explicitly stating that its aim is to tell a positive story of China and running questionable stories, management undermines the very attributes that make The S.C.M.P. useful in the first place, said Yuen Chan, a journalist and senior lecturer at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.As businesses and governments around the world look for ways to skirt the traditional news media, The Post has become a test case for how a new owner can co-opt an established brand to promote certain viewpoints. Alibaba executives say they want to present a fair and balanced alternative to foreign media, a mission statement that echoes Fox News.Gary Liu, a Harvard-educated technology entrepreneur who is The Posts chief executive, said the newspaper could offer a more nuanced portrait of China than Western news outlets, with a staff of 350 journalists in Asia, including about 40 in the mainland.We are not here, certainly, to promote the views and wishes of Beijing, said Mr. Liu, who was previously chief executive of Digg, a news aggregation site in New York.But a culture of self-censorship at the newspaper predates its purchase by Alibaba, said Wang Feng, who served as The Posts online editor from 2012 to 2015. He said top editors routinely rewrote, played down or withheld critical stories for fear of offending influential Chinese officials or business executives.It was often done in a very hush-hush manner, said Mr. Wang, now the editor of the Chinese-language website of The Financial Times. You could see that people were not exactly free to speak their minds.That timidity has persisted under Alibaba, according to more than a dozen Post journalists who, speaking on condition of anonymity, described how the paper shies away from investigative reporting on Communist Party leaders and contentious subjects such as human rights.Last year, The Post retracted a business column that suggested an investor in Hong Kong had ties to a trusted adviser to President Xi Jinping and had used his connections to amass wealth. The editors said the column made insinuations beyond the facts.Its author, Shirley Yam, a well-respected financial commentator, resigned. In a statement, Ms. Yam defended her column, saying that editors had vetted the piece extensively before its publication.Some critics said the more notable change under Alibaba may be The Posts ramped-up production of articles that present China in a friendly light.In February, Post journalists said, the Ministry of Public Security pushed the papers top editors to send a reporter to interview Gui Minhai, a political critic and Swedish citizen whom the Chinese police had snatched from a train.Mr. Gui was then quoted saying he had broken Chinese law and did not want help from the outside world. In its coverage, The Post said that the interview with Mr. Gui was government-arranged.The Post risks being a vehicle in Beijings overall propaganda machinery, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, a scholar at the Chinese University of Hong Kong and a former Post journalist.Mr. Xi, Chinas most powerful leader in decades, has all but eliminated critical reporting in the mainland, placed new pressure on Hong Kong media and ordered a vast expansion of Chinas publicity machine, with state broadcasters merged into a single entity called the Voice of China to strengthen Chinas international messaging.Chow Chung-yan, who oversees coverage of China and Hong Kong, denied The Post yields to pressure from Beijing.We are independent and free, he said. We dont have people calling into our newsroom asking what we will publish.The Posts editor in chief, Tammy Tam, a former Hong Kong television broadcaster, declined to be interviewed. We believe in reporting freely, fearlessly and in accordance with the highest editorial standards, she said in a statement.The Posts leaders say that Alibaba executives, who have offices a few floors above the newsroom, are not involved in editorial decisions. But Mr. Tsai, the co-founder who spoke at the celebration last month, maintains a close connection, offering occasional feedback on coverage and new products.There has been at least one noticeable change since the sale: an outpouring of coverage of Alibaba and its leader, Jack Ma, one of Chinas richest men. Articles mentioning Alibaba reached an average of about 3.5 per day last year online and in print, roughly double the number in 2016, according to an archival search.Alibaba appears to be willing to lose money on The Post, which is not profitable, according to newsroom leaders. Mr. Tsai has said The Post, with a circulation of about 101,000 and more than 10 million monthly active users on its website, may not become a self-sustaining business for at least five more years.Traffic to The Posts website has roughly tripled over the past year, the company said. Alibaba made access free when it took over.But Alibaba has abandoned ambitions of expanding the audience for The Posts journalism in the mainland, where its website is blocked. Even with its pro-China mission, articles in The Post still touch on topics that are off limits to mainland readers, like the 1989 Tiananmen massacre.While many of its approximately 850 articles a week appear tailored for a Hong Kong or Asian audience, The Post has gone on a hiring spree of journalists from outlets like the BBC and The New York Times to help bring an international tone to its coverage.To cater to young people and readers in the United States, now its largest market, The Post this month launched Inkstone, an app and newsletter that offers a conversational take on China, and Abacus, a multimedia site focused on technology. The new products also help blunt criticism that The Post is a propaganda tool.Diss the national anthem? Thats up to three years in the slammer, read one recent headline on an Inkstone article about penalties for mocking the Chinese national anthem in Hong Kong.The Posts success may hinge on persuading overseas readers that it delivers reliable journalism about China. But on the front lines, reporters are grappling with perceptions that the paper is another Chinese state news media outlet.Tom Grundy, editor of the Hong Kong Free Press, a rival news site, said The Post was home to talented reporters. But he said Alibabas ownership of the paper and recent editorial missteps risked tarnishing high-quality work.No matter how good their output, he said, there will always be distrust.Robert Delaney, a New York-based correspondent for The Post, said he had difficulty lining up interviews with American politicians and other sources because they assumed he worked for a news outlet controlled by the Communist Party.Now Mr. Delaney, a former China correspondent for Bloomberg News, makes a point of clarifying.Within the first minute, I just want to let them know, Just so you know, were not a mainland Chinese newspaper, even though we have China in our name, he said. That gets kind of awkward.

HOSPERS, Iowa   In Sioux County, where swine barns interrupt the vast landscape of corn-stubbled fields, exports of meat, grain and machinery fuel the local economy. And there\'s a palpable sense of unease that new Chinese tariffs pushed by President Donald Trump  who received more than 80 percent of the vote here in 2016  could threaten residents\' livelihood.The grumbling hardly signals a looming leftward lurch in this dominantly Republican region in northwest Iowa. But after standing with Trump through the many trials of his first year, some Sioux County Trump voters say they would be willing to walk away from the president if the fallout from the tariffs causes a lasting downturn in the farm economy."I wouldn\'t sit here today and say I will definitely support him again," said 60-year-old hog farmer Marv Van Den Top. "This here could be a real negative for him."Last week, Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on a range of Chinese goods, a move aimed at punishing Beijing for stealing American technology. The Chinese government responded with a threat to tag U.S. products, including pork and aluminum, with an equal 25 percent charge.That sent a chill through places like Sioux County, which ranks first among Iowa\'s 99 counties in agricultural exports. In 2016, the county sold $350 million in meat, grain, machinery and chemicals overseas. Far closer to the sparsely populated crossroads of South Dakota and Minnesota than Iowa\'s bustling Des Moines metro area, Sioux County is home to just 34,000 people, but more than 1 million hogs, 6 million chickens and nearly as impressive numbers of cattle and sheep.Brad Te Grootenhuis sells about 25,000 hogs a year and could lose hundreds of thousands of dollars if the tariffs spark a backlash from China. He said it\'s possible he would abandon Trump if pork\'s price decline continues and lasts."Any time you\'re losing money, nobody\'s happy," the 42-year-old farmer said. "I\'ve got payments to make, plain and simple."Nationally, opinions on Trump\'s tariffs, which were a central part of his campaign pledges to get tough on China, are mixed.Although GOP congressional leaders have argued tariffs would prompt a trade war and have urged Trump to reverse course, 61 percent of Americans who identify as Republicans nationwide favor a tariff, according to a national poll taken this month by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Still, 39 percent of Republicans say it will lead to a decrease in jobs, according to the poll, compared to 32 percent who think it will lead to an increase. That\'s similar to the views of all voters, the survey shows.Countermeasures by China, which is second only to Canada in importing Iowa products, could cause pain across the American agricultural sector, according to economists. For instance, a pork tariff imposed by China, which spent $42 million on Iowa pork products in 2017, would back up the Iowa market and force prices sharply downward."Retaliatory tariffs from China would have a devastating impact on U.S. agricultural exports, especially if they focus on products like soybeans and hogs," said Adam Kamins, a senior economist at Moody\'s Analytics. "This puts northwest Iowa and the Great Plains more broadly on the front line in a trade war."For hog farmer Tim Schmidt, the fallout of a geopolitical spat with China would force him to hold off on any new construction or maintenance on the decades-old buildings on his family-run farm along the Missouri River."There is an uncertainty to exactly what the next two to three years are going to look like," Schmidt said. A Trump voter in 2016, Schmidt said that if "things are bad and someone better comes along, we\'re willing to take a look."Sioux County seed dealer Dave Heying echoed a common refrain that any downturn in the farm economy would curb spending throughout the local economy, with direct impact on farm machinery dealers, mechanics and agricultural construction, among other businesses."Protecting our U.S. industries is important, but my concern is, at what expense to the farmer?" Heying said of Trump\'s trade moves. "It is too early to say whether or not I would support him. These types of decisions give you hesitation."As a presidential candidate, Trump was a somewhat awkward fit for Sioux County, where a third of its residents are members of the Dutch Reformed Church of America, which holds strictly conservative social positions. In striking contrast, the bombastic New Yorker has been married three times and shadowed by allegations of sexual harassment and infidelity.Trump finished fourth in Sioux County in Iowa\'s Republican presidential caucus, but carried 81.3 percent of the vote in the general election, his second-highest county share in the state. And a large core of voters in Sioux County, where Franklin Roosevelt was the last Democratic presidential candidate to win, remains with Trump, even if the farm economy suffers as a result of his trade policies."You have to have faith in our innovation and entrepreneurialship in this country," said Ed Westra, a grain cooperative manager and Trump devotee. "You\'ve got to think of the big game."___AP polling director Emily Swanson contributed to this report from Washington.___
BEIJING   North Korea will take part in the next two Olympic Games in Japan and China, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said on Saturday after meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang.Bach travelled to Pyongyang on Thursday in a visit that comes after North Korea\'s participation in the Pyeongchang Winter Games helped ease tensions over the Korean peninsula.Speaking to reporters at Beijing airport upon his return, Bach said North Korea will participate in the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo and the 2022 Winter Games in Beijing."This commitment was fully supported by the supreme leader of the DPRK in a very open and fruitful discussion I had with him yesterday," Bach said, using the country\'s formal name, the Democratic People\'s Republic of Korea."The IOC will make a proposal for a potential joint march or potential other joint activities for Tokyo and then maybe also for Beijing at the appropriate time," he added.The North\'s official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said Bach told Kim the trip was to "express the most heartfelt thanks" to North Korea\'s leader for helping make February\'s the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics a Games that were "symbolic of peace."Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, and the two Koreas have seen a significant thaw in tensions since.KCNA said Kim expressed thanks for the IOC\'s support and for cooperating with North Korea "regardless of any political climate and conditions".He said he hoped that the IOC\'s relationship with the North\'s Olympic Committee would continue to develop favourably and expected cooperation in developing and improving sport in North Korea, the report added.An official from South Korea\'s Unification Ministry said it was aware of the KCNA\'s report but declined to comment further.Bach had accepted North Korea\'s invitation in February, and told Reuters at the time that he saw sports as a way to reduce political tensions.After Kim made a surprise trip this week to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, his engagement with the international community has sparked speculation he may try to meet other leaders ahead of summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and United States President Donald Trump.The two Koreas have experienced a significant easing in tensions since the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February, leading them to set a date to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Joori Roh; Writing by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Peter Rutherford and Kim Coghill)
RALEIGH, N.C.   Drive past clustered hog sheds containing thousands of animals in the country\'s No. 2 pork-producing state on the wrong day and the reason hundreds of North Carolina neighbors are suing in federal court is clear: it really stinks.The question facing jurors in a federal lawsuit starting Monday is whether the open-air animal waste pits that proliferated over a generation generate intense smells, clouds of flies and noise.The trial\'s outcome could shake the profits and change production methods of pork producers who have enjoyed legislative protection and promotion in one of the nation\'s food hubs. Supporters see industrial-scale hog complexes as generating jobs and revenues in rural communities. Friendly lawmakers last year sought to retroactively sink the lawsuits by more than 500 neighbors now lined up to go to trial one after another.Neighbors like Randy Davis contend the industry\'s long practice of storing liquid waste in what producers call lagoons, then spraying treated excrement onto nearby fields as fertilizer, spells misery for them."A lagoon is something that a pretty 15-year-old in the South Pacific swims in," said Davis, a state employee whose Green County home is about is about  mile (1.15 kilometers) from the nearest impoundment. "This is not a lagoon. It\'s a cesspool. It\'s a 9-acre feces and urine pit."The plaintiffs\' attorneys also say that information uncovered about company influence campaigns show their "knowledge of the harmful health effects of its hog operations," the inadequacy of regulations to address those health effects, and the availability of feasible alternatives.Pork producers say they not only care about their rural neighbors, but their operations are inspected annually to make sure they comply with environmental regulations. There are 14 state inspectors checking 2,100 hog operations.Hog growers are keeping an eye on the litigation that could force them to make changes or part with big payouts."Certainly we\'re watching it. There\'s some levels of concern in particular as it relates to possible impact to the economy" of the rural communities where the farms operate and pay wages, said Andy Curliss, CEO of the North Carolina Pork Council, a trade group.The upcoming string of federal lawsuits target Murphy-Brown LLC, the hog production division of Virginia\'s Smithfield Foods. Smithfield was bought in 2013 by a division of China-based WH Group, the world\'s largest pork producer. China, with higher feed and labor costs than American pork producers, is one of the fastest-growing markets for U.S. exports and including Hong Kong now makes up about 9 percent, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department.The cases are being overseen by Judge W. Earl Britt, who was born 86 years ago in a town of about 130 people along the South Carolina border and joined the court in 1980 after Democratic President Jimmy Carter\'s nomination.The first case to be tried next week involves 10 neighbors of Kinlaw Farm, a Bladen County hog operation located 10 miles (16 kilometers) east of a massive Smithfield Foods slaughterhouse. The farm and its owners, who raise hogs under contract with Murphy-Brown, are not defendants. Instead, the target is the company that set specific standards of how the farm must operate.The neighbors\' lawyers hand-picked the plaintiffs for this first trial. A second trial starting later this spring will involve parties selected by hog industry lawyers. The two sides will alternate choosing the players for further trials.Such test cases allow lawyers to measure the strength of their evidence. The resulting verdicts - and any financial penalties - create guiderails for a possible settlement, said Christopher Seeger, a New York attorney who helped negotiate a $4.85 billion settlement over the health risks of arthritis painkiller Vioxx.Perhaps more important in shaping the ultimate resolution are the precedent-setting decisions judges make to accept some evidence and keep other details from jurors, Seeger said. Hog industry attorneys say the trial should be strictly limited to whether the 10 suing neighbors are suffering with a foul nuisance. They don\'t want jurors to hear about alternative disposal hog waste methods used elsewhere, industry lobbying, or evidence of Chinese ownership."You generate data from these bellwether trials that are very informative," Seeger said. "Where people would get more, where people would get less" based on how evidence persuades jurors.____Follow Emery P. Dalesio at http://twitter.com/emerydalesio. His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/emery-p-dalesio .____Associated Press writer Allen G. Breed contributed to this story.
HANGBERG, South Africa  One man vanished diving at midnight. Another was attacked by a great white shark in deep water. Two more drowned, one in borrowed scuba gear he wasnt qualified to use.All four men, who died over the past few months, were casualties of an entrenched illicit trade: poaching abalone, a seafood delicacy that sells for enormous prices in Asia.The shellfish, which once smothered reefs in South Africa, in some places packed as tightly as cobblestones, has become more difficult to find as a result of overfishing, luring untrained divers into deeper and more deadly waters.The old reefs have been hit too hard and havent had time to recover, said a diver from Hangberg, an impoverished fishing community in Cape Town, who insisted on anonymity because he did not want to alert the police to his poaching.With stocks of the shellfish declining in South Africa, legal quotas on harvesting it are strictly enforced. But in Hangberg, hundreds of families have turned to the abalone black market for income, as factory closings and the demise of commercial fishing have contributed to a spike in unemployment in recent years.Fueling the demand for exports of the mollusk is Chinas rising middle class, increasingly eager to consume high-status foods. For more than 2,000 years, abalone has been served to celebrate special occasions and honor guests, taking a pride of place alongside other luxury ingredients like shark fin and sea cucumber. It has a rich, buttery flavor, and, when prepared correctly, the flesh is tender, though it can be rubbery and tough.One of the worlds most expensive abalone species, Haliotis midae, occurs only on the southern and western shores of South Africa, where its high value, set amid sweeping poverty, has fueled a poaching epidemic since the end of apartheid in the early 1990s.When abalone was more plentiful closer to shore, the greatest threat to poachers was arrest, and the authorities continue to patrol the remaining patches where the mollusk can still be found.Despite the prospect of fines and prison terms, poachers are driven by a strong economic incentive because abalone fetches high prices. As a result, abalone smuggling has become an important part of the underground economy in many fishing communities.While first-time offenders may face fines as low as $10, the penalties for kingpins can rise to $10,000, with prison sentences exceeding 15 years. But for most poachers, jail terms are seldom longer than a year, and convictions are rare in South Africas overburdened court system.Over the years, the diver from Hangberg said, he has upgraded his house with the money earned from poaching, adding extra rooms and a watertight metal roof, and it stands apart from the lopsided shanties of his neighbors.But now resource depletion is changing the risk calculus, with divers forced to try to find abalone in turbulent waters and areas known to be frequented by sharks, making death a bigger part of the poaching equation.Abalone have been harvested heavily in kelp beds, so now poachers try rougher areas or deeper and more exposed places, said Serge Raemaekers, a researcher from the University of Cape Town, who has studied the abalone trade.One community, about 100 miles east of Cape Town, has been hit especially hard as divers venture into some of the most dangerous waters in the world.In a desolate informal settlement near the town of Gansbaai, divers with no historical connection to the fishing industry have taken to swimming nearly two miles out to Dyer Island, a global hot spot for shark cage diving, to hunt in comparatively untouched abalone beds.Last September, one diver, Sivuyile Xelela, was dragged to his death by a great white shark in front of other poachers.Despite the risk of such violent death, poaching has become an important source of revenue here. Before, when we were working on the farms here, we were hungry, said Thami, a diver from the community, who insisted on using only his first name because he feared prosecution for poaching.Formal employment is hard to find in the township, a clutch of small government homes and metal shacks at the end of a dirt track, and many men have begun diving for abalone, residents said.The work is very dangerous, but the men do it for the money, said a local priest, Jonathan Xama. In church we pray for their safety. This is not a good job for anybody, and we also pray that they find something better.Within a month of the September shark attack, two more local divers, Bradley Fick and Waylon Love, had drowned, one at Dyer Island and one in the nearby fishing community of Hawston. Both had recently begun using scuba equipment without proper training, friends and family said, in order to access abalone on deeper reefs.In February, Raeburn Jansson died trying to poach abalone in the waters off Cape Town. His widow told local news media that he was trying to earn money to fend off the threat of the couples four children being taken by social services.Divers at the start of the poaching supply chain say they earn around $15 a pound of shucked meat.A decent harvest of 35 pounds can bring $525, almost double South Africas monthly minimum wage, $295. When abalone was more abundant, it was common for divers to harvest 150 pounds or more on a single diving trip.For commercial divers working for legal abalone fisheries, the work is done under safer conditions, for less pay.Once harvested, the shellfish enters a network of buyers and middlemen, and is predominantly shipped to Hong Kong, where dried South African abalone is worth over $200 a pound, meaning large profits for those further up the supply chain.According to Markus Burgener, a senior program officer with Traffic, a nonprofit organization that monitors wildlife smuggling, poachers have stripped more than 40,000 tons of abalone from South African waters since 2000.Some 3,500 tons were poached in 2016, Mr. Burgener said, more than 30 times the entire legal catch. Poaching has been steadily increasing, he said.Quotas for the legal abalone fishery have been slashed by nearly 85 percent since the mid-1990s, with three formerly productive zones closed entirely to fishing.Illegal harvesting will eventually lead to commercial extinction, where the fishery ceases to be viable at all, said Peter J. Britz, a marine biologist at Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa.Yet, the syndicates controlling the poaching have shown little interest in sustainability: They are Chinese criminal groups who source abalone from local street gangs, often in exchange for drugs like methamphetamine, according to police officials and a report from the Institute for Security Studies.In Cape Town, on a recent hot afternoon in South Africas summer, four poachers from Hangberg scrambled down some granite boulders near Clifton, a beach crowded with vacationers. The men, who were carrying a cooler to disguise their catch as a picnic, were gambling on finding undisturbed abalone beds in a highly visible area.Three of them pulled on tattered wet suits as the fourth kept watch; a few minutes later, they splashed into the frigid water with snorkels and began hunting for perlemoen, the Afrikaans term for abalone, derived from mother-of-pearl, for the shells inner sheen.In the kelp beds they descended to peer into rocky cracks, jabbing flat metal levers to dislodge the small creatures they found. Yet the abalone was scarce, and they got only enough to earn around $120 each  barely worth the risk, they said.Too many divers, they said, had been there already. Next time, they would have to go farther out.
