Tensions rise as the West and Russia trade insults and expulsions. But the old Cold War restraints and channels of communication have been dismantled.
In the latest flare-up of tensions between California and Washington, President Trump criticized the governor for granting the pardons.
Are you paying attention? Take this test to see.
Most white evangelicals would vote against Jesus Christ himself if he ran as anything but a Republican.
Here are some of our favorite recent pieces.
The Trump administration's likely rollback of emissions and fuel economy rules for cars could trigger a major legal showdown with California.
The president sticks his head in the sand as his administration’s hostility toward science continues.
The Security Council targeted 27 ships and 21 shipping companies, in what a U.S. official called its largest ever such move against the North.
Spring break couldn't have come at a better time for Melania Trump.
U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday froze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria as his administration reassesses Washington's role in the long-drawn conflict there, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing officials.
President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation, including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.
U.S. President Donald Trump launched his second attack in a week on Amazon.com Inc on Saturday, accusing the world's biggest online retailer of getting unfairly cheap rates from the U.S. Postal Service and not paying enough tax.
President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria, two senior administration officials said on Friday, a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State a...
A tale of two Kushner brothers, on either side of the fractious Trump divide.
President Donald Trump hailed the start of his long-sought U.S.-Mexico border wall this past week, proudly tweeting photos of the "WALL!" Actually, no new work got underway. The photos showed the continuation of an old project to replace 2 miles o...
President Donald Trump is again attacking online retailer Amazon.com, calling its business deal with the U.S. Postal Service to deliver packages a money-losing agreement that hurts U.S. taxpayers. Federal regulators, however, have found the contra...
The Trump administration makes it difficult, but the answer here is more diplomacy.
The Trump administration is asking the Supreme Court to dismiss a case about emails the government wants as part of a drug trafficking investigation.
A property once owned by President Donald Trump and Ivana Trump is back on the market for $45 million.
Discussions on some policy issues, such as gun control and criminal justice reform, were pushed back until after the April 1 budget deadline.
In Sioux County, where swine barns interrupt the vast landscape of corn-stubbled fields, exports of meat, grain and machinery fuel the local economy. And there's a palpable sense of unease that new Chinese tariffs pushed by President Donald Trump ...
President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon," while at odds with his own policy, was not a one-off: For weeks, top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has inc...
A Texas woman was sentenced to five years in prison for voting in the 2016 presidential election when she was ineligible because she was on probation.
International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach told North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at a meeting on Friday that the IOC would cooperate with the North to prepare for its participation in the 2020 Tokyo and 2022 Beijing Olympic Games, the No...
North Korea will take part in the next two Olympic Games in Japan and China, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said on Saturday after meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang.
Germany's finance ministry expects interest rates to rise in coming years, causing new Minster Olaf Scholz to take steps to cushion additional costs to meet budget goals, Der Spiegel weekly reported on Saturday.
Ian Khama, a retired army general, stepped down as president of Botswana on Saturday, handing the diamond-rich country to his deputy after a decade at the helm.
Russia expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries on Friday and said it reserved the right to take action against four other nations in a worsening standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.
Perched on a green hilltop, Kurdish and Arab fighters face a tense front line separating them from Turkish-backed forces in this part of northern Syria. Behind them, American troops drive up and down the roads. Their aim: Make their presence known...
It's familiar ground for attorney Benjamin Crump &#8212; addressing reporters alongside grieving relatives of unarmed black men killed by police.
Moscow has told Britain it must cut just over 50 more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia as a standoff deepened over the poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter in England, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.
Today in History
Really, it’s O.K. if we all don’t agree about everything.
Jonathan Garland's fascination with architecture started early: He spent much of his childhood designing Lego houses and gazing at Boston buildings on rides with his father away from their largely minority neighborhood.
In 1968, Spiro Agnew was the man of the white, suburban moment.
From aging crooners to bubbly K-Pop starlets, some of South Korea's biggest pop stars flew to North Korea on Saturday for rare performances that highlight the sudden thaw in inter-Korean ties after years of tensions over the North's nuclear ambiti...
The Trump administration is expected to announce that it will roll back automobile gas mileage and pollution standards.
A federal judge in Washington issued an injunction on Friday preventing the Trump administration from interfering with the ability of undocumented teenagers in U.S. custody to have abortions or obtain abortion-related services.
A federal court in Washington has told the Trump administration that the government can't interfere with the ability of pregnant immigrant teens being held in federal custody to obtain abortions.
A federal court in Washington told the Trump administration Friday that the government can't interfere with the ability of pregnant immigrant teens being held in federal custody to obtain abortions.
Judge Tanya S. Chutkan allowed a case to proceed as a class action, suggesting that the government’s policies infringed on the teenagers’ constitutional rights.
Ms. Dash had declared her candidacy for the House of Representatives in California’s 44th District, a Democratic stronghold in the Los Angeles suburbs.
Germany's economy minister says he is confident that Europe and the United States can reach a "sensible compromise" by summer to resolve tensions over trade.
A state proposal to limit the number of drugs covered by Medicaid, fiercely opposed by patients and drug companies, has drawn national attention as states struggle to pay for costly new medicines.
Roseanne is back, and she’s a Trump supporter. A Parkland shooting victim hits out at #WalkUpNotOut. A writer who’s gone cashless. And more.
China wants to share its development opportunities with other countries, but protectionism will mean closing the door into China, the country's top diplomat said, amid a festering trade dispute with the United States.
Gov. Phil Scott, a Republican, has vowed to sign the measure, representing a remarkable departure from the state’s existing gun laws, some of the weakest in the country.
Gov. Cuomo is using the state’s $168 billion plan as a way to exert control over New York City, to thumb the eye of its mayor and to raise his national profile.
He was a man of faith, but his faith demanded action.
The leaders of six countries along the Mekong River on Saturday adopted an ambitious investment plan worth $66 billion over the next five years.
For years, employees complained about the behavior of the head of the division, Kevin Carwile, and what they viewed as a toxic culture.
