Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The Trump administration, carrying out sanctions pressed by Congress for election interference, announced new penalties against Russia’s richest men.
The White House announced on Friday that for the second year in a row, President Trump will skip the White House Correspondents Association Dinner.
Fascism poses a more serious threat now than at any time since the end of World War II.
The president found friendly airwaves on WABC-AM’s “Bernie & Sid in the Morning,” where he said he would shun the gala for the second straight year.
QAnon reveals unspoken anxieties about this presidency.
President Trump launched into a new defense of his pugnacious trade policies on Friday, pointing to the falling price of aluminum to deny harm to consumers.
The president raised the issue of rape against immigrants and further confused facts on tax overhaul, the trade deficit with China and voter fraud.
From criticism of Scott Pruitt to an escalating trade conflict, let us catch you up on five of the biggest stories you may have missed.
Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a 47-year-old former Russian military interpreter, is nicknamed “the midget.” But he’s looming large in the special counsel’s inquiry.
John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, wants President Trump to fire his Environmental Protection Agency administrator, but the president is resisting.
Investors appear to be struggling to anticipate the outcome of a tit-for-tat tariff exchange between the world’s two largest economies. Remarks by the Fed chairman indicated that the investors aren’t alone.
A growing percentage of medical devices and drugs used in American operating rooms are made in China, and many of them are on the White House’s list.
Readers react to President Trump’s threat to impose tariffs.
In the Rio Grande Valley, there is a steady flow of immigrants crossing illegally every day. Most are being quietly processed and sent on their way.
Spouses of skilled workers from India have been told that their work permits, which can mean the difference between struggling and thriving, are likely to be revoked.
Victory could be difficult to verify, much less achieve, as the U.S. protests Beijing’s effort to retool Chinese industries for the 21st century.
Companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s trade policies. With first-quarter earnings imminent, will that now change?
He wants U.S. troops out. Great. Where’s his plan?
Other than military spending, President Trump got virtually nothing from the appropriations bill. Not even for his new border wall.
Mr. Scaramucci, the voluble former White House communications director, is a co-executive producer of HBO’s “Paterno.” It started with an acquaintance made on an Oliver Stone film.
After the Fox News personality went after Kimmel for poking fun at Melania Trump’s accent, the late night host offered his own definition of disrespect.
The heir to Saudi Arabia’s throne has been on an extraordinary tour of the United States, seeking investment and trying to change perceptions of the opaque, conservative kingdom.
Mike Pompeo is President Trump’s pick to be the next secretary of state, and John R. Bolton is the choice for national security adviser. Civil rights groups are concerned.
Jerome H. Powell said a potential trade war would have no immediate effect on the Federal Reserve’s strategy of gradually increasing interest rates.
President Donald Trump will host French President Emmanuel Macron at a private dinner at Mount Vernon as part of a state visit later this month.
Anastasia Vashukevich is still in Thai custody, hoping to trade what she says is evidence that Russia meddled in the American presidential election.
As Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, prepares to testify before Congress, the company also said it supported the proposed Honest Ads Act.
A woman is claiming in a lawsuit that a house that was turned into a shrine to then-presidential candidate Donald Trump played a part in a car accident in which she was severely injured.
U.S. President Donald Trump signed a memorandum on Friday ordering the end of a policy, known as "catch and release," in which illegal immigrants are released from detention while awaiting a court hearing on their status.
The Latest on President Trump and his Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt (all times local):
President Donald Trump plans to skip the White House Correspondents' Association dinner, marking the second year he has shunned the glitzy gathering of Washington journalists he routinely assails as "fake news."
“Teddy Perkins,” the sixth episode of the show’s second season, plays out like a horror movie scattered with pop-culture Easter eggs.
U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to bac...
U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to bac...
President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don't call it a "timeline."
U.S. President Donald Trump, who has feuded with several media personalities and organizations, will not attend the White House Correspondents' Association annual black-tie dinner for the second straight year, the president of the group said on Fr...
In his first public comments about Stormy Daniels, President Donald Trump said he didn't know about the $130,000 payment his personal attorney had made to the porn actress who alleges she had an affair with him.
The Latest on states deploying National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border (all times CDT):
When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn't on the line.
Unwilling to yield, President Donald Trump and China's government escalated their trade clash Friday, with Beijing vowing to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in...
Dozens of Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday urged President Donald Trump in a letter to ask embattled Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt to resign.
Preparations for a meeting between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin will not be affected by  sweeping U.S. sanctions imposed on Friday on Russian government officials and businessmen, the White House said.
Embattled Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt met with President Donald Trump on Friday to lay out his case for why he should remain in his post amid a stream of questions about his ethical standing.
U.S. President Donald Trump will review a list of potential changes to the nation's renewable fuel laws at a meeting with members of his cabinet on Monday, two sources said, as biofuels groups warned against any action that would weaken ethanol de...
The Trump administration is considering ways to require imported automobiles to meet stricter environmental standards in order to protect U.S. carmakers, according to two sources familiar with the administration's thinking.
European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.
The Chinese government's top diplomat hopes that planned summits between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and the presidents of South Korea and the United States will "take the fuse" out of the situation on the Korean peninsula. 
President Donald Trump's plan to deploy National Guard troops to the Mexico border has drawn resistance from some governors, most of them Democrats, and the law he invoked creates an opening for them to turn him down, officials said Friday.
China said on Friday it is fully prepared to respond after U.S. President Donald Trump instructed trade officials to consider imposing tariffs on another $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.
Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year i...
China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump's threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.
The White House said late Thursday that President Donald Trump intends to nominate a top auto-safety agency official to run the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as regulators debate reducing planned fuel efficiency increases through ...
The latest salvo in a trade row between the U.S. and China weighed on Britain's FTSE 100 on Friday, though the damage was limited as mining and bank stocks fell while utilities made gains.
More than six decades after the troops died for their country, the repatriation of the remains of thousands of U.S. military personnel missing in action and presumed dead from the Korean War may finally get a boost now that President Donald Trump ...
There is no better illustration of Mr. Trump’s impact on the midterm campaign than in the soaring number of Democratic House candidates in the primaries.
Longtime Trump confidant Roger Stone has agreed to provide documents to the Senate Judiciary Committee &#8212; even though he says the request is "approaching absurd."
President Donald Trump's two elder sons have visited Dubai, attending the wedding of the daughter of a billionaire Emirati developer and business partner of the Trump Organization.
The Latest on a U.S. trade dispute with China (all times local):
China's Ministry of Commerce said it would take new comprehensive measures to safeguard the country's interests if the United States sticks to its protectionist behavior, after  President Donald Trump threatened an extra $100 billion in tariffs on...
As hundreds of people stood outside the White House and cheered, outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster strode out of the West Wing on Friday for the final time.
Central American migrants headed to Mexico City late Friday to give thanks to the Virgin of Guadalupe, the last stop for many on a caravan that drew criticism from President Donald Trump.
Washington and Beijing are slapping each other with tit-for-tat tariff threats, with U.S. President Donald Trump proposing another escalation of the dispute late on Thursday.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's plan to send up to 4,000 National Guard members to the Mexico border to combat illegal immigration and drug trafficking (all times local):
President Donald Trump first tried to disarm Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago with smooth talk and hospitality. A year later, he's resorted to hardball and found that Xi is willing to throw it back.
Iowa ethanol and biodiesel producers warned President Donald Trump on Friday that imposing restrictions on biofuels production "would be viewed as a declaration of war on rural America."
The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is looking to find ways to shield farmers from the growing trade conflict between the United States and China, a department official said Thursday evening, without providing details of options under review...
The U.S. military says it has carried out an airstrike in Somalia against al-Shabab extremists that left three dead.
The Latest on Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster leaving his job as national security adviser (all times local):
In “Alt-Right,” Mike Wendling provides a guide to America’s extreme right.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt held 25-times more meetings with industry representatives than environmental advocates during his first seven months in office, according to a Reuters analysis of his schedule, reflec...
South Korea said on Friday it has notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) that it seeks to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods worth $480 million, in response to U.S. measures against South Korean imports.
The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):
The U.S. military said on Friday it had killed three militants after launching an air strike in Somalia against al Shabaab, a militant Islamist group allied with al Qaeda.
Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump's campaign played any role in providing it...
U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions ramped up calls on Friday to criminally prosecute immigrants who cross illegally into the United States, adding to a barrage of statements on immigration by the administration of President Donald Trump this week...
Higher prices. Slower growth. Farmers losing access to their biggest foreign market.
It’s a perk of being the Worst Member of the Trump Administration.
U.S. lawmakers and the farm industry were skeptical of the Trump administration&#8217;s promise to shield farmers from the rapidly escalating trade dispute between the United States and China,  concerned about the lack of details in protecting the...
Euro zone government bond yields dipped as a trade dispute between the U.S. and China flared up again.
A federal immigration raid that took 97 people into custody at a Tennessee meat processing plant may be the biggest employment crackdown under President Donald Trump's administration, civil rights activists said Friday.
A "caravan" of Central American migrants pressed on through Mexico on Friday, greatly diminished in size a day after hundreds of exhausted members left a field where they had been stranded all week, pressured by government officials who have been ...
California Gov. Jerry Brown has been silent on President Donald Trump's call this week for National Guard troops to help protect the southern border with Mexico.
Chinese state media on Friday slammed Donald Trump's threat of more trade action against China as "ridiculous" after the U.S President called for an additional $100 billion (&#163;71.3 billion) of tariffs, escalating an already high-stakes trade d...
The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington's most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "mal...
When Liu He, Chinese President Xi Jinping's top economic adviser, came to Washington in late February, he was expected to make arrangements for restarting trade talks that President Donald Trump had put on ice.
The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington's most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "mal...
Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are confident of their economic growth outlook despite rising global trade tensions, Singapore Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat said on Friday.
"Don't overreact," President Donald Trump's chief economic adviser told investors on Wednesday, when U.S. stocks were deep in the red over worries about the administration's plan for $50 billion of import duties aimed at China. 
Arizona and Texas announced Friday that they would send 400 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border by next week in response to President Donald Trump's call for troops to fight drug trafficking and illegal immigration.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean published in the past week.
The United States punished dozens of Russian oligarchs and government officials on Friday with sanctions that took direct aim at President Vladimir Putin's inner circle, as President Donald Trump's administration tried to show he's not afraid to t...
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade f...
When French President Emmanuel Macron flew into Riyadh for hastily arranged talks with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in November it was all smiles in public, but in private a tough dialogue over Iran signaled a change between the allies.
Friday: California vs. Trump, the Stephon Clark shooting, the Good Witch house is for sale, and a Brown birthday.
Oil prices fell about 2 percent on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump threatened new tariffs on China, reigniting fears of a trade war between the world's two largest economies that could hurt global growth.
The instant-hit status of "Roseanne" is triggering the enduring Hollywood impulse to copycat success.
U.S. stocks dropped about 2 percent on Friday, with the Dow falling more than 570 points, as U.S. President Donald Trump's latest tariff threat on Chinese imports fueled increasing concern over a U.S. trade war with China.
Online retail giant Amazon is ignoring Donald Trump's barrage of taunts and threats, focusing instead on expanding its reach into a swath of industries that the president's broadsides haven't come close to hitting.
German industrial output fell by the most in more than two years in February and the sector is losing momentum, the Economy Ministry said, as factories in Europe's largest economy throttle back in the face of the rising threat of protectionism.
The U.S. Justice Department said on Friday it might formally enter a lawsuit accusing Harvard University of discriminating against Asian-American applicants as the agency probes its admissions policies for potential civil rights violations.
Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt's concern with his safety came at a steep cost to taxpayers as his swollen security detail blew through overtime budgets and at times diverted officers away from investigating environmental crimes...
The United States, Mexico and Canada still have to resolve major issues around NAFTA, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Friday, casting doubt that the quick deal sought by Washington would materialize.
Crude oil and global equity markets tumbled on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump upped the ante in a trade dispute with China, reviving investor jitters about the impact a tariff war could have on the world economy.
The U.S. National Guard faces a vastly different environment than it did on its last two deployments to the border with Mexico, with far fewer illegal crossings and more Central Americans than Mexicans coming.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on Friday acknowledged there is "a lot of opposition" to President Donald Trump's plan to open most of the nation's coastline to oil and gas drilling.
Facebook Inc backed for the first time on Friday proposed legislation requiring social media sites to disclose the identities of buyers of online political campaign ads and introduced a new verification process for people buying "issue" ads, which...
Pakistan's prime minister arrived in Afghanistan on Friday for a day-long visit many see as an effort to ease strained relations between the two neighbors and revive a push for peace talks with the Taliban.
A federal judge ordered the arrest of former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, giving him until Friday afternoon to turn himself into authorities. Being forced to begin serving a corruption conviction while he appeals it increases the chances t...
U.S. law enforcement agencies have seized the sex marketplace website Backpage.com as part of an enforcement action by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, according to a posting on the Backpage website on Friday.
The U.S. government's decision to include Russian magnate Oleg Deripaska on its sanctions blacklist on Friday will reverberate around the world because his business empire has a global footprint and counts major multinationals as partners.
In Hungary and Poland, the liberal West used to be the promised land. Not anymore.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to face Congress on Tuesday, and No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg is on a media blitz as the company tries to contain swirling concerns about how it protects the data of its 2.2 billion members.
Today in History
Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. The latest drop came as the White House proposed tripling ...
Following are five big themes likely to dominate the thinking of investors and traders in the coming week, and the Reuters stories related to them.
U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House of Representatives, on Friday called for Scott Pruitt to resign as head of the Environmental Protection Agency amid a growing scandal involving a condo he rented at well-below-market ...
Some of Russia's richest and most influential people were hit with sanctions Friday by U.S. President Donald Trump's administration.
Gaza is a coastal strip of land that lay on ancient trading and maritime routes along the Mediterranean shore. Held by the Ottoman Empire until 1917, it passed from British to Egyptian to Israeli military rule over the last century and is now a fe...
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Friday it was possible that an escalating trade dispute with China could be resolved within three months, but he said President Donald Trump's threat to impose tariffs was not a bluff.
Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is not welcome in Trump country, which was probably one reason another top Democrat &#8212; her long-term rival Steny Hoyer &#8212; was zipping through Republican-friendly corners of western Wisconsin this week.
The White House said on Friday that it may consider sending more than 4,000 National Guard troops to the border with Mexico and will continue to work with California, which has resisted President Donald Trump's call to use the reserve military to ...
Corrections appearing in print on Friday, April 6, 2018.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
What time is the royal wedding? Can you attend? How much will it cost? What name will be on Meghan Markle's driver's license? And dozens of your other really important royal wedding questions answered.
Despite the wall-to-wall Facebook news of the past few weeks, lots of important things are happening in the tech world that don’t involve the company.
President Trump says foreign workers on H-1B visas take jobs away from Americans. Employers say they fill a labor shortage. Who’s right?
It is too early to say how the prospect of tariffs could impact the U.S. economic outlook, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said on Friday.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
A civil rights group and some consumer groups said on Friday they would file a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) alleging that Facebook Inc's use of facial recognition techniques threaten users' privacy.
Mr. Pruitt, the Environmental Protection Agency chief, has been criticized for his spending habits — and for appearing to punish those who try to rein him in.
Anyone who's been wondering if their private Facebook data might have been swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal will soon get their first clues.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said on Thursday she shares incoming national security adviser John Bolton's disdain for the world body and believes the two will work well together.
The movie is to have its premiere at the film festival before opening in France on May 23 and in the United States on May 25.
Putting borrowers into income-based repayment plans can help — but that decision can be arbitrary, and lenders aren’t sufficiently supervised.
Did you stay up to date this week?
This week, Darius embarks on a typically impulsive jaunt that unexpectedly turns into a Southern gothic nightmare.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Friday ordered a "zero tolerance" policy aimed at people entering the United States illegally for the first time on the Mexican border.
The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as the boost from mild temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labor market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further this...
Payroll expansion was far short of February’s torrid pace and weaker than economists expected, but still yielded the 90th straight month of job gains.
The list includes some of the world’s richest people, from multiple industries, with fortunes that are closely tied to their relations with the Kremlin.
More than a month after the network pulled a charged episode of his show, the producer is looking to leave for Netflix, people familiar with negotiations said.
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead. 
The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a speech on the economic outlook that did not address the economic risks of rising trade tensions.
The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as a boost from milder temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to further raise interest rates thi...
Never mind the logo on the storefront. Not all authorized retailers are the same.
An uncompromising artist, Mr. Taylor argued against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.
All of the weddings right here on one handy page for you. 
