One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data.Thats what Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive and co-founder, said just over a week ago after revelations that the data research firm Cambridge Analytica had gained access to the profiles of 50 million Facebook users.Over the past year, the downside of social media companies  Facebook foremost among them  has become glaringly apparent. They have been platforms for information campaigns that influenced elections and endangered lives. They have failed to keep users personal information private. And the carefully targeted ads that appear on them can be, well, creepy.Now the drumbeat for regulation of social media on both sides of the aisle  and from many in Silicon Valley  is getting louder by the day. I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary, Tim Cook, Apples chief executive, said recently.Mr. Zuckerberg may be getting tired of other executives sniping at his company, but he needs to come up with a solution  fast. For several weeks, Ive been canvassing various technology executives, privacy advocates, academics and others to come up with some ideas about exactly what Facebook could do to fix itself.It is not clear that Facebook will be able to stave off regulators, but Mr. Zuckerberg and his colleagues might want to consider this: a Why Me? button. (Google, Amazon and others might want to take note, too.)Facebook suffers from a lack of trust because of the asymmetrical nature of the relationship users have with it. We provide it all sorts of information. But we have no idea how the information is being used, how our data is being harvested, how that data is being commingled and cross-referenced with other data sets and ultimately sold to advertisers. (Facebook already has a button, relatively buried in a list of other items, that it calls Why Am I Seeing This Ad? It is, to some degree, a crippled version of what Im suggesting should be introduced on all of Facebooks properties.)To his credit, Mr. Zuckerberg does appear to recognize the problem that his company faces over privacy concerns. After acknowledging that protecting users data is one of the companys biggest responsibilities, he went on to say, If you think about what our services are, at their most basic level, you put some content into a service, whether its a photo or a video or a text message  whether its Facebook or WhatsApp or Instagram  and youre trusting that that content is going to be shared with the people you want to share it with.But the solution Facebook offered last week  putting all of your privacy settings on one screen and blocking some third parties from access to data  is just a Band-Aid. Its a start, but it doesnt provide a road map for how your information is being used.Thats where the Why Me? button could help. This button would sit next to every advertisement and piece of content that appears before you on all of Facebooks properties, including Instagram and WhatsApp.If you saw an ad or an article pop up on your screen, you could click the Why Me? button. Then you would see a full explanation of why that item was pushed to you.The Why Me? explanation would not just include the name of the advertiser, but what keywords, demographics or other information the advertiser specifically targeted. It would also offer a full rundown of how your information fit into the parameters of the advertisers request and where that information came from.Maybe Facebook saw that you had clicked on a pair of sneakers on a different service that shares information with Facebook. The Why Me? section would show you when and where that information was collected. Did Facebook notice you searched for a new cellphone plan? Facebook would tell how it knew that, too.Did Facebook use artificial intelligence to find your face in an image without you or anyone else labeling it? The Why Me? section would show you the images that the artificial intelligence system cross-referenced to identify you. Did Facebook scrape another site or buy information about you that it commingled with the data that you had provided? It would tell you that, too.Most important, at every point in the explanation tree, the user would have the option to turn off or disable that specific piece of data. Facebook, of course, could  and probably should  explain the trade-offs of such decisions.The Why Me? button could also be extended to content. When a friend or company shares a post, Facebook doesnt just display it to everyone listed as the posters friend or follower. Facebooks algorithms choose which friends and followers see it based on all sorts of parameters, usually related to the kind of content or how youve interacted with the friend in the past.The Why Me? button should explain all the data points that are used in the calculation and how they are weighted.The current Why Am I Seeing This Ad? often says something like: Company A wants to reach people ages 18 and older who live or were recently in the United States. This is information based on your Facebook profile and where youve connected to the internet.But it hardly tells you the whole story. Facebook doesnt say so explicitly, but it allows companies to upload their own databases, cross-reference them with Facebooks data and use that information to serve ads to users. It also doesnt say how that other site originally got that information about who you are.In fairness, the Why Me? button might create all sorts of problems for Facebook, and its advertisers, too. It would allow users  and rivals  to reverse engineer much of the way the system works. And advertisers would probably object to the idea of making their targeting plans public. But that would be the cost of using such large public platforms with such exact targeting.It has become something of a clich, but in 1913, before he became a Supreme Court justice, Louis D. Brandeis said, Sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants.It could well be applied today at Facebook  and its peer companies  if it wants to avoid a governmental crackdown.
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that he agreed "in spirit" with a strict new European Union law on data privacy but stopped short of committing to it as the standard for the social network across the world.As Facebook reels from a scandal over the mishandling of personal information belonging to millions of users, the company is facing demands to improve privacy and learn lessons from the landmark EU law scheduled to take effect next month.Zuckerberg told Reuters in a phone interview that Facebook was working on a version of the law that would work globally, bringing some European privacy guarantees worldwide, but the 33-year-old billionaire demurred when asked what parts of the law he would not extend worldwide."We\'re still nailing down details on this, but it should directionally be, in spirit, the whole thing," Zuckerberg said. He did not elaborate.His comments signal that U.S. Facebook users, many of them still angry over the company\'s admission that political consultancy Cambridge Analytica got hold of Facebook data on 50 million members, could find themselves in a worse position than Europeans.The European law, called the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), is the biggest overhaul of online privacy since the birth of the internet, giving Europeans the right to know what data is stored on them and the right to have it deleted.Apple Inc and some other tech firms have said they do plan to give people in the United States and elsewhere the same protections and rights that Europeans will gain.Shares of Facebook closed up 0.5 percent on Tuesday at $156.11. They are down more than 15 percent since March 16, when the scandal broke over Cambridge Analytica.PUSH FOR DATA PRIVACYPrivacy advocacy groups have been urging Facebook and its Silicon Valley competitors such as Alphabet Inc\'s Google to apply EU data laws worldwide, largely without success."We want Facebook and Google and all the other companies to immediately adopt in the United States and worldwide any new protections that they implement in Europe," said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, in Washington.Zuckerberg said many of the tools that are part of the law, such as the ability of users to delete all their data, are already available for people on Facebook."We think that this is a good opportunity to take that moment across the rest of the world," he said. "The vast majority of what is required here are things that we\'ve already had for years across the world for everyone."Google and Facebook are the global leaders in internet ad revenue. Both based in California, they possess enormous amounts of data on billions of people.Google has declined to comment on its plans.When GDPR takes effect on May 25, people in EU countries will gain the right to transfer their data to other social networks, for example. Facebook and its competitors will also need to be much more specific about how they plan to use people\'s data, and they will need to get explicit consent.GDPR is likely to hurt profit at Facebook because it could reduce the value of ads if the company cannot use personal information as freely and the added expense of hiring lawyers to ensure compliance with the new law.Data is central to Facebook\'s advertising business, and it has not yet sketched out a satisfying plan for how it plans to comply, said Pivotal Research analyst Brian Wieser."I haven\'t heard any solutions from Facebook to get ahead of the problem yet," Wieser said.Failure to comply with the law carries a maximum penalty of up to 4 percent of annual revenue.It should not be difficult for companies to extend EU practices and policies elsewhere because they already have systems in place, said Nicole Ozer, director of technology and civil liberties at the American Civil Liberties Union of California.Companies\' promises are less reassuring than laws, she said: "If user privacy is going to be properly protected, the law has to require it."(Reporting by David Ingram and Joseph Menn in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Salvador Rodriguez ; Editing by Peter Henderson, Bill Rigby and Himani Sarkar)
NEW YORK   The U.S. stock market has taken a beating on the recent technology rout. But for short-sellers, it has been nothing short of a boon.Short-sellers who placed bets that the shares of four big tech leaders, known as the FANG group, as spelled out by their first initials, were due for a fall have made more than $4 billion in profits over the last two weeks and more than $1 billion during the first two trading days in April, financial analytics firm S3 Partners LLC said on Tuesday.The FANG group is comprised of four closely watched internet stocks: Facebook Inc, Amazon.com Inc, Netflix Inc and Alphabet Inc\'s Google.Doug Kass, who runs hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management Inc, said he has been shorting Amazon shares because of "the existential threat of regulation has surfaced and has deflated the FANG bubble. Importantly, it is a bipartisan regulatory and antitrust threat."Short-sellers aim to profit by selling borrowed shares on the hope of buying them back later at a lower price and pocketing the difference."Social media\'s technological achievements and progress have outsped regulatory supervision and oversight," Kass said. He highlighted the recent discovery that information of about 50 million Facebook users had wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica as he noted the potential jeopardy of the trust of users, which is  "a fundamental and necessary ingredient to future corporate success and measured in engagement."A strict new European Union law on data privacy takes effect on May 25. Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg told Reuters on Tuesday that the social network had no immediate plans to apply the law in its entirety to the rest of the world.Governments are also taking action on other fronts. The European Commission last month proposed new rules to ensure that digital business activities are taxed in a fair and growth-friendly way in the EU. Kass also noted the European Union\'s record $2.7 billion antitrust fine against Google.The overhang of increased government oversight has taken a bite out of the fortunes of large technology companies in the past. Microsoft Corp reached a settlement in an antitrust case with the Department of Justice in 2002 that lasted until 2011, contributing to a long period of underperformance that kept the stock below the high it reached in 1999 until 2016. Since then, the stock is up nearly 60 percent on the strength of its cloud-based services.And not all short bets on tech stocks have been money makers. Some short-sellers have held their bets against the FANGs since the middle of 2017 and have yet to turn a profit.Billionaire investor David Einhorn includes bets against Amazon and Netflix as part of his "bubble basket." While conventional wisdom suggests that recent turbulence in these stocks could have benefited short-sellers, Einhorn said the shorts did not perform as he hoped this year."We believe our investment theses remain intact. Despite recent results, our portfolio should perform well over time," Einhorn said in his quarterly letter to investors on Tuesday.So far this year, Amazon shares are up over 19 percent and Netflix shares have soared nearly 48 percent. Alphabet and Facebook, however, are down year-to-date.(Reporting by Jennifer Ablan and Trevor Hunnicutt; Additional reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Leslie Adler)
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook is expanding its response to people using the platform improperly and on Tuesday said it had deleted hundreds of Russian accounts and pages associated with a "troll factory" indicted by U.S. prosecutors for fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.Facebook said many of the deleted articles and pages came from Russia-based Federal News Agency, known as FAN, and that the social media company\'s security team had concluded that the agency was technologically and structurally intertwined with the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency.Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg told Reuters in an exclusive interview that the agency "has repeatedly acted to deceive people and manipulate people around the world, and we don\'t want them on Facebook anywhere."The world\'s largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, which worked on then-Republican candidate Donald Trump\'s campaign.The removed accounts and pages were mainly in Russian, and many had little political import, the company said. Previously Facebook focused on taking down fake accounts and accounts spreading fake news.The new policy will include otherwise legitimate content spread by those same actors, Zuckerberg said."It is clear from the evidence that we\'ve collected that those organizations are controlled and operated by" the Internet Research Agency, he added.In February, the agency known as IRA was among three firms and 13 Russians indicted by U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller on charges they conspired to tamper in the presidential campaign and support Trump while disparaging Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.Russian media organization RBC last year reported that FAN and IRA once shared the same street address and had other connections. One of the people that it said made decisions at FAN was indicted by Mueller\'s office, which is investigating U.S. intelligence agency conclusions that Moscow tried to undermine the democratic process. Russia denies interfering in the elections.BAN ACCOUNTSFacebook disclosed in September that Russians used Facebook to meddle in U.S. politics, posting on the social network under false names in the months before and after the 2016 elections.Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that improved machine learning had helped find connections between the latest posts and IRA. He and Facebook security officials said the company would do the same when they find more legitimate content being pushed out by groups exposed as manipulators."Were going to execute and operate under our principles," Zuckerberg said. "We dont allow people to have fake accounts, and if you repeatedly try to set up fake accounts to manipulate things, then our policy is to ban all of your accounts."Zuckerberg said that the standard is high for such retribution toward news organizations and that state-owned media by itself was fine.The company decided to root out as much as it can of IRA, which was involved with posts including sponsoring fake pages that were pro-Trump, pro-border security and protesting police violence against minorities, among other topics.The expanded response could provoke a backlash from Russian internet regulators.Last October, Google followed up on reported connections between FAN and IRA by removing FAN stories from its search index. Media regulator Roskomnadzor asked Google for an explanation, saying that it needed to protect free speech. Google then reinstated FAN, according to reports at the time.Facebook officials said its accounts and pages in question had 1 million unique followers on Facebook and 500,000 on Instagram, mainly in Russia, Ukraine, and nearby countries such as Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.Zuckerberg, who founded Facebook in his college dorm room in 2004, personally kept quiet about the Cambridge Analytica data leak for four days before apologizing and outlining steps that he said would help protect personal data.The 33-year-old billionaire plans to testify before U.S. lawmakers to explain Facebook\'s privacy policies, a first for him, a source said last week, although he has so far not committed to doing the same for UK lawmakers.Britain\'s data protection authority, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and some 37 U.S. state attorneys general are investigating Facebook\'s handling of personal data.Zuckerberg initially downplayed Facebook\'s ability to sway voters, saying days after the U.S. elections that it was a "pretty crazy idea" that fake news stories had an influence.Eventually, though, Facebook\'s security staff came to the conclusion that the social network was being used by spies and other government agents to covertly spread disinformation among rivals and enemies.Critics including U.S. Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, have complained Facebook moved too slowly to investigate and counter information warfare.Facebook stepped up efforts to shutter fake accounts before  a national election last year in France, and has said it will work with election authorities around the world to try to prevent meddling in politics.The company, which is now one of the main ways politicians advertise to voters, plans to start a public archive showing all election-related ads, how much money was spent on each one, the number of impressions each receives and the demographics of the audience reached.Facebook is on track to bring that data to U.S. voters before congressional elections in November, Zuckerberg said on Tuesday. Facebook plans to send postcards by U.S. mail to verify the identities and location of people who want to purchase U.S. election-related advertising.(Reporting by Joseph Menn and David Ingram; additional reporting by Jack Stubbs; editing by Peter Henderson and Grant McCool)
WEYMOUTH, Mass.  Kyle Corkum imagines a smart city with futuristic amenities like driverless shuttle services, heated sidewalks and a super-resilient energy grid that keeps humming through the harshest of storms.As chief executive of LStar Ventures, a developer of planned communities, he has a chance to build the neighborhood of his dreams from the ground up on the site of a long-shuttered naval air station in this town just 12 miles south of Bostons booming technology hub.LStar, based in Raleigh, N.C., has enlisted General Electric as its partner. Because they are starting from scratch, Mr. Corkum said, the companies can embed smart technology into the energy, water, lighting and transportation systems that will serve the community.The project comes at a time when the tech industry is under intense scrutiny. Facebook is struggling with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm, improperly harvested private information from 50 million of the social networks users. And Ubers travails include a pedestrian death caused by one of its autonomous vehicles last month.Still, LStar is pushing ahead with the smart city, called Union Point. Plans include thousands of housing units and millions of square feet of high-tech commercial space on about 1,500 acres that extend into the neighboring towns of Rockland and Abington. The communitys glass towers, public plazas, clustered housing, scattered parks and retail zones will be contained within 500 acres, leaving the rest as dedicated open space.So far, the community consists of about 1,200 occupied single-family homes, townhouses and apartments, as well as a nearly completed $28 million sports complex with a miniature replica of Fenway Park. A cavernous aircraft hangar will be renovated for use as the centerpiece for a downtown district with shops, restaurants and open spaces with public programming.General Electric will use Union Point as a laboratory for testing new products and as a showroom for working systems. Eric Gebhardt, the strategic technology officer at GE Power, said the communitys energy plan will include micro grid technology, renewable generation and power storage. The company will also install intelligent lighting  streetlights with sensors that can track sound, light and other conditions. The data can be used to monitor traffic, help drivers find parking spaces and alert law enforcement if a gun is fired.G.E. has piloted some of its smart products in existing cities, but Union Point is an unusual opportunity because most of the infrastructure does not exist yet and the developer is open to experimentation, Mr. Gebhardt said.LStar plans to open an innovation center in the air stations old power plant. The center has expressed an interest in featuring an interactive planning tool developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology City Science Group called CityScope, which could aid in Union Points evolution by allowing users to visualize and explore trade-offs around factors like density, transportation and walkability, said David Rose, a researcher and lecturer at MITs Media Lab.LStar wants the center to be a showcase for what the city could be, a place to monitor what it is becoming, and a place to ask existential questions like, Could it be more inclusive, say, or energy efficient? Mr. Rose said.LStar also has an agreement with Optimus Ride, an autonomous vehicle start-up in Boston, to set up a self-driving vehicle service at Union Point. The company is already testing its electric vehicles at the property.Union Points first commercial tenant is expected this spring, when Prodrive Technologies, a Dutch company that develops and manufactures products for the automotive, medical and other industries, will break ground on its 60,000-square-foot United States headquarters. The sites proximity to Boston, access to commuter rail service and ample room for expansion were crucial to the firms location decision, said Roy Willems, the companys general manager of United States operations. He said Prodrive expected to build a second 200,000-square-foot building within three years, and increase its work force to roughly 300 people.LStar had to persuade the three host communities to approve critical zoning changes before it could move forward with the project. They also granted the developer considerable latitude over the design and layout of the community, which will take shape over 15 to 20 years.The three towns recognized an opportunity to do something quite extraordinary on a site where previous development plans stalled, said David P. Manfredi, a founding principal at Elkus Manfredi Architects, which helped create the master plan for Union Point. This is an alternative to what could have been suburban sprawl.Union Point promises to bring badly needed tax revenue to Weymouth, said the towns mayor, Robert L. Hedlund. Its the commercial build-out that were lusting after, he said.Still, similarly ambitious smart city projects have proved perilous. Mr. Rose cited Songdo, a smart city nearing completion in South Korea, as a prime example. The city boasts advanced connectivity, but it has so far failed to meet expectations in attracting international businesses and residents.What they got wrong was any sort of sense of streetscape, said Mr. Rose, who has visited Songdo. Theres no sense of patina, no authentic street life. Its super sterile. It was built as this fantasy of the future, but its a place that humans dont want to occupy.The integration of technology into urban planning has prompted questions about how the data being collected will be used. In Toronto, for example, Sidewalk Labs, a subsidiary of Alphabet, the parent company of Google, attracted considerable publicity when it was selected last year to help create a smart neighborhood of sorts in a waterfront district called Quayside. Some local officials and critics are questioning whether the deal gives too much authority to Sidewalk Labs without putting limitations on Googles collection and use of data.The need for greater regulation of driverless vehicles has also come up for debate after the death last month of a woman who was struck by one of Ubers self-driving cars in Tempe, Ariz.Very few local governments have thought through the long list of public- and private-sector values and concerns that should be deployed to constrain the use of autonomous cars, as well as the technologies being used to monitor city streets, said Susan Crawford, a Harvard Law School professor. Once youve given a developer license to deploy total surveillance, with no public limitations, youre done.LStar has considerable leeway to test technologies at Union Point. The developer is purposely holding on to its roads, rather than asking for them to be made public ways, to maintain flexibility in testing autonomous vehicles, lighting and other technologies, said Robert Luongo, Weymouths director of planning and community development.If these were public ways, we might not be able to give them that flexibility, he said.Mr. Corkum said retaining ownership of the roads would enable them to play with designs for amenities like drop-off areas for driverless shuttles and heated sidewalks. Its better for us to stay in this testing phase until we have good workable solutions, he said.State oversight of autonomous vehicles applies only once there is public use, he said. Even then, the rules are vague. Ryan Chin, the chief executive of Optimus Ride, said his company would adhere to the same high-level safety standards and testing protocols at Union Point that it followed for testing driverless cars in Bostons Seaport neighborhood.As for privacy concerns, Mr. Corkum said that he believed in setting boundaries on data collection and use. There is value in using technology to improve quality of life by, for instance, alleviating traffic jams, but he said he was wary of falling prey to a preoccupation with optimization.The company is working with law firms and consultants on operating guidelines for gathering and anonymizing data and ensuring it cannot be hacked or used to invade privacy, he said.I dont like the Big Brother notion that we know everything about you, he said. We will use data for the benefit of the group, not in a way to leverage the group.

The wedding celebration of David Carter and Robert Parker was billed as a tea dance.The couple was married on April 16, 2005, at the home of Mr. Carters mother in Cambridge, Mass. (The New York Times began running announcements for civil unions in 2002; its first international gay wedding announcement was in 2003; and its first United States gay wedding was in 2004.) They kept the ceremony small, with close family and friends, but the tea dance that followed later that summer, a phrase traditionally used to describe both a social dance and a party for the gay community, allowed them to include nearly all the parts of their lives: their gay friends, their church friends and family.It was important for us that it be a blending of our gay friends and our community, Mr. Carter said from the couples home in New Haven. Our kids were there, and it was an opportunity to pay tribute to their dads. It was a really powerful moment.The toasts from their children are some of their strongest memories, Mr. Carter said. It really honored their appreciation of us making a family with them.Our church knew us in that way, and because we were both previously married and had kids, we had a whole bunch of bus-stop parents in common, as well as the collection of gay couples that we had been friends with for years, Mr. Parker said. It was the big wedding we might have had here.Mr. Parker, 67, and Mr. Carter, 68, married about a year after Massachusetts became the first state to legalize gay marriage. Both of them were divorced, and they had been together for 19 years at the time, after meeting at a dinner party in 1986. The host was doing a little matchmaking, and four months later Mr. Parker and Mr. Carter were living together.So after all that time together, would marriage give their relationship a different significance?This seemed like the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to each other and the family we had been and hoped to be, in the company of our extended family and friends, Mr. Parker said. It was taking the opportunity to be an example for our community.Being together for so long before marriage, Mr. Carter believes, allowed the couple to work out many of the kinks facing younger relationships.It really allowed us to get to know each other on a lot of different levels, he said. We met each other, we danced around each other, we learned to love each other.Their 32 years together have also allowed them to write their own rule book.About the time we got married we had a number of friends who did the same, but that formal step caused them to break up, Mr. Carter said. What married life was supposed to be didnt fit where they were. But gay couples can make up their own rules, there is no pattern book to follow. In fact we have to make up our own rules. I would recommend all couples do that: examine your assumptions and expectations and how can they make something new thats just their own.Creating new norms for their families was part of that. Mr. Carters daughter, Melora Simon, now 39, lives in Portola Valley, Calif., with her husband and two children. Mr. Parkers son, Geoffrey Parker, also 39, lives with his wife in Bath, Me.It was very important for us to keep a sense of family with our new relationship, and we were lucky enough that we both had a very positive and cordial relationship that continued with each of their moms, Mr. Parker said. But we eventually learned how to be in all of those various permutations as a family. Ultimately they feel like theyre brother and sister, and their friends talk about them that way.In addition to finding support in the gay community, Mr. Parker and Mr. Carter have formed important relationships in their church.Mr. Carter did not grow up practicing religion but joined the choir at the Church of the Redeemer in New Haven, affiliated with the United Church of Christ, while in graduate school at Yale studying architecture. I was in the choir 15 years before someone asked if I wanted to join the church, he said. I began to have this sense of community I had never felt before.Mr. Parker grew up Episcopalian, moved away from the religion during college and was then reintroduced when he met Mr. Carter.These days, Mr. Carter helps run the neighborhood leadership program for the Community Foundation of Greater New Haven; Mr. Parker serves on several nonprofit boards in the city and was a high school principal for 18 years.Have things gone totally smoothly? No, they said, but they have learned a lot along the way.David is the adventurous guy and Im the worst-case-scenario guy, Mr. Parker said. The ability to step out there knowing weve got each other no matter what the new thing may be, thats something I learned from David, and we learned to do it together.
