
WASHINGTON  Facebook on Wednesday said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm connected to President Trump during the 2016 election  a figure far higher than the estimate of 50 million that had been widely cited since the leak was reported last month.Mark Zuckerberg, the companys chief executive, also announced that Facebook would offer all of its users the same tools and controls required under European privacy rules. The European rules, which go into effect next month, give people more control over how companies use their digital data.Facebook had not previously disclosed how many accounts had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, the firm connected to the Trump campaign. It has also been reluctant to disclose how it was used by Russian-backed actors to influence the 2016 presidential election.Among Facebooks acknowledgments on Wednesday was the disclosure of a vulnerability in its search and account recovery functions that it said could have exposed most of its 2 billion users to having their public profile information harvested.The new effort to appear more transparent about the data leaks  including a rare question-and-answer session with Mr. Zuckerberg and reporters  came just before Mr. Zuckerbergs expected testimony next week on Capitol Hill, where he will most likely face criticism over how the company collects and shares the personal data of its users. Sheryl Sandberg, Mr. Zuckerbergs top deputy, has several national television interviews scheduled for later this week.The company said that on Monday it would start telling users whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook in Washington, said the 87 million figure was an estimate of the total number of users whose data could have been acquired by Cambridge Analytica. He said that the estimate was calculated by adding up all the friends of the people who had logged into the Facebook app from which Cambridge Analytica collected profile data.We wanted to put out the maximum number of people who could have been affected, Mr. Zuckerberg told reporters.It remains unclear exactly how many users had their personal information accessed by Cambridge Analytica. The firm said Wednesday that it had licensed data for no more than 30 million users of the social network.Facebook also released a lengthy document describing how it would protect personal data in the future. In that document, Facebook said its search and account recovery systems had been open to abuse by anyone who already had some information about an individual, such as a phone number or email address. The vulnerability extended to much of the platforms user base before it was closed on Wednesday, Facebook said.The company also said it would limit the types of data that can be harvested by software used by outside businesses. The changes mean that users will have to give permission before an app can collect information beyond their names and addresses.The company also said it would no longer allow outsiders to use apps to gather information about the religious or political views of its users. And it will stop using third-party data from companies such as Experian and Acxiom to help supplement its own data for ad targeting.Its clear now that we didnt focus enough on preventing abuse, Mr. Zuckerberg said. We didnt take a broad enough view of what our responsibility is. That was a huge mistake, and it was my mistake.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a 2011 agreement meant to protect users privacy. User data is crucial to the companys business, because it is used to deliver advertising to users.Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify about the companys handling of sensitive user data before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees on Tuesday and the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues, said Representatives Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, and Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, of the House committee.Senator Chuck Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said, With all of the data exchanged over Facebook and other platforms, users deserve to know how their information is shared and secured.Facebooks problems stretch back before the reports about Cambridge Analytica, to earlier investigations into how Russian actors infiltrated the platform by placing ads and posts to influence the 2016 election. Mr. Zuckerberg initially dismissed the idea of foreign interference on Facebook as a crazy idea.Since then, the company has been the focus of investigations by law enforcement and congressional committees that are delving into the Russian influence campaign. Facebook now acknowledges that its platform was used to sway voters.All those troubles have prompted investors to flee the company, and its stock has fallen sharply in recent weeks.In response, the company has put its executives front and center.Mr. Zuckerberg typically talks to groups of reporters only after the company releases its quarterly financial reports. But after not responding in public for several days following the Cambridge Analytica disclosure, he has given a series of interviews.And Ms. Sandberg, Facebooks chief operating officer and the second most recognizable face at the company, is set to be interviewed this week by Fox News, PBS NewsHour, NBCs Today show and Bloomberg. Ms. Sandberg will be interviewed remotely from California.Facebook said its new openness was meant to show that it takes the intense criticism over its handling of user data seriously.In Washington, Facebook employees and public relations firms retained by the company have talked to regulators and congressional staff members about new privacy measures, including updates to policies that are intended to make them easier to understand.On Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg provided a preview of what he will tell Congress next week. He said Facebook was an idealistic and optimistic company.But he acknowledged that the company had committed serious errors by not ensuring that robust safeguards were in place for users.Asked if he should still be leading the company, he said, Yes. Life is about learning from the mistakes and learning what you need to go forward.Terrell McSweeny, a Democratic member of the Federal Trade Commission, said that Mr. Zuckerberg has a big task ahead of him in Washington.I think it is important for Zuckerberg to clearly explain how Facebook plans to earn back consumer trust, Ms. McSweeny said. Consumers need reassurance that their data are not being misused.
If there was one broad takeaway from the data leak involving Cambridge Analytica, the voter profiling firm that obtained private information from up to 87 million Facebook accounts, its that you should hesitate before sharing your data with an unknown brand.This lesson applies to just about everything that touches your personal technology, including the apps that you download to your phone or computer and the free online services that you use. And, yes, it also includes those seemingly harmless personality tests run by some unfamiliar organization on Facebook  the kind that helped Cambridge Analytica get the data on users.To make matters worse, the information that can be stolen from you is becoming increasingly personal. Smartphones, for one, are embedded with microphones, motion sensors and cameras that can spy on your every move if corrupted by a bad actor. Home gadgets like internet-connected thermostats, power outlets and audio speakers are capable of collecting information about what you are doing at home, including listening to your conversations, and knowing when you are away from home.Its time to stop using technology and the internet as though you were shopping at a supermarket. In a grocery store, you can reasonably assume that the food labels are accurate and the products safe to eat, because the food industry is heavily regulated. The handling of personal digital information, in contrast, is  loosely regulated. There have been scores of obscure companies baiting you with products that purport to improve your life  but actually capitalize on your data.We dont really know why were trusting that a particular company with access to our data wont do something like sell it or rent it or share it without our consent, said Lee Tien, a lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit that focuses on digital rights.Thats not to say the tech behemoths are innocent. The data leak to Cambridge Analytica was ultimately Facebooks fault because its app platform allowed data to be harvested from peoples friends lists in the first place. About five years ago, Google had to pay a $7 million fine after acknowledging that it had scooped up passwords, email and other personal data with its Street View mapping project.Yet I am recommending taking extra caution with obscure tech brands because it is something under your control. You can take a pause. Dont immediately download every app you see in an app store or on the web just because it looks fun. Dont take every quiz you see on Facebook (even if you are dying to know which Game of Thrones character identifies with you). Dont impulse buy internet-connected devices from unfamiliar brands. Dont do any of this without first doing some research on the reputations of these vendors and their business models.Here are some examples of when unknown brands did us wrong  and the lessons we can learn.Last year, The New York Times revealed that Uber bought information about Lyft, its main ride-hailing competitor in the United States, from Unroll.me, a free email service that offered to unsubscribe people from marketing emails.How did Unroll.me get data about Lyft? Unroll.me scanned users inboxes for information and sold it to other businesses, and Uber paid it for data it found about Lyft receipts. Many consumers found it misleading that a company that promised to rid you of spam from marketers made money by selling your information to marketers and other companies.Heres the kicker: The truth was always laid out in the privacy policy, which said that we may collect, use, transfer, sell and disclose nonpersonal information for any purpose and that data could be used to build anonymous market research products and services.In response to the backlash, Unroll.me said it was heartbreaking to see that people were upset and pledged to be more transparent about its use of data. The app continues to operate.The lessons. Whenever you have the time, read privacy policies before opting to share your data with a brand. This is a daunting task but a healthy exercise, especially when you are unfamiliar and feeling distrustful toward an obscure company. And do the best you can to research a companys business model. When a service or product is free, assume that your personal information is being monetized.We all need to know that whenever youre not paying for the thing, then youre paying for the thing in a nonmonetary way, Mr. Tien said.Last year, an app called Soniac was available for Android phones on the Google Play app store. Soniac marketed itself as a messaging app  and indeed, it included features for sending text messages. The less obvious features: The app was also capable of silently recording audio, taking photos with the camera, placing phone calls and downloading call logs among other features.Lookout, a security firm that follows malicious software for Android devices, alerted Google about Soniacs hidden abilities last year, and the app was quickly removed from the Play app store.Yet Lookout said its researchers had identified over 1,000 spyware apps with many of the same characteristics that Soniac had. Many of those spyware apps were served in third-party app stores that are not authorized by Google.The company that offered Soniac, Iraqwebservice, had published other spyware apps on the Play store. All of its apps have been removed from Play, but Lookout warned that the spyware would probably resurface in the future.The lessons. For one, before you install an app from a company youve never heard of, look at its user reviews and do a web search on the company to see if its services are legitimate. You can also check reputable web publications that review apps, like TouchArcade, CNET and Toms Guide.For another, when installing an app, take a close look at what data it is accessing. Smartphone apps will ask for permission for access to certain data and sensors. If an app is asking for data that is unrelated to the product, dont install it. For example, you can reasonably expect a mapping app to ask for your location data, but it shouldnt need access to your camera.If something seems outside of the scope, like if a calculator app tells you it needs to use your webcam, say, What, why? said Adam Kujawa, the head of malware intelligence at Malwarebytes, a security firm.Third, avoid downloading apps from unofficial app stores and sites that are not affiliated with large brands. And keep in mind that alternative app stores are particularly ripe for malware, because just about anything can be distributed there, similar to a flea market.Parents, beware: A number of internet products have specifically collected data about children. EchoMetrix is a notorious example. In 2009, the company issued a news release bragging that it had predicted the winner of that years American Idol singing competition.How did it do that? By looking at childrens private information. The company started in 2004 with the name SearchHelp, offering a parental control app called FamilySafe for parents to monitor their childrens online activities. Five years later, it rebranded itself as EchoMetrix and released Pulse, a tool for providing insight to third-party marketers on youths, by aggregating data from millions of teenagers chat transcripts and blog posts, among other sources.EchoMetrixs practices attracted the attention of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a privacy rights group, which filed a complaint about the company to the Federal Trade Commission. The group accused EchoMetrix of violating the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act by collecting information on minors without parental consent. In 2010, EchoMetrix reached settlements with the commission and the New York attorney generals office in which it agreed not to analyze or share information about childrens private communications or online activities. EchoMetrix has since rebranded itself as Protext Mobility, a biotech company.The lessons. Be judicious when choosing tech products for your children. Increasingly, toys are beginning to include internet connections  before buying a smart toy, do your homework on what the companies are doing with the data. Common Sense Media, a nonprofit that evaluates content and products for families, is a good place to start your research.Perhaps the most important lesson is to acknowledge that you dont know anything about the vast majority of brands you engage with on the internet. So tread carefully.These threats arent going away, Mr. Tien said. With the expansion of data collection and the expansion of whats possible to collect, its just going to continue to proliferate.
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook Inc said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said in a conference call with reporters that Facebook had not seen "any meaningful impact" on usage or ad sales since the scandal, although he added, "it\'s not good" if people are unhappy with the company.Shares rose more than 3 percent after the bell.Zuckerberg told reporters that he accepted blame for the data leak, which has angered users, advertisers and lawmakers, while also saying he was still the right person to head the company he founded."When you\'re building something like Facebook that is unprecedented in the world, there are going to be things that you mess up," Zuckerberg said, adding that the important thing was to learn from mistakes.He said he was not aware of any discussions on the Facebook board about him stepping down, although directors would face a challenge if they wanted to oust him because Zuckerberg is the controlling shareholder.He said he had not fired anyone over the scandal and did not plan to. "I\'m not looking to throw anyone else under the bus for mistakes that we made here," he said.Facebook first acknowledged last month that personal information about millions of users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg will testify about the matter next Tuesday and Wednesday during two U.S. congressional hearings.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook\'s estimate of affected users. It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Zuckerberg, on the call with reporters, said Facebook should have done more to audit and oversee third-party app developers like the one that Cambridge Analytica hired in 2014."Knowing what I know today, clearly we should have done more," he said.Going forward, he said, Facebook was taking steps to restrict which personal data is available to third-party app developers, and he said it might take two more years to fix Facebook\'s problems. (https://bit.ly/2Ejpktb)"We\'re broadening our view of our responsibility," Zuckerberg said.Most of the up to 87 million people whose data was shared with Cambridge Analytica were in the United States, Facebook Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer wrote in a blog post. (Graphic: https://bit.ly/2q5r5pl)Shares in Facebook closed down 0.6 percent on Wednesday to $155.10. They have tumbled more than 16 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.The previous estimate of more than 50 million Facebook users affected by the data leak came from two newspapers, the New York Times and London\'s Observer, based on their investigations of Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg said Facebook came to the higher estimate by looking at the number of people who had downloaded a personality quiz app created by Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, or about 270,000 people, and then adding in the number of friends they had.Cambridge Analytica has said that it engaged Kogan "in good faith" to collect Facebook data in a manner similar to how other third-party app developers have harvested personal information.The scandal has kicked off investigations by Britain\'s Information Commissioner\'s Office, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and by some 37 U.S. state attorneys general.Nigeria\'s government will investigate allegations of improper involvement by Cambridge Analytica in that country\'s 2007 and 2015 elections, a presidency spokesman said on Monday.(Reporting by David Ingram in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru and Eric Auchard in London; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
WASHINGTON   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm\'s misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday.    Zuckerberg will appear before a joint hearing of the U.S. Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees on April 10 and the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11, the panels said on Wednesday."This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online," the House panel\'s Republican chairman, Greg Walden, and top Democrat, Frank Pallone, said in a statement.Facebook has come under fire in recent weeks after it was disclosed that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump\'s presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of 50 million Facebook users.Facebook said in March it had suspended the accounts of Cambridge Analytica and its parent company and hired forensic auditors to probe whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data.The technology company also said at the time it would investigate all applications that had gotten access to large amounts of data before the firm changed its platform in 2014, would further restrict developers\' data access and roll out a tool to let users more easily revoke access by applications to their data.Zuckerberg said in March he would testify before Congress, but turned down an invitation by British lawmakers to explain to a parliamentary committee what had happened.The company has faced pressure to do more, both in terms of protecting user privacy and stopping "information warfare" on its platform.In February, 13 Russian nationals were indicted for using Facebook and other social media sites to interfere in the U.S. presidential election.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had removed hundreds of accounts and pages associated with the Russia-based Internet Research Agency that included fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.American spy agencies have warned that Russia would try to interfere in the 2018 congressional elections by using social media to spread propaganda.Shares in Facebook closed down 0.6 percent on Wednesday to $155.10. They have tumbled more than 16 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Peter Cooney)
NEW YORK   The Latest on Facebook\'s privacy scandal (all times local):8:35 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has agreed to testify in a second congressional hearing next week, this time in the Senate.Zuckerberg will appear at a rare joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees on April 10.Earlier Wednesday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee announced that Zuckerberg would be testifying at a hearing on April 11.Lawmakers have called for Zuckerberg to appear personally after revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. The company has also been under scrutiny after Russians used Facebook and other social media to meddle in the 2016 elections.Zuckerberg will be the only witness at the hearing.___5:15 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says fixing the company\'s problems will take many years.In a conference call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg said he wishes he could snap his fingers and solve everything in three to six months. But, he said, "these are big issues" and a big shift for Facebook.That says, he says the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of these issues by the end of the year.Zuckerberg has set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018.The issues Facebook needs to address go beyond the privacy scandal involving Trump-affiliated consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media\'s effect on people\'s mental well-being.___4:20 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is admitting to mistakes and says his company hasn\'t taken a broad enough view of what its responsibility is in the world.In a call with media on Wednesday, Zuckerberg calls this a "huge mistake" and added, "it\'s my mistake."Referring to the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal, he said that it isn\'t enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Earlier in the day, Facebook revealed that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed by Cambridge Analytica  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.___2:45 p.m.Facebook is restricting the user data it allows outsiders to access as part of steps it\'s taking to address the fallout from its worst privacy crisis in years.The company is reeling from news that a Trump-affiliated data-mining firm used ill-gotten data from millions of users to try to influence elections. Facebook says as many as 87 million people may have had their data accessed  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.Among the latest changes: Facebook is restricting access that apps can get about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends who may have a common name, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way.___2:30 p.m.Facebook says as many as 87 million people may have had their data accessed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm affiliated with President Donald Trump\'s campaign, has been accused of using ill-gotten data from Facebook users to try to influence elections.This coming Monday, all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want.Users who had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that within that notice. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.___12:30 p.m.Now that Mark Zuckerberg is set to testify before Congress, he\'ll need advice not just from lawyers but from communications specialists, too, on addressing Facebook\'s privacy scandal.Public-relations experts who have prepped CEOs before say that congressional hearings are more political theater than public policy. The so-called "optics"  how things look  are as important as what you say.Other advice for the Facebook CEO? Appear sympathetic and be ready for a beating. Take responsibility. Don\'t feign ignorance.The stakes are high for Zuckerberg\'s April 11 appearance before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.___NoonFacebook\'s new privacy policy aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly  but doesn\'t actually change what it collects and shares.The company unveiled the revisions Wednesday as it faces one of its worst privacy scandals in history. Although Facebook says the changes aren\'t prompted by recent events, it\'s an opportune time. CEO Mark Zuckerberg is also set to testify before Congress next week for the first time.Among Wednesday\'s changes: Facebook has added a section explaining that it collects people\'s contact information, which may include call logs and text histories. The previous policy did not mention call logs or text histories. Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting such data.___8:30 a.m.The leaders of a House oversight committee say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before the panel on April 11.In an announcement Wednesday, Reps. Greg Walden and Frank Pallone say the hearing will focus on the Facebook\'s "use and protection of user data." Facebook is facing scrutiny over its data collection following allegations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica obtained data on tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Walden, R-Ore., is the House Energy and Commerce committee\'s chairman. Pallone of New Jersey is the panel\'s top ranking Democrat. They say the hearing will be "an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online."
NAIROBI/LAGOS   In Kenya, which has a large and fast growing population of internet users, there are no specific laws or regulations to protect the privacy of those individuals.Kenya is not alone in Africa, which as a region has clocked the world\'s fastest growth in internet use over the past decade. Unlike in Europe and the United States, where data-privacy laws provide a level of protection to consumers, many Africans have little or no recourse if a data breach occurs because often legal and regulatory safeguards don\'t exist.Recent revelations about British analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, which Facebook says improperly accessed personal data of about 50 million of the social networks users in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, have also touched the African continent.Cambridge Analytica or its parent company SCL Group worked on the 2013 and 2017 campaigns of Kenyas President Uhuru Kenyatta. The company was also hired to support the failed re-election bid of then-president Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria in 2015, according to Britains Guardian newspaper.A spokesman for the Nigerian president said on Monday that the country\'s government will investigate allegations of improper involvement by Cambridge Analytica in the 2007 and 2015 elections.Kenyas ruling Jubilee party told Reuters that it had hired SCL for branding in the 2017 presidential election but did not elaborate on the precise nature of the work.Cambridge Analytica didn\'t respond to a request for comment. The company has suspended its chief executive pending what it said would be a full, independent investigation.LIMITED PROTECTIONGrowth of internet use in Africa, a continent of 1 billion people, has been fueled by rapidly expanding mobile broadband networks and ever more affordable phones.That presents a major growth opportunity for internet companies such as Facebook, which currently sees some 123 million people across sub-Saharan Africa accessing its social network platform monthly.While some governments on the continent have responded to these rapid changes - rights campaigners welcomed a data-protection law passed by South Africa 2013 - many have not.Privacy advocacy groups say that is leaving a lot of Africans, many of whom are accessing the internet for the first time, with little or no protection.More than half of Africa\'s 54 countries have no data protection or privacy laws, according to London-based rights group Article 19. And, of the 14 countries that do, nine have no regulators to enforce them, the group says.In Kenya, a country of 44 million people with some 8.5 million using Facebook on a monthly basis, specialists say no specific data-protection laws exist. The government has said it is drafting a data protection bill.But even some data-privacy bills that have been introduced in African parliaments have been held up for years.In Nigeria, the African country with the most internet users, a data-protection bill that was introduced in 2010 is still making its way through parliament.The proposed Nigerian legislation, which is being reviewed by the upper house of parliament, would prohibit the processing of data for purposes other than their original intended use and companies could be fined for breaches of personal information.But digital-rights campaigners question whether law enforcement agencies and the judiciary would be equipped to enforce the Nigerian legislation if it was passed.A spokesman for Nigerias communications ministry declined to comment.Data privacy groups say that many African governments have a vested interest in not introducing such laws because they use citizens data for their own ends  whether for political campaigns, as in Kenya, or for suppressing political dissent, as rights groups allege that the government in Tanzania has done since passing a cyber crime law in 2015.A spokesman for the Tanzanian government said that authorities issued new regulations last month that, among other things, prevent the national communications regulator from disclosing personal data of web users.PERSONAL DATAPrivacy advocates say another issue impacting data protection in Africa is that some companies, including Facebook, have introduced stripped-down versions of their own platforms and some other websites for no fee in exchange for users providing some data.From users of its Free Basics service, Facebook collects certain information such as when the service was accessed, what type of device they are using and the mobile operator used, according to the company\'s website. "We may also share such usage information with the providers of third-party services," Facebook said.Privacy advocacy groups say some Free Basics users, who may be getting online for the first time, may have little or no understanding of what information is being collected from them.Facebook, which says its Free Basics service is available in 27 African countries, said users can "choose to delete their information associated with their use of Free Basics, and may do so by contacting us."Though some Africans access the internet via a no-fee service like Facebooks Free Basics, many of those who have the ability to pay for mobile phone data still use the platform more than any other site on the internet, said Nanjira Sambuli, who heads the World Wide Web Foundations office in Kenya. "Facebook is the Internet for many people in Africa," Sambuli said.While specialists say public awareness about the importance of data protection in Africa is far less than in the United States and Europe, there are signs of growing concern.Phumzile van Damme, a South African politician from the opposition Democratic Alliance, has raised concerns about what she termed the "digital dark arts" being used to manipulate voters ahead of the country\'s elections scheduled for next year.Writing on Twitter on March 25, van Damme said she had been studying the lessons of the 2016 U.S. election and reading reports of the involvement of private firms including Cambridge Analytica in "manipulating" voters using their data in recent African elections.She said that she hoped South Africa\'s communications regulator had been doing the same."Regulation always lags behind technological developments," she said.For some, concerns about the amount of personal information Facebook collects are weighed against the access to others that the social network provides."Is it time to say goodbye to Facebook?" asked the headline of a column published last month by The Standard, a Kenyan daily.The columnist wrote that his concern over Facebook holding the power of its users data  from what a user does on the platform to his or her activities on linked apps and other sites - had led him to leave Facebook repeatedly over the last two years.But, he added: "My leaving has however never lasted more than a day."(Reporting by Maggie Fick and Alexis Akwagyiram; Additional reporting by Ed Cropley in Johannesburg, John Ndiso in Nairobi, Fumbuka Ng\'wanakilala in Dar es Salaam; and Eric Auchard and Paul Sandle in London; Writing by Maggie Fick; Editing by Cassell Bryan-Low)
WASHINGTON   Facebook isn\'t just a company. It\'s a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It\'s tricky and it\'s going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we\'re going to keep the wild, wild West  I don\'t think it\'s sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook\'s reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia\'s use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital\'s pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it\'s questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress\' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that\'s not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama\'s final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook\'s vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team\'s newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he\'s open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he\'d get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he\'s encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November\'s elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook\'s biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission\'s charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who\'s written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government\'s antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook\'s largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg\'s net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook\'s market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
NEW YORK   Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.Those developments came as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly  but doesn\'t actually change what it collects and shares.In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world. He said it isn\'t enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Facebook is facing its worst privacy scandal in years following allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated data mining firm, used ill-gotten data from millions of users through an app to try to influence elections.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports. Facebook is basing the estimate in part on the number of friends each user might have had. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it had data for only 30 million people.On Monday all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.Zuckerberg said fixing the company\'s problems will take years.Besides the privacy scandal, Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media\'s effect on people\'s mental well-being.These are "big issues" and a big shift for Facebook as it broadens its responsibility, Zuckerberg said. He added that he does think that by the end of this year the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of the issues. Zuckerberg has made fixing the company his personal challenge for 2018.As part of the steps it\'s taking to address scrutiny about outsiders\' access to user data, Facebook outlined several changes to further tighten its policies. For one, it is restricting access that apps can have to data about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way. Facebook says it believes most of its 2.2 billion users had their public profile information scraped by businesses or various malicious actors through this technique at some point. Posts and other content set to be visible only to friends weren\'t collected.This comes on top of changes announced a few weeks ago. For example, Facebook has said it will remove developers\' access to people\'s data if the person has not used the app in three months.Earlier Wednesday, Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that seeks to clarify its data collection and use.Although Facebook says the policy changes aren\'t prompted by recent events or tighter privacy rules coming from the EU, it\'s an opportune time. Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee . The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.As Facebook evolved from a closed, Harvard-only network with no ads to a giant corporation with $40 billion in advertising revenue and huge subsidiaries like Instagram and WhatsApp, its privacy policy has also shifted  over and over.Almost always, critics say, the changes meant a move away from protecting user privacy toward pushing openness and more sharing. On the other hand, regulatory and user pressure has sometimes led Facebook to pull back on its data collection and use and to explain things in plainer language  in contrast to dense legalese from many other internet companies.The policy changes come a week after Facebook gave its privacy settings a makeover. The company tried to make it easier to navigate its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings, though the makeover didn\'t change what Facebook collects and shares either.Facebook\'s new privacy policy has a new section explaining that it collects people\'s contact information if they choose to "upload, sync or import" this to the service. This may include users\' address books on their phones, as well as their call logs and text histories. The new policy says Facebook may use this data to help "you and others find people you may know."Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting information about whom they texted or called and for how long, though not the actual contents of text messages. It seemed to have been done without explicit consent, though Facebook says it collected such data only from Android users who specifically allowed it to do so  for instance, by agreeing to permissions when installing Facebook.On Wednesday, Facebook said will delete all logs after a year and in the future, the only information this tool will collect from now on is the data that it needs to operate and "not broader data such as the time of calls."The new policy also makes it clear that WhatsApp and Instagram are part of Facebook and that the companies share information about users. WhatsApp will still have a separate policy as well, while Facebook and Instagram share one.___This story has been corrected to reflect that WhatsApp has its own privacy policy, while Facebook and Instagram share the same one.
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that he agreed "in spirit" with a strict new European Union law on data privacy but stopped short of committing to it as the standard for the social network across the world.As Facebook reels from a scandal over the mishandling of personal information belonging to millions of users, the company is facing demands to improve privacy and learn lessons from the landmark EU law scheduled to take effect next month.Zuckerberg told Reuters in a phone interview that Facebook was working on a version of the law that would work globally, bringing some European privacy guarantees worldwide, but the 33-year-old billionaire demurred when asked what parts of the law he would not extend worldwide."We\'re still nailing down details on this, but it should directionally be, in spirit, the whole thing," Zuckerberg said. He did not elaborate.His comments signal that U.S. Facebook users, many of them still angry over the company\'s admission that political consultancy Cambridge Analytica got hold of Facebook data on 50 million members, could find themselves in a worse position than Europeans.The European law, called the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), is the biggest overhaul of online privacy since the birth of the internet, giving Europeans the right to know what data is stored on them and the right to have it deleted.Apple Inc and some other tech firms have said they do plan to give people in the United States and elsewhere the same protections and rights that Europeans will gain.Shares of Facebook closed up 0.5 percent on Tuesday at $156.11 (110.8). They are down more than 15 percent since March 16, when the scandal broke over Cambridge Analytica.PUSH FOR DATA PRIVACYPrivacy advocacy groups have been urging Facebook and its Silicon Valley competitors such as Alphabet Inc\'s Google to apply EU data laws worldwide, largely without success."We want Facebook and Google and all the other companies to immediately adopt in the United States and worldwide any new protections that they implement in Europe," said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, in Washington.Zuckerberg said many of the tools that are part of the law, such as the ability of users to delete all their data, are already available for people on Facebook."We think that this is a good opportunity to take that moment across the rest of the world," he said. "The vast majority of what is required here are things that we\'ve already had for years across the world for everyone."Google and Facebook are the global leaders in internet ad revenue. Both based in California, they possess enormous amounts of data on billions of people.Google has declined to comment on its plans.When GDPR takes effect on May 25, people in EU countries will gain the right to transfer their data to other social networks, for example. Facebook and its competitors will also need to be much more specific about how they plan to use people\'s data, and they will need to get explicit consent.GDPR is likely to hurt profit at Facebook because it could reduce the value of ads if the company cannot use personal information as freely and the added expense of hiring lawyers to ensure compliance with the new law.Data is central to Facebook\'s advertising business, and it has not yet sketched out a satisfying plan for how it plans to comply, said Pivotal Research analyst Brian Wieser."I haven\'t heard any solutions from Facebook to get ahead of the problem yet," Wieser said.Failure to comply with the law carries a maximum penalty of up to 4 percent of annual revenue.It should not be difficult for companies to extend EU practices and policies elsewhere because they already have systems in place, said Nicole Ozer, director of technology and civil liberties at the American Civil Liberties Union of California.Companies\' promises are less reassuring than laws, she said: "If user privacy is going to be properly protected, the law has to require it."(Reporting by David Ingram and Joseph Menn in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Salvador Rodriguez ; Editing by Peter Henderson, Bill Rigby and Himani Sarkar)
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that he agreed "in spirit" with a strict new European Union law on data privacy but stopped short of committing to it as the standard for the social network across the world.As Facebook reels from a scandal over the mishandling of personal information belonging to millions of users, the company is facing demands to improve privacy and learn lessons from the landmark EU law scheduled to take effect next month.Zuckerberg told Reuters in a phone interview that Facebook was working on a version of the law that would work globally, bringing some European privacy guarantees worldwide, but the 33-year-old billionaire demurred when asked what parts of the law he would not extend worldwide."We\'re still nailing down details on this, but it should directionally be, in spirit, the whole thing," Zuckerberg said. He did not elaborate.His comments signal that U.S. Facebook users, many of them still angry over the company\'s admission that political consultancy Cambridge Analytica got hold of Facebook data on 50 million members, could find themselves in a worse position than Europeans.The European law, called the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), is the biggest overhaul of online privacy since the birth of the internet, giving Europeans the right to know what data is stored on them and the right to have it deleted.Apple Inc and some other tech firms have said they do plan to give people in the United States and elsewhere the same protections and rights that Europeans will gain.Shares of Facebook closed up 0.5 percent on Tuesday at $156.11 (110.8). They are down more than 15 percent since March 16, when the scandal broke over Cambridge Analytica.PUSH FOR DATA PRIVACYPrivacy advocacy groups have been urging Facebook and its Silicon Valley competitors such as Alphabet Inc\'s Google to apply EU data laws worldwide, largely without success."We want Facebook and Google and all the other companies to immediately adopt in the United States and worldwide any new protections that they implement in Europe," said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, in Washington.Zuckerberg said many of the tools that are part of the law, such as the ability of users to delete all their data, are already available for people on Facebook."We think that this is a good opportunity to take that moment across the rest of the world," he said. "The vast majority of what is required here are things that we\'ve already had for years across the world for everyone."Google and Facebook are the global leaders in internet ad revenue. Both based in California, they possess enormous amounts of data on billions of people.Google has declined to comment on its plans.When GDPR takes effect on May 25, people in EU countries will gain the right to transfer their data to other social networks, for example. Facebook and its competitors will also need to be much more specific about how they plan to use people\'s data, and they will need to get explicit consent.GDPR is likely to hurt profit at Facebook because it could reduce the value of ads if the company cannot use personal information as freely and the added expense of hiring lawyers to ensure compliance with the new law.Data is central to Facebook\'s advertising business, and it has not yet sketched out a satisfying plan for how it plans to comply, said Pivotal Research analyst Brian Wieser."I haven\'t heard any solutions from Facebook to get ahead of the problem yet," Wieser said.Failure to comply with the law carries a maximum penalty of up to 4 percent of annual revenue.It should not be difficult for companies to extend EU practices and policies elsewhere because they already have systems in place, said Nicole Ozer, director of technology and civil liberties at the American Civil Liberties Union of California.Companies\' promises are less reassuring than laws, she said: "If user privacy is going to be properly protected, the law has to require it."(Reporting by David Ingram and Joseph Menn in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Salvador Rodriguez ; Editing by Peter Henderson, Bill Rigby and Himani Sarkar)
Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching: Another bank takes steps toward gun safety. The next steps in the tariffs tit-for-tat. Investigators are looking into the motive behind the shooting at YouTubes headquarters. What happens after Spotifys direct listing?  Alexis Ohanian of Reddit speaks to Corner Office about online platforms, fatherhood and Metallica.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Britains decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.In the weeks following Britains vote in 2016 for Brexit, fears grew that the post-war economic order was under serious threat. But European stock markets recovered, including Britains. Investors came to see that the European Union was not going to break up, and Britain was not going to erect tall walls around its economy. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to Brexit seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system. Investors took a deep breath and gained some perspective.Movements in the United States stock market suggests the same thing is happening in response to President Trumps trade policies. China on Tuesday evening announced the tariffs it plans in retaliation against those President Trump is threatening. Reacting to Chinas announcement, the S.&P. 500 index plunged early on Wednesday but recovered strongly to close up 1.2 percent.Investors may believe Chinas move will lead to drawn-out negotiations. Here, Brexit is again illustrative. As the back and forth between the European Union and Britain has gone on, investors have gained more clarity and confidence. If talks between the U.S. and China gain steam, the uncertainty now clouding relations between the two countries may gradually clear.But the standoff between the U.S. and China differs in important ways from the Brexit tensions. The U.S., for instance, is in a much stronger position than Britain. China exports far more to the U.S. than the U.S. does to China. Limiting access to the U.S. economy could hurt Chinas growth at a time when it is trying to overhaul important economic sectors. If investors believe that the U.S. can successfully exploit its advantages to make China more friendly to foreign businesses, they may even see the trade skirmish as positive for the global economy.But Brexit also flashes a warning to those expecting a big win for Mr. Trump. One of the reasons that the European Union has presented a united front is that it sees Brexit as a threat to its values and goals. Similarly, China may believe that Mr. Trumps trade attack puts some of its most deeply held aspirations under threat  and will fight back hard.- Peter EavisAfter Citigroup announced plans to limit firearms sales by business customers, the question was which lenders would be the next to make a move on guns. The latest: Amalgamated Bank, the union-owned bank known for its socially minded policies.The firm said on Wednesday that it would adopt guidelines for lenders laid out by Everytown for Gun Safety, an advocacy group backed by Mike Bloomberg.Among those recommendations: Require gun dealers to protect merchandise from burglary and theft and refuse sales to people who appear in distress or intoxicated Require retailers to stop selling high-capacity magazines and bump stocks Require gun makers to commit to developing innovations in firearms that will allow law enforcement to more easily solve gun crimesAmalgamated said that it would not only require all business customers to adhere to those guidelines but added that it wont invest any of its own money in gun manufacturers or distributors.Heres what Amalgamateds C.E.O. Keith Mestrich, said in a news release: Michael J. de la MercedFacebook on Wednesday said the personal information of up to 87 million people, most of them Americans, may have been improperly shared during the 2016 election with Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm connected to President Trump.The new figure sharply increased the companys previous estimate of how many users information was harvested by Cambridge Analytica. The number had been put at more than 50 million users.The sharing of the user data has unleashed a torrent of criticism at Facebook, the worlds largest social network. The companys stock is down sharply since The New York Times and The Observer of London reported on how Cambridge Analytica improperly acquired users data.The company released the revised estimate of affected users in an extended statement on Wednesday about its plans for handling personal data. The company said it will start alerting users on April 9 about whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.In related Facebook news Earlier on Wednesday, lawmakers in Washington had said Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11 about the companys handling of sensitive user data.Beijing moved quickly to escalate its fight with the U.S., responding to the White Houses latest move with $50 billion worth of tariffs on soybeans, cars, chemicals and more. U.S. market futures predictably dropped, as did other markets.Both sides could suffer. Chinese companies are scrambling to react, especially as the U.S. looks to be taking aim at technology (like that central to Made in China 2025). And the squeeze could extend to American companies in unexpected industries, like wine.The big question: Is a full-blown trade war coming? Nathaniel Taplin of Heard on the Street writes, If ongoing negotiations fail and these tariffs become a reality, the long-term impact will likely be far more damaging.And is dragging down the Dow Jones industrial average. The blue-chip index is off nearly 350 points, or 1.4 percent. That slide is worse than the declines of the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq Composite, which are both down less than 1 percent.Boeings 4 percent fall has shaved 87 points off the Dow Wednesday. Boeing is the highest priced stock in the price-weighted index, which means Boeing has an outsized impact on the indexs moves.Boeings shares have served as a proxy for investor concern about a possible trade war with China since the Trump administration announced tariffs on aluminum and steel.Over that period, the stock has fallen 12 percent.The streaming-music companys shares opened at $165.90, but they steadily decline throughout their first day of trading, closing at $149.01.The stock is down 4.1 percent to $142.91 in early trading Wednesday.Because Spotify eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing, there is no I.P.O. price off which to base the performance of its shares. But the companys current shares price remains well above the $132.50 its private shares changed hands at earlier this year.Spotify finished Tuesday valued at $26.5 billion. Does that count as a success? Shira Ovide of Gadfly argues no, since only a tiny fraction of Spotifys shares are available to trade.And will it lead to a wave of direct listings, leaving depressed, workless I.P.O. bankers in its wake? Maybe not, though the Big Board acknowledged signs of more informal interest in direct listings.Sony.Its subsidiary, Sony Music Entertainment, owned 5.7 percent of Spotify ahead of its listing. Sony said it sold 17.2 percent of that stake Tuesday. Sony expects to book a non-operating profit of $986 million this quarter from the increased valuation of the Spotify shares it continues holds and from the share sale.At Tuesdays close, Sonys 5.7 percent stake was worth $1.5 billion.Sony isnt only Asian tech company benefitting from Spotifys smooth debut. Tencent, the Chinese social media company, holds a 7.5 percent stake. That was worth about $2 billion as of Tuesdays close.The video site and its parent company, Alphabet, are still grappling with the shooting at YouTubes headquarters in the Bay Area yesterday. What we know: Police identified the shooter as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and killed herself at the scene. Three people were hurt, one critically.What we dont know: the motive. Ms. Aghdam, who posted to YouTube and other social media, criticized the video sites policies on Facebook in February. But authorities havent highlighted any specific grievance, and said they had yet to find evidence that specific individuals were targeted.What may change: security in Silicon Valley. YouTube, like many other big tech companies, doesnt have visible metal detectors or armed guards. Robert Mueller reportedly told President Trumps lawyers that hes a subject of interest, but not yet an investigation target. A former Skadden lawyer who admitted deceiving Mr. Muellers investigators, Alex van der Zwaan, was sentenced to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000. The Treasury Department and the Office of Management and Budget are fighting over how to implement the tax overhaul, as businesses go to great lengths to lower their tax bills. Senator Elizabeth Warrens suggested method for measuring misconduct at financial institutions probably wouldnt lead to more prosecutions. (White Collar Watch) John Williams is the next president of the New York Fed, despite calls for diversity. (NYT) Articles about Scott Pruitt are now focusing on ethical improprieties, not regulatory rollbacks. (NYT)At issue in WPPs inquiry into its C.E.O., Martin Sorrell, are allegations of misuse of company assets and of personal misconduct, according to the WSJ. Mr. Sorrell has denied any wrongdoing.The investigation comes at a tough time: WPPs revenue is down, and competition from Google and Facebook is up. One of the FTs unnamed sources couldnt see how Mr. Sorrell would survive.In other misconduct news: Morgan Stanley fired Douglas Greenberg, a star financial adviser accused of physical abuse and stalking by multiple women, following an NYT investigation.Forbes profiled All Raise, a group of 36 women trying to double the percentage of women in V.C. partner roles and to increase funding to female founders to 25 percent from 15 percent. It has commitments of $2 million from supporters like Silicon Valley Bank and is in talks with Melinda Gatess investment firm.Diversity, they argue, will help investors spot future successes like Stitch Fix.Itll be a joust, over money and management. CBS has reportedly submitted a takeover bid for its corporate sibling, Viacom  but one below Viacoms market value of $12.5 billion, and without a No. 2 slot at the combined company for the targets C.E.O., Bob Bakish.That isnt going to sit well with either Mr. Bakish or his patron, Shari Redstone. Tara Lachapelle of Gadfly argues that ego shouldnt hold up a deal.The deals flyaround Procter & Gamble is reportedly talking to Pfizer about buying its consumer health business, but far from agreeing on a price. GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser both walked away. (CNBC) The Justice Department is relying on a skewed study of the Time Warner deal, lawyers for AT&T argued in court. (Bloomberg) Elliott Management has purchased a $1 billion stake in various affiliates of Hyundai Motors, another venture into Korean chaebols. (Elliott) The high-end coffee brand La Colombe, reportedly hired Moelis & Company to explore the sale of a stake that could value the company at $1 billion. (Bloomberg) The Chinese digital conglomerate Meituan has bought Mobike, a bike-sharing company, for $2.7 billion. (CNBC)The Japanese conglomerate has reportedly given up day-to-day control over the Fortress Investment Group to help its deal pass the powerful U.S. security watchdog known as Cfius, according to the FT. That could make the investment firm a less useful support for SoftBanks $100 billion Vision Fund.The takeaways: The efforts by SoftBanks Masa Son to court President Trump dont always translate into favorable treatment by the White House, and national security concerns will weigh heavily on foreign investment in the U.S. post-Broadcom.The president has pressed his claim that Amazon is costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money, (It isnt.)Vanity Fair reports that some specific anti-Amazon ideas have been kicked around, including rethinking Amazons contract with the U.S.P.S., canceling its cloud services contract with the Pentagon and encouraging state investigations. (Amazon does not have a contract with the Department of Defense for cloud computing services. The contract for those services has not been awarded to any company including Amazon.)But Bloomberg can find no active discussions about such actions, and Wall Street analysts say investors should ignore the noise, which puts Amazon in good company.More on Amazon and the cloud: Mr. Trump was scheduled to dine last night with Safra Catz of Oracle. Why is that important?The tech flyaround Teslas first-quarter production still fell short of an already lowered target, but shares in the embattled carmaker rose anyway. Investors might want to be wary of Elon Musks promises. Facebook removed over 270 accounts and pages tied to Russias Internet Research Agency, widely regarded as a troll factory. Mark Zuckerberg wont globalize Europes stricter privacy regulations. Tim Wu of Columbia Law School argues that Facebook needs replacing, not fixing. Indias government is eager to collect personal data, but bad at protecting it, an NYT Op-Ed contributor argues. (NYT) Apple has hired John Giannandrea from Google to run its machine learning and A.I. strategy. (NYT) Deutsche Bank formally named John Thain, Mayree Clark and Michele Trogni to its supervisory board. (Deutsche Bank) Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired Hari Moorthy, an engineer at JPMorgan Chase, to build tools to help big companies manage cash. (WSJ) Companies charitable spending is more self-serving than they would have us believe. (NYT) An Indian government crackdown on fake news lasted less than a day. (NYT) The Chinese conglomerate Anbang will receive $9.7 billion from an industry rescue fund. (WSJ) Longfin, a fintech company that went public under small-company rules in December, lost 85 percent of value in six trading days and is now under investigation by the S.E.C. (WSJ) After one of its worst quarters ever, David Einhorns hedge fund Greenlight Capital is sticking to its strategy. (CNBC)Note: While we congratulated Villanova yesterday, we did not congratulate Notre Dame for its win on Sunday, which we heartily do so now.Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
___At the brink: US and China threaten tariffs as fears riseWASHINGTON (AP)  The world's two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there's still time to pull back from the brink. Financial markets trembled Wednesday at the prospect of a U.S.-China trade war after Beijing and Washington proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of each other's products in a battle over the aggressive tactics China employs to develop its high-tech industries.___Facebook scandal affected more users than thought: up to 87MNEW YORK (AP) Facebook says tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought, up to 87 million instead of the 50 million reported before. Facebook says it will restrict the data it allows outsiders to access on its users. Those developments come as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook has a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly.___Police: YouTube shooter was calm when found sleeping in carSAN BRUNO, Calif. (AP)  The woman who shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home. Authorities say Nasim Aghdam did not mention being angry with YouTube and gave no indication she was a threat to anyone. Later that day, she went to a gun range before walking into a courtyard at YouTube's campus south of San Francisco. That's where she fired a handgun several times and then killed herself.___On the Money: Glut of used cars gives buyers more optionsDETROIT (AP)  Bargain prices on 2- and 3-year-old vehicles fueled record sales of used cars, trucks and SUVs last year, a trend that is expected to continue because people can save thousands of dollars over buying new. Used car sales hit 39.2 million vehicles in 2017, more than double the number of new automobiles sold, according to the Edmunds.com auto website. About 4 million leased vehicles will return to the market this year, many of them relatively new with most of the technology that's on new vehicles.___AMC to open Saudi Arabia's first movie theaterNEW YORK (AP)  AMC says it will open Saudi Arabia's first movie theater on April 18. Cinema operators are rushing to build theaters in the Gulf kingdom after the Saudi government in December said it would open the country to commercial movie theaters for the first time in more than 35 years. AMC's first theater will open in Riyadh. It plans to open up to 100 theaters by 2030.___Marijuana not part of North Dakota's corporate farming banBISMARCK, N.D. (AP)  A North Dakota official says the state's Great Depression-era law banning corporate farming won't preclude horticulture operations from growing medical marijuana, provided it's not done on agricultural land. Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem issued the opinion at the request of the state health department. The intent of the corporate farming law is to protect the state's family farming heritage. But Stenehjem says the marijuana question is a tax law matter that doesn't fall under farming law.___CVS Health eyes kidney patients for next expansion into careWOONSOCKET, R.I. (AP)  CVS Health is now planning to treat kidney failure patients as the drugstore operator branches deeper into monitoring and providing care. The company said Wednesday it will offer home dialysis for patients through its Coram business and it is working with another company to develop a new device for that. A spokeswoman declined to name the company or say how much CVS is spending on the venture.___US services firms grew at a slower pace in MarchBALTIMORE (AP)  U.S. services firms expanded at a slower clip in March compared to the prior month, largely because the pace of business activity and new orders fell. The Institute for Supply Management says its services index dropped to 58.8 from 59.5 in February. Any reading above 50 points toward growth. The services sector has been expanding for more than eight years.___Stocks surge as market escapes early plunge on trade fearsNEW YORK (AP)  After being spooked by rising trade tensions between the US and China, stocks rallied Wednesday on hopes the two sides will settle their differences. The Dow Jones industrial average recovered from an early 501 point drop to gain 230. Retailers and household goods makers climbed while tech stocks reversed losses. Big industrials such as Boeing and Deere were lower.___The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 30.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,644.69. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 230.94 points, or 1 percent, to 24,264.30. The Nasdaq composite rose 100.83 points, or 1.5 percent, to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 19.51 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,531.66.U.S. crude dipped 14 cents to $63.37 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline stayed at $1.98 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas rose 2 cents to $2.72 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Your company, 23andMe, does DNA tests that can tell you what countries your ancestors were from or what genetic diseases you may have or, most important, whether you suffer from asparagus pee. But your ultimate ambition is to take data culled from your customers DNA and use it to find cures and develop drugs. Why? The health care ecosystem that exists today is a $3-trillion-a-year economy and no one makes money if you stay healthy. Theres very little money that goes into prevention programs, and I think thats not reflective of what you and I want. What we really care about most is not How do I manage my Alzheimers? but How do I never get it in the first place?Doesnt 23andMe care about making money, too? We do. What I genuinely spend my nights thinking about is: Is there a way to monetize prevention? I dont know exactly what that model is, but I know its the right thing to do. I stay up late at night thinking about this.You have some pretty lofty goals. Is there a specific event or milestone you would consider a marker of success? I would personally like to live and be healthy at 100. Success for me is healthy at 100. Im only 44, but I would like all of us to be healthy at 100.If 23andMe ends up discovering a cure for Alzheimers or asparagus pee, will its customers, whose DNA contributed to the discovery, get a piece of those profits? We get that question a lot. Its really hard to figure out microattributions. Pinpointing exactly what each persons contribution to the entire process  the 11-year journey of development  is pretty hard. I do think we have an obligation of some sort.23andMe has partnerships with lots of third parties. Has the Facebook/Cambridge Analytica scandal given you any second thoughts about how you share data with other companies? I have to say, because were regulated, its a very different world for us than it is for Facebook. I think that one of the benefits is that it made us go a little bit slower. Its an extra step of checkpoints about how youre doing things.The site uses your DNA to match you with other relatives in the 23andMe database. How often do you hear about people who discover theyre actually adopted or have a secret sibling? Every day. Every day. The nonpaternity average in this country is much higher than people think it is. Theres a good chance theres an Uncle Joe in your family whos actually just Joe. So everyone has a story like that; they just dont necessarily know it. In the early days, we wondered: How are we going to handle this? And in some ways, I think weve helped normalize it.The most popular things that people search for alongside your name are net worth, A-Rod and Alex Rodriguez. Why do you think people find your former relationship with A-Rod so fascinating? In some ways its a lot like genetics: On the outside we seem very different. On the inside, there were a lot of similarities. I have a lot of respect for him. Theres people in the world who talk a lot about what they want to do, and theres people who do it. And that boy, he goes after the world with a voracious appetite.Can I ask you about whether gene stuff that happened in movies will ever happen in real life? Sure.With gene engineering available to only the wealthy, society will break down into two social classes, the modified and the unmodified. Thats Gattaca. No. By the time theres really gene-editing ability, its going to be accessible to the majority of the population. Also, I think were a ways off from actually knowing how to modify. The human body is spectacularly complex beyond anything you could imagine.Will we ever bring a dinosaur back to life? I dont think thats feasible. But those are the things I dream about. Maybe Ill think about that tonight instead of monetizing prevention.
BOSTON   The Massachusetts Senate has approved legislation regulating short-term rentals like those made through online platforms like Airbnb.The Senate passed the bill Wednesday on a 31-6 vote. It would impose existing state hotel taxes on short-term rentals and allow communities to impose additional local excise taxes if they want. The state hotel tax is 5.7 percent.The Senate bill differs from legislation approved last month by the Massachusetts House.The House opted for a tiered system that would impose a 4 percent state tax on rentals by individuals who offer no more than two rooms for rent. Short-term rentals made through a professional property manager or investor host would be taxed at 5.7 percent and 8 percent, respectively.The Senate says their version of the bill would generate about $34.5 million in state taxes and $25.5 million in local taxes annually.The Massachusetts Lodging Association, which represents the hotels and motel industry, said the Senate bill capitulated to Airbnb.Airbnb applauded the Senate bill.During the debate, senators approved an amendment that added anti-discrimination language to the bill. They also approved a data-sharing amendment that would give communities access to information like the total number of days a house or apartment is being rented and the location of each short-term rental.Sen. Eric Lesser of Longmeadow said the bill strives to balance the opportunities offered by new online platforms against the disruption the industry can cause. He said it\'s important hotels and traditional bed and breakfast businesses aren\'t put at a disadvantage while also recognizing many families use online platforms to put extra money in their pockets."It\'s important to recognize this is an entirely new industry," the Democrat said. "This bill levels that playing field. Everyone is treated the same, everyone pays the same taxes."The debate over services like Airbnb  assailed by critics for essentially turning apartments into hotel rooms, putting upward pressure on housing costs and driving out longer-term tenants who can\'t afford rising rents  has raged for years.It\'s keenly felt in college towns, particularly ones that also are tourist destinations or are near them, like Boston and Cambridge, where critics say property owners can make more money renting out apartments or homes by the night instead of yearlong leases.Massachusetts Lodging Association President Paul Sacco criticized the Senate for "failing to produce even the most basic of health, safety and consumer protections while continuing to allow wealthy investors to convert scarce housing stock into de facto hotels in residential neighborhoods.""Even the taxation portion of their bill gives unique rights to Airbnb that no other company in the state is entitled to  taxation without verification," Sacco added.Airbnb said it welcomed the bill and that it would allow the company to "collect and remit taxes on behalf of our Massachusetts hosts."We look forward to sharing the feedback and concerns of our community with the lawmakers," the company said in a statement following Wednesday\'s vote.The travel website Expedia said the Senate bill "unfairly targets online travel agents."The House and Senate must now hammer out a single, compromise version of the bill.
Tom Hollander is nervous. When he took the part of Henry Carr, the very civil servant at the swirling center of Travesties, Tom Stoppards 1974 Zurich-set brainteaser, he worried he couldnt learn it. Then he worried he couldnt pull it off.He did. First at Londons Menier Chocolate Factory, then in the West End, earning career-best reviews. The production, directed by Patrick Marber and presented by the Roundabout Theater Company, opens April 24 on Broadway.Acting a role more than a hundred times might relax some men. Not Mr. Hollander. I dont know an actor living who isnt in a state of anxiety before a show opens, he said.Tucked into a corner of a theater district bistro a few days before previews began, Mr. Hollander, 50, worried about memory, about mortality, about Americans understanding the crucial difference between trousers and pants (this fun new fear is my fault) and mostly about whether the little finger on his left hand, broken in a cringingly funny skiing accident, would heal before the first performance.He wouldnt dream of wearing the cast onstage. It would change the meaning of the play, he said. Obviously.Obviously? It isnt always easy to tell when Mr. Hollander is joking and thats a lot of his appeal. He is vitally funny in dramatic roles, wrenchingly somber in comic ones. Mr. Stoppard, speaking by telephone, called him a comedian, as well as a tough cookie, a tough egg. He is someone, the novelist and screenwriter Julian Fellowes said, who can play and suggest many different truths and emotions at once.One more thing: The Daily Mail, playing on Mr. Hollanders 55 frame, has named him a sex thimble. So he has that to work with, too.In the last several years hes played an overburdened inner-city vicar in Rev., a brash aide-de-camp in The Night Manager, a compassionate country medic in Doctor Thorne and a periwigged baddie in Pirates of the Caribbean, so if he has a type, hes keeping it quiet.But in Henry Carr, a soldier and a dandy and a lover and a prig, who moves through the play sometimes in his sprightly 20s and sometimes in his fuddled 60s, Mr. Hollander has one of the great roles and one of the great monologues, a five-page tongue-twirler that begins the play. Good thing it has come to him now and not a minute later.An actors failing powers get you in the end, he said mordantly. His glass was half empty. A waiter poured more Perrier.He grew up in Oxford, the younger child of schoolteachers. Mr. Marber, the director of Travesties, remembered seeing a teenage Mr. Hollander acting in a student production of Volpone.I thought, Who is this cherub? Mr. Marber recalled. He was an angelic youth. Very sparkling, very confident.Mr. Hollander is sparkling, he is confident. He is irrepressibly charming and as his friend Ralph Fiennes, who has already seen Travesties four times said, He is very, very, very, very clever. Olivia Colman co-starred with him in Rev. Her encapsulation: Hes magic.But he is also self-deprecating and punishingly self-aware. He starts and stops his sentences, notes when something is a bit of a clich, narrates himself. He petered out, hell say. He attacked his chicken with renewed vigor, hell say. The lunch was book-ended by espressos, suggesting that Mr. Hollander does not ease up without a fight.Hes been acting from Volpone on, except for a dry spell after Cambridge when he worked in a toy shop and he still seems a little surprised that hes made it his lifes work. Is it a reasonable life? A useful one?Doctors, engineers, schoolteachers like his parents, theyre the ones doing the useful work, he said. People in the entertainment industry shouldnt take themselves too seriously. Still, telling stories, that has an ancient function, thats being human, isnt it? he asked. He didnt seem sure.Acting is useful to Mr. Hollander anyway. Liam Neeson, who starred with Mr. Hollander on Broadway 20 years ago in David Hares The Judas Kiss, wrote, Hes small in stature, yet when he performs he becomes huge.Mr. Hollanders self-consciousness rarely follows him onstage. A good role, he said, is like taking a paid vacation from himself. Each television show, each movie, each play, its a chance to disappear into a character. Its like going on holiday without having to get on an airplane, he said.Obviously  obviously?  the Zurich of Travesties is a nice place to land. A minor consular official, Carr meets up with the Dadaist Tristan Tzara, the novelist James Joyce and the Leninist Vladimir Lenin, all of whom actually traipsed through Switzerland in 1917.Mr. Hollander compared the play to a disco ball. Its like a shower of brilliance, he said. Will audiences understand it? Once youve given up the attempt it becomes very, very enjoyable, he said.John Wood created the role of Henry Carr, winning a Tony Award for his pains; Antony Sher played it a generation later. When Mr. Hollander and Mr. Marber discussed the revival, they knew they wanted to make Carr a more poignant figure, his younger self haunted by the war that wounded him, his older hassled by senility. Its a comic role, but Tom is able to make it a tragic role as well, which is what I wanted, Mr. Marber said.Carr is always dreaming up titles for his memoirs: Further Recollections of a Consular Official in Whitest Switzerland, Memories of Dada by a Consular Friend, Zurich by One Who Was There. Does Mr. Hollander, who has written teasing columns for The Spectator (Im partial to the one about Joan Collins), ever plan on writing a memoir? Does he have a title? Not yet. I feel  it might be premature, he said. I hope its premature.There are a lot of not yets in Mr. Hollanders life. For decades hes told interviewers that hed like to marry and have children. Hes never managed it. I always thought it would happen. It didnt happen. I cant blame anyone but myself, he said. Then he made the joke about attacking the roast chicken.Mr. Marber has wondered if some kind of wound, some kind of loneliness enables Mr. Hollanders acting. But Mr. Hollander denies it. I have the same wounds as everyone else, he said. There isnt a particular trauma that Im employing on this one, just other than general trauma of being a human being.With lunch ended, at least he could put the particular trauma of slicing a roast chicken with a broken finger behind him. After finishing his second espresso and paying the bill, he collected his coat from the rack. The matre d noticed his hand. Tom, what happened? Did you punch someone, he asked.If only Id done something so macho, Mr. Hollander replied. (The real story: He failed to exit a Swiss ski lift in a timely fashion.)He walked a few blocks of what he called the miracle that is Manhattan and stepped down into the subway, swiping his MetroCard. It didnt take. He swiped it again.That should be the title of my memoir, he said resignedly. Insufficient Fare.
