ABUJA   Nigeria\'s government will investigate allegations of improper involvement by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica in the country\'s 2007 and 2015 elections, a presidency spokesman said on Monday.The UK-based political consultancy is facing allegations that it improperly accessed data from social media website Facebook to target voters prior to the U.S. presidential election and Britain\'s Brexit referendum in 2016.In Nigeria, a government committee is looking into claims that SCL Elections, a Cambridge Analytica affiliate, organised anti-election rallies to dissuade opposition supporters from voting in 2007, Garba Shehu, a spokesman for President Muhammadu Buhari, said.He said it would examine claims that Buhari\'s personal data was hacked in 2015 when he was an opposition candidate in the presidential election.The investigation would also look into whether Cambridge Analytica\'s work for the election campaigns of the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) broke Nigerian law "or infringed on the rights of other parties and their candidates".Depending on the outcome, criminal prosecutions might result, said Shehu.Cambridge Analytica could not immediately be reached for comment.PDP candidate Umaru Yar\'Adua won the 2007 presidential ballot. He died in office in 2010 and was succeeded by his deputy, Goodluck Jonathan.(Additional reporting by Paul Sandle in London; Writing by Alexis Akwagyiram; editing by John Stonestreet)
NEW YORK   The CEO of Facebook is defending its advertising-supported business model.Mark Zuckerberg\'s defense comes after Apple CEO Tim Cook said his company wouldn\'t be in Facebook\'s situation because Apple doesn\'t sell ads based on customer data the way Facebook does. Zuckerberg responded Monday that an advertising-supported business model is the only way that the service can survive because not everyone would be able to pay for Facebook if it charged a fee.He says the idea that Facebook doesn\'t care about its customers is "extremely glib."Facebook is facing scrutiny over its data collection following allegations that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica obtained data on tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Zuckerberg spoke with Vox , while Cook talked with Recode last week.

 Good Monday. Heres what were watching. Elon Musk finally responded to last weeks bad news about Tesla. Trump continues to go after Amazon. China retaliated to President Trumps steel and aluminum tariffs. Tech leaders have been keeping mum on Facebook.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.For months, the stock market rally seemed to have the strength to plow through the obstacles that the Trump administration threw in its way.But now, the S.&P. 500 index is down more than 10 percent from its all-time high.President Donald Trumps actions seem to be increasingly taking their toll. When the Trump administration first pushed for steel and aluminum tariffs in February, investors werent happy, but the market soon rebounded. Now investors seem to be growing more nervous as the United States biggest trading partners show signs that they are ready to fight back. Chinas retaliatory tariffs, which appear to be more stringent than expected, suggest the country will take a hard stance.Early in his presidency, investors quickly learned to shrug off  Mr. Trumps criticism of companies. In recent days, though, Mr. Trump has targeted Amazon in tweets, asserting that the company has an unfair advantage. Its not clear what he could do to hurt Amazons business, but the companys stock has plunged. Amazons shares may well bounce back, but the criticism has added to investors concerns about the outlook for large technology companies, whose soaring stock prices spearheaded the rally that took to the S.&P. 500 to its all-time high in January.Too much blame can be placed on the White House, however.Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock markets ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Wall Street analysts expect earnings for the companies in the S.&P. 500 to increase 25 percent this year, according to data compiled by Standard & Poors, an unusually large jump that was reflected in the stock market valuations. Much of that projected earnings increase is coming from tax cuts and some from expectations that companies revenue would grow at a nice clip as global growth stayed strong.The tax cuts are certainly going to improve profits. But rising interest rates around the world could weigh somewhat on companies revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected  a significant possibility when the economy is suffering a shortage of some workers  profit margins could get squeezed. I dont think either of those are in the numbers, said Jim Paulsen, chief market strategist at the Leuthold Group. Peter EavisA little humor has not cleared the clouds over Tesla.Shares in the company were once again sliding on Monday after the companys C.E.O., Elon Musk, joked on April 1 that Tesla had gone bankrupt, an apparent attempt to make light of concerns that the electric car maker is straining under its debt load.Teslas stock is now down 35 percent from its high of last year. A major reason for the slide is the companys struggles to meet production targets for its lower-priced Model 3 car. Delays, of course, raise questions about Teslas ability to become an efficient mass producer of autos. The company needs to sell a significantly higher number of cars to generate the cash to finance its business and meet debt payments. Tesla is expected early this week to release its first-quarter production and delivery numbers.Electrek, a publication that covers electric vehicles, reported late Monday morning that Mr. Musk had sent out an email to employees saying that the company was producing more than 2,000 Model 3s a week. Teslas stock bounced after the report.Teslas technology is also facing intense scrutiny after one of its Model X cars crashed on March 23, killing the driver. Tesla said late Friday that its assisted driving system, called Autopilot, was engaged in the car before its collision with a concrete divider. As our colleague Neal E. Boudette wrote:Teslas website says one of Autopilots safety features is Automatic Emergency Braking. But a Tesla owners manual warns riders that this feature is not designed to avoid a collision. Wired recently reported that systems like Autopilot are not necessarily designed to detect static obstacles. In the words of one expert:Doubts about the fundamental capabilities of Teslas Autopilot could crimp demand for its cars among a customer base that is often seeking the best technology.Questions are also swirling around the timing of Teslas announcement about the crash. In its first communication about the accident, the company said:The investigation is not over. Yet Tesla went ahead and provided its update on Friday. The motive for doing so is not clear. The United States National Transportation Safety Board on Sunday said it was unhappy that Tesla had released information about the crash.- Peter EavisTech companies are again dragging down stocks on Wall Street.The S.&P. 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite are off 3.1 percent and 3.5 percent Monday. The continued fall in the share prices of some of the biggest tech companies is weighing heavily on the indexes.Amazon is down 5.4 percent, Netflix is off 5.9 percent, Facebook fell 3 percent, Google-parent Alphabet slipped 3.6 percent and Apple dropped 5.9 percent.After leading the market higher for much of the past two years, tech stocks have hit some turbulence. Since March 16, Facebook, Alphabet, Netflix and Amazon are all down more than 12 percent, while Apple is down 7.3 percent.Over that period the business models of those companies have come under increased scrutiny. News that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Trumps 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users has weighed not only on the shares of Facebook but on Alphabet as well. Amazon, meanwhile, has come under attack from President Trump.In all, those companies have lost more than $300 billion in market value the past two weeks.President Trump attacked the e-commerce again on Monday morning.Mondays tweet is the latest over the past five days from Mr. Trump criticizing Amazon. Over that period, Mr. Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough taxes, of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and of using the United States Postal Service as its Delivery Boy.Mr. Trumps willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.Amazons shares are down 4 percent and are off nearly 11 percent since Axios reported on Wednesday about Mr. Trumps anger toward the company.Context Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the service, has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one, but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax, a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition, some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.Critics cornerDA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote in a note via Reuters:Shares of the chip maker are down 9 percent, their steepest decline in more than two years, after Bloomberg reported that Apple is planning to use its own chips in Mac computers beginning as early as 2020.Citing anonymous sources, Bloombergs Ian King and Matt Gurman report:Apple provides Intel with about 5 percent of its annual revenue.Kenneth C. Griffins Citadel has just hired Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven A. Cohens investment firm. Mr. Villhauer will become deputy head of global equities at Citadel, a newly created position. He will officially join the Chicago-based hedge fund in the middle of April and work out of Citadels office in New York, a Citadel spokesman confirmed.We see this as a big hire for us, said Zia Ahmed, a Citadel spokesman.Mr. Villhauer left Mr. Cohens family office, Point72 Asset Management, in October after working for the billionaire investor for roughly 15 years. Mr. Villhauer had started at Mr. Cohens former firm, SAC Capital Advisors, and most recently served as head of global trading at Point72.The timing of Mr. Villhauers departure came just months before Mr. Cohen was to begin managing money for outside investors.In January, Mr. Cohen reconfigured Point72 as a hedge fund after establishing it as a family office in 2014 to manage $11 billion of his personal wealth. Point72 has said it has raised between $2 billion and $4 billion in outside money.Mr. Villhauer had been with Mr. Cohen through both the good days and bad days. He was there when SAC turned into a powerhouse hedge fund, and he was there when the fund pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in 2013. The guilty plea required the firm to stop managing money for outside investors.When Mr. Villhauer left Point72, Mr. Cohen, in a letter to employees, called the departure a retirement and said he was sad to see Mr. Villhauer go.Now Mr. Villhauer will start a new chapter in his career at another well-known hedge fund firm.____________________________As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, other tech leaders like Marc Benioff and Tim Cook have criticized the company. But, for the most part, its in their culture to stick together,  Nick Wingfield writes.Customers have less trouble speaking out, but those looking to punish major tech companies are finding that but boycotts are easier said than done.At Facebook, the turmoil continued this weekend after a 2016 memo was leaked in which Andrew Bosworth, a vice president, wrote, Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de factor* good.Mr. Bosworth and Mark Zuckerberg disavowed the memo, but the fallout has been wide, with employees calling for a hunt to find leakers.Critics corner Mr. Zuckerbergs comments suggest he still doesnt get it: What matters is not whether internet companies deserve our private information but why we as consumers do not have meaningful ways to protect that data from being siphoned for sale in the first place, Tom Wheeler, a former F.C.C. chairman, writes in an NYT op-ed.More on data and privacy Hackers have stolen more than five million credit and debit card numbers from Saks and Lord & Taylor, a cybersecurity firm said. Amazon and other companies have filed patents that show how assistants could monitor what people say, information that could then be used for ads and product recommendations. For critics, this highlights the need for regulators to get more involved in data collection. Entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking into whether  blockchain could be the answer to fears about personal data being shared too liberally. President Trump accused The Washington Post of operating as a lobbyist for Amazon, escalating his assault on the company. He also accused Amazon of a Post Office scam, although Amazon brings in money for the Postal Service. (WaPo) A global race to automate stores is underway as retailers seek to prevent Amazon from dominating their market. China has been an especially fertile place for these experiments. (NYT) The tech industry has warmed to the White House. (NYT) The European Commission is preparing to crack down on social media companies accused of spreading fake news. (FT) A Russian man accused of hacking three U.S. technology companies in 2012 has been extradited from the Czech Republic. (NYT) Alibaba is taking full control of the food delivery start-up Ele.me. (Bloomberg) Dara Khosrowshahi is trying to change Ubers image, but can he do it without sacrificing elements that made the company successful? (The New Yorker) 3-D printing technology is moving into the construction business. (WSJ) Beijing has unveiled a pilot program that would allow Chinese tech giants to see their shares bought and sold at home. (Bloomberg) Magic Leap is requiring software developers to keep its mysterious augmented reality headsets under tight security. (LAT)The Chinese government said on Monday that it would place tariffs on the imports of 128 American-made products in retaliation for to President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum.Beijing appeared to go a step beyond its initial threat, Chris Buckley reported. On the list is pork, an important moneymaker in many states that voted for President Trump.The Washington flyaround Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday that there would be no deal to protects thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement. The FirstEnergy bankruptcy could be an important moment for the Trump administration and its commitment to the coal industry. (WSJ) Ties to the White House have proven to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushner family. (NYT) Are undersea cables used to communicate around the world under risk of attack? (AP) The bankruptcy of Remington, one of the countrys oldest gunmakers, has stalled a ruling in a lawsuit by family members of those killed in the Sandy Hook shooting. (NYT) Would firing special counsel Robert Mueller lead to impeachment proceedings? (NYT) John Bolton, the incoming national security adviser, has argued repeatedly that the United States should engage in cyber warfare. (Politico)When the Justice Department allowed Live Nation to merge with Ticketmaster, it tried to assuage concerns that the deal would cripple competitors.But critics have reason to be skeptical. Heres how Beau Buffier, the chief of the New York Attorney Generals Antitrust Bureau, described Live Nation:The Justice Department is looking into complaints that Live Nation has used its control over concert tours to pressure venues into contracting with Ticketmaster, a possible violation of antitrust law.The inquiries come as the department is reviewing two more mergers, between AT&T and Time Warner, and Disney and Fox.The departments new antitrust chief has said that the Live Nation deal and several other deals posed problems because they relied too much on the federal governments ability to police corporate behavior.Even if we wanted to do that, we often dont have the skills or the tools to do so effectively, the antitrust chief, Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, said in a speech.More for your playlistSpotifys shares begin trading on Tuesday with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. But the company still hasnt turned a profit, and its direct listing could spook investors. The streaming service also is looking to take on music labels directly by building a two-sided marketplace for users and artists.The deals flyaround Walmarts takeover of Humana isnt guaranteed, but hospitals are already worried that the deal could hit their bottom lines at a difficult time. (WSJ) Protectionist policies are increasing barriers to deal making. (WSJ) Looking to merge asset management divisions, UBS is asking for discounts from fund managers. (FT) The corporate raider Samuel Belzberg has died at 89. (NYT) Steve Schwarzman has discovered that $25 million doesnt necessarily buy naming rights for a public high school. (The Philadelphia Inquirer) The South China Morning Post has long been Hong Kongs English-language paper of record. Alibaba has made it part of Beijings efforts to project soft power abroad. (NYT) The accrediting council at center of a for-profit college fraud scandal is looking for a comeback. (NYT) Coffee sellers are trying to fight a California judges ruling that would require the beverage to carry cancer warning labels. (NYT) Bill Gross is struggling to attract investors to Janus Henderson. (FT) Nike is reviewing its human resources department after employees raised concerns about pay equity and corporate culture. (WSJ) In a tight labor market, employers are recruiting refugees to fill undesirable jobs. (NYT) Is the storied guitar maker Gibson headed for a bankruptcy filing? (NYT) The new chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America is a Hollywood insider and Washington influencer. (NYT) Companies are loading up on debt in what could be another area of concern for financial markets. (WSJ) Some arbitrage funds are struggling to benefit from a boom in mergers. (WSJ) Devet Capital keeps costs low by flying economy and using Airbnb for business travel. (WSJ)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
BOSTON   A Chinese woman pleaded guilty on Monday to cheating on a college entrance exam, becoming the latest person to admit wrongdoing amid U.S. probes into international students who use imposters to gain admission to American universities.Leyi Huang, who had been attending Pennsylvania State University using a student visa, pleaded guilty in federal court in Boston to conspiring to defraud the United States, according to court records.Prosecutors said Huang in March 2016 arranged to have a paid test taker sit in her place and take the TOEFL, the English-language exam used to assess foreign applicants, after she failed to achieve the minimum score needed to attend Penn State.While she faced up to five years in prison, U.S. District Judge Dennis Saylor sentenced Huang, 21, to time served after she agreed to be deported, according to court papers. Her lawyer did not immediately respond to a request for comment.As China has become increasingly affluent, more Chinese students have been enrolling in U.S. colleges and universities, attracted by the prospect of a prestigious American education and good jobs.The number of Chinese students studying in the United States in the 2016-17 academic year rose by 6.8 percent to 350,755, the Institute of International Education reported in November.According to court papers, Huang admitted to authorities that she paid $3,000 to have someone take the TOEFL exam for her and, following instructions from a broker, mailed her Chinese passport to an address in Massachusetts.That passport was used by Yue Wang, a Chinese student at Hult International Business School in Cambridge who prosecutors said took the TOEFL on behalf of Huang and at least two other Chinese women seeking to gain admission to U.S. universities.In each case, the women were issued student visas based on their admission to universities, prosecutors said.They said that as a result of the scheme, Huang defrauded the United States by impeding the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in its administration of a program that sets standards for an international student to obtain a visa.Wang, Huang and the two other women were arrested on immigration-related charges in May 2017. Like Huang, they later pleaded guilty and were sentenced to time served after agreeing to be deported.(Reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Sandra Maler)
For decades, it seems, Diane Nash has been asked about womens role in the civil rights movement: what it was, why it hasnt been more widely acknowledged, if she can describe her fellow organizers contributions.Ms. Nash, now 79, led students in sit-ins and helped coordinate the historic 54-mile march from Selma to Montgomery. She has been portrayed in the film Selma.But when asked again recently by The New York Times about womens contributions, she joked that the list was brief.She went on to describe sit-ins, marches, Freedom Rides, and women working in organizations like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.s Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, of which Ms. Nash was a founding member.Women wrote pamphlets, Ms. Nash said. They made fliers. And they cooked  providing sustenance to protesters so that the demonstrations could last longer, she said. They also went to jail.Women developed strategy, taught in citizenship school, and in short, could and did perform all of the tasks necessary for the movement, Ms. Nash said.But they were often in the background, not the forefront. Which is why, even five decades after Dr. Kings death, many female organizers remain not-so-household names.Women like Rosa Parks, who refused to give up her seat on a segregated bus, and Fannie Lou Hamer, who came to prominence at the 1964 Democratic National Convention, appear in history books alongside their male peers.But less widely celebrated are those like Dorothy I. Height, referred to in a New York Times obituary as both the grande dame of the civil rights era and its unsung heroine. Or Gloria Richardson, who famously waved away the bayonet of a National Guardsman during a protest captured on film.You didnt see me on television, you didnt see news stories about me, Ella Baker, who organized the conference that created SNCC, once said. The kind of role that I tried to play was to pick up pieces or put together pieces out of which I hoped organization might come. My theory is, strong people dont need strong leaders.Fifty years after Dr. Kings death in Memphis, we delved into photo archives to pull out stories of a few of the female leaders inside the movement. Wed also like your help in identifying some of the women and men who have appeared in iconic photos of the civil rights movement but whose names are unknown. (Read about them here.)Gloria RichardsonAs the former head of the Cambridge Nonviolent Action Committee, on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, Gloria Richardson had national clout, having met with Robert F. Kennedy, then the attorney general, as protests escalated in her town. Some called her Glorious Gloria, and she was among a handful of women  including Ms. Nash  who were recognized on stage at the 1963 March on Washington (though, she said, she was not given the opportunity to speak). All I got out was hello and they took the mic, she said in a recent interview.She was not a full adoptee of nonviolent tactics. In a standoff captured on film, Ms. Richardson, now 94, waved away the bayonet of a National Guardsman at a protest in Cambridge in 1963. It was half fear and half God, she told The Times.Dorothy I. HeightDorothy I. Height was a few feet away from Dr. King on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial during the March on Washington. As president of the National Council of Negro Women, she was part of an elite group of organization presidents  including Dr. King; John Lewis, then the president of SNCC; and Whitney Young, executive director of the National Urban League  called The Big Six. But photographers would often crop her out of pictures  or even request her removal while shooting, said Karsonya Whitehead, an associate professor at Loyola University in Maryland. She was asked to step aside, Ms. Whitehead said.Juanita Jones AbernathyMany historians pinpoint the start of the civil rights movement as the arrest of Rosa Parks  the secretary of the N.A.A.C.P. in Montgomery, Ala., whose refusal to give up her seat on a segregated bus prompted the Montgomery bus boycott. But it was Juanita Jones Abernathy who answered the phone call with news of the arrest, said her son, Kwame Abernathy. The rest, her son said, is literally history, as she became intimately involved in the movement and survived the bombing of her home with her two children. Once asked by an interviewer about the role of women in the movement, Ms. Abernathy said, The men ran the movement, but we were the actual bodies that made it happen.Septima ClarkMonths before Ms. Parks took her seat on that bus, she attended workshops to learn about civic engagement at the Highlander Folk School in Monteagle, Tenn., an integrated grass-roots leadership school for adults. It was Septima Clark  sometimes called the grandmother or the queen mother of the movement  who developed those workshops, as well as literacy and citizenship programs, which were critical to combating Jim Crow laws that prevented black people from voting. A native of Charleston, S.C., Ms. Clark had landed at Highlander after being fired from a teaching job because she refused to resign from her local N.A.A.C.P. chapter. She later developed citizenship programs  where educators trained volunteers to help register black voters  for S.C.L.C.Dorothy Cotton Dorothy Cotton rose from administrative assistant to one of the highest-ranking women in the S.C.L.C.  placing her inside Dr. Kings inner circle. Alongside Ms. Clark, she taught students how to peacefully protest even as people taunted them, pushed them and threatened their lives. She was a supervisor of teacher training in what came to be known as the citizenship schools, including Highlander. People would come into my workshops, 30 or 40 people, said Ms. Cotton, now 87 and living in Ithaca, N.Y. When they left, they knew what nonviolence was about.Ella BakerElla Baker was a field secretary and branch director of the N.A.A.C.P. who moved to Atlanta in 1957 to help organize for the S.C.L.C., working to ensure that the Montgomery bus boycott continued as a movement for change, not a moment in time. But Ms. Baker was not always in agreement with Dr. King or the other ministers who made up the S.C.L.C.: She believed in bottom-up grass-roots organizing, not top-down autocracy. In 1960, she convened a landmark meeting at Shaw University in Raleigh, N.C., for student leaders of the lunch counter sit-ins, and encouraged them to form their own organization. It would become SNCC, headed by John Lewis, now a longtime Congressman.Bernice Johnson ReagonAs a student at Albany State College in Georgia, Bernice Johnson Reagon was expelled because of her activism (or behavior unbecoming a student of Albany State College, she said in a recent phone interview). She would go on to become a leader in the movement, who later formed the award-winning a cappella group, Sweet Honey in the Rock. In an interview, Ms. Reagon, who is also a historian, said she could recall her teachings from Ms. Clark, Ms. Cotton and Ms. Baker at the Highlander school, and was inspired by Ms. Baker to write Ellas Song, a cry of determination put to a melody. The lyrics borrow from a statement made by Ms. Baker in 1964: Until the killing of black men, black mothers sons, becomes as important to the rest of the country as the killing of a white mothers son, we who believe in freedom cannot rest until this happens.Fannie Lou HamerA sharecropper who joined SNCC in 1962, Fannie Lou Hamer was fired from her farming job after she tried to register to vote in Mississippi. She drew national attention when she helped found the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party to oppose an all-white delegation from Mississippi at the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City. She testified at a committee meeting at the convention despite an impromptu news conference held by President Lyndon B. Johnson intended to block her testimony from being televised. It is remembered as one of the most powerful speeches of the movement. All of this is on account of we want to register, to become first-class citizens, she said. And if the Freedom Democratic Party is not seated now, I question America. Is this America, the land of the free and the home of the brave, where we have to sleep with our telephones off the hooks because our lives be threatened daily, because we want to live as decent human beings, in America?

