NEW YORK   Facebook\'s No. 2 executive says the company should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg told NBC\'s "Today" show that at the time, Facebook received legal assurances that Cambridge Analytica had deleted the improperly obtained information."What we didn\'t do is the next step of an audit and we\'re trying to that now," she said.The audit of Cambridge Analytica is on hold, in deference to a U.K. investigation. But Facebook has been conducting a broader review of its own practices and how other third-party apps use data.In addition, Facebook announced on Friday that it will require advertisers who want to run not just political ads, but also or so called "issue ads" which may not endorse specific candidates or parties but discuss political topics to be verified.Facebook is trying to strengthen its system ahead of this year\'s U.S. midterm elections as well as upcoming elections around the world. Facebook has already required political ads to verify who is paying for them and where the advertiser is located. The issue ads requirement is new.Facebook will also require the administrators of pages with a "large number" of followers to also be verified. The company did not say what this number would be. The move is intended to clamp down on fake pages and accounts that were used to disrupt the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S.Facebook says page administrators and advertisers will be verified by being asked to provide a government-issued ID. To verify addresses, it will mail a postcard with a unique code that the recipient can then enter into Facebook. This is similar to how Airbnb and other services verify addresses.The company is facing a global backlash over the improper data-sharing scandal. Hearings over the issue are scheduled in the U.S., and the European Union is considering what actions to take against the company.Sandberg also told NBC that if users were able to opt out of being shown ads, "at the highest level, that would be a paid product." This does not mean the company is planning to let users do this. Zuckerberg has made similar statements in the past, but has added that Facebook remains committed to offering a free service paid for by advertising.Facebook users can opt out of seeing targeted ads, but can\'t shut off ads altogether. Neither can they opt entirely out of Facebook\'s data collection.Sandberg gave several interviews this week as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress next week, where the issue of elections meddling is almost certain to come up.Facebook is also facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in what\'s become its worst privacy crisis in its 14-year history.It started with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm, improperly accessed the private information of tens of millions of users to try to influence elections around the world. Over the past three weeks the scandal continued to spiral. For one, Facebook executives took nearly five days to respond to the Cambridge Analytica reports.Then, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting information about phone calls they made and text messages they sent. Facebook also acknowledged this week that nearly all of its 2.2 billion users may have had their public data scraped by "malicious actors" it did not name.
NEW YORK   Anyone who\'s been wondering if their private Facebook data might have been swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal will soon get their first clues.Starting Monday, all 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice on their feeds, titled "Protecting Your Information," with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. If they want, they can shut off apps individually or turn off third-party access to their apps completely.In addition, the 87 million users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of this. Facebook says most of the affected users (more than 70 million) are in the U.S., though there are over a million each in the Philippines, Indonesia and the U.K.Reeling from its worst privacy crisis in history  allegations that this Trump-affiliated data mining firm may have used ill-gotten user data to try to influence elections  Facebook is in full damage-control mode, with CEO Mark Zuckerberg acknowledging he\'s made a  "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world. He\'s set to testify before Congress next week.Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie previously estimated that more than 50 million people were compromised by a personality quiz that collected data from users and their friends.That Facebook app, called "This is Your Digital Life," was a personality quiz created in 2014 by an academic researcher named Aleksander Kogan, who paid about 270,000 people to take it. The app vacuumed up not just the data of the people who took it, but also  thanks to Facebook\'s loose restrictions  data from their friends, too, including details that they hadn\'t intended to share publicly.Facebook later limited the data apps can access, but it was too late in this case.Zuckerberg said Facebook came up with the 87 million figure by calculating the maximum number of friends that users could have had while Kogan\'s app was collecting data. The company doesn\'t have logs going back that far, he said, so it can\'t know exactly how many people may have been affected.Cambridge Analytica said in a statement Wednesday that it had data for only 30 million people.
Were not taking scheduled flights into space, and were certainly not booking them on the long-bankrupt Pan Am airlines. But much about Stanley Kubricks 2001: A Space Odyssey, which was released 50 years ago this week, has proved prophetic. In our era of Siri and Alexa, that particularly applies to the films forecast that we would speak with computers powered by some form of artificial intelligence. (In the movie, Pan Am provided shuttle service to a space station stop on the way to the moon.)Many Canadians know that Douglas Rain, the acclaimed actor who was born in Winnipeg and who became closely associated with the Stratford Festival, provided the voice for HAL 9000, the films computer, in a performance that some reviewers found to be a highlight of the film.Gerry Flahive, a filmmaker from Toronto, has written a fascinating article for The Times about how Mr. Rain became HAL. Mr. Kubrick was taken with his work on a National Film Board of Canada production, Universe, that the director particularly liked. But also high on the list was Mr. Rains Standard Canadian English accent, which non-Canadians often find hard to place.Mr. Flahive was a documentary producer at the film board for 33 years. His credits include A Short History of The High Rise,  which was a joint production with the The New York Times Op-Docs.Heres a condensed and edited version of a conversation we had this week:Do you remember watching 2001 at the time of its release?I was 11 when I saw it at the Glendale Theatre in Toronto in Cinerama and it just completely blew my mind. And thats what got me interested in filmmaking. It almost seemed like a documentary to me. It was such a realistic depiction of the future.As I was getting ready to leave the film board, I thought that this is an interest of mine and that I could dig a bit deeper into it and so I wrote to Douglas Rain.Did the film have a similar effect on Mr. Rain?It was just a job for him. It doesnt really mean anything to him and hes never seen the film.He was hired to do the narration for what was going to be an elaborate prologue to 2001. They filmed interviews with all these amazing scientists and thinkers to set up the premise for the film and explain the context. But Kubrick stripped it away and didnt use the narration hed hired Rain to do.I think if Kubrick had kept all of the explanatory things it wouldnt it wouldnt be the classic that it is.So how did Mr. Rain move from there to becoming HAL?It was going to be Martin Balsams voice. And even before that it was going to be a female voice. HAL was going to be an Athena.So the voice was probably just a combination of circumstance and a gut choice by Kubrick. He literally said to Rain, Im not happy what I have in the can, meaning the Martin Balsam recording that had been done a year before. Would you like to play the computer? And then, in a day and a half, it was done.When I spoke to a linguist he said absolutely that HAL does not have a mid-Atlantic accent as Kubrick kind of thought. Its Standard Canadian English.Why is Mr. Rain indifferent toward the film?Even though it was done quickly and I dont think Rain had a very good time doing it, it was fantastic combination of Rains performance, Kubricks decision to use that voice and to edit it in a way that really brought that character to life.But Im sure if I were Rain I wouldnt want it to define my career. It would be like Alec Guinness being known just for Obi-Wan Kenobi and nothing else.Read: The Story of a Voice: HAL in 2001 Wasnt Always So Eerily CalmThe disclosures surrounding what Cambridge Analytica did with Facebook users data continue. This week the company estimated that the political consulting firm connected to President Trumps campaign improperly used data from about 87 million accounts, including more than 600,000 in Canada. Its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is scheduled to explain what happened next week to Congress.A large number of you send thoughtful replies to my questions last week about how the misuse, which was initially revealed by Canadian whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, has changed the way you use Facebook. Here are a few of the highlights:I was pretty confident that an organization such as Facebook, with so much success and resources, would act smart and responsible. That is not the case we learned  not at all! I am shocked and I will surely do something.If theres a lesson to be learned from this, it is that on the long run, free stuff is fishy!Guy Pierre Poulin, St. Sauveur, QuebecI was a relatively early adopter to Facebook back in early-2005 as an undergraduate student at the University of Alberta. Since 2012 I have deleted as much data associated with my profile as possible and have not logged on or messaged anybody through Facebook.I had privacy concerns and it was a source of distraction and agitation. But I was also perceiving others in my peer group as moving swiftly ahead with their lives, in all aspects, whereas I had felt inadequate.Quitting Facebook about six years ago has been very positive decision. Its allowed for more focused deep work and to be more engaged fully with people.Ravendra Naidoo, OttawaThe last few weeks of angst about Facebook has not changed my mind about continuing to use social media. It is the way I stay in touch with others with like interests around the globe. I do not put anything on my FB page that is not for public consumption. I limit those who can view my information and posts to friends. I unfriend anyone who posts disgusting things and stop following people who post too much. My social media account is my enjoyment and pleasure. Why would I give that up?Louann Hansen, AlbertaI suspended my Facebook account a few months ago and never looked back. I really felt it was designed to be addictive and my brain couldnt resist. I still think about friends who I may have known a bit more about if I had stayed. But those thoughts also prompt me to reconnect with them in a more active way, like email, phone or in person. I can no longer vent about politics by posting. So I now realize that any anger I feel should either be ignored or focused on something more active than pressing post.Suspending Facebook made me much happier right away, an instant gratification that no social media activity ever gave me!Tim Wilbur, TorontoAlthough the weather doesnt seem much like it in many regions, it is April, and time for the latest post from Watching, The Timess guide to viewing, tailored for Netflix users in Canada. The recommendations include The Florida Project, Monty Python and the Holy Grail and Lost in Space, a Netflix revival of the 1960s television series. As always, please be aware that Netflix sometimes changes its mind about what it will show in Canada after Watching has compiled its viewers guide.Read: The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Canada in AprilAnd for those of you who are sticking with Facebook and its subsidiaries, The Timess new gender initiative is now on Instagram.In Opinion, Jesse Brown, the host of a podcast about the Canadian media, argues that Jordan Peterson, the University of Toronto psychologist and author who is seen as leading a challenge against political correctness and activism, is much more typical of Canadians than Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

Subscribe: iTunes | Google Play MusicIts not often that a debut memoir debuts at No. 1 on The Timess best-seller list. Tara Westovers  Educated traces her exceptional life, starting with her early years as the youngest of seven children in a survivalist family in southeastern Idaho. Her father was deeply suspicious of all participants in mainstream life, including doctors and teachers. Her mother used homemade herbal remedies for even the most gruesome injuries suffered by her children, like third-degree burns.There was a lot of beauty in my childhoood, Westover says on this weeks podcast. It was a quality of my childhood that everything had these two sides. Even though things could be really beautiful and peaceful one moment, they could also be a bit chaotic or maybe terrifying in another.Most remarkably, Westover, having never stepped into a classroom until she was 17, studied at Brigham Young University, Harvard and Cambridge, from which she received a Ph.D. in history. Wed had books in my house growing up, she says on the podcast, but we had never had anything like lectures. I had never written an essay for my mother. I had never taken an exam. Because I was working a lot as a kid, I just hadnt elected to read that much. When she arrived at B.Y.U., she had yet to hear of the Holocaust.Also on this weeks podcast, Mark Weinberg talks about Movie Nights With the Reagans: A Memoir; and Dwight Garner, Parul Sehgal and Jennifer Szalai discuss the books theyve recently reviewed. Pamela Paul is the host.We would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Reviews podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes.com.From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above.Or if youre on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series.1. Open your podcast app. Its a pre-loaded app called Podcasts with a purple icon.2. Search for the series. Tap on the search magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in Inside The New York Times Book Review and select it from the list of results.3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the subscribe button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives.4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, youll be able to stream the episode.On your Android phone or tablet:1. Open your podcast app. Its a pre-loaded app called Play Music with an orange-and-yellow icon.2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series, and select it from the list of results. You might have to scroll down to find the Podcasts search results.3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word subscribe to have new episodes sent to your phone for free.4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, youll be able to stream the episode.
BRUSSELS   Facebook has confirmed that the data of 2.7 million EU citizens were among those improperly used by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, the EU executive said on Friday.The European Commission said it received a letter from the social media giant late on Thursday and that it would press for more details, piling pressure on the firm that has lost more than $100 billion in market value in the last 10 days."Facebook confirmed to us that the data of overall up to 2.7 million Europeans or people in the EU to be more precise may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica," a Commission spokesman said."The letter also explains the steps Facebook has taken in response since."(Reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by Robert-Jan Bartunek)
LONDON   Facebook\'s Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer will answer questions from British lawmakers on the social media giant\'s recent data scandal on April 26, a parliamentary  committee said on Friday.Facebook Inc said on Wednesday the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous estimates.Lawmakers had asked Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg or another senior Facebook executive to explain to a parliamentary committee how the data got into Cambridge Analytica\'s hands. Committee chair Damien Collins has said it was "astonishing" that Zuckerberg was not prepared to answer questions himself.The Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee said it would also hear from former Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix on April 18, his second hearing, as well as from Aleksandr Kogan, a research associate at the centre of the scandal, on 24 April.(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison)
JAKARTA, Indonesia   Indonesian government said Friday it is investigating Facebook over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology said in a statement that it had asked the National Police chief to investigate possible violations of Indonesia\'s privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica.It said Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted.The ministry summoned the representatives late Thursday to deliver a warning letter.Communications Minister Rudiantara told reporters after the meeting that he has asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users\' personal information."We ask Facebook to provide us their audit results to see how the personal information is used by the Cambridge Analytica," said Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses a single name.Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari said they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government."Our main goal is to secure privacy data of all Facebook users," Hattari said after the meeting.Indonesia is the world\'s fourth-largest Facebook user with more than 115 million active members, and nearly 97 percent of them are on mobile devices.
BRUSSELS   The European Union said Friday that Facebook has told it that up to 2.7 million people in the 28-nation bloc may have been victim of improper data sharing involving political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg early next week to address the massive data leaks.The EU and Facebook will be looking at what changes the social media giant needs to make to better protect users and how the U.S. company must adapt to new EU data protection rules.Wigand said that EU data protection authorities will discuss over the coming days "a strong coordinated approach" on how to deal with the Facebook investigation.Separately, Italy\'s competition authority opened an investigation Friday into Facebook for allegedly misleading practices following revelations that the social network sold users\' data without consent.Authority chairman Giovanni Pitruzzella told Sky News24 that the investigation will focus on Facebook\'s claims on its home page that the service is free, without revealing that it makes money off users\' data.The investigation comes as Italian consumer advocate group Codacons prepares a U.S. class action against Facebook on behalf of Italians whose data was mined by Cambridge Analytica. Codacons said just 57 Italians downloaded the Cambridge Analytica app, but that an estimated 214,000 Italians could be affected because the data mined extended to also the users\' friends.A top Facebook privacy official is scheduled to meet with the authority later this month.___This story was earlier corrected to show that the EU call will take place with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg not with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
WASHINGTON   Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump\'s campaign played any role in providing it, three sources familiar with the inquiries said.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had deleted 70 Facebook accounts, 138 Facebook pages and 65 Instagram accounts that it said were "controlled" by the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a  Russian propaganda arm based in St. Petersburg.Last September, Facebook disclosed that it had suspended about 470 "inauthentic accounts" that it believed were "likely operated out of Russia" and had purchased 3,000 ads which "appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages."And on Wednesday, the social media platform said the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify on April 10 and 11 to Congress.In an indictment in February, Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating possible Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, charged IRA and 13 Russians with conspiring to interfere in U.S. politics and elections. Moscow denies tampering in U.S. elections and President Trump denies any coordination between his campaign and Russian officials.Among the issues investigators on the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee and Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee are digging into are whether IRA and other Russian organizations used any Facebook data, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Also, whether the use of such data had any impact on the U.S. election, and how much Facebook data may have been acquired by Russian entities, the sources said.Zuckerberg last month disclosed that in 2013, Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, who ran a company called Global Science Research (GSR), created a personality quiz app that was installed by about 300,000 Facebook users.Zuckerberg said that because of the way the Facebook platform worked at the time, this gave Kogan access to data of "tens of millions" of friends of users who took the quiz.On Wednesday, Mike Schroepfer, Facebook\'s Chief Technology Officer, acknowledged in a public posting that "the Facebook information of up to 87 million people - mostly in the US - may have been improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg said Facebook learned in 2015 that Kogan shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. The London-based consulting firm received millions of dollars from the Trump campaign and a political action committee supported by financier Robert Mercer, who supported Trump. Zuckerberg said Kogan "misused" Facebook\'s data.Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Wednesday that it "did not use any" data it acquired from Kogan\'s company in work related to the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. The firm added that it took legal action against GSR, and that it "immediately deleted the raw data" from its server when it learned from Facebook that the data had been "improperly obtained."Representative Adam Schiff, the House intelligence committee\'s top Democrat, sent Kogan a letter requesting correspondence and message traffic on his dealings with Cambridge Analytica and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, any material related to Russia, and that Kogan agree to an interview.Kogan said in an email to Reuters that he knows nothing about Facebook data being obtained by Russia and had never heard of the Internet Research Agency "until a few weeks ago."(Reporting By Mark Hosenball; editing by John Walcott and Grant McCool)
NEW YORK   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to face Congress on Tuesday, and No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg is on a media blitz as the company tries to contain swirling concerns about how it protects the data of its 2.2 billion members.Facing its most serious challenge in its 14-year-history, the social media juggernaut is seeking to maintain people\'s trust and avoid a user exodus.Here\'s a look at the scandal and what it means.___HOW DID THIS START?In mid-March, news broke that Cambridge Analytica, a London-based data-mining firm with ties to U.S. President Donald Trump, lifted the Facebook profiles of tens of millions of users without their permission in an attempt to sway elections.A former Cambridge Analytica employee, Christopher Wylie, said the firm got Facebook information through an app in order to build psychological profiles on a large portion of the U.S. electorate. That app vacuumed up information from users who gave the app permission to access their accounts  as well as additional data from their Facebook friends. About 270,000 people were paid to take part; tens of millions of their friends were also caught in the data dragnet.___WHY ARE PEOPLE MAD AT FACEBOOK?The crisis appears to have crystallized the anxiety many people feel about Facebook\'s enormous sway over daily life and its massive data trove.It comes on the heels of a revelation that Russia used the service to meddle in U.S. elections. It has also deepened concerns about the social media network\'s ability to avoid being exploited to spread propaganda and sway elections.And it has renewed questions about Facebook\'s ability to protect the privacy of its users while also exploiting their personal details to fuel its lucrative advertising business.Facebook\'s stock has fallen about 14 percent since the Cambridge Analytica story broke, more than the rest of the stock market has fallen . Some advertisers and users have left Facebook, although the company has said it hasn\'t been a significant number yet.___WHAT\'S THE SCOPE OF THIS SCANDAL?The number of people affected seems to keep ballooning. On Wednesday, Facebook said that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed  up from the 50 million disclosed in previously published reports.And Facebook said it believes most of its 2.2 billion users have had their public profile information scraped by "malicious actors" at some point. That\'s through a feature that lets people search for users through their email address or phone number. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says malicious actors have also used this technique. Outside experts believe they could have been identity thieves, scam artists or shady data brokers assembling marketing profiles.On top of that, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting phone call logs and text histories.___HOW HAS FACEBOOK RESPONDED?Zuckerberg and Sandberg were silent for five days following the initial report. Zuckerberg also was criticized for initially failing to apologize when he did break the silence.Since then, they\'ve been on a major offensive, apologizing on national TV and rolling out new privacy policies. In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world.___IS FACEBOOK CHANGING ITS PRACTICES?Facebook has outlined a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly. It\'s also restricting access that apps can have to data about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content. In addition, the company is removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address.Facebook is trying to be more upfront with users. On Monday, all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that.___WHY IS WASHINGTON INVOLVED?Congress has been interested in increasing regulation on Facebook due to its size and the myriad of issues it\'s facing. That includes data privacy, fake news and Russian meddling in the U.S. elections.Zuckerberg is set to testify on the privacy scandal Tuesday before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.Meanwhile, special counsel Robert Mueller is scrutinizing the connections between Trump\'s campaign and Cambridge Analytica so he\'ll be interested in whatever Zuckerberg has to say, too.___AP Business Writers Alexandra Olson and Barbara Ortutay in New York contributed to this report.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week, while an EU official plans to speak with Facebook\'s No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, over the company\'s data practices.Authorities around the world are investigating allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 87 million Facebook users to influence elections.Here\'s a look at the various investigations and requests for information.___IN THE UNITED STATES: CONGRESS: Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 in a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees and April 11 before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. This will be his first-ever testimony before Congress. Individual congressional members have also written Facebook seeking answers. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC\'s Bureau of Consumer Protection, says the agency\'s probe will include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC\'s probe may extend to Facebook\'s compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data. INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories have written a letter seeking details on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.___IN EUROPE: EUROPEAN UNION: The EU is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws. EU spokesman Christian Wigand says EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call next week with Sandberg. U.K. INFORMATION COMMISSION: Britain\'s information regulator has seized evidence from the London office of Cambridge Analytica. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way. U.K. PARLIAMENT: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, says his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He says Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." ITALY: Italy\'s competition authority has opened an investigation. Authority chairman Giovanni Pitruzzella told Sky News24 that the investigation will focus on Facebook\'s claims on its home page that the service is free, without revealing that it makes money off users\' data.___ELSEWHERE: AUSTRALIA: Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country\'s privacy law, which requires organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. INDIA: India\'s government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian users has been compromised. INDONESIA: The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology says it has asked the National Police to investigate possible violations.
JAKARTA   Indonesia\'s communication ministry said it has asked Facebook Inc to confirm whether personal data from any of its citizens was shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and is coordinating with police in case any laws were breached.Facebook said this week that the personal information of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica.The social media giant has said most of the users appeared to be in the United States, but there have been reports that they included data from more than one million Indonesians."There is an indication that Indonesian Facebook users are part of Cambridge Analytica\'s data case. We are requesting an exact figure," Communications Minister Rudiantara said in a statement sent to Reuters by text message.The minister said he had also sought reassurances from Facebook that it was complying with an Indonesian government decree on private data protection and a law on electronic information and transactions.Breaches of the law can include criminal sanctions with a maximum penalty of up to 12 years in jail or a fine of 12 billion rupiah ($870,000).Asked for comment, Facebook said in an emailed statement: "We are strongly committed to protecting people\'s information, and we intend to make all the same privacy controls and settings available everywhere."The company had taken "significant steps to make ourprivacy tools easier to find,restrict data access on Facebook, andmake our Terms and Data Policy clearer", it said.Facebook would "continue to work with privacy and information commissioners, and authorities, in Indonesia."The communications ministry said it was coordinating with Indonesia\'s National Police in case there was a need to take law enforcement action.National police spokesman Setyo Wasisto confirmed this.Indonesia had 69 million monthly active Facebook users as of the first quarter of 2014, ranking the country fourth globally after the United States, India and Brazil, company data showed.Indonesia threatened last year to block Facebook\'s WhatsApp Messenger, which is widely used in the country, unless obscene Graphics Interchange Format (GIF) images provided by third parties were removed.Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said on Thursday that the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.($1 = 13,775.0000 rupiah)(Reporting by Cindy Silviana; Additional reporting by Kanupriya Kapoor; Writing by Ed Davies; Editing by Christopher Cushing)
(Reuters) - A civil rights group and some consumer groups said on Friday they would file a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) alleging that Facebook Inc\'s use of facial recognition techniques threaten users\' privacy.The social media company has come under fire after it was disclosed that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump\'s presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of up to 87 million Facebook users.Facial recognition techniques are used by Facebook to help users tag their friends in photos on the social media platform."The scanning of facial images without express, affirmative consent is unlawful and must be enjoined," Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) said. (https://bit.ly/2GXGWQF)People can choose whether or not to allow this technology and they can change their mind at any time. When someone has their setting turned off, we don\'t use this technology to identify them in photos, Facebook Deputy Chief Privacy Officer Rob Sherman said.In 2011, Facebook had settled privacy-related charges with the FTC, which were brought about by EPIC\'s complaints. (https://bit.ly/1U44BfY)EPIC and the consumer groups said on Friday that Facebook\'s use of facial recognition tools also violates terms of the 2011 settlement.(Reporting by Muvija M in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)
NEW YORK   The Latest on Facebook\'s privacy scandal (all times local):2:30 p.m.Facebook has been secretly deleting some messages CEO Mark Zuckerberg sent through its Messenger application, an option that hasn\'t been available to most of the social network\'s 2.2 billion users.The company says it has been removing Zuckerberg\'s messages from the inboxes of various people for several years. The recipients of Zuckerberg\'s messages weren\'t informed before that happened. Facebook is making the acknowledgement Friday after TechCrunch first reported the tactic.Facebook says it began erasing the messages of Zuckerberg and a few other top executives in 2014 after computer hackers obtained and released emails from Sony Pictures executives. The Sony messages included disparaging remarks about movie stars and other people in the entertainment industry.Although the ability to automatically delete sent texts hadn\'t been previously available, Facebook says it now plans to make it available to all users. The company apologized for not doing so sooner.The development comes as Facebook faces questions about trust in light of one of its worst privacy scandals in its 14-year history.___2 p.m.Facebook says it will require advertisers who want to run either political ads or so-called "issue ads" which may not endorse a specific candidate or party but which discuss political topics to verify themselves.Facebook is working to strengthen its system ahead of this year\'s U.S. midterm elections and other elections around the world. The company has already required political ads to verify who is paying for them and where the advertiser is located. The requirement for issue ads is new.In addition, Facebook says it will also require the administrators of pages with a "large number" of followers to verify their identities and addresses. The company did not specify what number of followers would trigger the requirement.The moves are intended to clamp down on fake pages and accounts such as those used to disrupt the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S. and elsewhere.___1:15 p.m.Facebook will begin alerting users whose private data may have been compromised in the Cambridge Analytica scandal starting Monday.All 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice on their feeds titled "Protecting Your Information." It will have a link to information on which Facebook apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps.In addition, 87 million users whose data might have been shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of that fact.The political data-mining firm allegedly used ill-gotten Facebook user data in its efforts to sway elections. Cambridge Analytica says it only ever received data on 30 million users.___9:40 a.m.Sheryl Sandberg says Facebook should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.The company\'s chief operating officer told NBC\'s "Today" show that Facebook is now undertaking that audit. Sandberg said that at the time, Facebook received legal assurances that Cambridge Analytica had deleted the improperly obtained information.She says, "What we didn\'t do is the next step of an audit and we\'re trying to that now."The company is facing a global backlash over the improper data-sharing scandal. Hearings over the issue are scheduled in the U.S., and the European Union is considering what actions to take against the company.___6:45 a.m.The European Union says that Facebook has told it that up to 2.7 million people in the 28-nation bloc may have been victim of improper data sharing involving political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said Friday that EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call with Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, early next week to address the massive data leaks.The EU and Facebook will be looking at what changes the social media giant needs to make to better protect users and how the U.S. company must adapt to new EU data protection rules.Wigand said that EU data protection authorities will discuss over the coming days "a strong coordinated approach" on how to deal with the Facebook investigation.___5 a.m.Civil society and rights groups in Myanmar say Facebook has failed to adequately act against online hate speech that incites violence against the country\'s Muslim minority.Phandeeyar, a digital innovation lab, and five other groups wrote an open letter to Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, challenging his contention in a recent interview that the social media platform had effectively combated hate speech targeting the Rohingya community that\'s being persecuted in western Myanmar.Htaike Htaike Aung, executive director of one of the groups, Myanmar ICT for Development Organization, says Facebook has been a useful tool for people in Myanmar to exercise freedom of expression, but it had failed to effectively enforce rules to make it a safe community for all.___4:15 a.m.Indonesia says Facebook is being investigated over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology says in a statement Friday it has asked the National Police to investigate possible violations of Indonesia\'s privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica.It says Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted.The ministry has summoned the representatives late Thursday and asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users\' personal information.Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari says they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government.
___Workers benefit as US businesses struggle to fill jobsWASHINGTON (AP)  More American employers are struggling to find enough workers to fill jobs, which might have contributed to slower hiring last month. And workers are benefiting in the meantime: More people who had given up looking for work are renewing their job hunts, more employees are confident enough to quit to look for other jobs and pay is gradually picking up. U.S. employers added just 103,000 jobs in March, the Labor Department said Friday, the fewest in six months.___Powell says Fed expects to stick with gradual rate hikesCHICAGO (AP)  Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade fight with China could affect the U.S. economy.___Stocks dive as US proposes more China tariffs; Dow falls 572NEW YORK (AP)  Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. That came with the U.S. considering duties on an additional $100 billion in goods imported from China.___China vows to 'counterattack' US as trade spat worsensWASHINGTON (AP)  China vows to 'counterattack with great strength' if President Donald Trump hikes tariffs on an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating trade dispute between the world's two largest economies. Trump's surprise directive for the U.S. trade representative to consider more tariffs came a day after Beijing announced planned increases in duties on U.S. soybeans, aircraft and other items in response to American tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.___Did Cambridge Analytica get your data? You'll know soonNEW YORK (AP)  Facebook will begin alerting users whose private data may have been compromised in the Cambridge Analytica scandal starting Monday. All 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice with a link to information on which Facebook apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. In addition, 87 million users whose data might have been shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of that fact.___Nine West files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protectionNEW YORK (AP)  Nine West Holdings Inc. has become the latest retailer to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in an attempt to restructure its debt. The shoe chain says the move was made to help with the sale of its Nine West and Bandolino footwear and handbag business and so it can focus more on its profitable businesses, which include One Jeanswear Group, The Jewelry Group, the Kasper Group and Anne Klein.___Boss buzzing you after hours? NYC might let you say buzz offNEW YORK (AP)  Technology that offered the promise of freedom from the confines of an office has instead become a ball and chain in its own right, blurring the lines between work hours and well, any other hours. A New York City Council member wants to put a stop to that with a proposal that would bar employers from requiring employees to check and respond to non-emergency electronic communications sent outside of regular work hours.___US consumer debt rose a slight 3.3 percent in FebruaryWASHINGTON (AP)  US consumers increased their debt by just 3.3 percent in February, the weakest monthly change in nearly seven years despite an otherwise healthy economy. The Federal Reserve said Friday that consumer borrowing rose $10.6 billion in March to nearly $3.9 trillion. The gains have slowed sharply from a 10.3 percent jump in debt levels in November. February's increase was the smallest since August 2011, when consumer credit levels declined.___Foreign worker saves 7 lives as Hawaii fishing boat sinksHONOLULU (AP)  A federal contractor who was aboard the fishing vessel Princess Hawaii when it sank off the Big Island credits a Vietnamese crewman with saving his life. Khanh Huynh was acting as the de facto captain of the doomed fishing boat. The 28-year-old fisherman is one of hundreds of foreigners who work aboard American-owned fishing vessels in Hawaii. The workers lack visas and live on the boats for the duration of their contracts  often for years at a time.___The Standard & Poor's 500 lost 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76. The Nasdaq composite slid 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks dipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.Benchmark U.S. crude dropped $1.48, or 2.3 percent, to $62.06 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost $1.22, or 1.8 percent, to $67.11 per barrel in London. In other energy trading, wholesale gasoline dipped 3 cents to $1.95 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.96 a gallon. Natural gas rose 3 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Each week, Kevin Roose, technology columnist at The New York Times, discusses developments in the tech industry, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Its hard to imagine now, but at one point, long ago, Facebook did not monopolize the entire tech news cycle  a heady and innocent era when you could read an entire days news without encountering the words Cambridge Analytica or third-party developers.I confess that, like many of you, I have been obsessed with the fallout from Facebooks latest privacy scandal, to the point that I had a stress dream that I overslept and missed covering Mark Zuckerbergs testimony on Capitol Hill next week. (Related: I need to get out more, and possibly take up yoga.)But despite the wall-to-wall news of the past few weeks, lots of important things are happening in the tech world that dont involve Facebook. So lets run down a few of them?I thought this article by Scott Shane and Daisuke Wakabayashi, about thousands of Google employees who are protesting the companys involvement in a Pentagon A.I. program, was fascinating on a number of levels.First, its an unusually clear example of the double-edged nature of artificial intelligence. Google has spent billions of dollars teaching computers to play Go, drive cars and translate languages on the fly. The company has been extremely proud of its advances in machine learning, even releasing some of its tools to the public via open-source frameworks like TensorFlow, which provides a fascinating contrast to whats happening inside the company now. When its image-classification algorithms are used to spot tumors on radiology scans, Google puts out a press release, and engineers cheer. But when these same types of algorithms are used by the Pentagon to improve the accuracy of drone strikes, its a moral outrage.Yonatan Zunger, a former Google engineer, had an interesting op-ed the other day in The Boston Globe about the reckonings that various scientific fields have undergone, as the scientists who develop powerful tools begin to see how those tools can be used for evil purposes. He used the examples of the atomic bomb, which forever changed the way that physics was taught in universities, and dynamite, which made chemists aware of the consequences of their expertise. Its not hard to see A.I. as a similar kind of turning point for computer scientists  and if it is, the Google-Pentagon issue might be the first of many similar fights.Second, the Google-Pentagon incident is a revealing story about the leverage that Silicon Valley engineers have over their companies. Because the labor market for engineers in the Bay Area is so tight, and because companies live and die on their ability to attract and retain talent, these employees have much more say in how a company like Google governs itself than, say, regulators or outside activists. If an antiwar group protests outside Googles headquarters, its an annoyance. But if 3,000 engineers walk out, its a crisis. And as the tech industry goes through its moral reckoning, executives of these companies should bear in mind that their biggest risk isnt regulation, its rebellion from within.Ive also been following the feud between Amazon and President Trump this week, which has led to a bull market for explainers about the business models of the United States Postal Service. My colleague Nick Wingfield wrote that, contra President Trump, the available evidence suggests that Amazon has been a boon to the Postal Service. But Voxs Jen Kirby added that, because the exact details of the contract between Amazon and the Postal Service arent known, its possible that President Trump is partly right: Maybe the U.S.P.S. isnt actually making the best deals. Meanwhile, Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute, says President Trump is actually right that Amazon is ripping off the federal government through its U.S.P.S. contracts.Im a nonexpert on the subject of parcel shipping, so my opinion on Amazons the -U.S.P.S. probably isnt worth one first-class stamp. But its possible, and maybe plausible, that all of these analyses are partly correct  that the Postal Service benefits from Amazons dominance, and that Amazon is getting a sweetheart deal that should be re-examined. Anyway, Amazons stock dipped sharply after President Trump started tweeting angry things about it, but it has now recovered to its pre-tweetstorm levels, meaning that investors may be as confused as I am.Last, and most obvious, the horrific shooting at YouTube on Tuesday, which injured three people and left the company badly shaken. As more details have emerged on Nasim Najafi Aghdam, whom the police have identified as the attacker, it has become increasingly clear that this was a new kind of violence  an act of revenge by an internet creator against the platform that she felt controlled her economic destiny. As my colleagues Nellie Bowles and Jack Nicas wrote, Ms. Aghdams complaints echoed what a wide range of YouTube posters  from self-described animal rights activists like her to right-wing political provocateurs  have increasingly been protesting over the last year.Its a tragic reminder that social platforms arent just websites anymore. Theyre powerful economies unto themselves, and even seemingly minor policy decisions can alter the lives of millions of people, a few of whom might be disturbed enough to act on their darkest impulses.Kevin Roose writes a column called The Shift and is a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter here: @kevinroose.
SAN FRANCISCO  For months, Facebooks critics  ranging from Silicon Valley executives to Washington politicians  have been urging the company to do a better job of identifying who is buying political ads and creating pages about hot-button topics on its social media sites.On Friday, just days before its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is expected to testify before Congress, Facebook said it had started forcing people who want to buy political or issue ads to reveal their identities and verify where they are.Mr. Zuckerberg announced the move in a post on Facebook. He said this verification was meant to prevent foreign interference in elections, like the ads and posts from so-called Russian trolls before and after the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Zuckerberg added that he supported a  Senate bill, the Honest Ads Act, that would bring political advertising on the internet more in line with what is required on broadcast television. One of the sponsors of the bill, which has some bipartisan support but is still in the committee stage, said that statement was a reversal from what Facebook had earlier indicated.In the coming months, Facebook will start verifying the identity and location of people who run pages  which everyone from sports teams and celebrities to partisan groups use to promote information  that have large followings, Mr. Zuckerberg said. The company would not specifically say what would make it ask a pages creator for an identity, though it said the number of followers would be one factor.Facebook will also soon start clearly labeling political ads and providing more information about them, like who paid for them.Facebook is under increasing pressure to crack down on misinformation before this falls hotly contested midterm elections. And scrutiny of social media has become even more intense since the Justice Department charged 13 Russians and three companies in a February indictment that revealed a sophisticated network designed to subvert the 2016 election and to support the Trump campaign.Facebook recently removed 270 accounts associated with Russias Internet Research Agency, the troll factory that spread misinformation before and after the 2016 election.These steps by themselves wont stop all people trying to game the system, Mr. Zuckerberg said in his post. But they will make it a lot harder for anyone to do what the Russians did during the 2016 election and use fake accounts and pages to run ads.The new policy for Facebook and for Instagram, which Facebook owns, covers only a part of what appears on those social media outlets. Most regular pages and accounts will still not require verification.Many of the deliberately misleading or outright false news stories on Facebook are shared among regular users, and they often come from residents of the United States. The company generally doesnt regulate the content of posts, including their veracity, unless they violate its community standards, which prohibit bullying, pornography and threats, among other things.Facebooks algorithms also tend to magnify the visibility of sensationalist posts because they tend to draw more clicks, reactions and comments.Effective immediately, people who want to run Facebook ads regarding political candidates or issues in the United States need to submit proof of a government-issued identification. They also have to have a mailing address in the United States, though some people think it would be easy for foreign agents to set up one.Facebook will mail a unique code for the advertiser to enter for verification, Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook, said. Advertisers will also have to disclose what candidate, organization or business they represent, he said in an email.The program will be rolled out to the rest of the world in the coming months, the company said.Were committed to getting this done in time for the critical months before the 2018 elections, Mr. Zuckerberg said in his post.Initially, Mr. Zuckerberg scoffed at the idea that misinformation on Facebook could have played a role in the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. But starting last fall, the company was faced with  and eventually acknowledged  a series of revelations that Russian agents bought ads or spread misinformation on its social media outlets.Facebook said that between 2015 and 2017, 11.4 million Americans saw ads from the Internet Research Agency and more than 126 million users were likely to have seen the unpaid posts from the groups Facebook pages.Law enforcement officials say Russian agents, looking to stir discord, posed as Americans with Facebook pages that represented a range of political viewpoints, from Blacktivist to Heart of Texas.The misinformation issue affected many of the companys more than two billion users around the world. Just a day before Facebook announced its ad changes, civil society groups in Myanmar criticized Mr. Zuckerberg, arguing that he had mischaracterized his companys effectiveness at detecting and quashing messages encouraging violence in the country.Facebooks acknowledgment of its problems has accelerated in recent weeks, after revelations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked with the Trump campaign, had improperly harvested the data of up to 87 million Facebook users.Mr. Zuckerberg is set to testify before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary Committees on Tuesday and the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.He and Facebooks chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, have gone on a charm offensive ahead of the hearings. Mr. Zuckerberg spent an hour taking questions from reporters on Wednesday, and Ms. Sandberg has sat for a series of broadcast interviews this week. Both executives signaled that they knew the company had a problem that would not be easily fixed.Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook would hire more people for the verifications, but did not say how many. Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president of advertising, and Alex Himel, its vice president of local business, said in a separate post that the company would also rely on software to help find advertisers that should have gone through the authorizations process but did not.They added that Facebook was also hoping its users would report political ads that didnt have proper disclosures.Facebook will also begin adding political ad labels to such posts and will allow users to see who was behind political ads, the basic demographic information about who saw those ads and other ads run by those people, Mr. Goldman and Mr. Himel said. Facebook began testing its verifications over the past several days, and people will begin seeing the label and additional information in the U.S. later this spring, they said.Testing of the political ad disclosures has already begun in Canada and will roll out globally this summer, the company said.The policy builds on an announcement in October that Facebook would start verifying advertisers running election-related ads. Critics said that would not capture many of the ads run by Russian agents around the 2016 election, which focused on issues rather than specific elections. One Internet Research Agency ad, for example, featured a Confederate flag and said, The South will rise again!Facebooks move on Friday would address those issue ads. Most of the Russian ads focused on divisive political issues like guns, L.G.B.T. rights, immigration and racial issues, Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said in a statement.Thats why todays announcement by Facebook is so important, he added.Facebook hadnt always been on board with such disclosures. In October, Mr. Warner co-sponsored the Honest Ads Act, which would require tech companies to disclose who is behind political ads on their sites. Facebook told congressional aides that it would struggle to comply with the legislation because it often struggled to understand whether an ad was political or commercial, and that the sheer number of Facebook ads also complicated that task.Rachel Cohen, a spokeswoman for Mr. Warner, said on Friday that his office had met with Facebook officials regarding the bill several times and that they hadnt supported it.Another co-sponsor of the bill, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, applauded Facebook on Friday for voluntarily complying with the bills proposals, but added in a statement that a patchwork of voluntary measures from tech companies isnt going to cut it.Facebooks political-ad disclosures would in some ways do more than what is expected of television networks because the company would allow users to see all of the ads run by a group, said Travis Ridout, a Washington State University professor and co-director of the Wesleyan Media Project, which tracks political advertising.Still, Facebooks verification plans dont seem foolproof, Mr. Ridout said. Its certainly a great step to take and helps to solve the problem of foreign influence, he said. But I would not be surprised if people get creative and find ways around those requirements.
(Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department said on Friday it might formally enter a lawsuit accusing Harvard University of discriminating against Asian-American applicants as the agency probes its admissions policies for potential civil rights violations.The department disclosed its plan in a brief urging a federal judge in Boston to not allow the Ivy League school to file pre-trial court papers and documents provisionally under seal.Harvard had cited the need to protect the privacy of applicants and students as well as the inner workings of its admissions process, arguing that various documents should be initially filed under seal pending the judge\'s review.The Justice Department said it opposed Harvard\'s request, joining Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA), the group behind the case, which has urged the disclosure of "powerful" evidence showing Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard is violating Title VI of the Civil Rights Act."Harvard College is responsible for protecting the confidential and highly sensitive personal information that prospective students - none of whom asked to be involved in this dispute - entrust to us every year in their applications," Harvard spokeswoman Rachael Dane said in a statement."We are committed to safeguarding their privacy while also ensuring that the public has the access that it is entitled to under the law," Dane said.William Consovoy, a lawyer for SFFA, declined to comment.The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled universities may use affirmative action to help minority applicants get into college. Conservatives have said such programs can hurt white people and Asian-Americans.The Justice Department under Republican President Donald Trump has been investigating a complaint by more than 60 Asian-American organizations which say Harvard\'s policies are discriminatory because they limit the acceptance of Asian-Americans."The public funds Harvard at a cost of millions of dollars each year, and thus has a paramount interest in any proof of these allegations, Harvard\'s responses to them, and the Court\'s resolution of this dispute," Justice Department lawyers wrote in Friday\'s filing.The department said that while it had obtained much of the case\'s evidence through its own separate probe, it wanted to review the court records as it considers whether to file a "statement of interest" arguing a position in the case.A hearing before U.S. District Judge Allison Burroughs is scheduled for Tuesday.Harvard says its admissions policies comply with U.S. laws and that it has worked to increase the financial aid it offers to ensure economic, as well as racial, diversity in its classes.(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Richard Chang and James Dalgleish)
(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a speech on the economic outlook that did not address the economic risks of rising trade tensions.In his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank on February 5, Powell said the labor market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rebound in the coming months.KEY POINTS:* Fed\'s Powell says he and his colleagues believe U.S. economy will require further gradual interest rates increases* Powell: risks to economic outlook are roughly balanced* Powell makes no mention of trade tensions in speech* Powell: inflation could rise to unwelcome levels if Fed waited for inflation and employment to hit its goals; sees 12-month inflation readings moving up notably this springCOMMENTS:CHAD MORGANLANDER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, WASHINGTON CROSSING ADVISORS, FLORHAM PARK, NEW JERSEY(Powell)\'s going to ignore (trade tensions between the U.S. and China) until it affects the financial system overall. If that was to happen, then he would walk back the rhetoric and signal a more patient view not only for rate hikes but balance sheet readjustment. Yes, the current trade dispute does have a risk, but it doesn\'t have an immediate economic impact, hence the reason he\'s continuing a steady drum beat of rates going higher.Investors are holding on to the hope that the Fed will shift in a rapid manner. What Powell is signaling to market participants is that the Fed is not swayed or rattled by equity market volatility at this point. That\'s the reason for the additional selling pressure. The Fed has the intestinal fortitude to wait until it creeps into credit conditions and causes financial stress. It used to be that any time there was volatility that the Fed would come to the rescue of the system. This looks like a subtle message to market participants that they\'re willing to accept much more volatility within equity markets.CHARLIE RIPLEY, SENIOR INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, ALLIANZ INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, MINNEAPOLIS:He\'s sticking to the script in terms of further gradual rate hikes or the pace of rate hikes remaining the same. Obviously the market has been somewhat alluding to his fourth hike this year which is not quite in the Fed\'s forecast yet. For the most part Powell and the Fed are holding that back for the time being until we see a further trend of inflation moving up. I think he\'s somewhat alluded to that by saying later this spring we should see inflation numbers pick up. If they do change their stance on how many hikes we see this year, we\'ll see that in June or later this year.The whole trade thing in our view is really, you know they obviously will have an impact if these tariffs go into place, but nothing has been put in place yet and a lot of it is headlines talking back to each other. Hopefully we\'ll see some more formal talks between China and the U.S. and get some progress there. But I think in large part this is kind of seeing who is going to back down first. We haven\'t seen any of the tariffs put in place. There is some uncertainty to that and I think equities are reflecting that. Until we can get some of those issues resolved, I think the markets, in general, are going to remain jittery for the time being.ALAN LANCZ, PRESIDENT, ALAN B. LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC., IN TOLEDO, OHIO.It wasnt negative. He said were not going to have four increases, were going to see how it goes, and I think thats reassuring for investors. But I dont think thats on their mind right now.I think it will be this trade talk until maybe earnings. I think that is going to be the dominant factor in the markets.As we approach the weekend, people want to reduce exposure just for what else might come over the weekend as far as on the tweet front or across the headlines. I dont think (the speech) was a big catalyst on the market movement even though it kind of filtered back down since then. I think it is more people unwinding positions and not wanting to go long for the weekend more than what Jay Powell said.RICK MECKLER, PRESIDENT OF INVESTMENT FIRM LIBERTYVIEW CAPITAL MANAGEMENT IN JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY"I don\'t think Powell\'s statement helps because higher rates are ultimately competition for equity investments. However, he\'s been incredibly consistent and there\'s really no surprise in what he said. Maybe some people thought the weak numbers this morning would cause some reflection but the Fed has been on this path and there\'s been no deviation.""On Friday\'s there\'s always concern about what can happen over the weekend. If the market is down it often tends to accelerate on Friday. Investors don\'t want to take the risk of coming in Monday after having something happen over the week."This administration puts out so many controversial statements. The market seemed to ignore for a while but more recently, I don\'t know if its a cumulative effect, investors have become more concerned by it."KARL SCHAMOTTA, DIRECTOR OF GLOBAL PRODUCT AND MARKET STRATEGY, CAMBRIDGE GLOBAL PAYMENTS, TORONTO."It seems like a wait and see approach. I am not seeing a big shift in language here. It certainly confirms market expectations going in. Not really seeing a real change in  strategy. As far as currencies are concerned we are not seeing a lot of momentum in either direction.""The Fed is very committed to looking through current market volatility and to really taking that careful, gradual approach to determining what trade war risks might do to the U.S. economy. That sort of touches on the press conference that followed the last decision during which he was very much emphasizing that trade risks could impact business confidence, but that was difficult to see from a monetary policy perspective. There wasnt anything the Fed could do to model that impact. I think what they are trying to do is really ignore all of that and focus on whats happening from a fundamentals perspective.""Couple of weeks ago we saw a lot of concerns in the market about volatility spiking and the Fed very much looked through that and looked through to the conditions impacting the real economy. And so there hasnt been an elevated level of concern about that either."JIM PAULSEN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, THE LEUTHOLD GROUP, MINNEAPOLIS:The market wouldnt be acting nearly as negative to all the news in general if it (were not) in a vulnerable state already. Last year, we had bad company news, Trump tweets, threats of this and that, the market just went right up. This year, every bit of news is impacting the market, good or bad. Its moving it all over. It really says that the market has a lot more vulnerabilities this year. Its got higher values, financial liquidity is contracting, you came into the year with a little too much optimism, you got rising rates going on, you got rising inflation fears. Its more about that than it is about the trade war.JUAN PEREZ, CURRENCY TRADER, TEMPUS CONSULTING, WASHINGTON: "It is currently a bipolar market for currencies. On the one hand, Powell is saying that the U.S. economy is doing well and we\'re getting these rate increases, even though they\'re at a gradual pace, but the FX market is simply ignoring him. The reason for this is that the FX market is more focused on the trade dispute with China, which has a far greater chance of derailing U.S. growth when you think about the consequences on the economy."JOHN CANAVAN, MARKET STRATEGIST, STONE & MCCARTHY RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, NEW YORK:From a market perspective, there isnt really anything new. He read the party line: further rate hikes are coming and what is the optimum path. They dont want to go too fast or too slowly. Another item he pointed out is that the year-over-year inflation figures will be moving higher later this year from one-off factors. I think he is preparing the market the idea of a bit higher inflation. I think he wants to do it so the market wont over-react to it."There is a great deal of uncertainty with trade. There is no clear direction from the President here. So far nothing has been in place yet. It might be weeks or months before it happens. Also there is also time for negotiation. So it might not be the time (for Powell) to address the issue around tariffs. The trade comments from the U.S. and China are being taken by markets with a bit more grain of salt than a week ago. The individual threats are not as big of a factor. From a fixed income perspective barring any new jawboning on tariffs, supply and inflation data may play a bigger role next week.MARK VITNER, SENIOR ECONOMIST, WELLS FARGO, CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA:"The speech is in the middle of the fairway. There is no question the labor market is improving and the current pace of job growth will reduce the unemployment rate along to what the Fed has been expecting. The big decision is whether the Fed will go three times or four times this year. It\'s a real close call. A lot hangs on the trade discussion. If it ends well, the market will quickly rebound. There won\'t be slower global economic growth. We might end up with faster economic growth."SUBADRA RAJAPPA, HEAD OF U.S. RATES STRATEGY, SOCIETE GENERALE, NEW YORK:"It seems like from reading the headlines that there aren\'t any major changes in the outlook from the Fed\'s perspective. It\'s clearly not overheating or concerns about wage pressures. He seems to be affirming a gradual, steady approach to tightening monetary policy."It\'s a contrast between what Treasury Secretary Mnuchin said that the (stock) selloff is not necessarily on trade wars but more on economic fundamentals, and Powell seems to be suggesting the opposite that they are taking a very even handed approach to monetary policy normalization. It\'s gradual, things are progressing slowly but surely towards the potential for continued rate hikes in a gradual fashion. To me there are really no surprises here."He\'s done a beautiful job both in his press conference as well as in this speech today in not saying anything that\'s going to rattle the market. From that perspective I think he gets high marks."MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: S&P 500 extended losses to the day\'s low; last down about 1.8 pctBONDS: U.S. Treasury yields lower but little changed from earlier levels; 2s <US2YT=RR> at 2.278 pct; 10s <US10YT=RR> 2.783 pct; 2-10 spread flattens to 50.6 basis pointsFOREX: The U.S. dollar index drops to the day\'s lowRATE FUTURES: December fed fund futures contract <FFZ8> gains 1 basis point; implied yield 2.07 pct
