
SAN FRANCISCO  Worried about someone hacking the next election? Bothered by the way Facebook and Equifax coughed up your personal information?The technology industry has an answer called the blockchain  even for the problems the industry helped to create.The first blockchain was created in 2009 as a new kind of database for the virtual currency Bitcoin, where all transactions could be stored without any banks or governments involved.Now, countless entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking to use similar databases  often independent of Bitcoin  to solve some of the most intractable issues facing society.People feel the need to move away from something like Facebook and toward something that allows them to have ownership of their own data, said Ryan Shea, a co-founder of Blockstack, a New York company working with blockchain technology.The creator of the World Wide Web, Tim Berners-Lee, has said the blockchain could help reduce the big internet companies influence and return the web to his original vision. But he has also warned that it could come with some of the same problems as the web.Blockchain allows information to be stored and exchanged by a network of computers without any central authority. In theory, this egalitarian arrangement also makes it harder for data to be altered or hacked.Investors, for one, see potential. While the price of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies have plummeted this year, investment in other blockchain projects has remained strong. In the first three months of 2018, venture capitalists put half a billion dollars into 75 blockchain projects, more than double what they raised in the last quarter of 2017, according to data from Pitchbook.Most of the projects have not gotten beyond pilot testing, and many are aimed at transforming mundane corporate tasks like financial trading and accounting. But some experiments promise to transform fundamental things, like the way we vote and the way we interact online.There is just so much it can do, said Bradley Tusk, a former campaign manager for Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, who has recently thrown his weight behind several blockchain projects. I love the fact that you can transmit data, information and choices in a way that is really hard to hack  really hard to disrupt and that can be really efficient.Mr. Tusk, the founder of Tusk Strategies, is an investor in some large virtual currency companies. He has also supported efforts aimed at getting governments to move voting online to blockchain-based systems. Mr. Tusk argues that blockchains could make reliable online voting possible because the votes could be recorded in a tamper-proof way.Everything is moving toward people saying, I want all the benefits of the internet, but I want to protect my privacy and my security, he said. The only thing I know that can reconcile those things is the blockchain.Blockchains assemble data into so-called blocks that are chained together using complicated math. Since each block is built off the last one and includes information like time stamps, any attempt to go back and alter existing data would be highly complicated. In the original Bitcoin blockchain, the data in the blocks is information about Bitcoin wallets and transactions. The blocks of data in the Bitcoin blockchain  and most of its imitators  are kept by a peer-to-peer computer network.The novel structure allows people to set up online accounts that can securely hold valuable personal information without having to trust a single entity that can hoard, abuse or lose control of the data, as happened with Facebook and the consumer credit reporting agency Equifax.A range of corporations and governments are trying to apply the blockchain model  for projects from the prosaic to the radical. Various departments of the United Nations now have blockchain experiments looking to tackle climate change, the delivery of humanitarian aid and the identity challenges faced by stateless people. Coca-Cola and the State Department recently announced a project to register foreign employees on a blockchain in an attempt to eliminate forced labor.These experiments have drawn skepticism from Bitcoin aficionados, who say blockchains are being applied to problems that could be more easily solved with old-fashioned databases.Other critics say the rapid pace of blockchain development could lead to the same problem facing the broader tech industry: a willingness to disrupt and overthrow old systems before the replacement has been thoroughly tested.The blockchain industry is ready and waiting to say, Yes, we are the solution, and they have every incentive to do so, said Angela Walch, a research fellow at the Center for Blockchain Technologies at University College London. But somebody needs to ask the question: Is it actually better? Is it measurably better?Many blockchain projects opened themselves to criticism and regulatory scrutiny by raising money through so-called initial coin offerings last year. These fund-raising campaigns often brought in tens of millions of dollars in minutes with little regulatory oversight.But new blockchain efforts continue apace, motivated in no small part by concerns about the emergence of internet giants like Facebook and YouTube.Most of the biggest internet companies make their money from collecting personal information and using it to sell targeted advertisements. This kind of massive data collection makes them vulnerable to hackers and outsiders who want to leverage the data  as was evident when Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to 50 million Facebook profiles. And start-ups are using the blockchain in an attempt to pry control of all that data out of their hands.Blockstack has built a way to record the basic details about your identity on a blockchain database and then use that identity to set up accounts with other online projects that are built on top of it.The animating force behind the project is that users  rather than Blockstack or any other company  would end up in control of all the data they generate with any online service.Blockstack is one of several blockchain-based projects hoping to create a new generation of online services that dont rely on having unfettered access to our personal information.The idea has gained enough steam that in the days after news of Facebooks relationship with Cambridge Analytica broke, Twitter was filled with people calling for blockchain-based alternatives.As Facebook is collapsing we need to replace it with a blockchain based, decentralized platform! one user, @GerdMoeBehrens, wrote.#blockchain WE NEED U NOW!!! wrote another, @andymartin46.But Mr. Berners-Lee has warned that the development of the blockchain could come with unintended consequences, like more activity from criminals operating outside the oversight of governments.Even blockchain advocates say the hype has conditioned people to think that good answers are close at hand, when it could take five or 10 years for the technology to properly develop.In fact, most blockchain projects are still plagued by concerns about privacy. For example, the widely used Bitcoin blockchain allows certain data  details of the transactions between users  to be seen by anyone, even if other data  the users identities  remains obscured. Voting start-ups have solved this by encrypting the data before putting it on a blockchain, but there are questions about whether this will solve other privacy concerns.Blockchain-based accounts also rely on users keeping their own passwords or private keys, which people are famously bad at doing. With Bitcoin, when people lose their private key they lose access to the money in their account  if someone lost the private key to a blockchain-based online account, they could lose access to their identity.Were not saying that tomorrow you can flip the switch and a blockchain is going to solve these problems, said Michael Casey, a co-author of The Truth Machine, a new book on the blockchain. Whats important is how it opens the door to a new way of thinking about the problems we face.
SAN FRANCISCO  Ryan Knight, a Democratic activist in Los Angeles, called for a boycott of Apple in February because it hadnt responded to calls to delete a channel from the National Rifle Association from its streaming-video service after the Parkland, Fla., school shooting.Dear @Apple, Mr. Knight wrote on Twitter. Your silence is deafening. #BoycottApple. More than 330 accounts retweeted the message.How did Mr. Knight post the message? He used an iPhone.As the reach and influence of Silicon Valleys tech giants have increased, so have the calls to boycott their products and services. The problem is that pulling off a boycott is not exactly easy: The tech companies products are so pervasive that they are difficult to avoid.That issue was crystallized in recent weeks with Facebook. Hundreds of people deleted their accounts after revelations that the political-data firm Cambridge Analytica had improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Yet many of those same people promptly instructed their friends to find them on Instagram, which is owned by  you guessed it  Facebook.Its exactly the same company. I realize its ridiculous, said Sachi Cunningham, a documentary filmmaker in San Francisco who deactivated her Facebook last week and shifted her attention to Instagram, where, she said, the conversation is less toxic.Ms. Cunningham, who has freelanced for The New York Times, added that she had immediately begun missing Facebook as a research tool for her documentaries. I dont know if I can get out of the ecosystem, she said.People looking to punish major tech companies by abstaining from their products have been bedeviled time and again by the difficulty in escaping them. After Google fired an engineer, James Damore, for criticizing the companys diversity efforts last year, hundreds of people on social media called for a boycott of the company. But an analysis of nearly 7,000 tweets using the hashtag #BoycottGoogle since August showed that 26 percent of the tweets came from devices using Googles Android software, according to Keyhole, a social-media research firm.One Twitter account named Milton Prescott tweeted on Aug. 8: Googles firing of James Damore proves his point completely. I will no longer be using Google for any services. #BoycottGoogle. The tweet came from an Android device. A message to the account went unreturned.Even Breitbart is running into the same dilemma. The conservative website is planning to host a panel on how tech platforms like Facebook suppress conservative voices  and it said it would livestream the discussion on Facebook. Breitbart didnt respond to a request for comment.Marisa Richardson, a program manager at a life-sciences company, said she began boycotting Amazon recently after learning that it offered the NRA channel on its streaming-video service. So when she needed laundry detergent, she avoided the e-commerce site and instead braved the crowds and traffic  and spent a few dollars more  at a nearby Target.But a few days later she shopped at the Whole Foods near her home in Oakland, Calif. I completely forgot that theyre owned by Amazon, she said.After the shooting in Parkland in February, gun-control activists called for a boycott of certain Apple and Amazon services because they hosted the NRA channel.People used the hashtag #March1NRABoycott to spread the message on social media. An analysis of about 58,500 tweets with the hashtag showed that nearly half came from an iPhone or an iPad, according to Keyhole. Those included popular tweets using the #March1NRABoycott hashtag from the actress Alyssa Milano.Had I sent the same tweets from an Android phone, the same issue would apply. There is an NRATV app for Android phones, Ms. Milano said through a spokeswoman. We are only just beginning to understand how these companies have infiltrated not only our ideologies, but also our lives in the most in-depth way imaginable.Nearly a third of the 4,700 tweets using the #BoycottApple hashtag since August came from iPhones, according to Keyhole.I do have an iPhone, but as a customer of Apples, am I not allowed to hold them accountable? Mr. Knight, the activist who used an iPhone to call for an Apple boycott, said in an interview.Eddy Cue, a senior executive at Apple, recently said that the NRA channel didnt violate the companys policies. Facebook, Google and Amazon didnt respond to requests for comment.Many of those who recently abandoned their Facebook accounts are still in the companys orbit, not only with Instagram but also with the companys popular messaging apps WhatsApp and Messenger.When Cher recently deleted her Facebook page, she said on Twitter, 2day I did something VERY HARD 4 me. But her Instagram account, with 768,000 followers, was still active.Likewise, Elon Musk, chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, deleted the Facebook pages of both companies  but left their pages and his personal account active on Instagram. The photo-sharing platform, he said on Twitter, is fine so long as it stays fairly independent.Stephen Cox, 39, a woodworker in Los Angeles, recently posted on Facebook that he was deactivating his account in favor of Instagram. When someone commented that the two sites were owned by the same company, he replied, Its a double-edged sword, but for me one edge is slightly more blunt than the other.Instagram has proved an effective hedge for Facebook against people losing interest or trust in its main site. While the percentage of American adults who use Facebook has remained flat at 68 percent since 2016, according to a January survey of 2,002 American adults by the Pew Research Center, Instagram use rose to 35 percent from 28 percent over that period. Instagram is also more popular with younger people than older people, according to the survey.Rayven Bruzzese, 26, a sign-language student in Philadelphia, said she had been a frequent user of Facebook for years but deleted her account in March because she found it upsetting and a drain on her time. Now she spends her time on Instagram.While she acknowledged the irony of moving to another Facebook-owned service, she said her options were limited. Few of her friends are on Twitter, and many have stopped using Snapchat.Where am I supposed to go? she said. I wish there was something else.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.   The first woman to publicly accuse former sports doctor Larry Nassar of sexual abuse will be speaking about justice and forgiveness at Harvard University.Rachael Denhollander is slated to speak Thursday at an event titled "Can We Reconcile Justice and Forgiveness?"She\'s expected to discuss how religion influenced her ideas about justice and her ability to forgive people who don\'t seem to deserve it.Denhollander told police in 2016 that Nassar molested her when she was a 15-year-old gymnast. Dozens of other women later testified in court that Nassar had abused them too.He pleaded guilty in November to molesting patients and possessing child pornography and was sentenced to spend the rest of his life in prison.The event will be moderated by Harvard professor and developmental psychologist Nancy Hill.
To the Sports Editor:Re A Great Power-Hitting Duo, Lost in Time, March 28: I really enjoyed your tribute to Josh Gibson and Buck Leonard. As you report, Leonard is considered the best first baseman in Negro leagues history and Gibson as the best catcher in baseball history.In my Army days, in the 1960s, I got to know a veteran sergeant who told stories of the many Negro leagues games he attended as a youngster. They called Josh Gibson the black Babe Ruth, I piped up one morning over coffee in the mess hall. The old sarge smiled and said, In my neighborhood, they called Babe Ruth the white Josh Gibson.John E. StaffordRye, N.Y.To the Sports Editor:Left unsaid about the Negro National League is that Major League Baseball was racially integrated into the early 1890s.A key benchmark, circa 1888, involved a scheduled matchup between the Chicago White Stockings and the Toledo Mud Hens, both major league teams.The playing manager of the visiting Chicago squad  Adrian Cap Anson  announced that his team refused to take the field because the Mud Hens intended to field Moses Fleetwood Walker, an African-American player on their roster.The game proceeded without Walker. Over the next half-dozen or so years, African-Americans were purged from the rosters of the other teams.All of this transpired just in advance of the Supreme Courts opinion  7 to 1  in Plessy v. Ferguson (1896). It afforded federal sanction to the specious doctrine that came to be known as separate but equal.Plessy would remain as established law until the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously overturned the long-running doctrine in Brown v. Topeka Board of Education (1954).Notably, seven years before, in 1947, Major League Baseball counteracted the doctrine of separate but equal when Jackie Robinson took the field for the Brooklyn Dodgers.Michael H. EbnerLake Forest, Ill.The writer is a professor emeritus of history at Lake Forest College.To the Sports Editor:Re Roger Bannister, First Athlete to Break the 4-Minute Mile, Dies at 88, March 4: As I left a church in Cambridge, Mass., one day in the early 1960s, my 5-year-old daughter took off running down the sidewalk. I was distraught, as she was headed toward a busy intersection, and there was no way I could catch her in my high heels on an uneven brick sidewalk.A nice-looking man saw my predicament and asked if I wanted him to get her. Dubious, I asked, Do you think you can catch up with her? He took off and caught her, much to my relief. I thanked him.The next week, I learned his identity: Roger Bannister.His obituary describes him as unassuming, polite and a gentleman. I know that to be true.Jean HarrisonSanta Cruz, Calif.
