SHANGHAI   As trade tensions rise between the United States and China, a small but vocal online community is calling for a boycott of U.S. products, fanning fears that American brands could see a backlash similar to that faced by South Korea last year.China on Wednesday hit back at the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of duties on key U.S. imports with similar value including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals. [nL4N1RH18A]"Counterattack in trade war" was the third most-read topic on China\'s Weibo microblogging platform on Wednesday, viewed about 230 million times, while an editorial published the same day in the state-backed English-language tabloid Global Times warning the United States against an entering a trade war drew roughly 7,000 comments."The sons and daughters of China should unite and boycott U.S. products, modern war is conducted by the people," said one Weibo user with the handle "Deanliu1314".A commenter on the Global Times article said, "if they resist Chinese products, the United States won\'t be able to find an alternative. But if we boycott all U.S. products, China-made products can easily fill the gap".Products online commenters called for boycotting included Boeing  planes, Apple products, U.S. soybeans and even American graduate schools, with others saying that they could repeat what Chinese shoppers had done to South Korea."I resolutely support all trade measures China is taking against the United States," said another user who said he would boycott U.S. and South Korean products. "It starts with me."However, there was no evidence yet of an organised campaign to stoke anti-U.S. behaviour, or that consumers were yet shunning U.S. goods in any numbers.Trade and business exchanges between South Korea and China turned chilly last year after South Korea deployed the U.S.-made Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) anti-missile system despite vehement objections from Beijing.The THAAD disagreement prompted an undeclared Chinese boycott of products ranging from South Korean cosmetics to cars, and was estimated to have knocked about 0.4 percentage points off South Korea\'s expected economic growth in 2017. [nL3N1OD250]The highest profile corporate casualty was South Korean conglomerate Lotte Group, which saw its plans for mega shopping complexes indefinitely suspended and nearly all of its Lotte Mart stores in China shut for much of the year over alleged fire safety issues. [nL4N1MR6B7]Ben Cavender, an analyst at Shanghai-based China Market Research Group, said U.S. businesses in China such as Starbucks were more firmly entrenched in the country, making them less likely to receive similar treatment."A lot of the brands are employing Chinese workers, essentially they\'re Chinese companies in their own right," he said.However, he warned that everyday consumption goods could nonetheless be hit."You can see consumers saying we\'re not going to buy a Ford, or a GM product, and we\'re going to buy a European product or a Chinese product instead," he said.Jim Boyce, a Beijing-based wine consultant who writes the blog Grapewallofchina, said while there were concerns that the duties would make U.S. wine less cost-competitive, the greater worry was over the image the trade war would generate for U.S. goods. [nL2N1RG14C]On Monday, China imposed extra tariffs on imports of American goods including wine, in response to U.S. duties on steel and aluminium imports."Are we going to see people in China worried about drinking American wine because of politics? That\'s the bigger problem," he said.Christopher Beros, trade director for China and the Pacific Rim at the California Wine Institute, which represented roughly 1,000 California wineries, said the issue was making him nervous."We do see collective thinking from time to time, and if someone gets stigmatised in a way, that\'s always a concern."(Reporting by Brenda Goh; Additional Reporting by SHANGHAI Newsroom; Editing by Tony Munroe and Alex Richardson)
(Reuters) - Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China may dent production of German luxury SUVs made in the U.S. South and sent to China, with exports from electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and Ford Motor Co also vulnerable.If a tit-for-tat tariff dispute between the two countries erupts into a full-blown trade war, auto production in both will be affected, but U.S. factories would feel the strongest effect because China imports nearly 270,000 U.S. vehicles, worth $11 billion, and sends relatively few back.Tesla\'s California plant, which ships an estimated 15,000 cars a year to China, as well as BMW\'s South Carolina facility and Daimler AG\'s Alabama factory, could lose hundreds of millions of dollars\' worth of production if China goes ahead with its threat to double import tariffs. All three export high-margin luxury models, many of them sport utility vehicles, to China.Ford\'s problem is twofold, involving both imports of premium Lincoln vehicles to China and a plan to export low-cost Focus compacts from China to the United States.General Motors Co\'s exposure is limited because it imports only 30,000 Buick Envision crossovers a year from China, while sending just a handful of vehicles back.Shares of automakers ended higher on Wednesday as Wall Street stocks changed course in the afternoon when investors\' trade fears subsided. [.N] Tesla shares closed 7.3 percent higher at $286.94, Ford shares gained 1.6 percent to close at $11.33, and GM shares were up 3 percent at $38.03.Barclays auto analyst Brian Johnson, in an investor note on Wednesday, predicted that Tesla "would bear the brunt of any increased auto tariff on a relative basis," with China accounting for 17 percent of the company\'s revenue.The United States has a 60-day comment period on plans, and China is waiting for U.S. action before implementing its own. A  Washington-based source close to one of the automakers called the moves "a posturing exercise by both countries (and) part of a process" that will play out over the next two months.China has threatened to double tariffs to 50 percent on imported automobiles and other U.S.-made goods to retaliate against the Trump administration\'s proposed tariffs on a broad range of products, including vehicles and automotive parts.The proposed U.S. tariffs on Chinese-made vehicles could affect Ford\'s plans to shift production of the compact Focus next year from Michigan to China, a move the company said last year would save it $500 million.The Lincoln brand meanwhile is struggling to gain traction in China\'s crowded luxury car market. Ford has said it ships about 80,000 vehicles a year to China, including various Lincoln models.Ford declined to comment specifically on plans for the Focus and Lincoln. It said in a statement on Wednesday: "We encourage both governments to work together to resolve issues between these two important economies."A Mercedes-Benz spokesman said the company does not speculate on ongoing negotiations, adding that it is "monitoring the situation closely."BMW said in a statement: "A further escalation of the trade conflict between the U.S. and China would be harmful for all stakeholders."Tesla declined to comment. A spokesman for the United Auto Workers union, which represents workers at Ford and GM, but not at Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz, declined to comment.GM said on Wednesday it is "too early" to say how the Trump administration\'s proposed tariffs will impact its future production plans for the Envision.Chinese vehicle imports from all markets last year climbed to 1.2 million, according to the China Automobile Dealers Association. Less than a quarter of those - 267,473, according to Statista - came from U.S. auto plants, including 100,000 from BMW\'s South Carolina factory.Decisions on whether and where to shift vehicle production could be complicated by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s moves to significantly revamp or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement that allows tariff-free shipments of vehicles to the United States from Mexico and Canada.(Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit and Norihiko Shirouzu in Beijing; additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington,  Allison Lampert in Montreal and Alexandria Sage in San Francisco; Editing by Peter Henderson and Matthew Lewis)
BEIJING   Chinese importers expecting cargoes of U.S. commodities from beef to propane said they hope to sell the goods to South Korea or Japan after Beijing\'s decision to slap extra tariffs on a swathe of items from agricultural products to chemicals.Beijing on Wednesday hit back against the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals. The speed of China\'s move stunned financial markets.Traders of soybeans, of which China is the largest importer, said they were bracing for mass cancellations of purchases, even though the United States is the country\'s second-largest supplier.Prices of soybeans shipped from ports in the U.S. Pacific Northwest, the most direct route to Asia, dropped by $10 to $12 per tonne on Wednesday, U.S. soybean traders said.Buyers of propane used for making ethylene and propylene are looking to swap U.S. shipments for Middle Eastern barrels with buyers in South Korea and Japan."Even though we are committed to U.S. supplies, we could swap them for Middle East cargoes with Korean or Japanese buyers by paying them $10 per tonne extra freight cost," said a manager with an east China-based chemical plant that buys U.S. propane, and who gave only his surname, Zhong.China bought 3.56 million tonnes of U.S. propane last year worth some $2 billion, or 19 percent of its total imports.The 25-percent additional tariffs will likely hit U.S.-based exporters such as Enterprise Product Partners and Phillips 66, and give a boost to rivals in the Middle East like Qatar and Saudi Arabia."The market will be thrown into some initial chaos and the freight market will also be affected. Diversions and swaps mean the demand for tankers will be lower, as U.S. voyages are shorter to northeast Asia and also shorter from the Middle East to China," said a senior dealer with Jovo Energy.The tariffs on beef were not expected to have much impact on the Chinese market, which had only resumed imports from the U.S. last year after a 14-year hiatus.China bought just 2,200 tonnes of U.S. beef in 2017, worth $14.7 million, according to Chinese customs, less than 1 percent of total imports.But the move could increase supplies of coveted high-end items like short ribs to other Asian countries like Japan and South Korea, pressuring prices currently at record levels, said one expert who declined to be named.(Reporting by Meng Meng, Chen Aizhu and Dominique Patton; additional reporting by Karl Plume in Chicago; Editing by Alexandra Hudson and Diane Craft)
SAO PAULO   China\'s move to slap tariffs on U.S. farm products sent Brazil soy premiums surging to historic highs on expectations of higher export demand on Wednesday, but traders and analysts warned that Latin America could not entirely replace U.S. production.China responded to U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plans to impose $50 billion in tariffs on its goods by announcing tariffs of equal value on U.S. imports, including a wide range of agricultural products.Goods produced in South America made the list, including soy, beef, tobacco, cotton and frozen orange juice.That raised the prospect that China would seek to shift large parts of its agricultural sourcing from the United States to the region. Alternate global suppliers of goods ranging from televisions to vaccines could be unexpected beneficiaries of Trump\'s policies.Already record high premiums for Brazilian soy over Chicago prices were driven up 37 percent in response, the biggest one-day increase since January 2017."I have never seen a premium this high in history, this in a way will more than compensate for the bloodbath in Chicago," said Aedson Pereira, an analyst at IEG-FNP, a subsidiary of Informa Economics.Chicago soybeans futures contracts for May delivery fell 2 percent, closing at around $10.15 per bushel, retracing some losses after a 5 percent plunge.But Latin America does not produce enough to compensate fully for U.S. output - and that may help push China and the United States to settle the dispute, according to Pereira and other analysts.Brazil already sells roughly 75 percent of its soybean exports to China and with increasing domestic demand is unlikely to be able to free up much more for export."Even if Brazil sells its entire export volume to China, the Asian country would be short of 30 million tonnes," said one Brazil-based analyst, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to speak to the media.South America\'s other top producer Argentina already sent almost 90 percent of its 7.3 million soybeans to China last year, while smaller Paraguay does not have diplomatic relations with China.The outlook for soybean prices was already robust after Argentina supplies took a hit from drought, while China\'s demand has continued to rise.Rodrigo Oliveira, chief strategist of Agro Financeira, a small trading and hedging firm based in the state of Tocantins, said his firm was looking to take advantage, buying up more Brazilian soybeans compared to last year."When China is going to buy from Brazilian trading (firms), they will have to pay us the Brazilian premium," said Oliveira. "This is going to be huge for Brazilian soybean prices."(Reporting by Ana Mano and Roberto Samora; Additional reporting  by Maximilian Heath and Nicolas Misculin in BUENOS AIRES, Daniela Desantis in ASUNCION, Karl Plume in CHICAGO and Jose Roberto Gomes in SAO PAULO; Writing by Jake Spring, Editing by Rosalba O\'Brien)
CHICAGO   China aimed a direct strike at America\'s heartland on Wednesday, moving to slap an aggressive 25 percent retaliatory tariff against U.S. soybeans, farm country\'s most valuable export to China last year, worth $12 billion.Over the past decade, fast-rising demand from China has fueled a sharp rise in production of U.S. soybeans, which are set to overtake corn as the country\'s most widely planted crop for the first time in 35 years. U.S. government data shows China now purchases 62 percent of soy exports.China has also been a major purchaser of sorghum, but an anti-dumping investigation in Beijing has slammed the sorghum trade. China\'s February imports of U.S. sorghum plunged 24 percent from a year earlier, customs figures show.China\'s swift retaliation rattled U.S. farmers, their options shrunk by the wide variety of agriculture products that have been or could be targeted by China. Doug Keesling of Kansas struggled to imagine what crops he might plant instead of soy.Keesling said his most logical next option would typically be sorghum, but not with Chinese tariffs on top of the anti-dumping investigation, which was widely viewed as retaliation for Trumps move to put tariffs on U.S. imports of Chinese solar panels and washing machines."The bigger story for me is not what am I going to plant," he said. "It is how long can I sustain that as a farmer and continuing producing food, not just for China but for the United States."Soybeans were among 106 U.S. products that China said it would hit with 25 percent tariffs, less than 11 hours after U.S. President Donald Trump\'s administration targeted 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products.Soybean futures slid as much as 5 percent on Wednesday in response to China\'s move.This year, Keesling planned to plant soybeans on 15 percent more of his land because demand from China made it more profitable than other crops. Now he does not know what to plant."If they are all on the list," of crops targeted by China, he said. "Then you go into survival mode."Growing trade tensions make the United States "probably the least preferred supplier to China," said Gary Blumenthal, president and chief executive at Washington-based agricultural consulting firm World Perspectives Inc. There is a natural tension between the existing superpower and the rising power."The pivotal question is whether China is as dependent on U.S. soybean supplies as U.S. farmers have become on Chinese buyers. Analysts and executives at feedmakers said China would struggle to replace U.S. soybean supplies, potentially inflicting financial pain on its own companies.There simply arent enough soybeans in the world outside of the U.S. to meet Chinas needs, said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics. As for reducing dependence on imports, there are a few options, but none is a magic bullet that could hurt U.S. farmers without generating costs at home.China has the world\'s largest livestock sector and is projected to buy 97 million tonnes of soy imports in the 2017/2018 marketing year, nearly two-thirds of the world\'s soybean exports.Chinese buyers are already paying premiums for soybeans from Brazil, which has expanded plantings and export infrastructure and grows a bean prized for high protein content. Brazil supplied half of Chinas imports last year while the United States shipped about a third of the total, or about 33 million tonnes.China typically buys mostly from Brazil through the spring and summer, so the impacts of tariffs or negotiations with Washington over soybeans will less clear until the U.S. soybean harvest comes in the fall. It is already unlikely that many American farmers can alter planting plans, as they have already purchased seeds and started preparing fields.U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue sought to soothe farmers\' fears.I talked to the President as recently as last night, Perdue said during a news conference in Ohio. And he said, \'Sonny, you can assure your farmers out there that we\'re not going to allow them to be the casualties if this trade dispute escalates.\'"The White House did not respond to requests for comment.GROWING DEPENDENCE ON CHINASurging soybean demand from China has transformed U.S. farming. In Kansas, traditionally known for growing hard red winter wheat, soybean acreage is up 28.8 percent from five years ago and 94.3 percent from 10 years ago. The expanding Chinese market has also convinced farmers to plant soybeans in less hospitable areas."In my part of the world, we were not supposed to grow soybeans," said South Dakota farmer Lewis Bainbridge. Then "China entered into the picture."China is also a major importer of U.S. pork, cotton and ethanol and buys smaller amounts of corn and wheat. On Monday, China sought to increase tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, including frozen pork, corn-based ethanol, wine and certain fruits and nuts in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel.Illinois soybean farmer Lucas Strom said Chinas tariffs confirmed his worst fears. Late last year, neighbors and friends had reassured him that Trump\'s talk and tweets on trade would not hurt them because he would be loyal to the U.S. farmers who supported his campaign.That sentiment is now changing fast, he said, with farmers talking about "fear" rather than mere "concern.""This is more real," he said. "This is personal, and its not just farmers that this will be affecting. Its agronomists. Its seed sellers. Its grain elevators - its everyone in our world.DAILY UNCERTAINTYSorghum and soy are the two agricultural commodities most dependent on Chinese buyers.Before China announced its anti-dumping probe, U.S. sorghum exports were on track to be the biggest since 2015, led by sales to China, where sorghum is used to feed hogs and make the alcoholic beverage baijiu. Exports to China in 2017 of 4.6 million tonnes, valued at $836 million, accounted for 80 percent of all foreign shipments, according to USDA data.Illinois farmer Eric Rund, who grows soybeans and corn, said he called his representatives in Congress for the first time ever last month as the trade war escalated."This whole thing has left everyone with uncertainty," he said. "You don\'t know what consequences are going to be from one week until the next."GRAPHIC: U.S. and Brazil soybean exports to China - https://tmsnrt.rs/2q1SqrI)(Additional reporting by Tom Polansek and P.J. Huffstutter in Chicago and Hallie Gu, Josephine Mason and Dominique Patton in Beijing; Writing by Brian Thevenot; Editing by David Gregorio)

HONG KONG   Global shares fell sharply Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, in an escalation of trade tensions between the world\'s two biggest economies.KEEPING SCORE: After a flat open, European markets fell sharply once the China tariffs were announced. Germany\'s DAX fell 1.1 percent to 11,867 while France\'s CAC 40 was down 0.7 percent at 5,114. The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares was 0.4 percent lower at 7,003. Wall Street was poised for big losses at the open with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures 1.4 percent lower. The anticipated retreat at the open is set to wipe out Tuesday\'s gains.TARIFF TENSIONS: Beijing and Washington detailed plans to hike tariffs on a broad swath of imported goods from each other, in a series of rapid fire announcements over less than 24 hours. China issued a $50 billion list of more than 100 U.S. goods including soybeans and aircraft targeted for a possible 25 percent tariff hike. Beijing was responding to an announcement hours earlier by President Donald Trump\'s administration outlining proposed tariffs on 1,300 imported Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecoms gear, to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of U.S. technology. China\'s envoy to the WTO said Beijing would challenge the U.S. moves. The Chinese Commerce Ministry said the date the tariff hikes take effect depends on whether the U.S. actually moves to raise its duties.ANALYST TAKE: "The losses more than wipe out Tuesday\'s rebound and set us on course for another worrying session driven by fears that a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies is heating up with neither side showing any sign of backing down," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.ASIAN SCORECARD: Most Asian indexes had closed when China announced its response to the U.S. tariff plans. Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 crept 0.1 percent higher to end at 21,319.55 but South Korea\'s Kospi slid 1.4 percent to 2,408.06 as the won weakened from the 3  year high it touched against the dollar earlier this week. The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.2 percent to 3,131.11 while Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng slumped 2.2 percent to 29,518.69 with the decline accelerating in the final minutes of trading after Beijing announced specifics of its tariff hikes.CURRENCIES: The euro was flat at $1.2273 while the dollar fell 0.4 percent to 106.23 yen.ENERGY: Oil\'s rally fizzled. A barrel of U.S. crude fell 92 cents to $62.59 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 82 cents to $67.30 a barrel in London.
SEOUL, South Korea   Asian stock markets recouped the previous day\'s losses to trade higher on Thursday as earlier fears of trade conflicts between the world\'s two largest economies dissipated on signs of dialogue.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s Nikkei 225 surged 1.6 percent to 21,667.83 and South Korea\'s Kospi jumped 1.5 percent to 2,442.40. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 0.7 percent to 5,803.50. Stocks in Singapore surged and markets in other Southeast Asian countries were also higher. Markets in mainland China and Hong Kong were closed for holidays.TRADE TALK: The fears of trade conflicts that had escalated with China\'s tariff plans on some U.S. products in response to the similar moves by the United States turned into the hope of trade talks. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, suggested the U.S. tariffs won\'t be implemented if China lowers barriers to trade.ANALYST\'S TAKE: "With the expectation for talks to now take over, it does look like we have a long drawn out process ahead of us. The fact that markets have picked up so quickly also suggests that investors are becoming more desensitized to any threats that can be dismissed as negotiation tactics," said Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at IG in Singapore.WALL STREET: U.S. stock markets finished higher on Wednesday after a sharp plunge in the previous session. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 1 percent to 24,264.30. The S&P 500 index climbed 1.2 percent to 2,644.69. The Nasdaq composite rose 1.5 percent to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 1.3 percent to 1,531.66.OIL: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 29 cents to $63.66 per barrel in New York. The contract dipped 14 cents to finish at $63.37 a barrel on Wednesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, gained 31 cents to $68.33 per barrel in London. It fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel on Wednesday.CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 106.98 yen from 106.78 yen. The euro was flat at $1.228.
SHANGHAI  China hit back at the United States on Wednesday with proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of American soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods, in a move likely to stoke fears that the countries escalating confrontation could become an all-out trade war.Moving with unusual speed, Chinese officials outlined plans to make it more costly to import 106 types of American goods into China. They are intended to hit the United States square in the farm belt  a major section of President Trumps political support but also a major supplier of what China stocks in its supermarkets.Beijings plan to institute new tariffs was announced just hours after the Trump administration detailed its own protections on a similar value of Chinese-made aircraft parts, cars and car parts, televisions, steel and much more. Following a previous round of tit-for-tat tariffs unveiled over the past few days, the new measures have sparked concerns that the dispute could widen further, hurting jobs and growth in both countries.Investors drove financial markets lower over the prospect that the two sides were not yet done fighting.China has never succumbed to external pressure, Zhu Guangyao, vice minister of finance, said at a news briefing on Wednesday. He added, External pressure will only make the Chinese people more focused on economic development.The question now is whether the two sides will intensify their efforts to punish each other before they sit down to negotiate. Neither set of tariffs go into effect right away, though the exact timing of the Chinese measures was not clear.The dueling tariffs still do not impact the majority of trade between the two countries, which is valued at nearly $650 billion a year. Still, economists say that the clash could escalate quickly if the two sides fail to find a way to quickly resolve their differences, threatening a commercial relationship that is essential to the world economy.Letting the dispute turn into a test of wills would be a mistake, said Jie Zhao, a senior research fellow at Fudan University in Shanghai.We should negotiate in a professional way, Ms. Zhao said, and make it less ideological and emotional.Chinas proposed new tariffs cover a significant chunk of what it buys from the United States. The protections on the $50 billion of goods announced on Wednesday, together with those on the $3 billion worth of products that Beijing unveiled earlier this week in retaliation for American tariffs on global steel imports, account for about a third of Chinas American imports.By contrast, because the United States imports significantly more from China, tariffs on the same amount of products make up roughly one-ninth of its Chinese imports. That gives the United States more room to find other Chinese products to target.Even as Chinese officials struck a defiant tone on Wednesday, they still said they wanted to avoid escalating the conflict.Chinas attitude is clear, Mr. Zhu, the vice minister of finance, said. We dont want a trade war because a trade war would hurt the interests of both countries.China could still fight back in other ways. Its control over its domestic economy and news media, and its homegrown internet, give it a strong hand in controlling public opinion and minimizing the potential impact on its consumers. In the past, China has mobilized its vast ranks of consumers to turn up their noses at products from Japan, the Philippines and South Korea during political disputes, though getting Chinese consumers to stop buying iPhones and Chevrolets could be trickier.The two sides are clashing with the future in mind. President Trump instituted his latest round of tariffs against China while citing Beijings government-driven efforts to retool the countrys economy to focus on the technologies of the future. Known as the Made in China 2025 program, the plan specifies efforts to build up cutting-edge industries like robotics, aerospace and electric cars.Many companies in Europe and the United States say they fear the program will create state-supported competitors, an argument that has won backing in the Trump administration. Some companies say that Beijing finds ways to force them to hand over technology if they want to sell their wares in China, an allegation that Chinese officials dispute.China appears to show little interest in putting the Made in China 2025 efforts on the negotiating table. A report in state-controlled media on Wednesday described the development of advanced manufacturing as an inherent requirement for the transformation and upgrading of Chinas manufacturing industry, and it is also the only way for Chinas economy to enter a high-quality development stage.For now, Chinas new tariffs could create a more immediate issue for the Trump administration.While they include plenty of goods Americans make, they have a heavy focus on products Americans grow: soybeans, corn, cotton, beef, frozen orange juice, even tobacco and whiskey. Many of those products come largely from Republican-dominated states, where lawmakers might be expected to have some influence with President Trump and could therefore persuade him to back down from his latest trade demands.For manufactured goods, the new Chinese tariffs include cars and car parts, plastics, aerospace products and chemicals. Many of those products are also sold by European companies, giving Chinese buyers alternatives. The new tariffs announced on Wednesday will amount to 25 percent on the American products.Chinese officials  who blamed President Trump for provoking the clash  have appealed to the World Trade Organization, which sets trade rules and moderates disputes, to resolve the feud. But both sides risk censure by the W.T.O.  the Trump administration for its tariffs, and China for swiftly retaliating without a proper review.A key time has come for the United States and China to form a new consensus that includes intellectual property and the opening up of markets, said Song Guoyou, the deputy chief of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University. Otherwise, trade may fluctuate a lot.
___At the brink: US and China threaten tariffs as fears riseWASHINGTON (AP)  The world's two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there's still time to pull back from the brink. Financial markets trembled Wednesday at the prospect of a U.S.-China trade war after Beijing and Washington proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of each other's products in a battle over the aggressive tactics China employs to develop its high-tech industries.___Facebook scandal affected more users than thought: up to 87MNEW YORK (AP) Facebook says tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought, up to 87 million instead of the 50 million reported before. Facebook says it will restrict the data it allows outsiders to access on its users. Those developments come as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook has a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly.___Police: YouTube shooter was calm when found sleeping in carSAN BRUNO, Calif. (AP)  The woman who shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home. Authorities say Nasim Aghdam did not mention being angry with YouTube and gave no indication she was a threat to anyone. Later that day, she went to a gun range before walking into a courtyard at YouTube's campus south of San Francisco. That's where she fired a handgun several times and then killed herself.___On the Money: Glut of used cars gives buyers more optionsDETROIT (AP)  Bargain prices on 2- and 3-year-old vehicles fueled record sales of used cars, trucks and SUVs last year, a trend that is expected to continue because people can save thousands of dollars over buying new. Used car sales hit 39.2 million vehicles in 2017, more than double the number of new automobiles sold, according to the Edmunds.com auto website. About 4 million leased vehicles will return to the market this year, many of them relatively new with most of the technology that's on new vehicles.___AMC to open Saudi Arabia's first movie theaterNEW YORK (AP)  AMC says it will open Saudi Arabia's first movie theater on April 18. Cinema operators are rushing to build theaters in the Gulf kingdom after the Saudi government in December said it would open the country to commercial movie theaters for the first time in more than 35 years. AMC's first theater will open in Riyadh. It plans to open up to 100 theaters by 2030.___Marijuana not part of North Dakota's corporate farming banBISMARCK, N.D. (AP)  A North Dakota official says the state's Great Depression-era law banning corporate farming won't preclude horticulture operations from growing medical marijuana, provided it's not done on agricultural land. Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem issued the opinion at the request of the state health department. The intent of the corporate farming law is to protect the state's family farming heritage. But Stenehjem says the marijuana question is a tax law matter that doesn't fall under farming law.___CVS Health eyes kidney patients for next expansion into careWOONSOCKET, R.I. (AP)  CVS Health is now planning to treat kidney failure patients as the drugstore operator branches deeper into monitoring and providing care. The company said Wednesday it will offer home dialysis for patients through its Coram business and it is working with another company to develop a new device for that. A spokeswoman declined to name the company or say how much CVS is spending on the venture.___US services firms grew at a slower pace in MarchBALTIMORE (AP)  U.S. services firms expanded at a slower clip in March compared to the prior month, largely because the pace of business activity and new orders fell. The Institute for Supply Management says its services index dropped to 58.8 from 59.5 in February. Any reading above 50 points toward growth. The services sector has been expanding for more than eight years.___Stocks surge as market escapes early plunge on trade fearsNEW YORK (AP)  After being spooked by rising trade tensions between the US and China, stocks rallied Wednesday on hopes the two sides will settle their differences. The Dow Jones industrial average recovered from an early 501 point drop to gain 230. Retailers and household goods makers climbed while tech stocks reversed losses. Big industrials such as Boeing and Deere were lower.___The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 30.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,644.69. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 230.94 points, or 1 percent, to 24,264.30. The Nasdaq composite rose 100.83 points, or 1.5 percent, to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 19.51 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,531.66.U.S. crude dipped 14 cents to $63.37 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline stayed at $1.98 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas rose 2 cents to $2.72 per 1,000 cubic feet.

BERLIN   Over 50 top Artificial Intelligence researchers on Wednesday announced a boycott of KAIST, South Korea\'s top university, after it opened what they called an AI weapons lab with one of South Korea\'s largest companies.The researchers, based in 30 countries, said they would refrain from visiting KAIST, hosting visitors from the university, or cooperating with its research programs until it pledged to refrain from developing AI weapons without "meaningful human control".KAIST, which opened the center in February with Hanwha Systems, one of two South Korean makers of cluster munitions, responded within hours, saying it had "no intention to engage in development of lethal autonomous weapons systems and killer robots."University President Sung-Chul Shin said the university was "significantly aware" of ethical concerns regarding Artificial Intelligence, adding, "I reaffirm once again that KAIST will not conduct any research activities counter to human dignity including autonomous weapons lacking meaningful human control."The university said the new Research Centre for the Convergence of National Defence and Artificial Intelligence would focus on using AI for command and control systems, navigation for large unmanned undersea vehicles, smart aircraft training and tracking and recognition of objects.Toby Walsh, the professor at the University of New South Wales in Sydney who organized the boycott, said the university\'s quick response was a success, but he needed to speak with all those who signed the letter before calling off the boycott."KAIST has made two significant concessions: not to develop autonomous weapons and to ensure meaningful human control," he said, adding that the university\'s response would add weight to U.N. discussions taking place next week on the overall issue.Walsh said it remained unclear how one could establish meaningful human control of an unmanned submarine - one of the launch projects - when it was under the sea and unable to communicate.In an open letter announcing the boycott, the researchers had warned: "If developed, autonomous weapons will ... permit war to be fought faster and at a scale great than ever before. They will have the potential to be weapons of terror."They cited effective bans on previous arms technologies and urged KAIST ban any work on lethal autonomous weapons, and to refrain from AI uses that would harm human lives.AI is the field in computer science that aims to create machines able to perceive the environment and make decisions.The letter, also signed by top experts on deep learning and robotics, was released ahead of next Monday\'s meeting in Geneva by 123 U.N. member countries on the challenges posed by lethal autonomous weapons, which critics describe as "killer robots".Walsh told Reuters there were many potential good uses of robotics and Artificial Intelligence in the military, including removing humans from dangerous task such as clearing minefields."But we should not hand over the decision of who lives or dies to a machine. This crosses a clearmoral line," he said. "We shouldnot let robots decide who lives and who dies."(Reporting by Andrea Shalal; Editing by Alison Williams and Diane Craft)
HONG KONG   Success on two fronts will be the aim when Australia begin their Women\'s Asian Cup campaign in Jordan on Friday as they look to claim the title and give themselves an easier ride at next year\'s World Cup.Alen Stajcic\'s team were runners-up to Japan four years ago in Vietnam and that second-placed finish meant they were unseeded at the Women\'s World Cup a year later, which made life more difficult for them at the tournament.The Women\'s Asian Cup acts as the continent\'s final qualifying competition for the global event and Australia goalkeeper Lydia Williams believes winning the title in the Middle East will be doubly significant."We\'ve had a lot of success over the last few years," said Williams, who will be appearing at her third Asian Cup for Australia."It was heartbreaking to lose to Japan. We really wanted that top spot. We got put in the group of death at the World Cup and didn\'t get seeded, so we\'re definitely going out at this tournament hoping to win it."Eight nations will compete for the title, with the finals being held in the Middle East for the first time after a concerted effort by Jordan Football Association President Prince Ali Bin Al-Hussein to grow the women\'s game in the socially conservative region.Historically east Asian nations have dominated women\'s football in Asia, with China winning the title in eight of the 18 previous editions.Japan also captured the Women\'s World Cup in 2011 and reached the final in 2015 having claimed their first Women\'s Asian Cup a year earlier.Australia won their first - and so far only - Women\'s Asian Cup in 2010 but are the favourites for this year\'s title after an impressive run that has seen Stajcic\'s side win last year\'s high-profile Tournament of Nations and finish third at the prestigious Algarve Cup.That run of form also saw striker Sam Kerr spring to international prominence before being named the Asian Football Confederation Women\'s Player of the Year for 2017.Australia kick off their campaign against South Korea before also taking on Japan and Vietnam in Group B while Group A contains hosts Jordan, China, Thailand and the Philippines.Five of the eight teams will qualify for the Women\'s World Cup in France next year, with the top two sides in each of the two groups of four advancing.A playoff will be contested between the countries finishing in third place in their respective groups to decide the fifth spot.The final will be held on April 20 at Amman International Stadium."It\'s going to be difficult, a lot of teams in women\'s football have really stepped up their game and in the past year or so any team can beat anyone on any given day," said Williams."So this competition is really going to set us up hopefully for the win, but also for the World Cup too. We have to approach every game on its merits and it\'s nice to touch down and feel like it\'s the Asian Cup."(Reporting by Michael Church, Editing by Toby Davis)
SEOUL/NEW YORK   A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea\'s Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant\'s governance.It is Elliott\'s latest challenge to South Korea\'s family-run conglomerates after it forced Samsung Electronics Co Ltd to increase shareholder returns in 2017, and comes amid a government campaign to boost investors\' power in a country where shareholder activism is rare.Elliott Advisors called for a "more detailed roadmap" as to how Hyundai Motor Group will "improve corporate governance, optimize balance sheets, and enhance capital returns" at Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors.The fund did not provide a breakdown of its stakes in Hyundai\'s three affiliates but its over $1 billion worth of shares account for around 1.5 percent of the total market value of the three firms.Hyundai Mobis shares jumped as much as 6.1 percent to their highest since Jan. 25 in the wake of the announcement. Hyundai Motor rose 4.9 percent, its highest in three weeks, while Kia Motors gained 3.8 percent in morning trade in Seoul, versus the broader market\'s 0.13 percent fall. Hyundai Glovis shares rose as much as 4.8 percent."I see Elliott\'s call as positive, as it should enhance shareholder value," said Kim Sung-soo, a fund manager at LS Asset Management."Elliott has declared war against Hyundai but it has not made detailed demands, so further discussions need to be seen."Auto-to-steel giant Hyundai Motor Group announced a plan last week to streamline its complex ownership structure as it responds to calls from the government and investors for greater transparency and better governance at family-controlled conglomerates, or chaebols.But worries that the plan would benefit the parent groups controlling family ahead of investors have hit the share prices of group companies such as parts supplier Hyundai Mobis.While Elliott said it was pleased that Hyundai Motor Group had taken a first step toward reform, it added in a statement that "more needs to be done to benefit the companies and stakeholders"."Elliott looks forward to engaging with management and other stakeholders directly on these issues, and to offering recommendations regarding the proposed plan," the hedge fund said.Hyundai Motor Group responded that it was "confident" its restructuring plan would enhance shareholder value, and promised to communicate with investors at home and abroad.BATTLE WITH CHAEBOLSLast year, South Korea\'s new antitrust chief told Reuters he had been in talks with Hyundai Motor Group about unwinding its circular shareholdings, which critics say give too much power to the controlling family at the expense of shareholders.Under Hyundai\'s plan, Hyundai Mobis is to spin off its domestic module and after-service parts businesses and merge them with logistics affiliate Hyundai Glovis, which is personally backed by Hyundai\'s controlling Chung family.But some investors complained that Mobis could be giving away the most profitable part of its business too cheaply.The plan is yet to be approved by shareholders.After the merger, Group Chairman Chung Mong-koo and his son Chung Eui-sun, who is vice-chairman, will buy stakes in Mobis held by other affiliates Kia Motors, Glovis and Hyundai Steel.The group has not announced when the family members would buy the Mobis stakes.Elliott\'s intervention is another headache for Hyundai, which is already struggling with slowing sales in China and the United States and Seoul\'s diplomatic row with Beijing last year.Paul Singer\'s $33 billion firm Elliott Management is one of the few investors willing to take on South Korea\'s powerful chaebols.In 2015 it narrowly lost its battle to block a merger of two Samsung Group affiliates that will allow the controlling Samsung family to consolidate their holdings ahead of a leadership transition.In 2016, Elliott called on Samsung Electronics to introduce a transparent holding company structure and pay a special dividend, among other demands. Samsung rejected the call for a holding company, but announced plans to cancel its existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018.Samsung Electronics Vice-Chairman Jay Y. Lee was later jailed for bribing a friend of former President Park Geun-hye in exchange for government support for a restructuring seen as advantageous to the controlling Lee family.The South Korean public has become increasingly angry at bad behavior by chaebol family members in the wake of the corruption scandal involving Samsung which led to the impeachment of Park last year.Past foreign attempts to take on chaebol families include Sovereign Asset Management\'s unsuccessful bid to unseat SK Group Chairman Chey Tae-won who was convicted of financial wrongdoing in 2003.(This story has been refiled to fix dateline)(Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin in Seoul and Liana B. Baker in New York; Additional reporting by Ju-min Park and Dahee Kim; Editing by Tom Brown and Stephen Coates)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. REPORT: YOUTUBE SHOOTER TOLD FAMILY MEMBERS SHE \'HATED\' COMPANYInvestigators do not believe Nasim Aghdam, 39, specifically targeted the three victims she wounded with a handgun at the company\'s headquarters south of San Francisco.2. CHINA DELIVERS \'SAME STRENGTH\' RESPONSE IN TARIFF STANDOFFBeijing is urging the U.S. to come to the table to resolve a trade dispute as it issues a $50 billion list of U.S. goods subject to tariffs.3. TRUMP WANTS US MILITARY TO SECURE BORDER UNTIL WALL IS BUILTFederal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., but there is precedent to send National Guard troops there in certain capacities.4. WHO WON WISCONSIN COURT RACELiberal judge Rebecca Dallet\'s runaway victory in a state Supreme Court race cheers Democrats eager for evidence their party is destined for big wins in midterm elections.5. FRANCE PUTS EUROPEAN-HIGH 78,000 SECURITY THREATS ON POLICE DATABASEA German parliamentarian raises questions about whether the system is being abused, with different European nations applying different criteria when flagging people for "discreet checks."6. WORLD MARKS 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF KING SLAYINGThe global commemoration culminates with events in Memphis and Atlanta, followed by a march and ending in speeches by Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and others.7. WHAT FORMER FRIEND OF WASHINGTON FAMILY TOLD AUTHORITIESAlexandra Argyropoulos tells the AP that she told Oregon child welfare officials in 2013 that Jennifer and Sarah Hart  who plunged off a California cliff with their children in an SUV  had been depriving the kids of food as punishment.8. RHODE ISLAND TO BUY FARMS TO HELP NEW FARMERSThe state is launching a program to buy farms and sell them to new farmers for dirt cheap, an unconventional approach to ensure that farming remains viable.9. WHERE HOLLYWOOD IS COMING UP SHORTA new study finds the film industry\'s move toward diversity has largely ignored people with disabilities.10. WHAT DJ\'S GOAL IS AT GOLF\'S FIRST MAJORDustin Johnson isn\'t looking back at the freak back injury that knocked him out of the Masters last year.

MISSION, Texas   On Tuesday, the same day that U.S. President Donald Trump announced his intention to deploy military to help patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, Edwin Valdez and four other Central American migrants were walking through dense brush at a south Texas wildlife reserve, hoping to escape notice.The men had illegally crossed into the United States that morning, guided by a smuggler who had since abandoned them. Now they were lost and uncertain how to proceed.In vehicles nearby, U.S. Border Patrol agents had been alerted to migrants moving through the area, and after detecting movement in the bushes, they swooped in to arrest the men.It was business as usual in the Rio Grande Valley, one of the busiest crossing points for migrants trying to enter the United States illegally.In just a few hours that morning, 61 migrants, including Valdez, were rounded up in the area. Ten, including four from China, were caught with the help of a tracking dog in a sugar cane field. Two Hondurans were taken into custody at a public park.Several of those caught said they were unfazed by tough talk from Trump, who has made headlines around the world with tweets railing about border security and threatening to end the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) unless Mexico does more to "stop the big drug and people flows."Trump\'s renewed frustration about border security, rekindled over the weekend by news of a "caravan" of Central American migrants moving through Mexico toward the U.S. border, reflects the broader frustration of his administration.In the months after Trump took office, the number of migrants caught along the U.S.-Mexico border fell dramatically, hitting a low of about 15,700 in April, from more than 42,400 in January 2017, U.S. Customs and Border Protection data shows.But arrests have crept back up since, and in the first months of 2018 have reached levels at, or near, those seen during the last year of his predecessor, President Barack Obama.Rising arrests of families and unaccompanied minors along the border are a particular concern.In March, their numbers surpassed the previous three years and "rivaled fiscal year 2014, when we had a crisis," Manuel Padilla, chief of the border patrol\'s Rio Grande Valley sector, said in an interview with Reuters.He said families with children, who are more difficult to deport quickly, form about 49 percent of the current apprehensions in his region. He said they often walk up to the first U.S. officials they find to ask for help."It doesn\'t matter how many agents are out there," when it comes to families, he said, "because this population is turning themselves in."REVOLVING DOORValdez, 20, who worked as an electrician\'s assistant in his home country of El Salvador, said he previously tried to cross the border illegally in 2016.That time, he was picked up by border patrol officers after wandering lost and dehydrated in the desert for four days. After six months in detention, he was deported last year, but decided to travel north again after gangs threatened him at his job.While crossing has become more and more difficult in recent years, Valdez said, need is a powerful motivator."Necessity forces people to leave their countries so they can bring a better life to their families," he said. "That\'s why people are willing to suffer through all this."People like Valdez who have been previously deported can often be quickly sent home.Immigrants traveling with small children when caught, however, often spend only a few days in custody because of a shortage of detention facilities suitable for families and court settlements that preclude prolonged detention of minors.In the Rio Grande Valley, parents are often released with electronic ankle monitors and ordered to appear with their children in court on a specific date for deportation proceedings. Trump has railed against the practice, which he calls "catch and release."At the Hidalgo port of entry, one of the busiest crossings in South Texas for legal trade and traffic across the U.S.-Mexico border, Customs and Border Protection officers seemed largely indifferent to the renewed rhetoric from Washington."Everyone who is in office has their own agenda, which is different than the law. But the law is the law and that\'s what we are enforcing," said Port Director Carlos Rodriguez, who has been with the enforcement agency for 20 years. "That has been true consistently through administrations."For migrants like Jose Romero, 27, who made the harrowing days-long trip through Mexico with his 8-year-old daughter in the back of a dark cargo truck, threats from the president are little deterrent.In his mountain home in Honduras, Romero made just $4 a day as a farm laborer, not enough to feed his family of five, he said. After his arrest at the border and subsequent release to wait court proceedings, he said he doubted if migrants can be deterred."They will keep coming," he said, because of violence and poverty south of the border. "The people are afraid."(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg; Editing by Sue Horton, Clarence Fernandez and Richard Chang)
EVELETH, Minn.  On northern Minnesotas Iron Range, where evergreen trees stretch on for miles and snowpack lingers into the spring, a political shift is underway.Generations of residents have gone to work in the mines, endured cycles of booms and layoffs, and mostly voted for Democrats. But President Trumps tariffs on imported steel are being celebrated as a boost to the local taconite mines, which supply American steel mills, and Republicans are hopeful that they can flip the areas congressional seat in November.President Trump is keeping his promises that he made on the campaign trail, said Pete Stauber, a retired police officer and former professional hockey player who is running for Congress as a Republican. He talked about leveling the playing field for the American worker. He did that with the tariffs.Much has been said about groups who dislike the tariffs: a bipartisan mix of manufacturers,  farmers and politicians who warn of trade disputes and unforeseen consequences. Chinas announcement on Wednesday of proposed tariffs on a range of American exports  including soybeans, chemicals and cars  heightened concern that a trade war could be looming.But in a few places where Republicans see openings to win seats and upend a national political forecast that seems to favor Democrats in November, the 25 percent tariff on foreign steel and the 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum are viewed as economic lifelines straight from the Oval Office.In Southern Illinois, where a Republican congressman, Mike Bost, faces a tough re-election campaign, a steel mill that laid off hundreds is calling back workers. In Ohio, where the governorship and a Senate seat are on this years ballot, another steel mill could soon reopen. And in upper Minnesota, where iron ore pits  vast canyons of red-tinted dirt  shape the landscape, the tariffs could be a stabilizing force for towns still recovering from mine closings.Its really strange, said Mayor Bob Vlaisavljevich of Eveleth, a longtime Democrat who in recent years has changed his registration to Republican and decorated his City Hall office with a Trump bumper sticker. A billionaire from New York is the one saving us.Many in northern Minnesota still speak fondly about the Democrats in their own congressional delegation, and plenty have criticisms of the presidents Twitter habit and of Republican attitudes toward labor unions. But there is a broad sense that Mr. Trump has taken up the regions cause right as the national Democratic Party is frustrating them with environmental regulations they see as unduly burdensome to miners and with calls for stricter limits on guns.I feel theyve kind of gone off the deep end, said Lyn Pahlen, 53, an auto-parts store owner who lives in Chisholm, Minn., where a 36-foot-tall statue of an iron miner towers above the main highway.Ms. Pahlen, a former Democratic voter who supported Mr. Trump, said her business suffered a few years ago when an influx of foreign steel, much of it from China, led many of the local mines to temporarily shut down. With less money being spent around town, Ms. Pahlen cut some employees hours and laid off others. Ms. Pahlen said she was taking a wait-and-see approach.Conditions are better now. Mines began reopening in the final months of Barack Obamas presidency, when he cracked down on steel dumping, and that growth has continued under Mr. Trump. The mines employ about 4,000 people in this sparsely populated region, according to the Iron Mining Association of Minnesota, and thousands of others work for mining industry vendors.Things are coming around, said Dan Pierce, who was out of work for about 15 months after a mine in Keewatin, Minn., shut down in 2015.Mr. Pierce, a Democrat and local union vice president, is no fan of Mr. Trump, and he was dismayed when the president temporarily exempted a few countries, including South Korea and Brazil, from the tariffs. Still, he said people were cautiously optimistic that the tariffs would have tangible benefits on the Iron Range.People are working overtime, Mr. Pierce said. People are spending money in the community.Mr. Stauber, the Republican candidate for Congress who serves now as a county commissioner, is hoping to capitalize on some of that economic momentum as he runs in Minnesotas Eighth District, which stretches more than 27,000 square miles from the Minneapolis exurbs through the Iron Range and up to the Canadian border.The district, which Mr. Trump won by 15.6 percentage points in 2016, according to DailyKos Elections, could be one of the Republicans best chances of flipping a Democratic seat in the House. Mr. Obama carried the district by 5.5 percentage points in 2012; he won by 8.6 percentage points four years earlier. Representative Rick Nolan, the incumbent Democrat, is retiring after narrowly winning re-election in 2016.Much is riding on November for both parties. Minnesotas United States senators, Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, both Democrats, are up for election, and the states Democratic governor, Mark Dayton, is retiring and leaving an open seat.Another congressional seat held by Democrats, the First District in the southern part of Minnesota, is also considered a tossup. Representative Tim Walz won a close race in 2016 and is running for governor this year instead of seeking another term in the House.Up on the Iron Range, Mr. Nolan supports the presidents tariffs and remains popular among miners. But he has faced pressure from some fellow Democrats who want stricter environmental regulations, as well as from right-leaning constituents disenchanted with his party. Democrats have not yet nominated a candidate to replace Mr. Nolan, 74, who said he was leaving office to spend more time with his family.Mr. Nolan said the president connects in his messaging on the Iron Range by focusing on economic anxiety. Democrats could improve their pitch to voters on that topic, Mr. Nolan said.Miners who are sitting on the bench hoping to go back to work someday, and you have someone saying, Hey, I care about you, Mr. Nolan said. That means a lot to people.In the union halls and restaurants of northern Minnesota, the enthusiasm for the tariffs is tempered by decades of ups and downs, hiring sprees and layoffs. People often use phrases like guarded optimism and stabilization.Many longtime residents  and it seems most everyone is a longtime resident  recall their fathers struggling without a job in the bust of the 1980s, or a grandfather encountering hard times. They tell of a time when places like Eveleth, where the population of 3,700 is about half of its 1930 peak, had more businesses, more young families, more high school graduates staying home instead of moving to the cities, Minneapolis and St. Paul.Brian Zarn, 54, grew up nearby and has worked at the mine in Eveleth for about 29 years. He said it had been a rewarding career with a salary that supported his family, but also work pockmarked by layoffs and frustration with foreign steel being sold cheaply on American shores.Were cautiously optimistic, but we know the industry has got a lot of problems. China keeps overproducing, said Mr. Zarn, a local union president, who was wearing a shirt that read, STEELWORKERS Not Made In China.We hope that the tariffs are in there long-term, he added. But were realists, too. We look at the past.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement agents have seized roughly 100 Northern California houses purchased with money wired to the United States by a Chinese-based crime organization and used to grow massive amounts of marijuana illegally, authorities said Wednesday.The raids culminated a monthslong investigation focusing on dozens of Chinese nationals who bought homes in seven counties. Most of the buyers were in the country legally and were not arrested as authorities investigate if they were indebted to the gang and forced into the work, U.S. Attorney McGregor Scott said.Much of the pot was shipped to Georgia, Illinois, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania through Atlanta, Chicago and New York City, he said. The drug is legal in California but requires permits to grow and can\'t be sent across state lines. It is still banned by the U.S. government.Black-market pot-growing houses have proliferated in the inland California region where authorities carried out the raids, and many of them were traced to Chinese criminal organizations from the San Francisco Bay Area in the mid-2000s, Scott said. The high number of grow houses in the area may be because of low property prices compared with the Bay Area and the state\'s large Chinese population, the prosecutor said.Scott called the recent crackdown "a game-changer" that may have cost the criminal organization "hundreds of millions of dollars" in lost drug profits and the money it spent on the homes."It hits the criminals right where it counts  in the pocketbook," he said.Authorities tracked at least 125 wire transfers totaling $6.3 million from Fujian Province in China, all just below the $50,000 limit imposed by the Chinese government.Officials are trying to learn if the homebuyers are what Scott called "indentured servants"  indebted to the Chinese gang and brought to the United States to buy and tend the grow houses. Many speak only Mandarin Chinese."We\'re treating them as victims" who may have been "forced or coerced" to work in what can be toxic environments, FBI Special Agent in Charge Sean Ragan said.The buyers generally used the same Sacramento real estate agents, borrowed from private lenders instead of traditional banks, and used straw buyers who purchased the properties on behalf of the real owners.The U.S. crackdown comes as California is months into creating the world\'s largest legal marijuana market amid uncertainty about whether the U.S. government will try to shut it down.More than 500 officers, including SWAT teams, fanned out over two days to search and seize 81 houses and two real estate businesses. Another 25 houses were raided previously.They seized more than 61,000 marijuana plants, 200 kilograms (440 pounds) of processed marijuana, at least $100,000 in cash and 15 firearms, including one that had been stolen.The U.S. Department of Justice said it was one of the largest residential forfeiture operations ever. Prosecutors will now ask judges to transfer ownership of the houses to the U.S. government to resell while they track the enterprise back to its roots, Scott said.Most of the suburban houses were valued at $300,000 to $700,000, though some were in rural areas and some in more upscale neighborhoods.U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement that transnational criminal organizations are "a blight on our communities, bringing dangerous drugs to our streets and trying to impose a false sovereignty over our neighborhoods."The Chinese consulate general\'s office in San Francisco did not respond to multiple requests for comment.Illegal grow houses have been a widespread problem in Northern California for at least a dozen years. Sacramento officials have estimated that there might be as many as 1,000 illegal grow houses in California\'s capital city.Authorities previously said the practice of growing marijuana in homes instead of outdoors originated along Canada\'s West Coast and migrated south as border restrictions increased after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.Suburban tract homes get transformed with high intensity lights and irrigation pipes, gutted to add ventilation pipes and air filtration systems to vent the tell-tale smell, and stacked with tables full of marijuana plants that could produce multiple crops each year."It\'s like industrial agriculture," Scott said.
William Prochnau, a journalist and author who wrote a critically acclaimed book, Once Upon a Distant War, about a handful of skeptical reporters whose early warnings that the United States wasnt winning in Vietnam went unheeded, died on March 28 in his home in Washington. He was 80.The cause was coronary artery disease, said his wife and frequent collaborator, Laura Parker, a staff writer for National Geographic magazine.Mr. Prochnau (pronounced PROCK-now) was a reporter for The Washington Post and a contributing editor of Vanity Fair, where his article Adventures in the Ransom Trade was the basis for the movie Proof of Life (2000), a kidnapping thriller starring Meg Ryan and Russell Crowe. (Ms. Parker said the film rights paid for the Meg Ryan Memorial Kitchen in the couples Washington home.)His novel Trinitys Child inspired the script of By Dawns Early Light (1990), an apocalyptic Cold War movie starring James Earl Jones.Mr. Prochnau often said he was proudest of his own reportage from Vietnam for The Seattle Times in the mid-1960s  work that apparently earned him a berth on President Richard M. Nixons expanded enemies list.The contrasts between what Mr. Prochnau witnessed and the cocksure official accounts of American gains against the Communists inspired Once Upon a Distant War: Young War Correspondents and the Early Vietnam Battles, published by Times Books/Random House in 1995.With television just coming of age, Mr. Prochnau focused on print reporters, primarily David Halberstam of The New York Times; Malcolm Browne, Peter Arnett and Horst Faas of The Associated Press; Neil Sheehan of United Press International; and Charles Mohr of Time magazine  all of whose on-the-ground reporting suggested that Americas military and political strategy was doomed.This small group of young men, he wrote, would bring down upon themselves the wrath of every power structure they confronted  the White House, the Pentagon, the South Vietnamese government, the old guard of the press itself, even their own bosses.In an admiring review in The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote, When all was said and done, in Mr. Prochnaus view, blaming the journalists was simply a case of shooting the messenger.The correspondents were patriotic cold warriors all, Mr. Prochnau concluded, but, Mr. Lehmann-Haupt wrote, the Viet Cong was winning the war, as far as the journalists could see, which seems to have been a good deal farther than anyone in charge.Kai Bird, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer and director of the Leon Levy Center for Biography at the City University of New York Graduate Center, described Once Upon a Distant War in an email as the classic account of the journalistic experience in Vietnam.Mr. Prochnau himself saw this experience as historically pivotal.Their extraordinary adventure would mark the beginning of the era of the modern media, he said of the reporters he profiled, and, ironically, the beginning of the end of the golden age of print.William Walter Prochnau was born on Aug. 9, 1937, in Everett, Wash. His father, Emil, was a circulation agent for The Seattle Times. His mother, the former Florence Foley, became a nurse.His first marriage, to Lani Gruger, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, Ms. Parker, he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Monica Bradley and Jennifer McMaster; a brother, John; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter. Another daughter from his first marriage, Anna, died in 2015.Mr. Prochnau attended Everett Junior College (now Everett Community College) in Washington and Seattle University. At 19, he spurned an offer to play Triple-A baseball to become a sportswriter for The Everett Herald. He went on to cover sports in Alaska.Lured to The Seattle Times, he covered Washington, the Moon landing in 1969 and the restoration of diplomatic relations with China, and profiled the assassin of John Lennon.After leaving The Times, in 1974, he helped Sen. Warren G. Magnuson, a Washington Democrat, win a fifth term. A year later he founded the short-lived Daily Journal-American in Bellevue, Wash. He became political editor of The Post-Intelligencer in Seattle and covered the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980.Mr. Prochnau reported for The Washington Post full time in the 1980s, then returned to Seattle, where he wrote freelance articles and books and in 1996 became a contributing editor to Vanity Fair.He was nothing if not meticulous  and persistent: It took him 11 years to write his Vietnam book. Ms. Parker had vowed not to marry him until he finished it, she said, but the project was proceeding so slowly, she relented and married him in 1988, with the book not even half completed.But that was nothing compared to the 16,000-word article that he and his wife wrote in 2002 about Oskar Speck, who kayaked from Germany to Australia in the 1930s. Pruned nearly by half, the The Incredible True Story of Historys Longest Kayak Journey was finally published in Vanity Fair in February, after being held for 16 years.The story had no news value to speak of, but it was a terrific tale and told perfectly, Graydon Carter, the magazines outgoing editor wrote. Bill was 64 when he wrote the story. He was 80 when we finally ran it. Thats what we call playing a long game.Bill had the temperament and patience of an old-school reporter, Mr. Carter said in an email in reference to the article. So much so, that he never once prodded me about it.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Australias pokie problem, uproar in Big Tech and relaxed snow monkeys. Heres what you need to know: Anger that YouTube was blocking her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself with the same handgun.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad swaths of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced. Stocks plunged in early U.S. trading, but recovered._____ Big uproar in Big Tech.Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes.Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailers stock. We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms.And Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, will testify before Congress next week on the companys handling of sensitive user data. (Facebook raised its estimate of how many peoples data was improperly used by a consulting firm tied to President Trump, to as many as 87 million.)_____ Australians lose more money gambling, per capita, than any other people in the world. Its not even close.The average Australian adult loses around $900 each year  about 50 percent more than second-placed Singaporeans, and more than double the rate of Americans.Electronic gambling machines known as pokies contribute to an extraordinary degree: a gargantuan 24 billion Australian dollars, or about $18.4 billion, each year.And war is brewing between venue operators and anti-gambling factions. Each is trying to woo state governments, which could regulate the machines but which rely on revenue from them._____ Japans famed snow monkeys are a photogenic wonder.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.) On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Production hell. Tesla and its chief executive, Elon Musk, are learning what the rest of the car industry already knows: Producing a quarter of a million cars a year is daunting. Grindr, the gay-dating app, has prompted an uproar for sharing users H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal information with outside companies. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Exchanges in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said that the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home quickly. [The New York Times] The presidents of Turkey, Russia and Iran met in Ankara to discuss Syrias future. The Iranian leader called for the U.S. to withdraw. [Al Monitor] The Australian Taxation Office, joined by federal police officers, raided the home of a tax office employee who had been acting as a whistle-blower for an investigative report by Four Corners and Fairfax on abuses by his agency. [ABC] I wont be challenging the sanctions. The former captain Steve Smith accepted the 12-month playing ban issued by Cricket Australia for his role in the national teams brazen ball-tampering scandal. [The Guardian] Brazils highest court is expected to decide within hours whether a former president, Luiz Incio Lula da Silva, should be jailed while he appeals his corruption conviction. Jailing him would end his front-runner bid to return to office. [The New York Times] Where is Googoosha? Uzbekistan adores its late dictator, Islam Karimov, but is trying hard to forget his daughter, once the countrys most famous person. [The New York Times] An American football player may have thwarted a school shooting. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. In memoriam: William Prochnau, 80, a journalist and author of Once Upon a Distant War, about the group of reporters whose early warnings that the U.S. wasnt winning in Vietnam went unheeded, but who felt the wrath of every power structure they confronted  the White House, the Pentagon, the South Vietnamese government, the old guard of the press itself, even their own bosses. In Hong Kong, ever tinier apartments are making laundromats the hot new place to hang out.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.The dance studio chain that bears his name now has 260 studios in 22 countries.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames their partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
BORACAY, Philippines  A Philippine island that became famous for the white sand beaches and coral reefs that made it a haven for travelers, and then for the rapid development and pollution that threatened its idyllic shores, has been ordered closed to tourists for six months.President Rodrigo Duterte  who has said that inadequate sewage treatment on the island, Boracay, has turned its beaches into a cesspool  directed that it be closed to tourism starting on April 26, his spokesman, Harry Roque, said Wednesday.That decision threatens the livelihoods of thousands of people on Boracay, a speck of an island in the central Philippines that has become a travel destination to rival Phuket, in Thailand, and Bali, in Indonesia.Mr. Duterte has said that Boracay must be cleaned up, but officials have given no indication that there is a plan to do so. Yet last month, the government signed an agreement with Galaxy Entertainment, a Macau-based casino operator, and a Philippine partner to begin construction next year on a $500 million beachfront casino that would add to the burdens on the islands infrastructure.Maybe the timing was just coincidence, but I can say that it is very odd, said Nenette Graf, president of an alliance of Boracays hotels, restaurants and other businesses. You want to close the island, but at the same time allow a casino operator in?Environment Secretary Roy Cimatu, who recently met with Boracay business owners, acknowledged the contradiction, a local newspaper reported, but noted that the new casino would need to secure an environmental clearance certificate from his agency before opening.Most of the roughly 40,000 residents of the four-square-mile island are dependent on tourism, and even before Mr. Dutertes order, some were struggling.Right now, there should be twice the number of tourists here, said Alfred Abuloc, 29, who works in a tiny restaurant. He wondered aloud whether the presidents harsh words about the island have caused others to cancel.In 2010, The New York Times described Boracay, previously known for its laid-back party culture, as Asias next tourism hot spot, and since then it has landed on the covers and best lists of travel magazines. Foreigners, most of them Chinese or South Korean, crowd its beaches and shops, and local officials say the island drew two million visitors last year.The race for tourist dollars fueled rapid development. Bamboo huts and modest, wood-framed inns gave way to modern hotels, primarily along the four-mile-long White Beach on the islands western side. A mall features American chains like Starbucks, KFC and McDonalds, and Caticlan Airport, 15 minutes away by ferry, recently expanded to handle the flow of tourists.The boom brought jobs and money, but overtaxed the islands water and garbage disposal systems and, crucially, its sewers and storm drains.Resort owners say the government promised a system that would treat waste and runoff, and pump it far out to sea. What they got instead, they say, was an inadequate treatment system, with many properties illegally tapped into it, that dumps wastewater just off the islands eastern shore, at Bulabog Beach, an area famed for its wind- and kite-surfing.Video of black water gushing out of a pipe there, while a kite surfer passed in the background, drew widespread attention this year. Mr. Duterte seized on it to begin a series of blistering verbal attacks on development on Boracay.Saying the water smells, and employing other, more colorful words, Mr. Duterte ordered officials in the environment, tourism and interior departments to undertake a cleanup. So far, the government has not signaled what it will do to fix the problem, or when.We want the government to help us, said Ms. Graf, who operates the Boracay Beach Resort on the western side of the island. But closing the island, she said, is another matter altogether. We dont want that.Closure means the end of jobs, she said, asking how local workers were going to eat in the next six months. She predicted that it would have ripple effects across the entire Philippine economy.You close us down, and we will likely not recover from it, she added. Tourism in Asia is very competitive.Boracays Chamber of Commerce and Industry has asked Mr. Duterte to reconsider, arguing that not all businesses are violators, and that those found to be polluting should instead be cut off from the water supply.The proposed casino site is on the less developed, eastern side of the island, and to make way for the project, local landowners say they were forced to sell their property at below-market prices. Some of the houses there have already been torn down, and a no trespassing sign warns away visitors.Many local people moved to Boracay from the countrys crowded cities to find work, including Mr. Abuloc, the restaurant worker, who arrived five years ago from Manila, the capital. He and his wife, whom he met while they both worked their way up in the tourism industry, now have a 2-year-old boy.Maybe Ill move elsewhere and go work as a construction laborer, he said.The closing of the island, while drastic, is not the first time that a government in the region has sacrificed tourist revenue in the name of environmental protection. More than a decade ago, the Malaysian island of Sipadan, famed for its diving, was closed to tourists to allow its reefs to rehabilitate.Jaana Laht, 44, of Estonia, who visited Boracay recently with her husband, Aadu, said she understood the logic.This is such a beautiful island, its a shame to close it down to tourists, Ms. Laht said as she posed for pictures on White Beach. Its a shame, but if it is to save the environment, maybe it will be worth it in the long run.
