HANOI   Tension in the South China Sea will hurt PetroVietnam\'s offshore exploration and exploitation activities this year, the state-run oil and gas group said on Tuesday, weeks after the Southeast Asian nation suspended a project under pressure from China.Vietnam and China have been embroiled in maritime disputes in parts of the busy waterway, where China claims 90 percent of the potentially energy-rich maritime territory, which Vietnam calls the East Sea."The East Sea is forecast to continue to have uncertainty this year ... affecting the company\'s efforts to attract foreign investors to invest in its open offshore fields", PetroVietnam said on its website.PetroVietnam has rarely openly admitted that the tension has had an adverse impact on its offshore exploration and production fields, especially those located near the U-shaped "nine-dash line" that marks the vast area claimed by China.During a trip to Hanoi on Sunday, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said both nations should settle their disputes in the South China Sea through talks and move to jointly use its waters.The two countries had agreed such a move was "extremely important for the healthy and sustainable development of bilateral relations," Wang said.In its statement, PetroVietnam said the dispute with China would add to its struggle to maintain crude oil output amid already declining production from Vietnam\'s key fields.Last month, it ordered Spanish energy firm Repsol to suspend its "Red Emperor" project off Vietnam\'s southeastern coast following pressure from China, sources told Reuters.The $1-billion "Red Emperor" field is of moderate size by international standards but was seen as a key asset to help slow the decline of Vietnam\'s stalling oil and gas production.But the block lies near China\'s "nine-dash line" and overlaps what it says are its own oil concessions.Vietnam\'s crude oil output this year is expected to fall 14.7 percent from last year to 11.31 million metric tonnes, or 227,130 barrels per day, the government has said.(Reporting by Khanh Vu; Editing by James Pearson and Clarence Fernandez)
MOSCOW   China\'s new defense minister says his visit to Russia is a signal to the United States about the increasingly close military ties between Moscow and Beijing.The unusually bold statement Tuesday by Gen. Wei Fenghe at the start of his talks with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu reflected the growing military cooperation between the two former Communist rivals.Speaking in Moscow, Wei emphasized that he chose Russia for his first trip abroad since becoming the international face of China\'s military last month to "show the world a high level of development of our bilateral relations and firm determination of our armed forces to strengthen strategic cooperation."Wei added he would attend a security conference Wednesday hosted by the Russian Defense Ministry to "let the Americans know about the close ties between the armed forces of China and Russia."Shoigu said Wei\'s visit "underlines a special character of relations between Russia and China," adding that it will help further deepen ties between the two militaries.Moscow and Beijing have forged what they described as a "strategic partnership," expressing their shared opposition to the "unipolar" world  the term they use to describe perceived U.S. global domination.As part of their burgeoning military cooperation, Moscow and Beijing have conducted joint military maneuvers, including exercises in the South China Sea and last summer\'s joint navy drills in the Baltics.The Baltic exercise marked the first time that China had flexed its military muscle in a region where tensions between Russia and NATO have escalated following Moscow\'s 2014 annexation of Crimea.In December, the Russian and Chinese militaries held missile defense drills intended to practice a joint response to missile threats from other countries.
LONDON   The United Nations has blacklisted a North Korean ship for receiving oil in an October transfer that breached U.N. sanctions, as first revealed by Reuters.Reuters in December reported that Russian tankers had supplied fuel to North Korea, which relies on imported fuel to keep its struggling economy functioning, by transferring cargoes at sea.European security sources told Reuters that a Russian vessel conducted a ship-to-ship transfer with the North Korean-flagged Sam Ma 2 tanker in open seas during October."A DPRK-flagged (Democratic People\'s Republic of Korea) tanker, SAM MA 2 owned by Korea Samma Shipping Company, conducted a ship-to-ship transfer of oil and fabricated documents in mid-October 2017, loading almost 1,600 metric tons of fuel oil in one transaction," the United Nations said.It is the first confirmation of the Reuters report.The U.N. Security Council on Friday blacklisted dozens of ships and shipping companies over oil and coal smuggling by North Korea, boosting pressure on Pyongyang as leader Kim Jong Un plans to meet with his South Korean and U.S. counterparts.The council\'s North Korea sanctions committee acted on a request by the United States, designating 21 shipping companies - including five based in China - 15 North Korean ships, 12 non-North Korean ships and a Taiwanese man.The 12 non-North Korea ships are now subjected to a global port ban and must be deregistered, while the 15 North Korean ships are subjected to an asset freeze and 13 of those a global port ban.The move comes days after Kim met Chinese President Xi Jinping and an announcement that the North Korean leader would meet South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27. He is also scheduled to meet U.S. President Donald Trump some time in May.(Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge and Jonathan Saul in London and Polina Nikolskaya in Moscow; Editing by Mark Potter)
BEIJING   Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told North Korea\'s foreign minister on Tuesday that Beijing supports the North\'s planned summits with South Korea and the United States.The Foreign Ministry cited Wang, China\'s state councilor and foreign minister, as telling Ri Yong Ho at a meeting in Beijing that China appreciates North Korea\'s efforts to ease tensions on the Korean Peninsula.The ministry described Ri as saying that North Korea would maintain close strategic communications with China as outlined at last week\'s surprise meeting between Chinese leader Xi Jinping and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Jong Un. Kim\'s visit to China made clear that Beijing, North Korea\'s only major ally and chief provider of energy and trade that keeps the country\'s broken economy afloat, will have a major role in any effort to rein in the North\'s nuclear program.Earlier Tuesday, Wang told reporters that China hopes a planned meeting between North Korea and the U.S. would be able to avoid "disruptive factors" and stick to the pursuit of dialogue between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump."Of course, historical experience tells us that when there is an easing in the situation on the peninsula and hopes for peace and dialogue appear, there will often be disturbances of this or that kind," Wang said at a briefing with reporters following a meeting with Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis. "We call on all parties to maintain their determination, eliminate interference, and go along in the right direction of dialogue and negotiation."North Korea\'s official Korean Central News Agency said Ri led a government delegation that left Pyongyang, the North\'s capital, on Tuesday to take part in a ministerial meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement to be held in Azerbaijan and visit Russia.The meetings between China and North Korea appear aimed at improving both countries\' positions ahead of Kim\'s anticipated meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and Trump in the coming weeks.A key objective for Beijing is to reassert its relevance to the talks, from which it has been excluded. China has appeared increasingly shut out as its relations with North Korea deteriorated and the North reached out to Seoul and Washington.Ties in recent months have frayed as China supported tougher U.N. sanctions on North Korea and suspended coal and iron ore imports. Last year, North Korea seemingly sought to humiliate Beijing by timing some of its missile tests to coincide with major global summits in China.

BEIJING   China imposed tariffs on 128 U.S. products ranging from wine to oranges in order to "balance the losses" caused by U.S. duties and to protect China\'s national interests, according to a commentary on the front page of the official People\'s Daily.Beijing on Monday slapped additional tariffs of up to 25 percent on about $3 billion worth of U.S. products in response to new U.S. duties on aluminum and steel imports.U.S. producers, Canada and South Korea have been granted exemptions from the aluminum and steel duties, but not China, a relatively small supplier to the United States.The Chinese tariffs are widely regarded as modest in size. They are seen as a warning shot to the U.S. administration, which will this week unveil a list of Chinese high-tech imports targeted for U.S. duties.U.S. industry has expressed concerns that China could further retaliate with punitive levies on major products such as aircraft, soybeans and autos."China does not like trade wars, but being on the side of justice, China has no choice but to enter a war to end a war," Wang Hailou, a researcher at the Chinese commerce ministry\'s research center, wrote in the commentary.Beijing has repeatedly said it does not fear a trade war with the United States, but it has also urged Washington to come to the table and resolve their trade differences."It would be beneficial for all if (China\'s) friendly overtures were accepted by Washington. However, at the moment it seems intent on turning a deaf ear to any suggestion that they each make concessions to reach an amicable agreement," according to an editorial in China Daily.(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Editing by Michael Perry)
BEIJING   Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday told President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe that they should work towards a new chapter in ties, during the African leader\'s first state visit to China since he seized power last year.Mnangagwa, who was sworn in as president in November after a de facto military coup ended Robert Mugabe\'s 37-year rule, has vowed to rebuild his countrys ravaged economy and re-engage with the international community.China had considered Mugabe a "good friend" in a relationship dating back to its support for Zimbabwe\'s independence war, but pointedly failed to support him when he was ousted.I\'m willing to work with Mr President to jointly map out our future cooperation and write a new chapter in China-Zimbabwe relations for the benefit of our two peoples," Xi said, during a meeting in Beijing.China has growing interest in investing in Africa\'s natural resources and has poured more than $100 billion into roads, railways, mines, powerlines and factories on the continent over the last decade.Trade between China and African countries reached $85.3 billion in the first half of 2017, according to Chinese state media.Xi said China has been happy to see the economic reform policies that Mnangagwa put in place after the "peaceful, smooth" transfer of power.Mnangagwa said that Zimbabweappreciated China\'s political support and goodwill and thanked Xi for sending an envoy immediately upon his inauguration."That was a great honor," he said.China continued to invest in large infrastructure projects in Zimbabwe throughout Mugabe\'s rule as his government, sanctioned by Western nations for human rights abuses, increasingly turned to Beijing for help.With his visit, Zimbabwe would attempt to tap China\'s huge financial resources, technical expertise and modern technology in order to help revive the economy, Mnangagwa told the official Xinhua news agency in an interview on Saturday.In December, Zimbabwe signed a $153 million loan agreement with China to expand and refurbish its international airport in Harare in a bid to attract investors and tourists, the first such deal under the new government.China\'s foreign ministry said a trip to Beijing by Zimbabwe\'s military chief one week before the army seized power in the South African nation was a "normal military exchange" amid speculation at the time he had come to brief on plans to seize power.Mnangagwa is likely to join other African leaders coming to Beijing in September for a summit held once every three years.(Reporting by Christian Shepherd; Editing by Robert Birsel)
BEIJING   Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday China and the United States  should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease access for American businesses, as China scrambles to avert a trade war.Li told a conference that included global chief executives that China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, would not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington.The United States asked China in a letter last week to cut a tariff on U.S. autos, buy more U.S.-made semiconductors and give U.S. firms greater access to the Chinese financial sector, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing unidentified sources.Alarm over a possible trade war between the world\'s two largest economies has chilled financial markets as investors anticipated dire consequences should trade barriers go up due to President Donald Trump\'s bid to cut the U.S. deficit with China.U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer listed steps they want China to take in a letter to Liu He, a newly appointed vice premier who oversees China\'s economy, the Journal said, quoting sources with knowledge of the matter.The newspaper reported that Mnuchin was considering a visit to Beijing to pursue negotiations.Despite a steady stream of fierce rhetoric from Chinese state media lambasting the United States for being a "bully" and warning of retaliation, Chinese and U.S. officials are busy negotiating behind the scenes."With regard to trade imbalances, China and the United States should adopt a pragmatic and rational attitude, promote balancing through expansion of trade, and stick to negotiations to resolve differences and friction," Li told the conference in Beijing, state radio reported.China has offered to buy more U.S. semiconductors by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the negotiations. China imported $11 billion of semiconductors - comprising chips, diodes and transistors - from the United States last year.Chinese officials are also working to finalize rules by May - instead of the end of June - to allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, the Financial Times said."I anticipate that for political reason it would be logical for China to respond, because countries do," Blackstone Group Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the Beijing conference at which Li spoke, the China Development Forum."That\'s why I view this more as a skirmish, and I think the interests of both countries are served by resolving some of these matters."Fears of a trade war mounted this month after Trump imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and then on Thursday specifically targeted China by announcing plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.On Friday, China responded to the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports. The list of targeted goods contained no mention of soybeans or aircraft, China\'s two biggest U.S. import items.China could also inflict pain on U.S. multinationals that rely on China for a substantial - and growing - portion of their total revenues, said Alex Wolf, senior emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments."This could put U.S. companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Starbucks, GM, Nike, etc in the firing line," Wolf said in a note.China can increase the regulatory burden on U.S companies through new inspections and rules; ban travel; stop providing export licenses of key intermediate goods; raise the tax burden on U.S. multinationals in China; or block U.S. companies from the government procurement market, he said.FLOUTED RULESTrump unveiled the planned tariffs targeting Chinese goods after a U.S. inquiry found China guilty of intellectual property theft and unfair trade, by forcing U.S. investors to turn over key technologies to Chinese firms.On Saturday, Liu told Mnuchin in a telephone call the U.S. inquiry violated international trade rules and China would defend its interests, the official Xinhua news agency reported.A U.S. Treasury spokesman confirmed the call, but declined to comment on the content of any letter or on a possible visit by Mnuchin to Beijing."Secretary Mnuchin called Liu He to congratulate him on the official announcement of his new role," the spokesman told Reuters. "They also discussed the trade deficit between our two countries and committed to continuing the dialogue to find a mutually agreeable way to reduce it."The Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion."The U.S. has been wielding sticks worldwide over the past year. Washington needs to be taught a real lesson and such a lesson can only be taught by China, the world\'s second-largest economy," China\'s Global Times newspaper said in an editorial.The widely read tabloid is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily mirror government policy.Privately, Liu and Mnuchin exchanged letters in the past week on further opening China\'s financial services sector and cutting Chinese tariffs on imported cars, according to the Financial Times.China has a 25 percent tariff on U.S. cars and has talked recently of lowering it.China\'s imports of U.S. motor vehicles totalled $10.6 billion in 2017, about 8 percent of the country\'s overall U.S. imports by value, according to U.S. government data.On the reported offer to increase U.S. semiconductor imports, it is unclear how U.S. chips would replace South Korean and Taiwanese chips, since there is minimal overlap between U.S. chips and those of the two Asian producers.China is heavily dependent on foreign semiconductors, one of its biggest import categories by value. That said, the U.S. accounted for just 1 percent of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, according to Reuters calculations based on Chinese customs data.(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Matthew Miller, Ben Blanchard, Elias Glenn and Stella Qiu in Beijing; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore and Kim Coghill)
BEIJING   Zimbabwe\'s President Emmerson Mnangagwa thanked Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday for Beijing\'s political support and pledged to strengthen ties with the Asian giant on his first visit since his dramatic rise to power last year.Xi welcomed Mnangagwa to Beijing when they met following a formal welcoming ceremony at the Great Hall of the People."You are an old friend of China and I appreciate your efforts to develop relations in all areas," Xi said in opening remarks. Xi praised Mnangagwa\'s efforts to "improve people\'s lives" in Zimbabwe, though he did not go into specifics."As Zimbabwe\'s good friend and partner, we are very happy about this," Xi said.Ahead of an election scheduled for August 2018 at the latest, Mnangagwa is under pressure to bring back foreign investors and resolve a severe currency shortage, mass unemployment and dramatic price increases.Mnangagwa, who along with members of his delegation wore a scarf in the colors of Zimbabwe\'s flag, thanked Xi for his reception and recalled his military training in China in 1963-64. In the 1960s, China helped train and supply guerrilla fighters from the Zanu\'s military wing in the fight for liberation. Mnangagwa, 75, was part of that effort after he joined the fight against white minority rule in then-Rhodesia.Mnangagwa congratulated Xi on his re-election as president and on the establishment of his political theory, simply referred to as "Xi Jinping Thought.""I will take this mantra to Zimbabwe and hope to develop some socialism in Zimbabwe with Zimbabwean characteristics," Mnangagwa said.The trip is Mnangagwa\'s first since longtime leader Robert Mugabe resigned in November under pressure from the military. Mugabe\'s government maintained warm relations with Beijing but was accused of widespread corruption.Some of that ill-gotten wealth was reported to have gone through China, which became increasingly enmeshed with Zimbabwe\'s government and economy as Western nations withdrew over human rights concerns and mismanagement of the once-prosperous country.Among those projects is the 300 megawatt expansion of the Kariba South by China\'s Sinohydro in a deal worth hundreds of millions of dollars.Chinese companies were also major players in Zimbabwe\'s diamond fields until the government canceled all licenses to make way for a state monopoly in 2016.Since then, Zimbabwe has continued to face huge economic challenges, including severe cash shortages and dramatic increases in the price of food and other household items that have prompted it to look to China for loans and investment.At the time of Mugabe\'s resignation, China said it still considered him a "good friend" who "has long been committed to friendship between China and Zimbabwe."However, questions were raised as to whether China had played a role or been notified in advance of the move against Mugabe because of a visit days before by Zimbabwe\'s army commander at the time, Gen. Constantino Chiwenga, to Beijing.Analysts said China had increasingly considered Mugabe a liability. Beijing has said only that Chiwenga\'s visit was a "normal military exchange."Zimbabwe is among the African countries targeted by China\'s trillion-dollar "Belt and Road" initiative promising roads, ports, and other infrastructure. That\'s widely seen as providing the continent\'s economy with a much-needed boost, although some have questioned the long-term ability of recipient nations to pay for the projects.Most recently, the United States has sounded an alarm that the Chinese money flooding Africa risks bringing dependency, exploitation and intrusion on nations\' basic sovereignty.Former U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said last month in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, that while Chinese investment is "badly needed," African countries should "carefully consider the terms."
SEOUL   South Korea\'s government official in charge of foreign exchange  said on Tuesday that authorities will act to curb sharp fluctuations in the won if necessary.The Korean won <KRW=KFTC> touched as high as 1,056.5 versus U.S. dollar on Monday, its strongest intraday level since Oct. 2014."We\'re closely watching market situations," the official said, asking not to be identified because of internal policy."Whether the government discloses (currency market) intervention details or not, there is no change to our stance that we will be taking action in cases of sharp volatility," the official said in a phone call with Reuters.South Korea, along with China, avoided the currency-manipulator label in twice-yearly U.S. Treasury report, but was kept on a currency "monitoring list".The United States often presses Seoul to disclose details of currency interventions to improve transparency of its currency policies.(Reporting by Shin-hyung Lee, Dahee Kim; Editing by Eric Meijer)
BEIJING   China appreciates North Korea\'s "important efforts" to ease tension on the Korean peninsula, senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told the North\'s foreign minister on Tuesday, hours after he called on all sides to stay focussed on talks.China has traditionally been secretive North Korea\'s closest ally, though ties had been frayed by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s pursuit of nuclear weapons and missiles and Beijing\'s backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.But in late March Beijing vowed to uphold its friendship with its isolated neighbour and won a pledge from Kim to denuclearise the peninsula during a meeting with President Xi Jinping.China\'s Foreign Ministry gave only hours notice that Wang, a State Councillor and China\'s Foreign Minister, would meet North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho.Wang told Ri that Xi and Kim had reached an important consensus on achieving a peaceful resolution to the peninsula nuclear issue during Kim\'s visit to Beijing, his first known trip outside North Korea since he assumed power in 2011."China appreciates North Korea\'s position working towards denuclearisation of the peninsula and its important efforts to ease the situation on the peninsula, and supports meetings between the leaders of the North and South and between the North and the United States," Wang said, according to a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement.The ministry cited Ri as saying that North Korea would "maintain close strategic communications" with China on peninsula-related issues, and that the Kim-Xi meeting was an "important juncture" in the development of bilateral relations.North Korea\'s official news agency KCNA had said that a delegation headed by Ri left on Tuesday to meet other foreign ministers in Azerbaijan and to visit Russia, but made no mention of China."DISRUPTIVE FACTORS"Earlier in the day, Wang said during a joint news briefing with visiting Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis that he hoped a planned meeting in May between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump would "increase mutual understanding"."But historical experience tells us that at the moment of easing of the situation on the peninsula and as first light dawns on peace and dialogue, frequently all manner of disruptive factors emerge," Wang said."So we call on all sides to maintain focus, eliminate interference, and firmly follow the correct path of dialogue and negotiation."Cassis said that he would discuss with Wang the role that Switzerland could play in the strategic meetings between Kim and "some important partners on the international level", but he did not elaborate.A time and place have not been set for the Trump-Kim meeting to discuss denuclearisation. North and South Korea will hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, South Korea has said.Kim\'s predecessors, grandfather Kim Il Sung and father Kim Jong Il, both promised not to pursue nuclear weapons but secretly maintained programmes to develop them, culminating in the North\'s first nuclear test in 2006 under Kim Jong Il.North Korea has said in previous, failed talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear programme that it could consider giving up its arsenal if the United States removed its troops from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan.Some analysts have said Trump\'s willingness to meet Kim handed Pyongyang a diplomatic win, as the United States had insisted for years that any such summit be preceded by North Korean steps to denuclearise.China had largely sat on the sidelines as North Korea improved relations with South Korea, raising worries in Beijing that it was no longer a central player in the North Korean issue.The two Koreas have seen a significant thaw in ties since the North\'s participation in the South\'s Winter Olympics in February.Kim Jong Un and his wife on Sunday made a surprise appearance at the first of two concerts performed by a South Korean art troupe this week in Pyongyang, titled "Spring is Coming".Kim proposed another concert in South Korea later this year with performers from the North in response to this week\'s shows in Pyongyang by K-pop artists, South Korea\'s Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters in Seoul.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the capital.(Reporting by Michael Martina and Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd and Dominique Patton in Beijing; Editing by Nick Macfie)
HONG KONG   Asian stock markets were mixed in early trading Wednesday as investors pondered the latest volley of tariff measures and threats between the U.S. and China.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 dipped 0.1 percent to 21,271.03 and South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 2,432.83. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng edged 0.1 percent higher to 30,198.18 and the Shanghai Composite added 0.6 percent to 3,154.88. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 edged 0.1 percent lower to 5,745.60. Shares fell in Singapore.TARIFF TENSIONS: In the latest salvo escalating the U.S.-China trade dispute, the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion worth of imports from China to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of U.S. technology. China\'s Commerce Ministry responded quickly to the announcement, which came after U.S. trading ended, by vowing to retaliate with measures of equal strength to be announced soon. Earlier this week, China rocked world markets when it said it would impose tariffs on a small number of imports from the U.S. but this time the reaction in Asia appeared more measured.INVESTOR INSIGHT: "The much-anticipated U.S. tariffs list finally saw the light of day and would be one for markets to digest in today\'s session," said Jingyi Pan, market strategist at IG. "China\'s response following the release had provided little fresh insights as the market had been well aware that retaliation steps are expected to follow." Pan noted that investors in mainland China may be extra cautious as they head into a long weekend starting Thursday.WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended higher after a late rally. The S&P 500 index rose 1.3 percent to 2,614.45. It dropped 2.2 percent a day earlier. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.6 percent to 24,033.36. The Nasdaq composite climbed 1 percent to 6,941.28.CURRENCIES: The dollar slipped to 106.49 yen from 106.62 yen in late trading Tuesday. The euro rose to $1.2283 from $1.2272.ENERGY: Oil\'s rally fizzled. A barrel of U.S. crude lost 18 cents to $63.33 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract gained 50 cents to settle at $63.51 on Tuesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 21 cents to $67.91 a barrel in London.
MEXICO CITY   The Mexico economy ministry said on Tuesday it has formally imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of carbon steel pipe from South Korea, Spain, India and the Ukraine after completing an investigation into "unfair" trade practices.The investigation came at the request of a company and covered an analysis of the period from April 2013 to March 2016, the ministry said in a statement in the government\'s official gazette.Mexico has imposed duties in recent years on steel products from several countries after local steelmakers announced cuts in thousands of jobs in 2015 and cancelled investments.Recently, Mexico\'s economy ministry imposed anti-dumping duties in March on imports of carbon steel pipe from China.(Reporting by Veronica Gomez; Writing by Anthony Esposito; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
Cabernet isnt the most obvious pawn in a trade war between the United States and China. Airplanes and their parts are the leading American export to China. Soybeans and wheat grow in Trump country.But Chinas selection of wine as a target of retaliatory tariffs did not surprise Michael Honig, a winemaker in the Napa Valley, where the tariff would hit hardest.The reason the government realizes they should penalize us is, we are branded, said Mr. Honig, the president of Honig Vineyard and Winery. Its hard to go after a wheat grower, because who is a wheat grower? Its a commodity. We are not a commodity.The news was an unwelcome turn of events for Mr. Honig and many California winemakers, who have spent years trying to carve out a place in the hearts of wealthy Chinese consumers. That hard work has earned them a prized sliver of what is becoming one of the fastest-growing markets for wine imports.Chinas imports of American wine reached $82 million last year  not including bottles entering duty-free through Hong Kong  a sevenfold increase in the last decade. But growing visibility may have turned Napa wine into easy prey.Wine is something people can relate to, said Jim Boyce, who has been covering the industry from Beijing for a decade on his blog, the Grape Wall of China. Its like putting a tariff on Chinese dumplings. Its something you can feel on an emotional and personal level.The 15 percent tariff, announced Monday, on top of existing tariffs and taxes, is a gut punch to winemakers marketing their wares to the mushrooming legions of young, recently wealthy Chinese.It is that group, one or two levels below Chinas ultrarich, that holds huge potential for California vintners. Those consumers are far more numerous than 1-percenters. And more crucially, theyre the ones driving the recent blossoming of a wine culture in China in which bottles are actually consumed rather than simply traded among elites as trophies.Mr. Honig and his business partner and wife, Stephanie, have spent a decade wooing that clientele, making a trip a year to China to pitch sommeliers in top restaurants and hotels. He has recently expanded beyond the obvious stops in Beijing and Shanghai, visiting cities like Guangzhou, in southern China.There are people who want to spend the most, but there are also aspirational buyers, Mr. Honig said. You may want to buy the Rolls-Royce, but you can afford the Mercedes. And thats his sweet spot.His most popular cabernet goes for around $25 a bottle wholesale, and he sends more than 500 cases of it every year to a plucky Shanghai importing business started by two brothers with dual citizenship. With existing tariffs and value-added taxes mixed in, the total charge tacked on to California wine was already close to 50 percent. After the importer factors in shipping, takes its cut and passes the bottles to a hotel or retail store, which takes its cut, the Napa red ends up selling for the equivalent of around $100.An extra 15 percent charge would be brutal. No one wants to overpay, Mr. Honig said. If all theyre looking at is two different bottles side by side, and we are competing with Australia and Chile, thats a big competitive disadvantage.Chilean and New Zealand wines face no Chinese levies, thanks to free-trade agreements. Australian bottles will enter the country tariff-free next year.Larry Yang, an importer in Shanghai, said his customers liked California wines, but not enough to ignore an even higher price tag. The wine isnt cheap as it is, he said, and if it gets pricier, he will look elsewhere.There are so many countries producing fine wine, he said. I dont have to buy relatively expensive California wine. I could choose from New Zealand, Australia, Chile and South Africa.And Chinese drinkers have a growing array of homegrown brands to choose from. Expert winemakers have spent years harvesting cabernet sauvignon, merlot and cabernet franc varietals at the foothills of the Helan Mountains in Ningxia, a region that borders Inner Mongolia. They have started winning international awards, even beating out French favorites.Then the government began protecting its domestic players.When the European Union put tariffs on Chinese solar panels in 2013, Beijing blustered back by opening an inquiry into whether European winemakers were dumping cheap, improperly subsidized bottles onto the Chinese market. It ended the investigation a year later, after the Europeans agreed to help train Chinese winemakers.Sophisticated wine shops have sprouted up across Shanghai, the online retailer Alibaba now runs a yearly wine sale, and other sites will deliver cases to peoples doors within two days. In August, China got its first master sommelier, a distinction reserved for people who can pass a rigorous series of tests, including verbal and tasting exams.It wasnt like this when David Pearson made his first business trip to Beijing 15 years ago, intent on selling Chinese customers on his super-premium Napa wine Opus One. The rich drank French Bordeaux if they drank wine at all. He had to make the case for his California winery, a joint venture between Robert Mondavi and Baron Philippe de Rothschild.He found a natural audience.People will buy symbols of luxury  watches, cars, expensive bottles of wine  to demonstrate they have the means to do that, said Mr. Pearson, the Opus One chief executive. There was no middle market. You were either spending all your money on the highest quality of wine or you couldnt afford to buy anything other than the least expensive wine.The change started when Xi Jinping became president in 2013 and began an anti-corruption campaign that zeroed in on illicit gift-giving. Wine imports dipped for a couple of years but then recovered as sellers began to learn how to market to a person who would buy a bottle at a time, not several cases.The distributors who learned how to deal with consumers survived and got better at it, said Mr. Boyce, the wine blogger.It isnt clear how exactly the new tariffs will affect Opus One. Mr. Pearson sells the wine to a group of intermediaries in France known as negociants, who then send it to Chinese importers. Its also unlikely that anyone willing to spend the $600 for Opus One in China would even notice the added charge.The middle-market wine buyer  with $20 or so to spare  would notice. France and Australia are already monsters in that market, sending half of all of the foreign wine that went to China last year. The United States share is just 2 percent, and it has been shrinking. The Wine Institute, which represents California growers, says thats partly because theyre selling less for a higher price.California has had a tough time getting into the conversation, said David Amadia, the president of Ridge Vineyards. It wasnt considered a top wine region in China.After his Geyserville zinfandel blend was served at a meeting between Mr. Xi and President Barack Obama in 2013, a flurry of new importers began asking for 1,000 cases at a time. He was initially excited about the attention. Then he realized he had no idea where it was going, or who exactly was so interested in it."We had concerns about gray market and counterfeiting," he said. So he rejected those orders, and says other American winemakers may also be choosing control over quantity. No one knows how much fake wine flows in China, but experts say French and Australian labels are stolen most often, and slapped on random bottles, because they are so well known and abundant.On Mr. Pearsons desk, in Napa, he has a box of counterfeit Opus wines on display. The scammers did a terrific job on the box, he said, other than the X they inserted into the name Rothschild.Part of me takes a strange amount of pride in it, he said. Your brand has to have enough value associated with it in order for someone to think its worth counterfeiting.
Anna Chennault, a Chinese-born Republican fund-raiser and anti-Communist lobbyist who dabbled in foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, the renowned leader of the Flying Tigers in China and Burma in World War II, died on Friday at her home in Washington. She was 94.Her death, in her apartment at the Watergate complex, was announced on Tuesday. The cause was complications of a stroke she suffered in December, her daughter Cynthia Chennault said.In her memoir photographs, Mrs. Chennault appears with her husband, Maj. Gen. Claire L. Chennault; with Presidents John F. Kennedy, Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford; with J. Edgar Hoover, director of the F.B.I.; with Gen. William C. Westmoreland, commander of American forces in Vietnam, and with Nguyen Cao Ky, the South Vietnamese vice president who fled to America with the fall of Saigon in 1975.Except for her husbands picture, taken a year before he died in 1958, it is a gallery of Mrs. Chennaults Washington regalia, assembled over many years as an airline executive, hostess, Republican stalwart, advocate for the Chinese Nationalists and South Vietnam, and staunch opponent of the Communist regime that seized power in China in 1949.Mrs. Chennault was one of the most visible private citizens in Washington: a vice president of the Flying Tiger Line, her husbands postwar cargo operation; a writer of novels, poetry and nonfiction books; a Voice of America broadcaster; and the center of a social whirl at her Watergate penthouse that drew in cabinet members, congressmen, diplomats, foreign dignitaries and journalists.But there was a hidden side to Mrs. Chennaults affairs, historians say. She was known to have been a conduit for Nationalist Chinese funds for the Republican Party, and to have been a secret go-between for American officials and Asian leaders like Chiang Kai-shek, the Nationalist Chinese generalissimo, and President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam.And in a contretemps of international intrigue and presidential politics that generated heated debate for years, Mrs. Chennault was recorded on an F.B.I. wiretap helping to sabotage a peace initiative during the Vietnam War in order to promote Nixons victory over Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in the 1968 presidential election.Soon after President Lyndon B. Johnson announced a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam to ease the way for Paris peace talks that fall, Mrs. Chennault, a behind-the-scenes liaison for Nixons campaign and the Saigon government, was overheard urging South Vietnamese officials to boycott the Paris peace talks, saying they would get a better deal from a Nixon administration if they waited until after the election.That same day, Nov. 2, President Thieu announced that his government would not join the Paris talks. Three days later, Nixon was elected.President Johnson was furious when he learned of Mrs. Chennaults intervention, and considered having her charged under federal statutes with criminally interfering with the conduct of foreign affairs. She was never prosecuted.Nixon lifted the tap on her telephones and awarded her Flying Tiger Line a lucrative Pacific cargo route. But for a supporter who had provided vital Asian contacts and $240,000 in contributions to the Nixon campaign, Mrs. Chennault received no major appointment in his administration, as she had hoped.In her 1980 memoir, The Education of Anna, she denied involvement in the peace talk maneuvers but acknowledged her disappointment with Nixon.The ultimate handshake came months later, at a White House function, when Nixon took me aside and, with intense gratitude, began thanking me for my help in the election, she wrote. Ive certainly paid dearly for it, I pointed out. Yes, I appreciate that, he murmured, suddenly uncomfortable. I know you are a good soldier. Anna Chennault was born Chen Xiangmei in Beijing on June 23, 1923, one of six daughters of P. Y. and Isabelle Liao Chen, members of a prosperous family of diplomats and scholars.Her father taught law at the University of Peking and was editor of the English-language New China Morning Post. She and her sisters grew up in a mansion near the Forbidden City with an entourage of servants and tutors.As Japanese invaders approached Beijing in 1937, her family fled to Hong Kong. Her father became an envoy to Mexico, her mother died, and Anna and her sisters became scattered refugees in occupied China, with family jewels sewn into coat linings. Despite the war, she studied journalism with refugee professors and earned a degree from Lingnan University in 1944.Fluent in Chinese dialects and English, she became a correspondent for Chinas Central News Agency, covering the war and later Mao Zedongs spreading Communist revolution. She met General Chennault in Kunming. He was three decades older, a married father of eight and the hero of the Flying Tigers, who shot down hundreds of Japanese warplanes and kept Chinas hopes alive during the war.In 1947, after his divorce, they were married in Shanghai. Besides Cynthia, they had another daughter, Claire, who also survives her, as do three sisters, Cynthia Lee, Sylvia Wong and Loretta Fung; and two grandsons.The Chennaults lived in Shanghai, San Francisco, the generals hometown, Monroe, La., and Taipei, where they ran the Flying Tiger Line and the Civil Air Transport, which was later owned by the Central Intelligence Agency and used in covert anti-Communist operations.General Chennault died of lung cancer in 1958 at 67, and Mrs. Chennault moved to Washington.She was soon embraced by her husbands friends, including Thomas G. Corcoran, a New Deal strategist who became a notable Washington lobbyist for corporations and foreign powers. He showed her the ropes of lobbying, and she dedicated her memoir to him, calling him the best teacher of them all.In Washington Mrs. Chennault joined the Republican Party and right-wing cadres of influential Americans supporting Taiwan and opposing Communist China. In 1962, with President Kennedys blessing, she founded Chinese Refugees Relief, which assisted thousands fleeing China. She testified in Congress, wrote articles, gave speeches and, from 1963 to 1966, made weekly broadcasts in Chinese on the Voice of America radio.In a penthouse apartment resembling a James Bond movie set overlooking the Potomac, she entertained 80 to 100 people a week, serving concoctions like concubines delight (chicken/snow peas) and negotiators soup (for Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger). At her soirees, Mrs. Chennault, less than 5 feet tall, cut a striking figure in slim Chinese dresses and spike-heeled satin shoes.Her aura of intrigue was only enhanced by evasive replies to reporters questions about possible C.I.A. connections and her frequent travels to Asian countries embroiled in Cold War conflicts. Mrs. Chennault  or the Dragon Lady, as she is called by her enemies  is well-known around Washington as a Vietnam hawk, The New York Times Magazine said in 1970.She chided Nixon for what she called his cautious prosecution of the Vietnam War. He should have gone ahead and done what had to be done  clean it all out, go the whole way, she told Parade magazine.Her image as an implacable anti-Communist was eased in 1981 when she visited Beijing and Taipei for talks with Deng Xiaoping, Chinas leader, and President Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan. Acknowledging that her views had softened, she said people must be humble enough to learn, courageous enough sometimes to change their positions.By then, her causes had all been lost. The Vietnam War was over, Chiang Kai-shek and Mao Zedong were dead, and the United States had severed diplomatic relations with Taiwan and recognized the Peoples Republic of China.
SHANGHAI/SINGAPORE   When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators\' watchful eyes.Li, a Canada-based Chinese banker in his 20s, is one of these underground traders. He buys cryptocurrencies in other markets and sells them at a premium to investors in China, who cannot otherwise get them.At the height of the frenzied demand for bitcoins in January, when prices of the digital currency were hovering close to $20,000 after a 20-fold jump during 2017, Li and other traders were able to sell bitcoins in China for 30 to 40 percent more than they cost elsewhere.But in a matter of months, the premium for bitcoins in China has fallen to around 7 percent or less as a flood of bitcoin mules, who physically carry cash across borders for the trades, has swamped the arbitrage business. Cryptocurrency funds and individual computer-assisted traders have also piled into the market.The boom has eaten away the spreads and shown how fast the galloping cryptocurrency markets can change course."The market\'s kind of taken a downturn; there is less general appetite in this space," said John DeCleene, an assistant fund manager running the fintech and cryptocurrency investments at Overseas Chinese Investment Management."It is too many players entering this market, but also less of the hype we saw in December-January, when people were paying a 30 percent premium because they expected 10 times gains overnight."DeCleene launched a $5 million Singapore-based global fund in November to invest in cryptocurrencies, blockchain-related equities and some exploratory arbitrage trading. He said it has generated a 58 percent return so far.BITCOIN MULESBitcoin arbitrage thrived last year as the cryptocurrency grew more volatile and some governments stepped in with rules to curtail trading.The simplest geographical arbitrage involved buying bitcoin in unregulated markets such as Thailand, or ones that have legalised bitcoin trading such as Japan, and selling them in banned markets such as South Korea, China or India.A second form occurred between exchanges, when nimble-footed traders bought cryptocurrencies cheaply on lesser-known exchanges and sold them for a profit on more liquid and widely used platforms.There were huge price differences to exploit.In early January, when the price of bitcoin was $17,600 on Bitstamp, the Luxembourg-based digital currency exchange, it was being quoted at 25 million won (16,845 pounds) in South Korea, implying a 34 percent "kimchi premium".As China\'s ban expanded from an initial prohibition on issuing new cryptocurrency to a shutdown of exchanges, premiums rose and traders quickly found new ways of doing business.At first, it was limited to closed groups on the popular messaging platform WeChat and meetings at bars, where potential bitcoin buyers could meet sellers.Then peer-to-peer platforms such as CoinCola, websites belonging to former Chinese exchanges Huobi and OKCoin, and even the retail platform Taobao became hubs for "over-the-counter" (OTC) cryptocurrency trading, conducted outside of formal exchanges and far more difficult for regulators to police."The big Chinese traders are all using CoinCola or going direct to each other through other OTC platforms," like WeChat or AliPay, said Christian Grewell, a professor of business and interactive media arts at NYU in Shanghai who has lectured extensively on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology.AliPay is China\'s leading online payment platform.Another option, bank transfers between buyers and sellers, is "almost untraceable", Grewell added, as it is difficult to prove that a transfer is related to a cryptocurrency transaction.A trader in her 20s in Shanghai said she buys bitcoins in the United States to sell over the counter in China. On each trip to the U.S., she illegally carries $30,000 to $40,000 in cash, she added."Selling and buying bitcoins on those OTC websites is the same as shopping on Taobao," said the trader.BIG COMPETITIONHedge funds that can execute arbitrage trades quickly and at a fraction of the cost are squeezing individual traders, said Ramani Ramachandran, the chief executive of digital exchange Zenprivex.Peter Kim of KIT Trading, part of Vulpes Investment Management, manages a $10 million cryptocurrency arbitrage operation."In the beginning, when there is 30 percent arbitrage, obviously you can travel to Thailand, buy bitcoins, send them to China, Japan, Korea and sell them. That\'s easy," said Kim, who was formerly an options arbitrage trader."But that opportunity is not going to last very long. And even though it is not as blatantly there, there are still many ways to profit from it, especially for someone like me who is used to making 3 basis points on a trade," he added.The arbitrage funds operate much like retail traders, buying and selling cryptocurrencies simultaneously on two different platforms, but on a much larger scale. That allows them to profit from smaller spreads.Some retail traders, including Li, have turned to lesser-known cryptocurrencies such as Tether, which bills itself as being pegged to the U.S. dollar.Tether is popular with Chinese seeking to move their cash discreetly overseas, as it is not volatile. That demand means it trades at a 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent premium in China, although the number was as high as 10 percent in January.Li said his arbitrage activity nets him about $18,000 a month on a trading volume of about half a million dollars.Although that is a tidy sum, it is far less than what frantic traders made late last year."The easy arbitrage is going to be much less prevalent now than it used to be," Kim said.(Reporting and writing by Vidya Ranganathan; Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
SYDNEY   Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.Safe-haven bonds, gold and the yen had run into selling as Wall Street benefited from bets that President Donald Trump\'s Twitter attacks on Amazon would not translate to actual policy.Yet trade worries weren\'t far away. Late on Tuesday, the Trump administration announced 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion of annual imports from China, covering around 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products.China\'s commerce ministry immediately warned it was preparing countermeasures of equal intensity."The largest concern remains whether this trade tension could further escalate, but history suggests negotiation is likely to follow," said Tai Hui, chief market strategist for Asia Pacific at J.P. Morgan Asset Management."That would provide some much needed short term relief to investors and allow them to focus back on economic and corporate fundamentals, which are still in decent shape."For now, caution was the watchword and MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was wavering either side of flat.Japan\'s Nikkei added 0.1 percent in thin volumes, while South Korea eased 0.2 percent. EMini futures for the S&P 500 <ESc1> also dipped 0.2 percent.Wall Street had rallied on Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season and the S&P 500 pushed above a key support level. The Dow ended up 1.65 percent, while the S&P 500 gained 1.26 percent and the Nasdaq 1.04 percent.Amazon.com shares bounced 1.5 percent on reports the White House would not take action even as Trump continued his attacks on the online retailer.FACTORIES FADE A LITTLEThe swing in risk sentiment sucked some strength out of bonds, with yields on U.S. 10-year Treasury debt <US10YT=RR> up five basis points overnight to 2.78 percent.The Japanese yen also edged back, with the dollar rising to 106.50 <JPY=> from a low of 105.70 on Tuesday. The euro hovered at $1.2275 <EUR=>, after easing from a top of $1.2335 overnight, while the dollar index was a fraction lower at 90.109.The Canadian dollar <CAD=> held firm after hitting a nearly five-week high as investors grew more optimistic about the prospect of a NAFTA trade deal.Investors also seemed to be keeping their nerve on the global economic outlook after a host of manufacturing surveys (PMIs) showed some slowing, but from lofty levels in many regions."If global PMIs slow and avoid overheating concerns, that is good for risk appetite. If they slow for "the wrong reasons" like trade protectionism, that is much more worrying," said Deutsche Bank global strategist Alan Ruskin."The March data is at the most a very early warning shot for policymakers not to get too complacent on global growth resilience," he added.Trade wars were a particular concern for developing Asia where South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, China, Indonesia, and India reported a slowing in factory activity.In commodity markets, gold had steadied around $1,332.90 an ounce <XAU=>, having lost 0.6 percent overnight.Oil prices slipped with Brent crude futures <LCOc1> off 13 cents to $67.99 a barrel, while U.S. crude <CLc1> fell 11 cents to $63.40 a barrel.(Editing by Jacqueline Wong and Sam Holmes)
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: Some of the biggest companies in the U.S., including General Electric and Goldman Sachs, are warning the White House about the negative effects of punitive measures against China. Theyre worried theyll be cut off from the worlds most lucrative and fastest-growing market.China has long been accused of unfair economic practices, and the Trump administration has promised to crack down on such behavior. Now China is retaliating. Thats unnerved the markets. Steep declines on Monday left stocks down more than 4 percent this year, and shares had their first quarterly decline since 2015. Heres a snapshot of global markets today. President Trump is making a new push to crack down on those who enter the U.S. illegally, and to make it more difficult to get refuge in the country.For two days, the president has warned that caravans of immigrants are heading toward the U.S. from Central America. We explain what those are. Separately on Monday, Russia pressed Mr. Trump to meet with President Vladimir Putin at the White House, a visit that the Kremlin said Mr. Trump proposed last month. Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency approved a Canadian energy companys pipeline-expansion plan. At the same time, the agencys chief, Scott Pruitt, was renting a condominium linked to the companys lobbying firm.Mr. Pruitt was paying $50 a night for the condo on Capitol Hill, where rates are typically considerably higher. Both the E.P.A. and the lobbying firm deny that there was a connection between the rental and the deals approval. Separately, Mr. Pruitt said on Monday that Obama-era car pollution standards were too high, setting up a fight with California, which has the authority to set its own emissions rules and wants to stick with tougher regulations. We looked at how U.S. fuel economy standards compare with those of other countries. Thousands of teachers in Kentucky and Oklahoma walked off the job on Monday, shutting down schools as they protested cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts and rallies, which followed a similar movement in West Virginia last month, have caught lawmakers and sometimes the teachers labor unions flat-footed. In Kentucky, What Im seeing in Louisville is teachers are a lot more politically engaged than they were in 2015 or 2016, a math teacher said. It really is a wildfire. After a cheerleader for the New Orleans Saints was fired for posting a picture that the team deemed inappropriate to her private Instagram account, a Times reporter reviewed seven of the N.F.L.s cheerleader handbooks.He found stringent rules governing personal hygiene, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons, as well as attire outside the workplace. In some cases, wearing sweatpants in public is forbidden. The N.F.L. declined to comment. Tesla says that it has addressed bottlenecks in production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week. The vehicle is crucial to the companys efforts to shore up its finances. In his first report to Congress as the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney asked lawmakers to severely curb his agencys power and independence. Facebook should consider adding a Why me? button next to all pushed content, our business columnist writes. Nirav Modi has been a jeweler to the stars. Hes now on the run, accused of bank fraud. The chase has both enraged and captivated his homeland, India.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young might create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: I wrote a story about dulse a while ago. This led to a lot of people asking me what it is, and where it comes from.The short answer is that its seaweed, and a lot of it comes from Grand Manan, in New Brunswick.Check out this beautiful short film by Tory Lovekin, Dark Harbour Dollar: Dulse, for more. [Vimeo] Sam Sifton, food editor In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81. 130 miles, 26 checkpointsFew American reporters have spent more time reporting from Iraq in the last 15 years than Alissa J. Rubin, who was Baghdad bureau chief for The Times at the height of the conflict.She returned to the region in January and, in a drive to the Iraq-Syria border, found that competing military and militia groups had set up checkpoints everywhere. Heres her account of the journey. The mummy and the F.B.I.A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. So F.B.I. forensic scientists were called in to crack the coldest of cases. Villanova makes it look easyThe Wildcats completed a dominant run through the N.C.A.A. mens basketball tournament, crushing Michigan, 79-62.Its the second title in three years for Villanova, whose star on Monday was Donte DiVincenzo and his 31 points. Best of late-night TVThe comedy hosts were puzzled after President Trump declared April to be National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. April is also National Presidential Unawareness Month, Jimmy Fallon said. Quotation of the dayWere going to have a lot of teachers at the ballot box who I dont think would normally go in a midterm year. If I were a legislator right now, Id be honestly sweating bullets. Noah Karvelis, an elementary school music teacher in Arizona fighting for better pay. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
DALLAS   The Latest on charges filed in the 2016 death of a 10-year-old boy at a Kansas water park (all times local):4:20 p.m.The co-owner of a water park who is charged in a 10-year-old boy's decapitation death on a water slide is expected to arrive in Kansas on Tuesday night.Schlitterbahn co-owner Jeff Henry was en route Tuesday from a Brownsville, Texas, jail to Kansas. His attorney, Carl Cornwell, told The Kansas City Star that Henry is expected to be booked into the Wyandotte County jail Tuesday night.Henry has been jailed in Texas since March 26 when he was indicted on charges including second-degree murder in the 2016 death of Caleb Schwab on the Verruckt water slide at the Schlitterbahn water park in Kansas City, Kansas.Henry's is due in court Thursday in Wyandotte County (Kansas) District Court.___2:30 p.m.Authorities in Texas say the co-owner of a water park who has been charged in the decapitation death of a 10-year-old boy has been extradited to Kansas.Cameron County sheriff's Chief Deputy Gus Reyna Jr. says 62-year-old Jeffrey Henry was taken from a South Texas jail to Kansas on Tuesday to face charges including second-degree murder in the 2016 death of Caleb Schwab.Henry is an owner of Texas-based Schlitterbahn Waterparks and Resorts. Attempts to reach a Texas attorney for him were not successful.U.S. marshals on Monday arrested a co-defendant, 72-year-old John Timothy Schooley, at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport as he got off a flight from China. He also faces charges including second-degree murder and is being held without bond at the Dallas County jail.Caleb died on the 17-story Verruckt waterslide when the raft he was in went airborne and hit an overhead loop.___7 a.m.Federal authorities in Dallas have arrested one of the designers of a Kansas water park slide that decapitated a 10-year-old boy.Trent Touchstone, chief deputy with the U.S. Marshals Service in Dallas, said Tuesday that 72-year-old John Timothy Schooley was met by agents at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport late Monday.Schooley will be held in Dallas pending his arraignment and extradition to Kansas on charges that include second-degree murder.A Kansas grand jury last week indicted Schooley and Jeffrey Henry, a co-owner of Texas-based Schlitterbahn Waterparks and Resorts. The indictment alleges Schooley lacked technical or engineering expertise in amusement park rides.Caleb Schwab died on the 17-story Verruckt ride in 2016 when the raft he was riding went airborne and hit an overhead loop.
DALLAS   One of the designers of a massive Kansas water park slide that decapitated a 10-year-old boy has been arrested in Texas, federal authorities said Tuesday.Trent Touchstone, chief deputy with the U.S. Marshals Service in Dallas, said 72-year-old John Timothy Schooley was met by agents at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport as he arrived Monday on a flight from China.Schooley was being held without bond at the Dallas County jail after being arraigned on charges that include second-degree murder, according to Dallas County sheriff\'s spokesman Raul Reyna. An extradition hearing is scheduled for Wednesday and Schooley likely will be transported to Kansas next week, Reyna said. A Kansas conviction for second-degree murder carries a penalty of 9 to 41 years in prison.A Houston attorney for Schooley, Kit Yam, didn\'t immediately return a phone message seeking comment.A Kansas grand jury last week indicted Schooley and Jeffrey Henry , a co-owner of Texas-based Schlitterbahn Waterparks and Resorts. The indictment accuses Henry of making a "spur of the moment" decision to build the Verruckt ride  touted as the world\'s tallest water slide  and that he and Schooley lacked technical or engineering expertise in amusement park rides. A former operations director for Schlitterbahn also has been charged.Caleb Schwab was killed on the 17-story Verruckt in 2016 when the raft he was riding went airborne and hit an overhead loop.Schooley and Henry, 62, also were charged with 17 other felonies, including aggravated battery and aggravated endangerment of a child counts tied to injuries that other riders sustained on the giant slide.Henry was arrested last week in South Texas and Cameron County sheriff\'s Chief Deputy Gus Reyna Jr. said he was extradited to Kansas on Tuesday. An attorney in Texas for Henry didn\'t immediately reply to phone messages seeking comment.Schlitterbahn spokeswoman Winter Prosapio said in a statement last week that the indictment "is filled with information that we fully dispute." She didn\'t immediately respond to a message seeking fresh comment early Tuesday.The indictment alleges the ride violated "nearly all aspects" of longstanding standards established by the American Society for Testing and Materials."In fact, the design and operation of the Verruckt complied with few, if any, of the industry safety standard," the indictment said.___AP writer Heather Hollingsworth contributed to this report from Kansas City, Missouri.
HONG KONG   Art dealers, collectors and gallery owners gather in Hong Kong for the annual Art Basel exhibition this week at a time when fairs are increasingly driving growth in the sector and collectors from across Asia are flocking to the financial hub.Asia, which accounts for 23 percent of global art sales and 15 percent of private dealer sales, continues to rely heavily on mainland Chinese demand although collectors from South Korea, Japan and Southeast Asia are helping to spur growth."We also get clients from everywhere in Asia. A large number of the collectors come from South Korea," said Leng Lin, partner and Asia president of Pace Gallery, which has bases in 10 locations including Beijing, Hong Kong, and Seoul.Pace Gallery opened a new space in Seoul last year and a second outlet in Hong Kong this month to tap growing demand.As buyers from across the globe descend on the former British colony, dealers are also ramping up their presence, with 14 galleries from the Americas and Europe making their debut at the fair this year.Chinese buyers have been a huge boon to the global art market, with sales reaching $13.2 billion in 2017, up 14 percent from $11.5 billion a year earlier, according to a report by UBS and Art Basel.The bulk of that came from auctions, which comprised $9.3 billion, up from $7.5 billion in 2016 although down nearly 40 percent from a peak of $15.2 billion in 2011.The global art market achieved total sales of $63.7 billion in 2017, up from $56.6 billion in 2016.Amanda Hon, managing director of Ben Brown Fine Arts, which has galleries in Hong Kong and London, expects solid sales from Art Basel based on strong appetite at fairs in the Netherlands and New York.She acknowledged that increased scrutiny by Beijing on capital outflows had made it difficult to receive payment from some clients although for the most part, she had not experienced trouble as she had a number of long-standing clients."Usually the people we sell to are people we know and trust," Hon said. "It\'s rare that we\'ll sell to someone new that we just heard of that day ... So we do have a clear understanding with our clients and sometimes we\'ll ask them to put down a deposit and we have a credit card machine ready. It\'s always a little bit touch and go."Art fairs have grown increasingly in importance, with Art Basel Hong Kong, which runs from March 29-31, featuring 248 galleries from 32 countries and territories, up from 241 galleries in 2017.The exhibition coincides with the expansion of galleries in Hong Kong, a key hub for art transactions thanks to the absence of tax and its proximity to mainland China, although rising rents in one of the world\'s most expensive property markets pose challenges.Soaring rents have seen many galleries set up shop in the formerly industrial district of Wong Chuk Hang on the outskirts of Hong Kong island, transforming the area into a new arts hub.Henrietta Tsui-Leung, owner of Hong Kong-based Galerie Ora-Ora and co-founder of the Hong Kong Art Gallery Association, believes there\'s plenty of room for growth in the city\'s art market."We only have 100 galleries in Hong Kong ... definitely below 120. Any established city like New York or London will have over 1,000 or 2,000. There is definitely a lot of wealth in Hong Kong as well. We have a lot of room for growth," she said.(Reporting By Carmel Yang; Writing by Anne Marie Roantree; Editing by Michael Perry)
SEOUL/NEW YORK   A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea\'s Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant\'s governance.It is Elliott\'s latest challenge to South Korea\'s family-run conglomerates after it forced Samsung Electronics Co Ltd to increase shareholder returns in 2017, and comes amid a government campaign to boost investors\' power in a country where shareholder activism is rare.Elliott Advisors called for a "more detailed roadmap" as to how Hyundai Motor Group will "improve corporate governance, optimize balance sheets, and enhance capital returns" at Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors.Hyundai Mobis shares jumped as much as 6.1 percent to their highest since Jan. 25 in the wake of the announcement. Hyundai Motor rose 4.9 percent, its highest in three weeks, while Kia Motors gained 3.8 percent in morning trade in Seoul, versus the broader market\'s 0.13 percent fall. Hyundai Glovis shares rose as much as 4.8 percent."I see Elliott\'s call as positive, as it should enhance shareholder value," said Kim Sung-soo, a fund manager at LS Asset Management."Elliott has declared war against Hyundai but it has not made detailed demands, so further discussions need to be seen."Auto-to-steel giant Hyundai Motor Group announced a plan last week to streamline its complex ownership structure as it responds to calls from the government and investors for greater transparency and better governance at family-controlled conglomerates, or chaebols.But worries that the plan would benefit the parent groups controlling family ahead of investors have hit the share prices of group companies such as parts supplier Hyundai Mobis.While Elliott said it was pleased that Hyundai Motor Group had taken a first step toward reform, it added in a statement that "more needs to be done to benefit the companies and stakeholders"."Elliott looks forward to engaging with management and other stakeholders directly on these issues, and to offering recommendations regarding the proposed plan," the hedge fund said.Hyundai Motor Group responded that it was "confident" its restructuring plan would enhance shareholder value, and promised to communicate with investors at home and abroad.BATTLE WITH CHAEBOLSLast year, South Koreas new antitrust chief told Reuters he had been in talks with Hyundai Motor Group about unwinding its circular shareholdings, which critics say give too much power to the controlling family at the expense of shareholders.Under Hyundai\'s plan, Hyundai Mobis is to spin off its domestic module and after-service parts businesses and merge them with logistics affiliate Hyundai Glovis, which is personally backed by Hyundai\'s controlling Chung family.But some investors complained that Mobis could be giving away the most profitable part of its business too cheaply.The plan is yet to be approved by shareholders.After the merger, Group Chairman Chung Mong-koo and his son Chung Eui-sun, who is vice-chairman, will buy stakes in Mobis held by other affiliates Kia Motors, Glovis and Hyundai Steel.The group has not announced when the family members would buy the Mobis stakes."Hyundai is considered weak in being clear about its corporate governance and policies for shareholders. Now that it (Elliot) is going public and asking Hyundai for an answer, it is generating expectations for positive change," said Esther Yim, a Samsung Securities analyst.Elliott\'s intervention is another headache for Hyundai, which is already struggling with slowing sales in China and the United States and Seouls diplomatic row with Beijing last year.Paul Singers $33 billion firm Elliott Management is one of the few investors willing to take on South Korea\'s powerful chaebols.In 2015 it narrowly lost its battle to block a merger of two Samsung Group affiliates that will allow the controlling Samsung family to consolidate their holdings ahead of a leadership transition.In 2016, Elliott called on Samsung Electronics to introduce a transparent holding company structure and pay a special dividend, among other demands. Samsung rejected the call for a holding company, but announced plans to cancel its existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018.Samsung Electronics Vice-Chairman Jay Y. Lee was later jailed for bribing a friend of former President Park Geun-hye in exchange for government support for a restructuring seen as advantageous to the controlling Lee family.(Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin in Seoul and Liana B. Baker in New York; Additional reporting by Ju-min Park and Dahee Kim; Editing by Tom Brown and Stephen Coates)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A flip-flop in Israel, insults from Turkey and the worlds first ban on fake news. Heres the latest: Guess its just one of those days.So began a tweet from the European Unions delegation in Israel, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that he had reached a surprise deal with the United Nations refugee agency to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries.But Mr. Netanyahu suspended the deal hours later, after facing a barrage of outrage from his conservative coalition partners angry that half the migrants would be allowed to stay in Israel. His opponents on the left described the reversal as cowardly.The deal, which had brought Israel some short-lived international good will after a deadly clash with Palestinians last week, was intended to avoid a contentious Israeli plan that had offered the migrants a stark choice: forced deportation to Africa or prison.Above, protesting the plan last month in Tel Aviv._____ His favorite script: insulting people his supporters love to hate, like the liberal elite.No, were not talking about President Trumps tweets.Befitting the current era of strongmen, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey also has a well-honed strategy for winning public support. He gives up to three speeches every weekday  two a day on weekends  broadcast live on multiple channels.Another of his preferred targets? European leaders._____ What do a pair of Belarusian sex instructors detained in Thailand have to do with the investigation into Russias meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential race?Alexander Kirillov and Anastasia Vashukevich, above, say they have evidence showing Russia interfered, and they claim to be the targets of a covert Russian plot to silence them because they know too much.That might seem far-fetched, but the seduction coaches have powerful Russian enemies. And the F.B.I. says it tried to talk to them, suggesting that American investigators had not entirely dismissed their story._____ Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____ Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.Thats how our obituary describes Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.She died early Monday at the age of 81.In time, our former international correspondent wrote, her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandelas quest for racial inclusiveness._____ The worlds first ban on fake news.The lower house of Malaysias Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its upper house is expected to rapidly follow suit. Above, an advertisement discouraging the spread of fake news, at a train station in Kuala Lumpur last month.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a forced read of a corporate script from the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair. Critics have accused the company of using its stations to bolster public support for President Trump. The U.S. stock market tumbled, spurred by a flurry of bad news about technology companies and continued worries about a trade war with China. Above, a New York Stock Exchange trader on Monday. Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, its using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Fridays Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.)  Heres a snapshot of global markets. President Trump is renewing a push to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States. Above, a Honduran mother and children next to the U.S.-Mexico border fence in February. [The New York Times] More than one in five British manufacturers are expected to lay off workers because of Brexit, according to a study released on Sunday. [Politico] In India, seven people have died during huge protests against a Supreme Court order that many fear will weaken protections for lower-caste communities, which have long faced violence and discrimination. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus. The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. Thats when the F.B.I.s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agencys oldest case. Above, a team of doctors extracting a tooth from the mummy head in 2009. In the wake of mass shootings in the U.S., a lifelong gun owner questions the weapons he has long believed are essential to protecting himself and his country. The French-Polish photographer Tim Franco used portraits to tell the stories of North Korean defectors, opening a window into the identities of people whose lives are brutally cut into two parts: before and after. A year in a masters life: In 1932 the world was tilting toward catastrophe. Picasso was becoming a god, says our reporter, who reviews the Tates new exhibition in London, Picasso 1932, which is filled with point-blank masterpieces. The redemption of a violin prodigy. Saul Chandler played at Carnegie Hall in New York before he was 11, but the pressure to perform grew so unbearable that he gave up the violin at 16. This riveting story explores how he remade his life  and found peace  by building boats. And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program and about 50,000 rabbits.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
Thirty years ago, they were headline news, a couple of sweethearts living in Westchester County, N.Y., whose wedding announcement, 133 words spread over three paragraphs on Page C18 without a photograph, was published in The New York Times on April 25, 1988, the day after they married.Kimberly A. Gallas Is Wed to G.J. Veras, a Producer, read the hard-to-find headline, floating in a small sea of other wedding announcements and placed between house ads at the bottom of a page that featured two stellar theater reviews and an article about Andy Warhol cookie jars selling for $247,830 at a Sothebys auction.Three decades in the making, Ms. Gallas and Mr. Veras have written their own love story, one that neither could have known all those years ago. Realists, theyre simultaneously aware of the challenges of marriage and grateful for how theyve learned to maintain a strong, intimate relationship.Most every marriage is passionate and loving at the start, but its when the kids and the financial obligations and other forms of stress set in that you need to take the time to nurture your relationship, Ms. Gallas said in a telephone interview from the couples home in Cleveland, where they have lived for the past 13 years.Like most couples, weve had our share of troubles, said Ms. Gallas, who was 26 and working as a secretary at an accounting firm in Stamford, Conn., when she met Mr. Veras. But we always managed to talk to each other and work things out before the distance between us became insurmountable.When all else fails, she added, always remember why you fell in love with your spouse in the first place.They met through family members in March 1985, a year after Mr. Veras, a father of two young boys from a previous marriage, got divorced. They went out to lunch on occasion and became friends before romance struck in August 1986, at a restaurant in White Plains.She was smart, kind, sweet, vivacious and loved life in the way that I loved life, said Mr. Veras, who was 35 at the time and working in Manhattan as the coordinating producer of The N.F.L. Today show and CBS Sports Saturday/Sunday.I went over to the side of the table and kissed her, he said, and the magic began.Ms. Gallas, a graduate of Ohio State University, said that Mr. Veras, who graduated from New York University, where he also received a masters degree in public administration and an M.B.A., was incredibly magnetic and focused.He was also very intelligent, very dynamic and assertive, she said. I really enjoyed being with him, it put me in a certain comfort zone.They began dating steadily and married at Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church in New Rochelle, N.Y.In the ensuing years, they expanded their family by having two more sons of their own.Faith and family are the biggest parts of our lives, Ms. Gallas said. Thats what has kept us anchored for so long.They traveled around the globe, visiting, among other countries, Greece (their ancestral home), Australia and China.To me, those are just places, Mr. Veras said. The real journey that we have been on is our life journey, which over the years has always seemed to turn a new adventurous corner that deepens our love.Mr. Veras, who eventually left CBS to start his own television production company, landed a job in 2005 as the vice president of marketing and production for the Cleveland Browns, which took the couple back to the city where each had family roots. (At that time, Ms. Gallass parents lived in Brecksville, Ohio, and her father was a Federal U.S. Magistrate Judge in Cleveland.)Four years later, Mr. Veras took another job, becoming the chief operating officer and executive producer at the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio.Last month, Ms. Gallas and Mr. Veras journey turned yet another adventurous corner: They became grandparents.In order to get as far as we have in life you have to be open with your partner, you have to address any disagreement in openness but you need to do it with an attitude of how do we get to a better place? Mr. Veras said. When you marry, two become one, but to make that happen you have to give up some of yourself.Though that may sound straightforward, translating it into a 30-year marriage is another thing entirely. Their keys? Deep love, friendship and respect for each other, Mr. Veras said. His wife, he added, is still the best date I could ever go on.
(Reuters) - Tesla Inc sought to squash any speculation it might need to raise more capital this year on Tuesday, driving the company\'s battered shares higher as it announced it built 2,020 of its cheaper Model 3 sedans in the last seven days.Tesla shares jumped as much as 6.9 percent in morning trade, recouping a third of its losses from a week dominated by bad news about its credit rating and a crash involving a car using its semi-autonomous driving technology.But with the company again missing its own 2,500 target for weekly production at the end of the first quarter, doubts remained among analysts and fund managers about Tesla\'s ability to keep production growing to a promised 5,000 Model 3s per week in three months time.Musk\'s $50-billion dollar company, involved in a raft of projects ranging from trucks to a Roadster sports car and a factory in China, said it would also churn out 2,000 of the Model 3 cars next week and promised output would climb rapidly through the second quarter.The Model 3 is the most affordable of Tesla\'s cars to date and is the only one capable of transforming the niche automaker into a mass producer amid a sea of rivals entering the nascent electric vehicle market."(Tesla is) laying the groundwork for Q3 to have the long-sought ideal combination of high volume, good gross margin and strong positive operating cash flow," the company said in the filing."As a result, Tesla does not require an equity or debt raise this year, apart from standard credit lines."Jefferies analysts had estimated that Tesla needed $2.5 billion to $3 billion of fresh equity to fund the Model 3 ramp-up and several other Wall Street brokerages have predicted the company would need more funds this year to fund its wide range of technology initiatives.SKEPTICSSome analysts said there were signs that the company might have prioritized the cheaper car, seen as crucial to its profitability, over its Model X SUV and more-established and expensive Model S sedan.Last week, Barclays analyst Brian Johnson warned investors to be wary of a brief "burst rate" of Model 3 production that was  not sustainable."Tesla may have stockpiled batteries amid Fremont downtime, allowing production to be higher in the final week of 1Q," Johnson wrote. "Any such \'beat\' is unlikely to be sustainable, and questions remain on Tesla\'s ability to sustainably reach 2,500/week, let alone 5k/week."First-quarter deliveries totaled 29,980 vehicles, out of which 11,730 were Model S and 10,070 were Model X. Both were lower from the previous quarter and the first quarter a year ago."Maybe Elon Musk switched staff from Model S and X to Model 3 to get better production numbers for Model 3," said analyst Frank Schwope from NORD/LB.While Tesla had promised to reach 2,500 cars per week in the first quarter which ended March 31, the Model 3 weekly numbers it gave were for the seven days to April 2. Tesla declined to give production figures for the week to March 31.Tesla shares peaked at $389 last September and have been declining steadily since, but analysts continue to give the company the benefit of the doubt as a big bet on the future of high-tech electric and self-driving vehicles.Meanwhile, investors raised their bets against Tesla shares by 10 percent since mid-March, according to data provided by S3 Partners LLC on Tuesday, betting the market has misjudged the electric car maker\'s prospects.Musk himself has taken direct control of Model 3 production and the company says it already has about 500,000 advance reservations from customers for the car.The production numbers, while short of Tesla\'s own target, are far above the 793 Model 3s built in the final week of last year."Progress is the first word that comes to mind after reading the Q1 delivery report," Nomura analyst Romit Shah said."We believe that the backlog for Models S and X remains solid but that this is an area to monitor given the sequential declines."(Reporting by Munsif Vengattil, Sonam Rai and Alexandria Sage; Editing by Patrick Graham and Bernard Orr)
LONDON   European stocks retreated on Tuesday as investors began the second quarter in a fragile mood amid international trade tensions and mounting pressure on big technology companies.The pan-European STOXX 600 ended the day down 0.5 percent after falling more than 1 percent earlier in the session. The index was supported in afternoon trading by a slight rebound on Wall Street.Germany\'s DAX was a clear underperformer, losing about 0.8 percent while industrials, financials and healthcare stocks weighed on European indexes.The tech sector dropped 0.8 percent, after an overnight report that Apple plans to replace Intel chips in Macs with its own.The index has fallen about 7.5 percent in the past three weeks as anxiety grew over big tech companies with the focus on Facebook\'s use of data, and regulation of Amazon.Reports of Apple increasingly going down the "insourcing" route have dented shares in Apple suppliers around the world, most notably Europe\'s Dialog Semiconductor, down 3.5 percent.STMicro shed 2.9 percent, while ams declined 2.3 percent and Infineon fell 2.1 percent.Risk appetite was poor across the board, as European investors followed U.S. and Asian investors to the exit after China retaliated against U.S. tariffs."We believe that risk-reward for stocks has not turned medium-term negative, and would be adding at these levels," wrote JP Morgan strategists in a note.Equities have again entered "oversold" territory, they said, adding, however, that headwinds for technology stocks were increasing.Outside the tech sector, food services group Sodexo 4.5 percent after Goldman Sachs (GS) cut the stock to "neutral". Sodexo had already suffered a 15.7 percent decline after warning on profit in the previous session."We now see the pick-up of competitive pressures is unlikely to go away in the short term, while company profit continues to suffer from intensifying labour inflation in the region," GS analysts wrote.Air France shares fell 4.4 percent. The carrier\'s unions called a strike for wage increases amid a wider labour stoppage across France paralysing rail services.Acquisition news also continued to move the European market.Eurofins Scientific shares fell 2.1 percent, the worst performers on the STOXX, after the firm acquired Lab Frontier in South Korea.Italy\'s largest private broadcaster Mediaset rose 6.4 percent, after signing a content-sharing deal with Sky\'s Italian unit and paving the way for a broader alliance.Liberum analysts called the deal a "win-win"."This agreement should be a TV advertising revenue booster as it creates larger audiences," they wrote.Berenberg upgraded Mediaset to a "buy", saying the deal marked a "step change in profitability".Also in Italy, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles jumped 7.3 percent after reporting strong U.S. sales.(Reporting by Helen Reid and Julien Ponthus; Editing by Kit Rees and Mark Potter)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A celebrity jeweler on the run, the Vaticans deal with China crumbles and Apple scores a coup in the fight for A.I. Heres what you need to know:  At least four people were injured, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTubes headquarters in San Bruno, Calif.The shooter, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound. Check back for the latest on this developing story.Google, which owns YouTube, said on Twitter that it was coordinating with authorities and would provide more information when it was available._____ Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military.President Trump made the pledge on his third day of railing about Americas weak border laws, stirred by Fox Newss alarmist coverage of a caravan of migrants slowly heading north through Mexico.Our reporters note: The U.S. military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions like apprehending people at the border.The Trump administration also published a list of more than 1,000 Chinese products that will soon face a 25 percent import tax, including electronic touch screens, iron and steel plates, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries.The move is likely to inflame a trade war that has already drawn fierce opposition from some of Americas biggest companies. An unexpected pawn: Californias wine._____ Another quote worth noting: I think there is no religion in human society that is above the state.That was a senior Beijing official, underscoring Chinas intention to maintain strict control over all religious organizations and their believers  and dimming the prospects of what appeared to be an imminent deal with the Vatican.And our Magazine looks at President Xi Jinpings consolidation of power by considering Hong Kongs missing booksellers._____  In India, less than a day after announcing penalties for journalists who write or broadcast fake news, the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi withdrew them.The government gave no official explanation, but some in the country had seen the rules as an attack on the press ahead of campaigning for national elections.The country may be more captivated  or enraged  by the tale of Nirav Modi, Indias jeweler to the stars. Hes now on the run, accused of amassing a global empire with nearly $3 billion obtained illegally from government-run banks._____ The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King was assassinated 50 years ago.Today, we remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.The Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African Americans.He was their voice of anguish, it reads, their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity. Tesla says it is rapidly addressing bottlenecks in the production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week  a nice jump from last year but still short of investors hopes. Teslas shares, which have been battered recently, rose on the news. Apple hired Googles chief of artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea, 53, a major coup in the race for A.I. skills and tech. Welcome to the Big Board: Spotify shares began trading at $165.90, initially giving the Swedish company a valuation of more than $33 billion. (There was some botched hospitality: The New York Stock Exchange flew the Swiss flag.) The Walt Disney Company offered to buy Sky News  an effort to help Rupert Murdochs 21st Century Fox buy full control of Sky Newss parent company, the broadcaster Sky. U.S. stocks were up across the board. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Indonesia declared a state of emergency over a seven-square-mile oil spill off the coast of Borneo whose source had not yet been identified. At least four fishermen were killed over the weekend when the fuel ignited, and hundreds of people reported health issues. [BBC] The Thai police found 9.4 million speed pills and 788 kilograms (more than 1,700 pounds) of crystal meth hidden in tea packets in a truck. Street value: more than $54 million. [Bangkok Post] A pair of Belarusian sex instructors who say they have evidence that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential race face imminent deportation from Thailand to Russia or Belarus. [The New York Times] The cherished sword of a samurai who in the late 19th century established a prominent winery in California was found in the ruins of a building destroyed in last years wildfires. [The Asahi Shimbun] Foodies in Southeast Asia have laid into a British cooking shows judges for insisting that a Malaysian contestants chicken rendang curry should have been crispy. [A.P.] A story sweeping China: A taxi driver from Chengdu and his wife will be reunited with their missing daughter after searching for her for 24 years. [South China Morning Post]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Save your relationship  outsource the chores (if you can). Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips. Recipe of the day:  Swedish meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam. Special rules in American football: A Times reporter found stringent rules in place for N.F.L. cheerleaders, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons  even as the sport grapples with accusations of domestic violence and sexual harassment. From our At War blog: Alissa J. Rubin, our former Baghdad bureau chief, made a return trip to northern Iraq  and found herself navigating checkpoints as endless as the rival armed fighters manning them. Anna Chennault, a Chinese-born anti-Communist Washington lobbyist, died last week. She dabbled in foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, the renowned leader of World War IIs Flying Tigers.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from last Wednesdays crossword puzzle:  Like ___, all tears: Hamlet. The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in William Shakespeares Hamlet:It was arrogance that was Niobes undoing, and the cause of her tears.The story of Niobes tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to Earth and killed all of Niobes children. In deep anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to put an end to her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would not feel anymore.However, even as a rock, Niobes tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mothers eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
BRUSSELS   The European Union and Gazprom are poised to settle a long-running antitrust case after the Russian gas company agreed to price reforms and to allow rivals to gain a foothold in eastern Europe, people familiar with the matter said.A decision by the European Commission could come as early as this month although the timing could still slip, the people said. A settlement would allow Gazprom to avoid a possible fine of as much as 10 percent of its global turnover.The seven-year-old case underlines the rocky relationship between Europe and Russia, which have clashed over Ukraine, Syria and, most recently, a nerve attack against a former Russian spy living in England that resulted in expulsions of diplomats on both sides.Last year, state-owned Gazprom, which supplies a third of the EU's gas, offered to link prices to benchmarks such as western European gas market hubs and border prices in France, Germany and Italy, and allow price reviews every two years.This aimed to address complaints of excessive pricing in Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland vis-a-vis German prices due to Gazprom's policy of locking clients into decades-long, oil-indexed contracts.The company also pledged to scrap all contractual restrictions which bar clients from reselling its gas and let the Bulgarian transmission network operator take charge of the Balkan country's gas flows to Greece.Gazprom will drop its $70 million claim for damages from Bulgarian partner BEH following the 2014 cancellation of the South Stream gas pipeline project that would have shipped Russian gas under the Black Sea via Bulgaria to central Europe.Gazprom has tweaked its original proposal on concessions after negative feedback from EU countries and customers but the main elements remain unchanged, according to a recent draft seen by Reuters.Revisions have been mainly technical such as lower service fees charged by Gazprom which could result in its clients saving millions of euros. The concessions are expected to apply for eight years and be monitored by a trustee.Both the Commission and Gazprom declined to comment.The EU competition enforcer has rejected a complaint by state-run Polish oil and gas company PGNiG which wants Gazprom to sell its controlling stake in companies that own key gas infrastructure in the EU, including the Jamal-Europe gas pipeline, two other sources said.The EU had previously said this was not covered by the bloc's antitrust rules because it was a bilateral deal between the Polish and Russian governments.Gazprom found itself in the EU antitrust crosshairs in 2011 after regulators raided about 20 offices of its customers in eastern and central Europe, seizing more than 150,000 documents.At issue was whether Gazprom had imposed unfair prices by linking gas price to oil prices, divided up gas markets by hindering the free flow of gas across EU countries and prevented the diversification of the supply of gas.(Reporting by Foo Yun Chee; Additional reporting by Oksana Kobzeva in Moscow; Editing by Francesco Guarascio and Susan Fenton)
SEATTLE   A woman said Tuesday that she told Oregon child welfare officials in 2013 that Jennifer and Sarah Hart  who plunged off a California cliff with their children last month in an SUV  had been depriving the kids of food as punishment.In a statement provided to The Associated Press, Alexandra Argyropoulos, a former friend of the Harts, said she "witnessed what I felt to be controlling emotional abuse and cruel punishment" toward the six children.Argyropoulos said she was told after she made the report that Oregon officials had interviewed the children but it was apparent that each child had been coached by their mothers on what to say. She said she was told there was nothing more the Oregon Department of Human Services could do because there was not enough evidence to make a case."My heart is completely broken. The current system failed to protect these children from their abusers," Argyropoulos said.Authorities have said social services officials in Oregon contacted the West Linn Police Department about the family in 2013 while they were living in the area. Police referred media questions to the Oregon Department of Human Services, which cited privacy laws in refusing to say whether the agency was involved.Authorities don\'t know exactly when the wreck took place. A passing motorist discovered the vehicle on March 26, three days after social service authorities in Washington state opened an investigation apparently prompted by a neighbor\'s complaint that the children were being deprived of food.The Hart family\'s two moms and three of the six adopted children were found dead; the three others are missing and presumed dead, possibly washed out to sea.Authorities are investigating whether a surveillance video from Fort Bragg, California, shows one of the women a day before the SUV was found. California Highway Patrol investigators are working with the FBI to try to enhance the video.Later Tuesday, the highway patrol said investigators believe the Hart family was in or around Newport, Oregon, at about 8:15 a.m. March 24 and that they continued traveling south until reaching the area of Fort Bragg, California that evening. The family stayed in that area until the next evening, the state patrol said, officials said.The SUV carrying the family plummeted 100 feet (31 meters) from a highway near Mendocino, California.On Sunday, authorities disclosed that data from the vehicle\'s software suggested the crash was deliberate. They said the SUV had stopped at a pull-off area before speeding straight off the cliff.Sarah Hart pleaded guilty in 2011 to a domestic assault charge in Minnesota over what she said was a spanking given to one of her children.Argyropoulos said she was unaware of a 2011 domestic assault conviction against Sarah Hart. She said she had met the couple on Facebook, knew them for about eight months and that the family visited her in the Bay Area twice. The couple broke off contact with her after she voiced concerns to them about their treatment of the children, she said.Two weeks ago, Bruce and Dana DeKalb, next-door neighbors of the Harts in Woodland, Washington, called state Child Protective Services because the couple\'s 15-year-old son Devonte had been coming over to their house almost every day for a week, asking for food.Dana DeKalb said Devonte told her his parents were "punishing them by withholding food." The boy asked her to leave food in a box by the fence for him, she said.Devonte, a black boy who is still missing, drew national attention after he was photographed in tears while hugging a white police officer during a 2014 protest.
CANBERRA, Australia   Jon O\'Neill flew 23 hours from Florida to the mountainous jungles of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific in search of clues to the life of his war hero father, whom he can barely remember.At times, it has been a painful journey of discovery among the rusted relics entangled in undergrowth of a conflict that ended 75 years ago for his father, U.S. Army Air Forces ace John G. "Jump" O\'Neill.But it has also been an experience planned over a decade that has rewarded the 57-year-old editor and recreational pilot from De Land, Florida, beyond his expectations."I go ... back home with more memories than I ever thought I would be able to take with me. It\'s been amazing," O\'Neill told The Associated Press from Rabaul, the former Japanese stronghold on the Papua New Guinea island of New Britain, over which his father had four of his eight Japanese kills in a P-38 Lighting fighter.The image of his father had been etched in O\'Neill\'s mind more by family stories than by memory. John O\'Neill died of leukemia in Florida when his only son was 6 and his daughter, Tracey, was a year younger.With the guidance of World War II historian Justin Taylan, founder of the charity website PacificWrecks.com, which documents and preserves war sites and graves, the son has retraced his father\'s 1943 wartime steps, from Papua New Guinea\'s capital, Port Moresby, to the wilds of the country\'s north and east coasts.Japan took Rabaul in 1942 and held it until the war ended in 1945. But Rabaul had been rendered useless as a base for Japanese fighting in the South Pacific by relentless air attacks and isolation from supply lines.O\'Neill\'s two weeks in Papua New Guinea, Australia\'s nearest neighbor, end on Wednesday.On March 28  his late father\'s 97th birthday  O\'Neill was at Oro Bay, a former U.S. military staging post on the northeast coast, where his father shot down a Mitsubishi Zero, his second Japanese kill, on the day he turned 22.A poignant moment came when visiting the town of Dobodura on the east coast, where an array of 15 airstrips for bombers and fighter planes became the U.S. front line of the Pacific War. From there, John O\'Neill launched into intense air battles over Rabaul with his friend Capt. Richard Bong, the United States\' highest-scoring ace, who won a Medal of Honor for 40 confirmed kills. Bong survived 146 combat missions, only to be killed in California while test-flying a jet fighter prototype shortly before the war ended in 1945."When I got to Dobodura and I saw the runway where he flew from, I just got really, overwhelmingly depressed that I just couldn\'t look at him and say, \'What was this like for you when you were 21 or 22?\'" O\'Neill said."I got to see the campsite where he actually lived while he was in Oro Province, and that to me was one of the most amazing experiences, just to know that he was there," he said.O\'Neill was promoted to captain before returning to the United States with Bong in late 1943 as combat heroes to sell war bonds.Within weeks, O\'Neill\'s P-38, nicknamed Beautiful Lass, and its new pilot, Ormond Powell, disappeared somewhere in the New Britain jungles or the Bismarck Sea.Taylan, who has been to Papua New Guinea dozens of times since his first visit in 1993 with his veteran grandfather, Carl R. Thien, a U.S. Army combat photographer in the Pacific, believes Beautiful Lass will someday be found.The key is to reach out to villagers who have known for generations where in the jungle the wreckage lies."We believe the plane can be found," Taylan said. "I can\'t promise to him (Jon O\'Neill) how long or how difficult that would be. But knowing him and seeing his experience of this trip makes me really want to find his father\'s aircraft.""There are hundreds of missing in action aircraft from just the United States in this country and probably dozens from Australia. Many may never be found. Others will be found beyond my lifetime," he said.Jon O\'Neill said Oro Province, where his father spent most of 1943, was much the same as it was during the war years.The American military presence during World War II is still evident to those who look beneath the jungle canopy.O\'Neill hacked through the jungle with a machete for an hour to reach the wreck of a P-38. He saw a B-24 Liberator bomber, a Jeep and a canteen marked "U.S. Army 1942." Near Japan\'s Tobera Airfield on New Britain, he saw the wrecks of Mitsubishi Zeros that his father might have fought.O\'Neill cherishes the idea that Beautiful Lass might one day be found."It was last seen over New Britain somewhere," he said. "It disappeared into a cloud and never came out, and I\'m hoping that one of these days Justin will find it and I\'ll be able to come back and actually see my father\'s plane.""Who knows? You fly over New Britain and there\'s just jungle. It could be down there anywhere," he said.
BLEECKER STREET LUNCHEONETTE Heres an exceptional restaurant story at a time when rent increases keep turning dining rooms into empty storefronts. One such victim was Risotteria in the West Village, which Joseph Pace, an experienced chef with French training, opened in 1999 and closed two years ago. He and his wife, Adrienne Pace, left New York to travel and returned to find the city welcoming a spicier, more global, vegetable-based cuisine and Mr. Paces former landlord ready to deal, as he put it. So he is now back in his old space, and has opened this all-day restaurant serving breakfast items like a poached egg lentil bowl and eggs baked with the green Yemeni hot sauce called zhug. Hefty sandwiches on bread thats gluten-free or not, salads and main courses (served after noon) that include skirt steak, mac and cheese and leg of lamb with kofta seasonings, round out a menu that unites comfort food and Middle Eastern seasoning. The drinks list (beer and wine only) is modest in length and price. Mr. Paces take on the all day restaurant is simply done, with bare tables and wood floors: 270 Bleecker Street (Morton Street), 917-261-6479, bleeckerluncheonette.com. BELLWETHER Seasonal and new American  the prevailing restaurant buzzwords  are in play at this new spot, but its location offers an uncommon feature, a sweeping view of the Empire State Building across the East River. The owners, the chef Preston Madson, who worked with Jonathan Waxman at Barbuto and the new Jams, and Matthew McCormick, who lives in the neighborhood, have created an airy space with whitewashed brick and a driftwood sculpture: 47-25 Vernon Boulevard (47th Road), Long Island City, Queens, 718-392-3257, bellwethernyc.com. THE WOODSTOCK Steps from the High Line entrance, this new, 120-seat place is more about drinks than food. It features top-shelf spirits in classic cocktails priced at $10. The owner, James Morrissey of the VNYL, has brought in Nino Coniglio of Williamsburg Pizza to handle the food. The landlords, David and Joseph Sitt of Thor Equities, are also partners, and they are curating works by Salvador Dal for the space. (Opens Wednesday): 446 West 14th Street, 212-633-2000, thewoodstocknyc.com. DECIMO RISTOBAR Alana Taylor, a fledgling restaurateur, serves salads, small plates like fried calamari, pastas and more substantial dishes, including lamb shanks and chicken paillard. The wine list tilts decidedly toward reds: 764 10th Avenue (52nd Street), 212-586-0888, decimonyc.com. GRNHAUS This spinoff of the vast Spritzenhaus in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, serves 40 beers in cans, bottles and on draft, with an array of sausages and dipping sauces. Weather permitting, the spaces garage doors will go up, and the interior with communal tables will become a beer garden: 101 Rivington Street (Ludlow Street), 212-228-0027, grunhausnyc.com. YOON HAEUNDAE GALBI Bobby Yoon, among the third generation of the family that opened Haeundae Galbi, a barbecue restaurant in Busan, South Korea, in 1964, has brought the business to New York. The menu offers short ribs, sirloin, bibimbap, a pancake for the table and braised pork ribs. Its sleekly decorated in wood and stone, with state-of-the-art burners on the tables: 8 West 36th Street, yoon-nyc.com.MOMOFUKU KO About two months ago, David Changs flagship in the East Village closed for renovation. It has reopened, having expanded into a storefront next door, which is now the restaurants entrance and bar. There are 23 seats, eight facing an open kitchen, a design recalling the original Ko on First Avenue at 10th Street. An  la carte bar menu will change daily and offer dishes being developed for the main restaurants tasting dinners. Sean Gray is the executive chef. Spot prawn crudo, lobster cake, duck pie and mandarin tarte Tatin were on the menu last week: 8 Extra Place (First Street), 212-203-8095, ko.momofuku.com. BLANK SLATE TEA This teahouse specializing in tea drinks and food like a matcha yogurt bowl, as well as items like avocado toast, will open a few doors from Blank Slate Coffee & Kitchen. (Friday): 121 Madison Avenue (31st Street), 646-707-0256, blankslatenyc.com. BUVETTE Jody Williams, who has a branch of her cozy West Village French bistro in Paris, has now opened an offshoot near Ginza in central Tokyo: 1-1-2 Yurakucho chiyoda-ku, Midtown Tokyo Hibiya, ilovebuvette.com. TACOCINA Come summer, Danny Meyers company will open this kiosk serving tacos in the park in the former Domino Sugar Factory project on the East River waterfront: Domino Park, River Street (South Second Street), Williamsburg, Brooklyn. TIME OUT MARKET NEW YORK The 50-year-old company based in London, which owns the global magazine Time Out and opened a 75,000-square-foot food hall in Lisbon, is planning a market in the Empire Stores complex in Dumbo, Brooklyn. It will occupy 11,000 square feet on the ground floor, where there will be 16 dining choices, plus two bars. On the fifth floor, there will be four more restaurants and a bar. Joo Cepeda, the president, and Didier Souillat, the chief executive of Time Out Market, have not selected the tenants, but they emphasized that street food would not be featured. They are looking for significant chefs; there will be burgers and a New York-style deli. Seating will be at counters and communal tables, and food will be served on china, glass and metal, not disposable plates and cutlery. Soon after this is up and running, they will open a Time Out Market in Miami Beach, with Boston and Chicago on the horizon: 55 Water Street (Main Street), Dumbo, Brooklyn. DENISSE LINA CHAVEZ, the talented Mexican chef with whom Noah Arenstein opened El Atoradero in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, has left once again. Last year, she went on leave because of health concerns, which evidently have recurred.RESY PRESENTS THE FRANKS BACKYARD CHEF SERIES II After a successful run last year, Resy.com will again be a partner in this series, in which Frank Castronovo and Frank Falcinelli, the owners of Frankies Spuntino, invite chefs to cook dinners held in the garden of their location at 457 Court Street (Luquer Street) in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn. The monthly dinners, held rain or shine at communal tables, start at 7 p.m. with cocktails; first up, on April 18, are David Chang, and Pedro Miguel Schiaffino from Lima, Peru. The other chefs include Inaki Aizpitarte from Paris, Sean Brock from Charleston, S.C., and Roy Choi from Los Angeles. Tickets, $150 including beverages, tax and tip, will go on sale at 9 a.m. Eastern time on Friday at Resy.com/Frankies. This year, a package of 10 dinners will be sold for $1,500. The organizers say that last year the dinners sold out in a matter of minutes.WILMA JEAN Rob Newtons fried chicken restaurant in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, has closed. Mr. Newton still owns Nightingale Nine nearby and remains involved with Yellow Magnolia Caf, at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
NEW DELHI  Nirav Modi brightened Kate Winslets earlobes and made Taraji P. Hensons collarbone glitter.A jeweler to the stars, Mr. Modi attained wealth and fame at home in India in a few short years. He socialized with British royalty and rubbed elbows with Donald Trump Jr. He opened an opulent outlet on Madison Avenue in New York. In January, he met with Narendra Modi, Indias prime minister and no relation, at the annual gathering of the worlds elite in Davos, Switzerland.Today, he is on the run.About a week after Mr. Modi grinned for the cameras with the prime minister, a state-run Indian bank told regulators that it had found nearly $1.8 billion in fraudulent transactions linked to the jewelers account. Indian officials now accuse Mr. Modi, his family and business associates of assembling a global empire with nearly $3 billion in money obtained illegally, mostly from government-run banks. He denies wrongdoing.The chase has enraged and captivated India at a time when the public increasingly believes the countrys debt-laden government banks are enriching its flashiest, most corrupt business tycoons. Parliament sessions have deteriorated into screaming matches, with political opponents exchanging accusations of collusion with the jeweler.Finding Mr. Modi has become something of a national pastime. Reporters in New York camped outside a luxury hotel, the JW Marriott Essex House, where they believed Mr. Modi was staying. One who rang the bell outside what they believed to be his room found only a servant and a fluffy white dog.For many Indians, the allegations against Mr. Modi further cement the notion that taxpayer-owned banks are footing the bill for the lavish lifestyles of a rising elite. That idea has particular resonance in a country where stark poverty  India is home to a third of the worlds poorest people  remains dire.Before Mr. Modi, India watched as Vijay Mallya, an airlines-and-liquor magnate known as the King of Good Times, fled to Britain as banks tried to collect $1.4 billion. Many of the banks left on the hook were state-owned. He has denied wrongdoing.The state-owned Bank of Baroda has drawn news media attention over its business with the three Gupta brothers, who left India in 1993 and built a sprawling corporate empire in South Africa. They have been caught up in a political scandal there that led to the resignation of South Africas president, Jacob Zuma.Bank of Baroda denied wrongdoing in a written response to questions, asserting that it acted in good faith and that many of the transactions it handled for the Gupta brothers were received from other banks.In February, the Indian authorities arrested Vikram Kothari, a ballpoint pen magnate, saying he had diverted loans given to his company by seven government-owned lenders. He also denied wrongdoing.The allegations against Mr. Modi have only strengthened peoples wariness of the state banks. Indian officials have publicly accused him of working with tellers at a single branch of one of them, Punjab National Bank, to obtain $1.8 billion from branches of other banks. So far, five Indian banks have been swindled in the scandal, four of them government-owned, the authorities in New Delhi say.Just a decade ago, during the global financial crisis, Indian lenders were held up as a bastion of stability. Today, they are considered more vulnerable than those in other leading emerging markets, mostly because state-controlled lenders dominate the sector, according to the International Monetary Fund.Of the $6.5 billion in fraudulent loans that have hit the industry over the past two years, the most egregious cases were at government-owned banks, according to figures released by Parliament. Executives at those lenders are more likely to be appointed for their political connections than for their talent, financial analysts say.For every Nirav Modi in this country, theres 10 more, and they are emboldened when they see the government failing to take action or pursue the right protocols, said Vineet Dhanda, a lawyer who is urging the Indian government to tighten up the banking sector.Mr. Dhanda questioned how major business figures like Mr. Modi could raise billions from banks without providing collateral, yet the average farmer struggles to get a few hundred dollars for a loan.The money they are stealing is from the poor people of this country, he said. If this money is swindled away, then it comes from the taxpayers to fix the banks.Mr. Modis lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, denies his client defrauded banks and says there is only a misunderstanding over a much smaller loan worth about $40 million. He accused the banks and government authorities of damaging his clients reputation and the Nirav Modi brands value, making it harder for the company to settle its debts.This was a case of civil transaction which the authorities have converted into a criminal one unnecessarily, Mr. Aggarwal said in an interview.Diamond traders and jewelers have long marveled at Mr. Modis rise. Nicknamed NiMo in the press, from the first syllables of his name, Mr. Modi was known for wearing custom-made cuff links with the fish from Finding Nemo.Born in Antwerp, Belgium, to a relatively small diamond trading family, Mr. Modi attended the prestigious Wharton School of Business before dropping out at 19 to join the family business in Mumbai.He first rose to international prominence in 2010, when he designed a necklace featuring a 12.29-carat diamond set with smaller pink diamonds. It was auctioned by Christies in Hong Kong for $3.56 million, nearly $1 million more than its asking price.The bidding war landed Mr. Modi on the cover of the Christies catalog, the first Indian to be featured so prominently by the auction house. He formed his Nirav Modi brand later that year and announced plans to open 100 stores around the world by 2025.In 2015, Mr. Modi opened his flagship store on Madison Avenue, a few blocks from the luxury giants Cartier, Saks and Dior. Donald Trump Jr. was there, taking a break from his fathers presidential campaign, as were actors and models: Naomi Watts and Coco Rocha posed for photos on the red carpet in front of the Nirav Modi logo. The next year, Mr. Modi designed 100 carats worth of diamonds that Ms. Winslet wore to the Oscars.His rapid ascent puzzled some in the diamond industry, who say building a luxury brand takes both time and money.Using models and actresses that are world-renowned to consumers  that makes a brand seem solid, said Karma El Khalil, a jeweler based in New York. But its incredibly expensive.His lifestyle rose with his fame, according to interviews with colleagues and friends and local news reports that tracked his purchases. He bought a Rolls-Royce for family use. He had an aquarium built that covered an entire wall of his office. He bought an apartment in an exclusive, seaside high-rise called Sea Palace that is home to some of Mumbais wealthiest people, including one of the founders of the information technology giant Infosys.But the authorities in New Delhi say he projected an image of success built on bank loans and fraudulent letters of understanding, part of a strategy to expand his business in the hope that profits would eventually outstrip debts.The arms of the law are long, said Abhishek Dayal, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Investigation, the main government body investigating the case. We will get them.Mr. Modis flight has shaken diamond traders in Antwerp and Mumbai.Until the allegations surfaced, he seemed to fit well in an international industry that often works based on trust and personal relationships. For example, a trader will often mail a diamond to another and give the other person a window of up to four months to evaluate the gem before expecting payment.Mr. Modi quickly won a reputation as someone who could be trusted, say diamond traders. He often paid within days after receiving diamonds.Now traders are wondering whether the industry trusted him too quickly, and what the fallout on the international diamond trade will be. A diamond dealer in Antwerp said he and his colleagues became anxious last month when the Indian government banned its banks from issuing letters of credit to finance trade abroad, making it harder for Indian diamond traders  some of the biggest players in the industry  to buy stones.Your reputation is based on today, said Sabyasachi Roy, the executive director of Indias Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce.Today youre great until youre not. Today you have actresses wearing your designs; tomorrow no one will look at you. But everyone was surprised by his quick rise.
ATLANTA   On April 4, 1968, a movement lost its patriarch when the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was killed on a hotel balcony in Memphis.Yolanda, Martin, Dexter and Bernice King lost their father.The loss has not gotten easier in 50 years, but his three surviving children each bear it on their own terms."That period, for me, is like yesterday," said Dexter King, now 57. "People say it\'s been 50 years, but I\'m living in step time. Forget what he did in terms of his service and commitment and contribution to humankind ... I miss my dad."His children cling to the few memories they have left of him. For years, they have had to publicly mourn a man who was among the most hated in America at the time of his death  a task they have been reluctant and, at times, angry to carry out.Now that King is among the most beloved figures in the world, his heirs are forced to share him with the multitudes who have laid claim to his legacy. For more than a decade, they have had to do this without two of the family\'s cornerstones: their mother, Coretta Scott King, who died in 2006, and eldest child, Yolanda, who died in 2007.As adults, the siblings have earned a reputation over their infighting, which has spilled into rancorous lawsuits over heirlooms including their father\'s Bible and Nobel Peace Prize. Today, the three say they are in a "good place" and have managed to compartmentalize their differences and come together as a family in times of difficulty.Their recollections are a reminder that at the center of this tragedy was a young family, robbed of a loving husband and father, who was just 39. All are older now than King was. The tributes to their dad  from the buildings and streets that bear his name, to statues in his home state and in the nation\'s capital  are points of pride, but also constant reminders of the void he left.___Martin Luther King III\'s eyes crinkle into a smile as he recalls the happier times: in the pews at Ebenezer Baptist Church on Auburn Avenue in Atlanta helping his dad greet new members, tossing a football or baseball on the lawn of the family home, swimming lessons at the YMCA.When he came home from the front lines in the fight against racism, King\'s somber expression would give way to smiles and a playful mood. For them, he was not an icon, but a buddy.King III and his brother also traveled with King. Months before he was killed, they accompanied King as he mobilized people in South Georgia to attend his upcoming Poor People\'s Campaign in Washington."That was our time for camaraderie," recalled King III, now 60.King III said he can still get emotional around his father\'s death. If he listens too closely to King\'s "Drum Major Instinct" speech, in which the preacher muses about wanting to live a long life, he still gets moved to tears.For years afterward, King III tensed whenever he saw a news bulletin like the ones that told him his father was killed, or that his uncle, A.D. King, had been found dead in his swimming pool, or that his grandmother had been killed by a madman while playing the organ at Sunday service at Ebenezer  all while he was still a child."I was afraid, because I was like, \'Is this going to be something else that happens to our family?\'" he said.___Bernice King, the youngest, was once envious of her siblings, who had many more memories of King. Shared stories from her mother, sisters and brother, as well as home movies, helped humanize her father.Nicknamed "Bunny," Bernice King said she cherishes the scant moments she remembers sharing between father and daughter, like the "kissing game" they would play."That stayed with me so vividly," said Bernice, now 55. "I\'m glad I had that, because everything else, other than a few memories of being at the dinner table, I don\'t recall. I wish I knew him more."She admitted to struggling with having to share her parents with strangers over the years."It bothered me," she said. "It\'s hard to have the private moments ... It\'s like everybody else has a part of him, and that\'s always hard to deal with. But I won\'t let it get in the way of what they have done and what they mean to the world."___That night and the days that followed the killing remain frozen in Dexter King\'s memory. He remembers his mother telling them something had happened to their father as she prepared to head to the airport. After Coretta Scott King left, their caregiver answered the kitchen telephone, started screaming and fell backward.Dexter, then 7, knew the worst had happened.When King\'s body returned to Atlanta, Dexter remembered running up and down the aisle of the airplane, and seeing his father\'s coffin on the floor."I asked my mom, \'What\'s that?\'" he said. "She explained, \'Your dad is going to be sleeping when you see him and he won\'t be able to speak with you. He\'s gone home to be with God.\'"Dexter King spoke of his father\'s warmth and playfulness, a departure from the serious approach he took to his work. Seeing him in his roles as pastor and civil rights leader, Dexter King said he and his siblings were aware that their father\'s work was important."You saw the interaction and the energy, just the way people reacted to him," he said.He was again struck by the people\'s reaction at his father\'s funeral, as a seemingly endless sea of mourners formed a funeral procession through Atlanta."There\'s Dad, and there\'s the leader the world owns," Dexter continued. "Generally, I accept that. But he had a family. As kids, we did not choose this life. And I don\'t know that my dad chose it. It really chose him. We\'re human, and in some ways, we\'re still grieving."________For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
LA LINEA DE LA CONCEPCION, Spain   Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each containing 30 kilograms (66 pounds) of Moroccan hashish.In little over two minutes, most of the cargo has filled two full-size SUVs. All seats but the drivers\' have been removed. The lights are off and the windows have been darkened with black spray.Then, somebody yells: "Cut it! Cut it!"As fast as they came, the SUVs speed away and the smugglers find shelter in the narrow streets of the La Atunara fishing neighborhood. The boat vanishes into the night, still holding half of its cargo. When a patrol car arrives seconds later, all that remains is the sound of the waves.Another night, another chapter in the battle between Spanish authorities and the crime gangs who have turned this neglected town in the shadow of the Rock of Gibraltar into a key European entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin."Right now, we are losing this battle," said Francisco Mena, leader of Nexos, a federation of local community action groups that offer rehab for drug addicts. "Trafficking can\'t be stopped with the human resources and material means that we have in place at the moment."He insisted the war could still be won. But such optimism flies in the face of the brazen drug operations witnessed by Associated Press journalists, and of the very words of drug chieftains who agreed to rare interviews.One of the area\'s most notorious "narcos" insisted that the illicit trade is here to stay."Trafficking has always existed, and it always will. If not here, it will move elsewhere along the coast," said the gang leader, who like others spoke on condition that they not be named because they feared prosecution. "If drug trafficking didn\'t end in Colombia with death penalties and extraditions to the United States, nobody will end it here."Half a dozen trafficking ring members and their leaders pointed to the 30 percent provincial jobless rate in the Cadiz province, the highest in the country, as a fuel for their criminal activity. They claimed that shipping drugs is a way of life in this forgotten corner, justifying it as a "necessary bad" that feeds hundreds of families directly, and thousands more indirectly."Many of us are fathers. We need to take food home," said another gangster who asked to be identified as Pepe. "If we couldn\'t provide for our children this way, another kind of violence would come."Three dozen clans are believed to be working in Campo de Gibraltar, a county of 268,000 that cradles the Bay of Algeciras. On a clear day, the contours of the coast of Morocco, the world\'s top producer of hashish, are visible across a busy shipping waterway at the mouth of the Mediterranean, just 30 kilometers (less than 19 miles) away.A new generation of bolder gangsters is challenging underfunded law enforcement agencies, as local families watch their teenagers lured into a life of easy money."The national government needs to do more, and not only when the media\'s attention is here," said Mena. "When the state disappears, what appears is impunity."___Criminals that in the past dropped their few hundred kilograms of cargo in the sea as soon as they came across a customs surveillance boat are now ready to defend their bigger, bulkier shipments.The RIBs, or rigid-hulled inflatable boats known as "rubbers," are partially to blame. With three, four and even five 350-horsepower engines, they can ship an average cargo of 1 to 3 tons of hashish in over one hour from northern Moroccan shores. A trafficker told the AP he held the local record: 178 stashes, or 5.3 tons, in a single shipment.Car chases at high-speeds and personal threats to judges, prosecutors and underpaid, short-handed officers have now become common.On land and at sea, traffickers use shuttle vehicles  SUVs or rubbers without cargo whose function is to mislead authorities and, increasingly, ram patrol cars and boats.So far, casualties have been higher on the traffickers\' side. Two years ago, four traffickers died when a patrol vessel sailed over their rubber, prompting angry protests against the authorities.According to police investigators and drug traffickers themselves, the uptick in violence is also related to inter-gang burglaries of drug cargo from beaches or from hundreds of "kindergartens"  storage spaces, often in local homes. These "vuelcos" are often the work of outsiders, the sources said, frequently gangs from Eastern Europe."The earlier generation had a respect for police uniform but there is now a new generation that has an absolute contempt for authority," says Juan Franco, the mayor of La Linea, "My worry is that these guys are armed and so far, they are not using them against civil guard or police agents, but that\'s the next step."Fears that civilians could also be caught in the crossfire reached a height last month when a group of drug traffickers stormed the emergency ward in La Linea\'s public hospital. The assailants freed Samuel Crespo, a top aide and nephew to Los Castanitas, two brothers who run the town\'s most influential drug clans.Police say there were at least 20 attackers, armed with sticks and knives. Witnesses have disputed the official account, saying a handful of unarmed youngsters took Crespo away with little resistance from their two custodians. The attacked policemen said using their guns inside the busy emergency ward would have escalated things.The events hit a nerve in La Linea, a town of 63,000. "How can a handful of young criminals be so bold to act with such impunity in broad daylight?" asks Mena, the activist. "Why were there only two policemen guarding a prominent gangster? And why didn\'t they have any other means to stop the attackers?"Outrage increased when news emerged that the fugitive was taken in a jet ski across the Strait of Gibraltar for treatment in a private clinic in northern Morocco. A police investigation led to the arrests of two of those involved in the attack, in addition to one person that was detained on the spot at the hospital.Crespo himself is now back in Spain according to his aides\' account. He remains at large.A week after the attack, the country\'s Interior Minister descended on the town with an entourage of bodyguards and special police forces. Juan Ignacio Zoido\'s visit was timed to announce a police operation that led to the arrest of 16 people, members of a sophisticated gang that had installed radar to monitor patrol boats. Police found it under rooftop solar panels in a waterfront house. They also snatched 4 tons of hashish, 17 vehicles and four firearms.Zoido promised crime squads and additional security measures for the county over coming months.That same morning, a 90-minute drive away, men in hoods entered a guarded compound and stole a speedboat that had been confiscated and held in evidence, along with a truck to pull it.___The Cadiz province, which at its southernmost tip only 14 kilometers (8.6 miles) away from North Africa, already amounts for 40 percent of the drugs entering Spain, according to Interior Ministry figures.Hashish is arriving on these beaches at the pace of seven to 20 loaded rubbers per day, according to calculations by police and traffickers. A Civil Guard operation last year dismantled a network that used dangerous night helicopter journeys to fly drugs into hideouts further inland.The county is also a main entry point for cocaine, Europe\'s second most popular drug according to the region\'s Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addictions. It makes its way concealed in containers and merchant ships docking in Algeciras, across the bay from La Linea.Some of the smuggled drugs are consumed south of the Pyrenees, but most of it up to 90 percent, by some police accounts travels on land to France, Italy and the Netherlands, which plays a central role as a regional distribution hub, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.As in any other business, shipping a stash of hashish involves plenty of stakeholders. The clans operating in and beyond the Campo de Gibraltar are usually family-run and territorial, but only a handful of them are in control of all the phases of the trade.Sooner or later, the job will be outsourced to gangs offering pilots, rubbers, stolen Land Cruisers the most common SUV in their operations or the army of people watching every corner for police presence. Known as "puntos," spotters, they are placed in strategic locations, often with a non-smartphone to alert others. These low-ranking gangsters can make from 600 to 1,000 euros ($700 to 1,200) in just one day, according to traffickers.The "bushmen," as those unloading speedboats and loading Land Cruisers are called, can earn up to 2,000 to 3,000 euros a day. But the best paid in the chain are SUV drivers (10,000-15,000 euros for one job) and rubber pilots, starting from 30,000 euros and rising with the number of hashish bundles they deliver. The owner of a "kindergarten," which can be a family with a basement rented to the traffickers, can make up to 15,000 euros for each day hiding the stash.The smugglers take umbrage at their reputation as a violent, fractured community."Police are looking for a war by pitting us against each other," said a prominent drug lord speaking in a modest safe house where the leaders of half a dozen local gangs, some of them on the run from the law, convened to discuss business. "But this is not Medellin or Sinaloa, and there is no such thing as a Pablo Escobar among us," he said. "There are no assassins here. There are only groups who are good at what they do and others who make mistakes, the same way as police make them.""We, the veterans, are here to stop this from escalating to any kind of violence," he added, eliciting nods from others in the room.A gang member with a walkie-talkie enters announcing that a rubber has arrived. The group moves quickly to the beach, only a few meters away; in an impressive feat of choreography, more than 100 bushmen and spotters unload the craft as reporters and passers-by look on. Only word that a police patrol car is streets way, driving toward the beach, brings an abrupt end to the operation."You see, this is like a game of cat and mouse, but you won\'t see the guns, at least not on our side," said a top associate of Los Castanitas. "I have never stolen or gotten myself involved in anything else that is not the smuggling. Yes, this is illegal, I\'ll give you that. But we are not hurting anyone."___Despite its struggles with trafficking, Spain is the European Union member seizing the largest volumes of both cocaine and cannabis. In 2015, cannabis seizures accounted for more than 70 percent the drug apprehended in the block, according to Eurostat figures. Of the 373 tons of drugs seized in Spain last year, according to the Interior Ministry, 145 tons were cannabis resin confiscated in the Campo de Gibraltar region, a 45 percent increase from the previous year.Still, much more slips through the cracks. Investigators said seizures amount to only 4 to 5 percent of the hashish that could be entering the country.More resources to investigate money laundering would target gang leaders, says Mena.Police unions say that a regional court specialized in drug trafficking would speed up some of the cases, because drug-trafficking probes require large amounts of judicial red tape for wiretapping and other investigating methods.Other proposed remedies range from harsher sentences Spain punishes hashish-trafficking with up to six years if no other crimes involved, whereas sentences can double that in France and the United Kingdom to regulating consumption and sales of cannabis.Mena welcomes recent steps taken by the Spanish government on a bill to restrict the use of large speedboats. He says the European Union should aid Spain, and pressure Morocco for stronger action on its end.But the biggest challenge is local collusion with the drug networks. Revenues feed the local economy, often laundered through beauty parlors, gyms, clothing stores or other small businesses, creating a "narco-economy" that Franco, the mayor of La Linea, describes as "bread for today and hunger for tomorrow."Unemployment in La Linea, at 35 percent in 2016, reaches 80 percent among the youth in its poorest neighborhoods, the mayor\'s office said.In late March, dozens of people in one of the La Linea\'s impoverished neighborhoods protected a trafficker who was being chased by a national police patrol. Police said agents had to fire gunshots into the air to dispel the crowd, but by then their quarry had vanished, leaving behind a car with half a ton of hashish.Still, there are signs that some residents know that drugs are a dead end for their town. On Feb. 27, two weeks after the hospital incident, more than 2,000 people gathered to protest."No more drugs, we want jobs," they shouted.But Franco does not believe that his city has truly turned a corner."Once in a while there is a specific event that creates a catharsis of some kind," he said, "but months on we go back to the same point."___AP photographer Emilio Morenatti contributed to this story.
