SHANGHAI   China\'s Tiangong-1 space station re-entered the earth\'s atmosphere and burnt up over the South Pacific on Monday, the Chinese space authority said.The "vast majority" of the craft burnt up on re-entry, at around 8:15 a.m. (0015 GMT), the authority said in a brief statement on its website, without saying exactly where any pieces might have landed.Brad Tucker, an astrophysicist at Australian National University, said the remnants of Tiangong-1 appeared to have landed about 100 km (62 miles) northwest of Tahiti."Small bits definitely will have made it to the surface," he told Reuters, adding that while about 90 percent would have burnt up in the atmosphere and just 10 percent made it to the ground, that fraction still amounted to 700 kg (1,543 lb) to 800 kg (1,764 lb)."Most likely the debris is in the ocean, and even if people stumbled over it, it would just look like rubbish in the ocean and be spread over a huge area of thousands of square kilometers."China said on Friday it was unlikely any large pieces would reach the ground.The United States Air Force 18th Space Control Squadron, which tracks and detects all artificial objects in Earth\'s orbit, said it had also tracked the Tiangong-1 in its re-entry over the South Pacific.It said in a statement it had confirmed re-entry in coordination with counterparts in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea and Britain.The 10.4-metre-long (34.1-foot) Tiangong-1, or "Heavenly Palace 1", was launched in 2011 to carry out docking and orbit experiments as part of China\'s ambitious space program, which aims to place a permanent station in orbit by 2023.Decommissioning was originally planned for 2013 but the mission was repeatedly extended.Asked about the space station, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular briefing he had no other information and reiterated that China had been reporting the situation to the U.N. space agency in an open and transparent way."According to what I understand, at present there has not been found any damage on the ground, he said, without elaborating.China had earlier said re-entry would happen in late 2017, but that process was delayed, leading some experts to suggest the space laboratory was out of control.Worldwide media hype about the re-entry reflected overseas "envy" of China\'s space industry, the Chinese tabloid Global Times said on Monday."It\'s normal for spacecraft to re-enter the atmosphere, yet Tiangong-1 received so much attention, partly because some Western countries are trying to hype and sling mud at China\'s fast-growing aerospace industry," it said.(Reporting by David Stanway and Wang Jing; Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in BEIJING and Alison Bevege in SYDNEY; Editing by Paul Tait and Clarence Fernandez)
BEIJING   China\'s defunct Tiangong 1 space station mostly burned up on re-entry into the atmosphere over the central South Pacific on Monday, Chinese space authorities said.The experimental space laboratory re-entered around 8:15 a.m. Beijing time, the China Manned Space Engineering Office said.Scientists monitoring the craft\'s disintegrating orbit had forecast the craft would mostly burn up and would pose only the slightest of risks to people. Analysis from the Beijing Aerospace Control Center showed it had mostly burned up.Brad Tucker, an astrophysicist at Australian National University, said that Tiangong 1\'s re-entry was "mostly successful" and that it would have been better if the space station had not been spinning toward Earth."It could have been better, obviously, if it wasn\'t tumbling, but it landed in the Southern Pacific Ocean, and that\'s kind of where you hope it would land," Tucker said."It\'s been tumbling and spinning for a while, which means that when it really starts to come down it\'s less predictable about what happens to it," Tucker said. He likened it to an airplane landing, saying it\'s more difficult to predict where a plane that is "shaking around and moving" will land than one that is smoothly descending.Launched in 2011, Tiangong 1 was China\'s first space station, serving as an experimental platform for bigger projects, such as the Tiangong 2 launched in September 2016 and a future permanent Chinese space station.Two crews of Chinese astronauts lived on the station while testing docking procedures and other operations. Its last crew departed in 2013 and contact with it was cut in 2016.Since then, it has orbited gradually closer and closer to Earth on its own while being monitored.Earlier forecasts had said that only about 10 percent of the bus-sized, 8.5-ton spacecraft would likely survive re-entry, mainly its heavier components such as its engines."The biggest takeaway from this is that as we put more things into space, all countries, we have to be aware that we do have to plan for these sorts of issues that are happening," Tucker said.Roger Thompson, senior engineering specialist with the Aerospace Corporation in Virginia, said modeling of Tiangong 1\'s re-entry by monitors in the U.S. had been highly accurate, leaving him feeling "great" about their predictions."We believe it was an uncontrolled entry," Thompson said, adding that the corporation\'s own estimate had been just 15 minutes behind the time announced by China.The lack of control was not unusual given that about 15 percent of satellites re-enter the atmosphere prior to the end of their useful lives, he said.The corporation, which provides technical support for the space industry, had not been in touch with the Chinese side about the re-entry, Thompson said.China\'s foreign and defense ministries said the country had relayed information about Tiangong 1\'s return to Earth to the United Nations\' space agency and others.Debris from satellites, space launches and the International Space Station enters the atmosphere every few months, but only one person is known to have been hit by any of it: American woman Lottie Williams, who was struck but not injured by a falling piece of a U.S. Delta II rocket while exercising in an Oklahoma park in 1997.Most famously, America\'s 77-ton Skylab crashed through the atmosphere in 1979, spreading pieces of wreckage near the southwest Australian city of Perth, which fined the U.S. $400 for littering.Tiangong 1, whose name translates as "Heavenly Palace," had two modules, one for its solar panels and engines, and one for a pair of astronauts to live in and conduct experiments. A third astronaut slept in the Shenzhou spaceships that docked with the station, which also contained facilities for personal hygiene and food preparation.China\'s space program has made rapid progress since it launched its first crewed mission in 2003  becoming only the third country after Russia and the U.S. to do so  including placing a rover on the moon and conducting a spacewalk.A mission to land a rover on Mars and bring back samples is set to launch in 2020, while China also plans to become the first country to soft-land a probe on the far side of the moon.The program\'s military background has at times been a barrier to greater cooperation with those run by other countries, and it was excluded from the 420-ton International Space Station that is now beginning to wind down.___Associated Press writer Gillian Wong contributed to this report.___This story has been corrected to show that China has landed a rover on the moon, not Mars.
BEIJING   The Latest on the defunct Chinese space station re-entering Earth\'s atmosphere (all times local):10:30 a.m.An Australian astrophysicist says the defunct Chinese space station had a "mostly successful" re-entry but would have been better if it hadn\'t been spinning in its final descent.China said the experimental Tiangong 1 space lab mostly burned up upon re-entry Monday morning.Brad Tucker, an astrophysicist at Australian National University, said the tumbling and spinning made the re-entry location harder to predict. But the landing site in the southern Pacific is "kind of where you hope it would land."Tiangong 1 was launched in 2011 and ended service in 2016 after completing its mission.___9 a.m.Chinese space authorities say the defunct Tiangong 1 mostly burned up upon re-entering the Earth\'s atmosphere in the central South Pacific.The China Manned Space Engineering Office says on its website the experimental space lab re-entered at around 8:15 a.m. Monday.Tiangong 1 was launched in 2011 and ended service in 2016 after completing its mission.___8 a.m.Chinese space authorities say the defunct Tiangong 1 space station is expected to re-enter the Earth\'s atmosphere soon.The China Manned Space Engineering Office says on its website the most possible re-entry time is 8:49 a.m. Monday. Xinhua news agency says the window is between 8:11 a.m. and 9:33 a.m.Tiangong-1 is forecast to re-enter in an area centered on 19.4 degrees west longitude and 10.2 degrees south latitude in the southern Atlantic Ocean.The space lab will mostly be burnt up in the atmosphere and it\'s highly unlikely to cause any damage on the ground.

SEOUL, South Korea  South Korean reporters visiting North Koreas capital to cover a K-pop performance there received a surprise on Monday: an unusually graceful apology from a senior North Korean official.The official, Kim Yong-chol, a vice chairman of the Norths ruling Workers Party, visited the reporters hotel and apologized for their having been denied entry to a theater in Pyongyang, the capital, where the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, watched  South Korean musicians perform Sunday evening.We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage, Kim Yong-chol was quoted in the reporters dispatches from Pyongyang as saying. On behalf of the Norths authorities, I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed.It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything. The rare gesture from a senior official reflected the Norths efforts to work toward a political dtente on the Korean Peninsula that Kim Jong-un helped start in February by sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.Still, the apology was all the more striking not only because the totalitarian state does not have a free press but also because it came from Kim Yong-chol, an army general considered hard-line even by North Korean standards.He is widely believed in the South to have masterminded the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010, when he served as director of the Norths main spy agency. South Korea says a North Korean torpedo attack sank the ship, killing 46 sailors, but the North denies it.On Sunday evening, several South Korean pool reporters were barred by their North Korean minders from entering the concert hall.The South Korean government later lodged a protest. On Monday, Kim Yong-chol explained that the minders had been overruled by Kim Jong-uns bodyguards. The vice chairman apologized for the lack of coordination between different branches of the Pyongyang government.After North Korea conducted a series of nuclear and missile tests last year that increased tensions, Kim Jong-un has shifted to dialogue in recent months. He has agreed to meet with South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, on April 27, and has offered to sit down with President Trump. Mr. Trump has agreed to do so by May, in an attempt to persuade him to give up his nuclear weapons.In the past week alone, Mr. Kim has stunned the region with his breathtaking pace of diplomacy.Last week, he met President Xi Jinping in Beijing, for his first known trip outside North Korea since he became leader. On Friday, he met with the International Olympic Committee president, Thomas Bach, in Pyongyang. On Sunday, he clapped and laughed while watching South Korean pop singers, whose influence on North Koreas isolated populace his government has been trying to block. Afterward, he shook hands with each performer and posed for a group photograph.His welcoming of K-pop icons, and Kim Yong-chols apology, are a stark departure from just a few years ago, when South Korea began blaring K-pop songs across their shared border as a psychological warfare tactic. The North Korean military warned of an all-out war if the South did not turn off its loudspeakers, and it even fired warning shots across the border.In North Korea, all radio and TV channels are controlled by the government and filled with propaganda. The regime has been cracking down on K-pop music that has entered the country via bootleg DVDs from China.But on Sunday, the same day the United States and South Korea started joint annual military drills, which usually draws warlike rhetoric and even missile tests from the North, South Korean K-pop singers were allowed to perform in Pyongyang.On Monday, the Norths official Korean Central News Agency quoted Kim Jong-un as saying that he was deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the south side.

TOKYO   Asian stocks began the new quarter on Monday with mild gains following a strong performance by global equities last week, while the dollar held steady ahead of key economic indicators.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose 0.3 percent.South Korea\'s KOSPI gained 0.6 percent and Japan\'s Nikkei advanced 0.55 percent. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng added 0.25 percent and Shanghai was up 0.4 percent.Wall Street surged last Thursday as technology stocks rebounded, ending a tumultuous first quarter on a high note. Many major financial centers were closed for the Good Friday Easter holiday.MSCI\'s world equity index ended up 1.2 percent last week. But it lost about 1.5 percent in the first quarter, pushed away from record highs as tensions over global trade escalated, turmoil in the White House deepened and market-leading technology firms wobbled on fears of regulation and other issues."We expect strong and broad-based growth to continue globally," wrote strategists at Barclays.But they warned that there were looming risks: "Trade protectionism, U.S. economic policy uncertainty, concerns about higher cross-market volatility and risk premium in core rates markets call for a more tactical approach to risk assets."While fears of an all-out global trade war that gripped the financial markets last month have abated somewhat, tensions between the United States and China over tit-for-tat tariffs kept investors on edge.China on Monday imposed extra tariffs on U.S. products including frozen pork, wine and certain fruits and nuts in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel.In currencies, the dollar was steady at 106.340 yen, while the euro was almost unchanged at $1.2327.The greenback had gained about 0.6 percent against a basket of six major currencies last week helped by a combination of factors including perceived progress on North Korea issues.The dollar index still lost more than 2 percent last quarter, marking its fifth straight quarter of declines."A list of important indicators will be released this week, which could help steady market sentiment even though U.S.-China trade concerns and other geopolitical risks continue to linger in the background," said Koji Fukaya, president at FPG Securities in Tokyo.U.S. data due this week include Monday\'s Institute for Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing index, Wednesday\'s ISM non-manufacturing index and the non-farm payrolls report on Friday.Crude oil prices extended gains, lifted by a drop in U.S. drilling activity as well as by expectations that the United States could re-introduce sanctions against Iran.U.S. drillers cut seven oil rigs in the week to March 29, bringing the total count down to 797. It was the first time in three weeks that the rig-count fell.U.S. crude futures rose 0.4 percent to $65.21 a barrel and Brent advanced 0.55 percent to $69.73 a barrel."Investors took their cue from falling U.S drilling counts," Wang Xiao, head of crude oil research with Guotai Junan Futures said."But increasing trade friction between China and U.S. is likely to rock global markets and tarnish bullish sentiment in crude oil markets."(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; additional reporting by Henning Gloystein in Singapore; Editing by Eric Meijer & Shri Navaratnam)
SHANGHAI/SINGAPORE   When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators\' watchful eyes.Li, a Canada-based Chinese banker in his 20s, is one of these underground traders. He buys cryptocurrencies in other markets and sells them at a premium to investors in China, who cannot otherwise get them.At the height of the frenzied demand for bitcoins in January, when prices of the digital currency were hovering close to $20,000 after a 20-fold jump during 2017, Li and other traders were able to sell bitcoins in China for 30 to 40 percent more than they cost elsewhere.But in a matter of months, the premium for bitcoins in China has fallen to around 7 percent or less as a flood of bitcoin mules, who physically carry cash across borders for the trades, has swamped the arbitrage business. Cryptocurrency funds and individual computer-assisted traders have also piled into the market.The boom has eaten away the spreads and shown how fast the galloping cryptocurrency markets can change course."The market\'s kind of taken a downturn; there is less general appetite in this space," said John DeCleene, an assistant fund manager running the fintech and cryptocurrency investments at Overseas Chinese Investment Management."It is too many players entering this market, but also less of the hype we saw in December-January, when people were paying a 30 percent premium because they expected 10 times gains overnight."DeCleene launched a $5 million Singapore-based global fund in November to invest in cryptocurrencies, blockchain-related equities and some exploratory arbitrage trading. He said it has generated a 58 percent return so far.BITCOIN MULESBitcoin arbitrage thrived last year as the cryptocurrency grew more volatile and some governments stepped in with rules to curtail trading.The simplest geographical arbitrage involved buying bitcoin in unregulated markets such as Thailand, or ones that have legalised bitcoin trading such as Japan, and selling them in banned markets such as South Korea, China or India.A second form occurred between exchanges, when nimble-footed traders bought cryptocurrencies cheaply on lesser-known exchanges and sold them for a profit on more liquid and widely used platforms.There were huge price differences to exploit.In early January, when the price of bitcoin was $17,600 on Bitstamp, the Luxembourg-based digital currency exchange, it was being quoted at 25 million won ($23,630) in South Korea, implying a 34 percent "kimchi premium".As China\'s ban expanded from an initial prohibition on issuing new cryptocurrency to a shutdown of exchanges, premiums rose and traders quickly found new ways of doing business.At first, it was limited to closed groups on the popular messaging platform WeChat and meetings at bars, where potential bitcoin buyers could meet sellers.Then peer-to-peer platforms such as CoinCola, websites belonging to former Chinese exchanges Huobi and OKCoin, and even the retail platform Taobao became hubs for "over-the-counter" (OTC) cryptocurrency trading, conducted outside of formal exchanges and far more difficult for regulators to police."The big Chinese traders are all using CoinCola or going direct to each other through other OTC platforms," like WeChat or AliPay, said Christian Grewell, a professor of business and interactive media arts at NYU in Shanghai who has lectured extensively on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology.AliPay is China\'s leading online payment platform.Another option, bank transfers between buyers and sellers, is "almost untraceable", Grewell added, as it is difficult to prove that a transfer is related to a cryptocurrency transaction.A trader in her 20s in Shanghai said she buys bitcoins in the United States to sell over the counter in China. On each trip to the U.S., she illegally carries $30,000 to $40,000 in cash, she added."Selling and buying bitcoins on those OTC websites is the same as shopping on Taobao," said the trader.BIG COMPETITIONHedge funds that can execute arbitrage trades quickly and at a fraction of the cost are squeezing individual traders, said Ramani Ramachandran, the chief executive of digital exchange Zenprivex.Peter Kim of KIT Trading, part of Vulpes Investment Management, manages a $10 million cryptocurrency arbitrage operation."In the beginning, when there is 30 percent arbitrage, obviously you can travel to Thailand, buy bitcoins, send them to China, Japan, Korea and sell them. That\'s easy," said Kim, who was formerly an options arbitrage trader."But that opportunity is not going to last very long. And even though it is not as blatantly there, there are still many ways to profit from it, especially for someone like me who is used to making 3 basis points on a trade," he added.The arbitrage funds operate much like retail traders, buying and selling cryptocurrencies simultaneously on two different platforms, but on a much larger scale. That allows them to profit from smaller spreads.Some retail traders, including Li, have turned to lesser-known cryptocurrencies such as Tether, which bills itself as being pegged to the U.S. dollar.Tether is popular with Chinese seeking to move their cash discreetly overseas, as it is not volatile. That demand means it trades at a 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent premium in China, although the number was as high as 10 percent in January.Li said his arbitrage activity nets him about $18,000 a month on a trading volume of about half a million dollars.Although that is a tidy sum, it is far less than what frantic traders made late last year."The easy arbitrage is going to be much less prevalent now than it used to be," Kim said.(Reporting and writing by Vidya Ranganathan; Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
SEOUL, South Korea   Another spring on the Korean Peninsula, another round of war games by the U.S. and South Korean militaries.This week\'s drills, however, will feature a new and unusually low-key approach, with the allies resisting bringing in their big guns, and the North, for the time being, avoiding its usual belligerent propaganda against exercises that it claims are an invasion rehearsal.The reason for this departure? There\'s interest in Washington and Seoul in nurturing a diplomatic outreach by North Korea\'s young leader, Kim Jong Un, after months of weapons tests and threats of nuclear war by the North.On Sunday, the first day of this year\'s drills, instead of vowing to destroy Seoul, Kim attended a concert in Pyongyang of visiting South Korean pop singers, clapping his hands and asking for more such performances.Some questions and answers about this year\'s drills, which come ahead of two separate historic summits between Kim and his South Korean and U.S. counterparts:___Q: Are the drills really more low-key than in past years?A: Yes, they are.This year\'s exercises were postponed because of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, where the Koreas worked out a series of rapprochement steps, including parading together behind a single flag during the opening ceremony and fielding a unified women\'s hockey team.Seoul and Washington both publicly say the training this time will be similar to previous years. But South Korean defense officials say there are no immediate plans to bring in U.S. aircraft carriers, powerful bombers or other strategic assets that have been deployed in and around the Korean Peninsula during past drills. The North loathes such American weapons.The two sets of drills, one field-training and the other computer-simulated, typically run for two months, but this year\'s exercises are scheduled to last for just one month. The allies also have no immediate plans to publicize the training, according to Seoul\'s Defense Ministry.___Q: How will North Korea react to this year\'s drills?A: North Korea\'s state media haven\'t said anything about the drills since their start. Even if there is some criticism later, it will likely be milder than past warlike rhetoric, which often saw daily threats to launch nuclear strikes on Seoul and Washington or void the armistice that ended the 1950-53 Korean War.Kim told visiting South Korean officials last month that he "understands" the drills will take place and expressed hope that they\'ll be modified once the situation on the peninsula stabilizes, according to the South Korean government.While diplomacy holds, it\'s also unlikely that North Korea will test any weapons, as it has during past drills. Such tests could endanger the North\'s outreach and crush the current rapprochement.South Korea\'s Defense Ministry said Monday that it hadn\'t detected any suspicious activities by the North Korean military.___Q: What\'s next after the drills?A: Kim\'s planned meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27 comes around the time the U.S.-South Korean drills end.The meeting will be the third-ever inter-Korean summit since the Koreas\' 1945 division. It is crucial because it may offer insight about what nuclear disarmament steps Kim could offer, and what concessions the allies might be willing to provide.It is unlikely that Kim will completely give up his nukes. Only last year he claimed to have functional nuclear missiles targeting the entire U.S. mainland, though foreign experts believe the North still hasn\'t perfected such missiles. Kim\'s dictator father and grandfather long aspired to have such power.During Kim\'s visit to China last week, his first overseas trip since taking office in 2011, he indicated that he prefers step-by-step, not immediate, disarmament-for-aid deals with the United States and South Korea. This could spell trouble because some hard-line U.S. officials want the North to take immediate, complete disarmament steps so as not to repeat past negotiations in which the North was seen as winning badly needed aid while covertly continuing its bomb program.Kim and President Donald Trump plan to meet in May, but the exact date and location of their meeting haven\'t been announced.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The worlds first law against fake news, an unexpected apology from Pyongyang and the rise and fall of Australias top cricketer. Heres what you need to know: Cooperation is the only correct choice.Thats what China said it was pressing for when it hit back at President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum with its own  as high as 25 percent in some cases  on 128 American products, including pork and seamless steel pipes.The retaliation was no surprise, but Beijing appeared to go beyond its initial threat to impose the tariffs in two stages.They all took effect on Monday, including the 25 percent charge on pork, an important moneymaker in states that voted for Mr. Trump. Stocks in the U.S. fell sharply.Above, Mr. Trump and Melania Trump on Monday at the 140th Annual White House Easter Egg Roll._____ It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything.But, in a measure of the Norths drive for dtente, South Korean reporters in Pyongyang received a remarkably graceful mea culpa after they were denied entry to a K-pop concert attended by Kim Jong-un, the Norths leader.We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage, a senior North Korean official was quoted as saying. I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed._____ The worlds first ban on fake news.The lower house of Malaysias Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its Senate is expected to rapidly follow suit.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a forced read of a corporate script from the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair._____ British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on a door handle at the home of a former Russian double agent, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the nerve agent, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional  on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government  could have carried out the attack._____ Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.Our esteemed former international correspondent wrote that in his obituary of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.She died early Monday at the age of 81.In time, he wrote, her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandelas quest for racial inclusiveness. Shares of Tesla slid 5.1 percent, amid concerns about the electric-car makers quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, Teslas chief executive, joked about the companys financial woes on Twitter on Sunday. The stocks performance on Monday suggested investors were not amused. Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, its using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Fridays Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.) U.S. stocks were down. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in Kunduz Province, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. [The New York Times] The rise and fall of Steve Smith, one of Australias most revered sportsmen. His role in a ball-tampering scheme has prompted national soul-searching. [The New York Times] The Pacific nation of Nauru has cut its ties with Australias High Court, which had been the islands final court of appeal since 1976. Critics said hundreds of asylum seekers held at an Australian offshore detention center on Nauru could now be left without the right to appeal. [BBC]  Fiji is reeling from Tropical Cyclone Josie, which has left at least four people dead and one missing amid severe flooding. [The Weather Channel] Tiangong-1, a Chinese space station the size of a school bus, re-entered Earths atmosphere, scattering its remaining pieces over the Pacific Ocean. [The New York Times] In the Israeli-occupied West Bank, the traditional baptism site of Jesus on the Jordan River is surrounded by minefields. An operation is underway to clear them. [The New York Times] Uzbekistans president, Shavkat Mirziyoyev, is bucking the global strongman trend: reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus. The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasnt sure whose head they had put on display. So the F.B.I.s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agencys oldest case. Tim Franco, a photographer who splits his time between South Korea and China, explores the stories of North Korean defectors in a new portrait series. The title, Unperson, is a riff on a construct from George Orwells novel 1984. And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program (and about 50,000 rabbits).Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
TOKYO   Asian markets were mostly higher in muted trading Monday, as Hong Kong and Australian markets were closed for Easter, and Wall Street and other global markets have been closed for a long weekend after Good Friday.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 added 0.5 percent to 21,562.01 in morning trading, while South Korea\'s Kospi was up 0.5 percent at 2,458.68. The Shanghai Composite index added 0.4 percent to 3,182.44. Shares in Singapore were higher, while those in Taiwan were lower.WALL STREET: New York trading is off for a long weekend for Good Friday, and will resume later in the day.TRADE FEARS: Asian benchmarks appeared to be shrugging off fears that President Donald Trump\'s tariff programs could set off a trade war. China raised import duties on U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in response to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. A bigger dispute looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods.JAPAN ECONOMY: A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years. The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers was 24 in March, down two points from December.THE QUOTE: "The market\'s biggest fears about escalating trade war and higher U.S. interest rates have tentatively blown over, suggesting investors will shift into bargain-hunting mode," said Stephen Innes, head of trading at Oanda.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 25 cents to $65.19 a barrel. Trading had stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 37 cents to $69.71 per barrel.CURRENCIES:  The dollar inched up to 106.33 yen from 106.23 yen late Friday. The euro inched down to $1.2322 from $1.2329.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama

TOKYO   Global markets mostly fell in muted trading Monday, as markets in Hong Kong, Australia and Europe were closed for Easter.KEEPING SCORE: Trading in France, Germany and Britain was closed for Easter and was to resume Tuesday. U.S. shares were set to drift lower with Dow futures down 0.4 percent at 24,061. S&P 500 futures lost 0.3 percent to 2,635. New York trading was off for a long weekend on Good Friday and was resume Monday.ASIA\'S DAY: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 lost 0.3 percent to close at 21,388.58, while South Korea\'s Kospi was down nearly 0.1 percent at 2,444.16. The Shanghai Composite index shed 0.2 percent to 3,163.18. Indexes in Southeast Asia were mixed.TRADE FEARS: Fears are still simmering that U.S. President Donald Trump\'s tariff programs could set off a trade war. China raised import duties on U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in response to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. A bigger dispute looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods.JAPAN ECONOMY: A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years. The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers was 24 in March, down two points from December.THE QUOTE: "The market\'s biggest fears about escalating trade war and higher U.S. interest rates have tentatively blown over, suggesting investors will shift into bargain-hunting mode," said Stephen Innes, head of trading at Oanda.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 18 cents to $65.12 a barrel. Trading had stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 33 cents to $69.67 per barrel.CURRENCIES:  The dollar rose to 106.29 yen from 106.23 late Friday. The euro inched up to $1.2331 from $1.2329.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
PHNOM PENH   Farmers from Cambodia have filed a lawsuit in a Thai civil court against Asia\'s largest sugar producer, accusing it of rights abuses after it allegedly kicked farmers off their land, a rights group said on Monday.The lawsuit, filed on behalf of 3,000 people, is the first class-action lawsuit filed in a Thai court by plaintiffs from another country against a Thai company operating outside Thailand, the group, Inclusive Development International, said in a statement.The plaintiffs accuse sugar producer Mitr Phol [MIDSMP.UL] of violently displacing them in Cambodia\'s northwestern Oddar Meanchey province between 2008 and 2009 to make way for plantations."Since Mitr Phol took my land, my family and I have suffered tremendously," Ma Okchoeurn, one of the affected people, said in a press release issued by the rights group."My house was burned down. I was arrested without reason, and as a result my family had nothing to eat and had to collect trash to survive. To this day, I have no land or house."Mitr Phol said in a statement emailed to Reuters it had invested in Cambodia in "a good faith partnership" with the government and got temporary concessions in compliance with all local and national laws and with assurances from authorities that "all temporary concession areas had been processed legally and transparently".It said it had withdrawn from the project in 2014 due to a combination of factors including political tensions along the Thai-Cambodia border, business risks, adverse agricultural conditions and negative publicity.Mitr Phol said after it withdrew from the project, it had recommended that the Cambodian government return land "to the affected communities".Seng Loth, a spokesman at Land Management Ministry, which was responsible for the government\'s involvement in the project, said when contacted by Reuters he was in a meeting and too busy to comment.Government spokesman Phay Siphan said he could not comment and referred queries to the Land Management Ministry.Cambodia has awarded big concessions to foreign companies, mainly from China, Vietnam and South Korea, to operate mines, power plants and farms, in order to attract foreign investment.Rights groups have said some concessions have led to forced evictions and land disputes.(Reporting by Prak Chan Thul in PHNOM PENH and Patpicha Tanakasempipat in BANGKOK; Editing by Amy Sawitta Lefevre and Robert Birsel)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. CHINA TARIFF RESPONSE RAISES GLOBAL COMMERCE CONCERNSBeijing raises import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.2. AUTHORITIES: SUV CRASH INTENTIONALInformation pulled from the vehicle\'s software shows it was stopped at a pull-off area before it sped off a cliff in Northern California and plunged 100 feet, killing a family of eight from Washington state.3. WHO WON COSTA RICA ELECTIONCarlos Alvarado, a novelist and former Cabinet minister running for the ruling Citizen Action Party, won by a wide margin in a race that hinged on the same-sex marriage question.4. IN MISSOURI, CANDIDATE WALKS TRUMP TIGHTROPEThe president carried the "Show-Me" state by 18 points, yet prized U.S. Senate Republican candidate Josh Hawley struggles to fully embrace the commander in chief.5. TURNING \'AN ALREADY BAD SITUATION INTO SOMETHING FAR WORSE\'Surges in use of meth and cocaine in mixes with a powerful synthetic opioid are contributing to rising drug overdose death tolls in the already hard-hit state of Ohio, coroners say.6. WITNESSES FOREVER CHANGED BY MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.\'S FINAL DAYSAs the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the civil rights leader nears, some would spend the rest of their lives fighting for racial equality and economic justice. Others would struggle to come to terms with what they saw.7. TEACHER PROTESTS IN OKLAHOMA NOT QUITE OVERThousands of educators are expected to descend on Oklahoma City to demand lawmakers approve more education funding just days after the Legislature did just that.8. WHERE CHINESE SPACE CRAFT ENDED UPThe defunct Tiangong 1 space station mostly burns up on re-entry into the atmosphere over the central South Pacific.9. MARCH MADNESS POISED FOR RIVETING CONCLUSIONVillanova and Michigan, prolific offense vs. stifling defense, will meet in the national title game in San Antonio.10. EMMY AWARD-WINNING PRODUCER DIESSteven Bochco, a writer and producer known for creating the groundbreaking police drama "Hill Street Blues," is dead at 74.
HOUSTON   Latin America this year will host the most licensing rounds in its history, opening about 1,100 oil and gas blocks for foreign capital.Mexico started the calendar in January with a round that attracted $93 billion in investment pledges and followed with another securing over $8 billion. In March, Brazil drew $2.4 billion in pledges for offshore areas on top of about $30 billion from an October bidding round.The following is a list of expected bidding rounds in each country this year:MEXICO     A July onshore round will allocate up to 37 areas, followed by nine unconventional blocks, with results due in September. Mexico also hopes to schedule an auction of heavy oil areas in the Gulf's shallow waters late this year.BRAZILBrazil will host another large offshore auction this year and the government is preparing the transfer of rights from state-run Petrobras. The country plans a permanent offer of up to 850 onshore and offshore blocks starting in May, a number that could climb to 1,700 areas in 2019.The South American country, which is reducing royalties for bordering and mature fields, has worked hard in recent years to relax its local content rules, an issue seen in the past as a major obstacle on investment.COLOMBIAIn May, Colombia expects to begin offering up to 25 onshore and offshore blocks in a permanent auction similar to what Brazil is planning, a process that will follow its Sinu-San Jacinto round including 15 areas to be awarded in early April.The country's regulator also is in talks with holders of nine permits for seismic studies in the Caribbean Sea to convert them into exploration and production contracts.URUGUAYResults of third offshore round could be disclosed in late April, including 17 blocks for exploration and production at its Exclusive Economic Zone.The nation is offering less demanding qualification conditions and mandatory exploration terms, according to the government.PARAGUAYState-run Petroleos Paraguayos plans to relaunch in the second quarter an auction to find partners for two exploration and production areas after a failed attempt last year.The blocks - Petropar III and Palo Santo - are part of five areas received by Petropar to be developed in Paraguay's western zone near the border with Bolivia and Argentina.ARGENTINAArgentina will appear late in Latin America's 2018 auction wave with terms of its first offshore round due in July and results expected in December.The auction, of a mostly unexplored area covering 225,000 kilometers off the Atlantic coast, does not include bidding bonuses, according to the government. Interested firms can propose blocks to be added to the offer.(Reporting by Marianna Parraga; additional reporting by Daniela Desantis in Asuncion, Paraguay and Neil Marks in Georgetown, Guyana; Editing by Gary McWilliams and Brian Thevenot)

Welcome to the new season  even if it looks more like this outside your window right now than this.Well be taking a semi-break from April 2-6 this year. Much of our content for students, including our daily writing prompts, our Article of the Day and our Word of the Day, will publish as usual, but other features, like Whats Going On in This Picture, Film Club, the Weekly News Quiz, Country of the Week and our lesson plans, will return the week of April 9.But to make sure youll have plenty of things to do, we have a few suggestions below for teaching and learning about the pleasures of the season.What do you like best about spring? Tell us here._________Below is a list of just a few of the articles, photo slide shows and videos about spring rituals that have been published over the last few years on NYTimes.com. You can find many more articles by consulting the Times Topics pages on Easter and Holy Week and Passover.What, if anything, do these traditions have in common? What spring rituals and traditions are important to you?After you have read one or more of these pieces, you might write your own about how spring traditions, holidays and rituals are observed in your neighborhood, town or community.Spring around the world:Italy: Pope Francis Delivers Plea for Peace in Easter Sunday MassHungary: A Magical Festival to Scare Off WinterChina: A Spring Nuisance That Snows White FluffJapan: A Country in BloomAustralia: The Sting of SpringChina and the Philippines: Easter in Asia Marked by Baptisms and CrucifixionsIndia: Happy HoliBelgium: The Wrong Day to Be a CatEgypt: A Pungent Ritual Divides NosesFrance: Solving the Passover PuzzleIsrael: Iraqi Jews Reflect on Baghdad Heritage on PassoverSeville, Spain: Pillars of Holy Week Processions Put Teamwork and Brawn on DisplaySpring in the United States:Spring break for students across the United States: Milestones in the History of a RiteWho Made Spring Break?Spring Break Gets Tamer as World Watches OnlineIts Hard to Be Hungry on Spring BreakOther spring rituals and traditions:New York City: Only in New York: Easter Parade With Moai Heads and a KrakenThe Witty and Weird of Passover Products (Matzo Print Attire, No Less)Indianapolis: Christians and Jews Rediscover Interracial HavenDenver: Branding Day, Fading Elsewhere, Still a Ritual on Colorado RanchTexas: Bluebonnet Season Came Early This Spring_________Weve recently announced our Ninth Annual New York Times Found Poem Student Contest, open to anyone 13 to 19 years old from anywhere in the world.Its easy: All they need to do is find a poem in a Times article  any Times article on any subject, published at any point in our 167-year history. All the rules and guidelines, as well as links to past winners, are here. Deadline: May 4 at 7 a.m. Eastern.And if the contest isnt enough, we have 21 other suggestions for celebrating National Poetry Month this April._________Has spring come to the place where you live? What signs are you seeing?Five photographs set out to document what the arrival of the season looked like in New York City this year. See what they found in Its Spring! (No, It Isnt.) Yes, It Is!, then create your own photo essay about your neighborhood.Or, do something similar to what Marielle Anzelone did in her 2012 Spring Time series for the Metro section, in which she photographed and offered weekly dispatches from a bit of Staten Island woodland as it changed with the season. Here is what she wrote on March 20, 2012:Where can you find a patch of nature to observe? How might you document the season as it unfolds?If you would like to observe animal behavior this season, you might read Waking From Hibernation, the Hard Work of Spring Begins to learn about bears, bats, bees and squirrels, or On Long Migrations, Birds Chase an Eternal Spring to understand why bird migrations have stumped the greatest minds for thousands of years.But many also find a dark warning in how climate change is affecting our seasons. One Times Op-Ed writer summed it up on March 11:What are these consequences, and what can we do about them? Ahead of Earth Day on April 22, check out some of the campaigns around environmental and climate literacy the Earth Day Network has created, or visit the Times Topics page on climate change, or our own Learning Network resources for teaching and learning about the topic, including this lesson plan for young citizen scientists._________If the arrival of warmer weather has you thinking about hitting and pitching data, new trends in color and patterns, short-seasoned vegetables, or sun and sand, The Times has you covered.Scroll through the Sports, Style, Food and Travel sections to find news you can use about the spring topics that interest you most.If each student in a class found one recent spring-themed article to bring in, you could then host a seasonally inspired student-run current events discussion or gallery walk. If you do, please post a comment here, or send us an email or photos telling us about it to LNFeedback@nytimes.com._________How are the joys  or, perhaps, the woes  of spring included in your curriculum? Let us know.
OKLAHOMA CITY   From rodeo announcer to custom-cabinet builder, second jobs have become a necessity for many teachers in Oklahoma, where educators are some of the lowest paid in the nation.Numerous schools will be closed for a second day Tuesday as teachers continue to rally at the Capitol. Demonstrators on Monday voiced their dissatisfaction with salaries, school funding and other issues.Here are some who moonlight to make ends meet, sometimes working more than 40 hours extra per week:DORA BLACKMANBlackman, 45, teaches fifth grade at Healdton Public Schools in south-central Oklahoma.Part-time jobs: Rodeo announcer and judge; waitress.Hours worked outside teaching job: 46 per week."The reason I started doing the rodeo and announcing is so that I can pay for my daughter\'s college education," said Blackman, who took a $9,000 pay cut when she moved from Texas to Oklahoma in 2008. "I didn\'t want her to have to go into debt."RAE LOVELACELovelace, 35, teaches third grade at Leedey Public Schools in northwest Oklahoma.Part-time job: Teaches special education for an online charter school.Hours worked: 30 to 40 per week."I have to work that second job because I\'m a single mom with a teenage daughter," Lovelace said. "If I didn\'t have a second job, I\'d be on food stamps."DAN HOLCOMBHolcomb, 64, teaches science at Leedey Public Schools in northwest Oklahoma.Part-time jobs: Lawn care and custom cabinetry.Hours worked: At least 40 hours per week."Our youngest went into the oil field to be a welder, and he makes more than we do combined," said Holcomb, whose wife also is a public school teacher. "And he doesn\'t have a college degree."MEGHANN NEELEYNeeley, 40, is a second-grade teacher Newcastle Public Schools.Part-time job: Online English instructor to children in China.Hours worked: 20 hours a week."I shouldn\'t have to do it, but it is necessary just to make ends meet," Neeley said.SHIANN JOHNSONJohnson, 33, teaches third grade at McAlester Public Schools in southeast Oklahoma.Part-time job: Tutoring.Hours worked: 5 to 6 hours per week.Johnson, whose husband also is a public school teacher, said: "Between the two of us, we have five jobs, and we also have two young children, so the time we spend on those extra jobs takes away from them."JENNY THOMPSONThompson, 44, teaches middle school science at Pauls Valley Public Schools in south-central Oklahoma.Part-time job: Youth pastor, substitute bus driver.Hours worked: 15 hours per week."We are working off of a 2008 budget, and they continue to cut us every single year. Two years ago it was so bad that we were having to buy our own copy paper, or have parents donate it. And copy paper is just a bare necessity."CHRISTI SENNETTSennett, 49, teaches second grade at Indianola Public Schools in southeast Oklahoma.Part-time job: Cleaning houses.Hours worked: 10 to 12 hours per week."The second job is just to help with the extras," said Sennett, who said her husband\'s job in the oil field is cyclical depending on the price of oil. "I work as many hours as I can, because this helps with the extra things my family needs."LADONNA CRAMPTONCrampton, 55, teaches third grade at Edmond Public Schools, a suburb of Oklahoma City.Part-time job: Child care worker.Hours worked: 9 hours per week."I took the extra job to help pay for our children\'s tuition and extra-curricular activities," Crampton said. "Our goal is to get our kids through college debt free, and we\'re almost there."
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: A week after student-led marches around the U.S. called for gun control, both sides in the debate think they are being underestimated.Itll go away, a 77-year-old gun owner in Virginia said of the protests. Like all the other times.Forty miles away, a high school student had a different take: Theyre looking for us to get bored. Were not going to get bored.The young activists are hoping to drive real change in this falls midterm elections and beyond, but that would hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout for their age group. In an essay for The Times Magazine, a lifelong gun owner wrestles with the changes to gun laws that he says must come, and with his fears of what such changes might destroy. Twelve years ago, Charles Kushner was making wallets at a prison camp in Alabama.So it felt like redemption when the real estate barons son Jared was named President Trumps senior adviser.But being at the pinnacle of American political power has turned out to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushners. Their access to the president has brought criminal and regulatory inquiries, and their business empires deals are scrutinized for hints of federal influence. In a recent interview, Charles Kushner had an invitation for investigators: Go knock yourselves out for the next 10 years, he said. We didnt do anything wrong. Officials across the U.S. are struggling to control the use of e-cigarettes among students.The devices are so easily concealed that its possible to vape in class. E-cigarettes are widely considered safer than traditional ones, but health officials fear that vaping is creating a new generation of nicotine addicts. The Morning Briefing doesnt mention Uzbekistan very often, but the Central Asian nation has recently been a source of (relatively) good news, bucking a global trend toward authoritarian rule.Eighteen months after the death of its longtime dictator, Uzbekistans new leadership has been trying to open up one of the worlds most repressive countries by releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. The ice is melting in this country, a confidant of the new president told our correspondent. China announced tariffs as high as 25 percent on 128 American-made products today. The move is intended to pressure the Trump administration into backing down from a simmering trade war. Anchors at local TV news stations across the U.S. made identical comments last month about media bias. The script came from the stations owner, Sinclair Broadcast Group. In the tight U.S. labor market, positions in out-of-the-way places like poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that presents an opportunity for refugees. Speaking of jobs, the March employment report is among the headlines to watch this week. U.S. stocks were closed on Good Friday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette. Readers wrote to us about whether theyre leaving their children an inheritance and how their decisions have affected their finances and family. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Step by step, this interactive piece gently leads you into the story of a mother whose life was devastated by a gun attack.Somehow, it manages to be as lovely, even whimsical, as it is devastating. [WeTransfer/Five Dials] Sarah Lyall, writer at large Do you remember last year, when an airport in Portugal unveiled a bronze bust of Cristiano Ronaldo, which was widely mocked?A sports site interviewed the sculptor about the experience, and it is an unsettling and at points touching reminder that the social media world is also the real world. [B/R Football, via Twitter] Max Fisher, The Interpreter columnist On Easter Sunday, Pope Francis urged reconciliation in the Middle East and pressed for the fruits of dialogue in Asia. A public relations battle has erupted after violence along Israels border with Gaza left 15 Palestinians dead. President Trump blamed Democrats and Mexico for a dangerous flow of immigrants, and vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL. A Chinese space station the size of a school bus re-entered Earths atmosphere, scattering over the southern Pacific Ocean. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, greeted South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, at a concert in Pyongyang. Steven Spielberg successfully returned to his crowd-pleasing roots, as Ready Player One earned $53.2 million and the top spot at the North American box office. Redemption of a lost prodigyAs a child, Saul Chandler was a promising violinist, playing at Carnegie Hall before the age of 11. But at 16, he had a nervous breakdown and left the world of classical music.Fifty years later, he has found refuge at a boatyard in the Bronx. His story was one of our most popular this weekend. In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was among the pantheon of South Africas liberators, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81.Johan van Hulst helped save as many as 600 children from a Nazi concentration camp. He died at 107.Steven Bochco, a celebrated TV writer and producer, created boundary-pushing dramas like Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law and NYPD Blue. He was 74. Notre Dame 2, Buzzer 0Two days after Arike Ogunbowale hit a last-second shot to beat Connecticut, she did it again on Sunday, giving Notre Dame its second N.C.A.A. womens basketball title. The Fighting Irish beat Mississippi State, 61-58.The mens championship game, between Michigan and Villanova, is tonight. Heres how the teams match up. Quotation of the dayNo, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. Mike Stanton, father of the New York Yankees slugger Giancarlo Stanton, recalling what he told his wife at the time, Jacinta Garay, when she wanted to name their son Fidel. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Abraham Lincoln.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
ITACURUA, Brazil  Something ominous was happening in the turquoise waters of Sepetiba Bay, a booming port outside Rio de Janeiro. Beginning late last year, fishermen were coming across the scarred and emaciated carcasses of dolphins, sometimes five a day, bobbing up to the surface.Since then, scientists there have discovered more than 200 dead Guiana dolphins, or Sotalia guianensis, a quarter of what was the worlds largest concentration of the species. The deaths, caused by respiratory and nervous system failures linked to a virus, have subsided, but scientists are working to unravel the mystery behind them.How, they ask, did a virus that might ordinarily have claimed a handful of dolphins end up killing scores of them? And does part of the answer, scientists and local residents ask, lie in the bay itself, at once a testament to Brazils economic power and a portent of environmental risk.The dolphins are sentinels, said Mariana Alonso, a biologist at the Biophysics Institute at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, one of a number groups working to understand the epidemic. When something is wrong with them, that indicates the whole ecosystem is fractured.Once a sleepy fishing area with white sand beaches and an archipelago of tiny hill-shaped islands, Sepetiba Bay, 40 miles west of downtown Rio, became one of the principal gateways for Brazilian exports over the past generation. In 2017, 39 million tons of iron ore and other commodities shipped from there.The wooden fishing boats that crisscross the bay now weave around massive merchant ships loaded with iron and steel. Though people still swim in its waters, four ports and a constellation of chemical, steel and manufacturing plants have risen on its shores. One of worlds most prominent iron ore producers, Vale, occupies a new terminal in an old fishing spot on nearby Guaiba Island.When I was a child, buffalo roamed the farms around my village, and we had apples and coconuts, said Cleyton Ferreira Figueiredo, 28, a convenience store cashier who, nostalgia aside, also sees advantages in the development. Now everything is more urban, with schools and facilities. There are more jobs, and it takes me 15 minutes to get home when I finish.Sepetiba Bay is on a strategic bit of coastline astride the countrys most developed states: industrial So Paulo, oil-rich Rio de Janeiro and iron-producing Minas Gerais. About 22,000 workers commute to factories such as Gerdau, Ternium and Rolls-Royce in the industrial district of Santa Cruz, next to the port area. A Brazilian Navy terminal, now under construction, will soon harbor nuclear submarines.The number of industries and ventures along Sepetiba Bay has been growing exponentially in recent years, said Dr. Alonso, the biologist. What that generates is a greater concentration of pollutants in the seafloor and in the food chain.Scientists have attributed the rash of dolphin deaths to morbillivirus, an airborne virus from the family that causes measles in humans. They are now seeking to understand how the dolphins became so highly vulnerable to the virus, and are examining the role of pollution and environment degradation.The effects of the virus  rash, fever, respiratory infection, disorientation  suggest an agonizing death. Dying dolphins were seen swimming sideways and alone. Some carcasses had ugly deformations, and blood dripping from their eyes. Outbreaks have been reported among dolphins in other parts of the world, but this is the first for the species in the South Atlantic.The reality is that the mass death caused by morbillivirus is only the tip of the iceberg, said Leonardo Flach, the scientific coordinator at the Grey Dolphin Institute, a conservation group that is also involved in the sleuthing.The Guiana dolphin, a species found from Central America to southern Brazil, is considered a sentinel because, as a top predator and mammal, it is prone to disease linked to polluted waters, Dr. Flach said. He has urged the creation of a marine conservation area to study and safeguard the bay.Sergio Hirochi, 49, a fisherman who was born in the area and owns three small boats, said he had seen the bays environmental decline, beginning in the mid-1990s when the mining company Ing Mercantil operated in the area. The company closed in 1998 after it came under scrutiny for dumping pollutants, but a burst of new development followed.From here, I see how much mineral waste winds up in the ocean, said Mr. Hirochi, who sells fish at a warehouse near his waterfront home. The Bay of Sepetiba is an estuary, a nursery of species. And when you destroy it, you destroy marine life.Fishermen, Mr. Hirochi said, have resorted to larger nets to catch a dwindling supply of shrimp, sea bass and sardines  a tactic that can also inadvertently ensnare the dolphins.Several fishermen are having tremendous difficulty feeding their families, he said.While acknowledging the environmental impact on Sepetiba Bay, the municipal government in Itaguai, the largest nearby city, points to the benefits of development, like the construction of a modern highway and the opening of land to entrepreneurs.Max Sanches, the manager of a hotel, said he arrived in 2012, smack in the middle of the boom.In fact, the ports have generated development, jobs and investments, said Mr. Sanches, who said his hotel worked hard to limit and treat its discharges. We work with the port and the beauty, and we want the bay to be good for all.Still, Mr. Sanches had a bit of advice. We suggest our clients not swim in this beach, he said. The water could be better treated.
 Good Monday. Heres what were watching. Elon Musk finally responded to last weeks bad news about Tesla. Trump continues to go after Amazon. China retaliated to President Trumps steel and aluminum tariffs. Tech leaders have been keeping mum on Facebook.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.For months, the stock market rally seemed to have the strength to plow through the obstacles that the Trump administration threw in its way.But now, the S.&P. 500 index is down more than 10 percent from its all-time high.President Donald Trumps actions seem to be increasingly taking their toll. When the Trump administration first pushed for steel and aluminum tariffs in February, investors werent happy, but the market soon rebounded. Now investors seem to be growing more nervous as the United States biggest trading partners show signs that they are ready to fight back. Chinas retaliatory tariffs, which appear to be more stringent than expected, suggest the country will take a hard stance.Early in his presidency, investors quickly learned to shrug off  Mr. Trumps criticism of companies. In recent days, though, Mr. Trump has targeted Amazon in tweets, asserting that the company has an unfair advantage. Its not clear what he could do to hurt Amazons business, but the companys stock has plunged. Amazons shares may well bounce back, but the criticism has added to investors concerns about the outlook for large technology companies, whose soaring stock prices spearheaded the rally that took to the S.&P. 500 to its all-time high in January.Too much blame can be placed on the White House, however.Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock markets ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Wall Street analysts expect earnings for the companies in the S.&P. 500 to increase 25 percent this year, according to data compiled by Standard & Poors, an unusually large jump that was reflected in the stock market valuations. Much of that projected earnings increase is coming from tax cuts and some from expectations that companies revenue would grow at a nice clip as global growth stayed strong.The tax cuts are certainly going to improve profits. But rising interest rates around the world could weigh somewhat on companies revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected  a significant possibility when the economy is suffering a shortage of some workers  profit margins could get squeezed. I dont think either of those are in the numbers, said Jim Paulsen, chief market strategist at the Leuthold Group. Peter EavisA little humor has not cleared the clouds over Tesla.Shares in the company were once again sliding on Monday after the companys C.E.O., Elon Musk, joked on April 1 that Tesla had gone bankrupt, an apparent attempt to make light of concerns that the electric car maker is straining under its debt load.Teslas stock is now down 35 percent from its high of last year. A major reason for the slide is the companys struggles to meet production targets for its lower-priced Model 3 car. Delays, of course, raise questions about Teslas ability to become an efficient mass producer of autos. The company needs to sell a significantly higher number of cars to generate the cash to finance its business and meet debt payments. Tesla is expected early this week to release its first-quarter production and delivery numbers.Electrek, a publication that covers electric vehicles, reported late Monday morning that Mr. Musk had sent out an email to employees saying that the company was producing more than 2,000 Model 3s a week. Teslas stock bounced after the report.Teslas technology is also facing intense scrutiny after one of its Model X cars crashed on March 23, killing the driver. Tesla said late Friday that its assisted driving system, called Autopilot, was engaged in the car before its collision with a concrete divider. As our colleague Neal E. Boudette wrote:Teslas website says one of Autopilots safety features is Automatic Emergency Braking. But a Tesla owners manual warns riders that this feature is not designed to avoid a collision. Wired recently reported that systems like Autopilot are not necessarily designed to detect static obstacles. In the words of one expert:Doubts about the fundamental capabilities of Teslas Autopilot could crimp demand for its cars among a customer base that is often seeking the best technology.Questions are also swirling around the timing of Teslas announcement about the crash. In its first communication about the accident, the company said:The investigation is not over. Yet Tesla went ahead and provided its update on Friday. The motive for doing so is not clear. The United States National Transportation Safety Board on Sunday said it was unhappy that Tesla had released information about the crash.- Peter EavisTech companies are again dragging down stocks on Wall Street.The S.&P. 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite are off 3.1 percent and 3.5 percent Monday. The continued fall in the share prices of some of the biggest tech companies is weighing heavily on the indexes.Amazon is down 5.4 percent, Netflix is off 5.9 percent, Facebook fell 3 percent, Google-parent Alphabet slipped 3.6 percent and Apple dropped 5.9 percent.After leading the market higher for much of the past two years, tech stocks have hit some turbulence. Since March 16, Facebook, Alphabet, Netflix and Amazon are all down more than 12 percent, while Apple is down 7.3 percent.Over that period the business models of those companies have come under increased scrutiny. News that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Trumps 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users has weighed not only on the shares of Facebook but on Alphabet as well. Amazon, meanwhile, has come under attack from President Trump.In all, those companies have lost more than $300 billion in market value the past two weeks.President Trump attacked the e-commerce again on Monday morning.Mondays tweet is the latest over the past five days from Mr. Trump criticizing Amazon. Over that period, Mr. Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough taxes, of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and of using the United States Postal Service as its Delivery Boy.Mr. Trumps willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.Amazons shares are down 4 percent and are off nearly 11 percent since Axios reported on Wednesday about Mr. Trumps anger toward the company.Context Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the service, has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one, but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax, a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition, some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.Critics cornerDA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote in a note via Reuters:Shares of the chip maker are down 9 percent, their steepest decline in more than two years, after Bloomberg reported that Apple is planning to use its own chips in Mac computers beginning as early as 2020.Citing anonymous sources, Bloombergs Ian King and Matt Gurman report:Apple provides Intel with about 5 percent of its annual revenue.Kenneth C. Griffins Citadel has just hired Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven A. Cohens investment firm. Mr. Villhauer will become deputy head of global equities at Citadel, a newly created position. He will officially join the Chicago-based hedge fund in the middle of April and work out of Citadels office in New York, a Citadel spokesman confirmed.We see this as a big hire for us, said Zia Ahmed, a Citadel spokesman.Mr. Villhauer left Mr. Cohens family office, Point72 Asset Management, in October after working for the billionaire investor for roughly 15 years. Mr. Villhauer had started at Mr. Cohens former firm, SAC Capital Advisors, and most recently served as head of global trading at Point72.The timing of Mr. Villhauers departure came just months before Mr. Cohen was to begin managing money for outside investors.In January, Mr. Cohen reconfigured Point72 as a hedge fund after establishing it as a family office in 2014 to manage $11 billion of his personal wealth. Point72 has said it has raised between $2 billion and $4 billion in outside money.Mr. Villhauer had been with Mr. Cohen through both the good days and bad days. He was there when SAC turned into a powerhouse hedge fund, and he was there when the fund pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in 2013. The guilty plea required the firm to stop managing money for outside investors.When Mr. Villhauer left Point72, Mr. Cohen, in a letter to employees, called the departure a retirement and said he was sad to see Mr. Villhauer go.Now Mr. Villhauer will start a new chapter in his career at another well-known hedge fund firm.____________________________As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, other tech leaders like Marc Benioff and Tim Cook have criticized the company. But, for the most part, its in their culture to stick together,  Nick Wingfield writes.Customers have less trouble speaking out, but those looking to punish major tech companies are finding that but boycotts are easier said than done.At Facebook, the turmoil continued this weekend after a 2016 memo was leaked in which Andrew Bosworth, a vice president, wrote, Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de factor* good.Mr. Bosworth and Mark Zuckerberg disavowed the memo, but the fallout has been wide, with employees calling for a hunt to find leakers.Critics corner Mr. Zuckerbergs comments suggest he still doesnt get it: What matters is not whether internet companies deserve our private information but why we as consumers do not have meaningful ways to protect that data from being siphoned for sale in the first place, Tom Wheeler, a former F.C.C. chairman, writes in an NYT op-ed.More on data and privacy Hackers have stolen more than five million credit and debit card numbers from Saks and Lord & Taylor, a cybersecurity firm said. Amazon and other companies have filed patents that show how assistants could monitor what people say, information that could then be used for ads and product recommendations. For critics, this highlights the need for regulators to get more involved in data collection. Entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking into whether  blockchain could be the answer to fears about personal data being shared too liberally. President Trump accused The Washington Post of operating as a lobbyist for Amazon, escalating his assault on the company. He also accused Amazon of a Post Office scam, although Amazon brings in money for the Postal Service. (WaPo) A global race to automate stores is underway as retailers seek to prevent Amazon from dominating their market. China has been an especially fertile place for these experiments. (NYT) The tech industry has warmed to the White House. (NYT) The European Commission is preparing to crack down on social media companies accused of spreading fake news. (FT) A Russian man accused of hacking three U.S. technology companies in 2012 has been extradited from the Czech Republic. (NYT) Alibaba is taking full control of the food delivery start-up Ele.me. (Bloomberg) Dara Khosrowshahi is trying to change Ubers image, but can he do it without sacrificing elements that made the company successful? (The New Yorker) 3-D printing technology is moving into the construction business. (WSJ) Beijing has unveiled a pilot program that would allow Chinese tech giants to see their shares bought and sold at home. (Bloomberg) Magic Leap is requiring software developers to keep its mysterious augmented reality headsets under tight security. (LAT)The Chinese government said on Monday that it would place tariffs on the imports of 128 American-made products in retaliation for to President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum.Beijing appeared to go a step beyond its initial threat, Chris Buckley reported. On the list is pork, an important moneymaker in many states that voted for President Trump.The Washington flyaround Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday that there would be no deal to protects thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement. The FirstEnergy bankruptcy could be an important moment for the Trump administration and its commitment to the coal industry. (WSJ) Ties to the White House have proven to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushner family. (NYT) Are undersea cables used to communicate around the world under risk of attack? (AP) The bankruptcy of Remington, one of the countrys oldest gunmakers, has stalled a ruling in a lawsuit by family members of those killed in the Sandy Hook shooting. (NYT) Would firing special counsel Robert Mueller lead to impeachment proceedings? (NYT) John Bolton, the incoming national security adviser, has argued repeatedly that the United States should engage in cyber warfare. (Politico)When the Justice Department allowed Live Nation to merge with Ticketmaster, it tried to assuage concerns that the deal would cripple competitors.But critics have reason to be skeptical. Heres how Beau Buffier, the chief of the New York Attorney Generals Antitrust Bureau, described Live Nation:The Justice Department is looking into complaints that Live Nation has used its control over concert tours to pressure venues into contracting with Ticketmaster, a possible violation of antitrust law.The inquiries come as the department is reviewing two more mergers, between AT&T and Time Warner, and Disney and Fox.The departments new antitrust chief has said that the Live Nation deal and several other deals posed problems because they relied too much on the federal governments ability to police corporate behavior.Even if we wanted to do that, we often dont have the skills or the tools to do so effectively, the antitrust chief, Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, said in a speech.More for your playlistSpotifys shares begin trading on Tuesday with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. But the company still hasnt turned a profit, and its direct listing could spook investors. The streaming service also is looking to take on music labels directly by building a two-sided marketplace for users and artists.The deals flyaround Walmarts takeover of Humana isnt guaranteed, but hospitals are already worried that the deal could hit their bottom lines at a difficult time. (WSJ) Protectionist policies are increasing barriers to deal making. (WSJ) Looking to merge asset management divisions, UBS is asking for discounts from fund managers. (FT) The corporate raider Samuel Belzberg has died at 89. (NYT) Steve Schwarzman has discovered that $25 million doesnt necessarily buy naming rights for a public high school. (The Philadelphia Inquirer) The South China Morning Post has long been Hong Kongs English-language paper of record. Alibaba has made it part of Beijings efforts to project soft power abroad. (NYT) The accrediting council at center of a for-profit college fraud scandal is looking for a comeback. (NYT) Coffee sellers are trying to fight a California judges ruling that would require the beverage to carry cancer warning labels. (NYT) Bill Gross is struggling to attract investors to Janus Henderson. (FT) Nike is reviewing its human resources department after employees raised concerns about pay equity and corporate culture. (WSJ) In a tight labor market, employers are recruiting refugees to fill undesirable jobs. (NYT) Is the storied guitar maker Gibson headed for a bankruptcy filing? (NYT) The new chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America is a Hollywood insider and Washington influencer. (NYT) Companies are loading up on debt in what could be another area of concern for financial markets. (WSJ) Some arbitrage funds are struggling to benefit from a boom in mergers. (WSJ) Devet Capital keeps costs low by flying economy and using Airbnb for business travel. (WSJ)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. The stock market tumbled.The cause: tit-for-tat tariffs imposed by China on Monday, and techs dark hour of the soul.Facebook is trying to contain the loss of about $100 billion in value. Amazon is under presidential attack.And Tesla shares fell amid concerns about the electric car makers quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, the chief executive, joked for April Fools that the company had gone completely and totally bankrupt._____2. DACA is dead.Thus tweeted President Trump, venting about the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and blaming Democrats for failing to salvage it. But if history is a guide, his position on shielding young, undocumented immigrants may remain a moving target.The Trump administration also moved to weaken Obama-era car pollution standards. And the Environmental Protection Agency said it was re-examining a federal waiver that has allowed California and 12 other states to follow more stringent air pollution rules.Last month, when Mr. Trump called Vladimir Putin, he suggested that the Russian leader visit the White House, according to a Kremlin official.As Robert Muellers Russia inquiry intensifies, many have wondered: If he were fired, what are the chances the president would be impeached?_____3. Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma, above, and Kentucky walked off the job, shutting down school districts in protest of cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts add to a wave of strikes in red states that began in West Virginia.Mainly organized on Facebook by teachers fed up with years of funding cuts, the protests have caught lawmakers and sometimes the educators own unions flat-footed._____4. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader of the bloody struggle against South Africas white rulers under apartheid, has died at 81.Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent, our obituary says, Ms. Mandela saw her heroic status eroded by scandal over corruption, kidnapping, murder and the adulterous implosion of her fabled marriage to Nelson Mandela.She came to resent her husbands global celebrity. I am not Mandelas product, she once said. I am the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy._____5. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____6. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness, we devised a bracket-style tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. Above, Sydney University.We wont spoil the results, but heres one (unsurprising) conclusion from our panelists: The best student loan repayment system  which would be based on students incomes and be able to collect automatically through the tax system  is a far cry from whats in place in the United States.The real March Madness ends tonight with the mens title game between Villanova and Michigan at 9:20 p.m. Eastern. Follow our live updates._____7. No sweatpants in public, an ideal weight, instructions on tampon use: These are just some of the extensive controls that N.F.L. teams place on their cheerleaders, according to seven team handbooks that our reporter reviewed. Above, Carolina Panthers cheerleaders.And the philanthropic world is feeling the effects of the #MeToo movement. A number of organizations have lost donors or relinquished gifts because of their ties to powerful men accused of sexual misconduct.One celebrity chef felled by #MeToo is plotting a comeback: Mario Batali. He retreated to near invisibility after reports of abusive behavior in his empire and at restaurants owned by friends, but is said to be exploring ways to jump back into his career._____8. The videos on social media were alarming, showing dozens of local news anchors eerily echoing the same warnings about biased and false news and journalists who push their own personal bias.These scripted speeches were recited to millions of viewers across the country last month at the behest of Sinclair Broadcast Group, the countrys largest broadcaster. The company has been criticized for advancing a right-leaning agenda and renewed a debate over media ownership.The must-reads went a step beyond the must-run video segments Sinclair regularly sends stations, which have included terrorism news updates or commentators speaking in support of President Trump. (He came to Sinclairs defense on Monday.)_____9. Fear is the factor no one wants to address, a lifelong gun owner writes in The Times Magazine, wrestling with the changes to gun laws that he says must come.Theres no simple solution, he writes, to the fear of criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the governments turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another._____10. Finally, what better way to commemorate Easter than a showing of Jesus Christ Superstar?That was NBCs thinking behind a live telecast starring John Legend as Jesus Christ and Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene, above. Our reviewers takeaway: From the multicultural cast to its deconstruction of religious iconography, this Jesus Christ Superstar was as thoughtful and challenging as the show has ever been.And with Passover in swing, read this Op-Ed essay by David Wolpe from Spain. While the country is a land of Jewish ghosts, he writes, there will be Seders for those who seek one.Have a great evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
GOLD COAST, Australia  Amid the skyscrapers and coastline of Surfers Paradise here, you can spot a large surfboard with a digital clock, determinedly counting down. The Commonwealth Games will descend this week onto the Gold Coasts beaches, bringing with it the worlds best athletes and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.The weekslong multisport event has gathered various nations of the British Commonwealth every four years since 1930, barring a few wartime aberrations. It was originally known as the British Empire Games, hosting various combinations of countries, with Australia and Britain among the mainstays. The 2018 Games will draw athletes from 71 Commonwealth nations and territories who will compete in 275 events over 18 sports.[READ MORE: The Lure of Australias Gold Coast]Despite the impending glow of an international audience, familiar concerns over the Games substantial cost and dwindling significance have again come to the fore, this time in the Australian state of Queensland.Theres little doubt the Commonwealth represents a particular, if aging, type of might  it still represents about a third of the worlds population. Set up in the mid-20th century as Britain allowed for the self-governance of many of its territories, the Commonwealth of Nations have no legal obligations to one another, but instead aim to further shared values like democracy and freedom of speech.But, in a post-Brexit landscape, and with many countries shrinking further into isolationism, questions have been raised not only of the Games relevance, but the relevance of the Commonwealth itself.The Commonwealth matters to me, said Jacqui Gooding, a New Zealander who was visiting Surfers Paradise on vacation. The queen is our leader  I dont want a president.Mrs. Goodings husband, John, dismissed the idea that the Games would be absent of sporting and political relevance.Its about bringing all the nations of the Commonwealth together, he said. It shows the power of sport in diplomacy, and the importance of the Commonwealth.And look at what happened with North Korea, he added, referring to the meeting tentatively arranged between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, which has been largely credited to the afterglow of the Pyeongchang Olympics.Organizers on the Gold Coast said they expected the Games to reach a global audience of 1.5 billion. For context, the 2014 World Cup had about 3.2 billion global viewers and the Rio Olympics had about 3.6 billion.The mood of locals varied from enthusiasm to curiosity to, occasionally, eye-rolling frustration at construction and traffic delays.Nick Atkins, who runs a co-working space on the Gold Coast, has been an advocate for attracting and retaining talent in the region. He said he was more excited about the governments spending on infrastructure than the events themselves.For me, personally, I dont know who the Commonwealths best javelin thrower is, or table tennis player or swimmer, he said. But theres an undeniable positivity on the Gold Coast for it.Mr. Atkins added that he felt little emotional connection to the Commonwealth itself.In an identity sense, I would like to become a republic  I dont see the need for us to be part of the Commonwealth, really, anymore, he said.Peter Beattie, a former premier of the state of Queensland, and the chairman of the Gold Coast Games, said that he empathized with those who had reservations about the event.I understand that theres always a bit of cynicism: is this the remnants of the Empire? Look, it came from the Empire Games, but its relevance and relationship with the Empire Games is very tenuous, he said.Mr. Beattie believed that Brexit and its fallout had given the Commonwealth, and its Games, a unique opening to capitalize upon.Brexit, actually, in a converse way, has made the Commonwealth more relevant, not less, he said. Britains now looking at free trade agreements. Part of whats happening here is a meeting of all the trade ministers.Of course, it is difficult to ignore that the Games are, in a way, a sort of Olympics-lite: an athletic coming together of many nations, to be sure, but with the notable absence of medal-winning mainstays like China, the United States and Russia.But organizers, including Mr. Beattie, were quick to paint the Games as more nimble and progressive than the Olympics, and several times implied that the latter could do with some evolution.The Olympics are just a hard, competitive sporting event  and thats terrific, he said. The Commonwealth is more than that.This years Games, for the first time, will feature an equal gender split of events. Women will compete for the same number of medals as men, a feat that organizers said had not been replicated by any other major multisport international event  including the Olympics.Mr. Beattie said that the Games would send a message about the advancement of women that he hoped the Olympics would emulate.Others said the Games presented athletes with a rare chance at higher competition like the Olympics and World Championships  and some athletes with perhaps the peak competition of their careers.I just snuck into the Commonwealth Games. It was the first major team that I made, representing Australia  they have more relaxed standards, said Steve Moneghetti, a retired Australian runner who eventually competed in four Olympic marathons. Its a good steppingstone, and certainly for some athletes it will be the only multisport competition that they go to.It is easy to see why for certain nations these Games may be just as watchable as the Olympics  theres a far greater chance of seeing a fellow countryman win.Australians, were quite competitive. Weve either topped or been second in the medal tally for most Games in history. The Australian public really embrace them, Mr. Moneghetti said. I know this sounds quite nave, but Australians kind of go, Commonwealth Games, Olympic Games, if you won a medal, thats great.Medal count aside, host cities have faced increasing pressure in recent Games to ensure that the economic impact of the event proves both positive and sustainable.Last year the South African city of Durban was stripped of the right to host the Games in 2022, following a series of missed deadlines and financial shortcomings. The African continent has never hosted the Games.Before that, Indias 2010 Games were marred by accusations of substantial overspend and corruption.The 2014 Games in Glasgow proved something of a litmus test for the economic and cultural credibility of the event.There, a large chunk of responsibility fell to an American, David Grevemberg, who had previously been part of a team that secured an agreement that would require Olympic cities to also host the Paralympics.Post India, we had a brand thats relevance was being questioned, said Mr. Grevemberg, who today is the chief executive of the Commonwealth Games Federation.Under Mr. Grevembergs leadership, Glasgow 2014 accomplished an elusive feat: finishing under budget.Mr. Beattie said that much of the 2018 Games $1.1 billion budget had gone toward infrastructure that would continue to be used after the event ends. He added that most of the money had been publicly funded, though these Games had attracted more sponsors than any before it.Regardless of how well this years Games perform, many involved with the event conceded that it must continue to shrug off predictions of its demise.Mr. Grevemberg has seen success and failure in large sporting events, including at the now-defunct Goodwill Games, where he worked with some American athletes.The Goodwill Games were largely spun off of Cold War tensions  Im not sure that its narrative matured beyond that, he said.Mr. Grevemberg emphasized the power of nonsporting stories the Games have seen, from apartheid-era boycotts, to the Australian runner Cathy Freemans decision to drape herself in an Aboriginal, not an Australian, flag as she celebrated a gold medal win.And, with regard to the five-ringed shadow of the Olympic Games, and any perceived inferiority complex, Mr. Grevemberg playfully brushed cynicism aside.You are what you believe you are, he said.
By the time Giancarlo Cruz Michael Stanton was in junior high school, he had grown weary of classmates mocking him for his given name and of teachers and coaches mangling the pronunciation of it. His friend Enrique didnt care for his own name, either.Together they made a pact. They would go by Mike and Ricky.He came in one day, said Stantons mother, Jacinta Garay, and said: Mom, I hate my name. Why did you name me that? And on and on.What Stanton didnt know was that it could have been worse. His mother was going to name him Fidel.No, youre not, she recalled her husband telling her at the time. No, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not.Mike Stanton, now her ex-husband, stood his ground.That, he recalled in March, sitting with Garay in the living room of her home in the Los Angeles area, was something worth fighting for.A week later, outside the Yankees spring training clubhouse in Tampa, Fla., Giancarlo Stanton said he had no idea about any of this.Nuh-uh, he said, laughing, but also realizing the name Fidel wouldnt have gone over well with the Cuban exile community in South Florida. The Marlins drafted him in 2007 as a 17-year-old, eventually awarded him a $325 million contract and watched him develop into a National League  most valuable player before trading him to the Yankees in December.Thank you for not naming me that, especially being drafted by Miami, said Stanton, who will make his home debut for the Yankees on Monday afternoon. That would have been not so good.We are all born into names, and, like circumstance, some are more fortunate than others, particularly for athletes. Amid the dysfunction of the Knicks, Carmelo Anthonys countenance remained Melo. Why wouldnt Noah Syndergaard, towering with flowing blond hair, embrace his distant heritage and answer to the name fans gave him, Thor? And there would not be an admonition for all to rise for Aaron Judge if his adoptive parents had been named Jones.While some athletes are destined to embody their names, Stantons name  polyglot, lyrical and lengthy  may reveal something about him, too.If he had stayed with Mike  the name he used publicly through high school and during his first two seasons with the Marlins  he would not even be the first Mike Stanton to play for the Yankees. But there has never been another Giancarlo to play in the major leagues.Youve got something unique, you dont run from it, you embrace it, said Stanton, whose bats and gloves have always been stamped with Giancarlo. Ive met some cool fans that come up and say, Hey, weve got the same name. But, personally, theres no one in my phone that I say, Oh, what up, Giancarlo? I like the uniqueness of it.That is not to say he minds what people call him. His mother calls him Cruz, his father calls him Mike, relatives call him Mikey and his new teammates mostly call him G. His parents gave him so many names, they said, in part so he could choose the one he liked.When Giancarlo was learning how to write, he made a drawing for his father. He spelled out his first name, all in lowercase, with brightly colored markers. His father took it to work at the post office and hung it in his locker.If it was hard then to see his son growing up to be one of baseballs best players, it was easier in that drawing to see an expression of what he might become  his attention to detail, his zest for rich experiences and an embrace of his name.In that way, along with his uncommon size, 6 feet 6 inches and 245 pounds, Stanton seems to be neatly tailored for New York and all that it has to offer. Until now, his exposure to the citys culture, clubs and cuisine has come in small bites: a night out here, a weekend there. Home runs, like the two he hit on opening day on Thursday in Toronto, will make it easier for the fans to embrace him. But they will also make it harder for him to blend into the background.Stanton was raised in the melting pot Tujunga area of Los Angeles by a mother and father who were poles apart. His parents were married for 10 years  splitting up when he was 8  and seem to have but one thing in common: They both worked for the Postal Service.Mike has the wit and fashion sense of a suburban dad  khaki shorts with the shirt tucked in, white socks, a sweatband on his wrist  and is as deeply abiding as one. He was there for his son growing up  throwing him batting practice after school before putting in a night shift  and in his moment of peril, accompanying him to a hospital when he was horrifically hit in the face by a pitch in 2014.Jacinta Garay, whose parents were African-American and Puerto Rican, has piercings on each cheek and musical tastes ranging from Afro-Latin jazz to Lynyrd Skynyrd. She recently got her first cellphone so Giancarlo no longer had to leave a message on the house phone to reach her. But she still rates as a cool enough mom that Stanton invited her to his birthday party at a Hollywood club so she could meet Snoop Dogg.Of her sons predilection for haute couture (and flashy sneakers, including a pair of gold metallic high tops), his mother said: Hes really into coordination and how things look and how to match the colors. The bling tennis shoes  he gets that from me. And he teases me about the furry boots?Said his father, with resignation: He didnt learn how to dress from me.When it came to naming her children, Garays eclectic tastes mostly reigned. Her older son, Egidio Carlos Moacir Garay, has a first name she found poetic with the Portuguese soft g (pronounced e-JID-e-o)  but off-putting with a hard Spanish g. Moacir is a nod to the Brazilian jazz composer Moacir Santos.Her daughter, who is two years older than Giancarlo (pronounced zhon-CAR-lo), was supposed to be a boy, so Kyricio became Kyrice (pronounced KIE-reece); her middle name is Valivia, the name of Garays grandmother.When her plan to name her younger son Fidel was quashed, she pondered an alternative. An aficionado of foreign and independent films, Garay revered the actors Giancarlo Giannini and Giancarlo Esposito, and she liked the way the name sounded. I talked to my cousin and she was, Yeah, lets do it, because we just loved the way that Giancarlo flows, Garay said, pronouncing it with a flourish.(Stantons second name came because his mothers favorite singer was Celia Cruz and because an actor who lived in the neighborhood  A Martinez  played a character named Cruz on the late-1980s soap opera Santa Barbara.)If their names caused occasional angst, the children did not stew over it. Egidio went by E. G., Kyrice went by Ky and Giancarlo became Mike.We just chalked it up to, my mom went to too many Parliament concerts in the 70s, said Egidio, 38, who teaches political science at Glendale Community College in California. It just kind of was. It wasnt something we spent a lot of time deconstructing.In retrospect, though, their names may have subtly spurred his worldview.Growing up in more suburban areas where you have that name that stands out, its already pointing you out as being a little different, Egidio said. Being a little kid in first grade being picked on for your ethnicity and identity, it compels you to make those broader connections to cultures and have a wider horizon about the world.For Giancarlo, there were other nudges to do that. His father had traveled to China, India and Africa. His uncle Miguele would bring him gifts and regale him with tales about his frequent visits to Colombia, and take him to local Latin festivals. Giancarlos eyes were opened further when he took a trip with high school classmates to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, at the tip of Baja California Sur. He went fishing, rode all-terrain vehicles on the beach, ate Mexican food and listened to mariachi.It was fascinating to me, said Stanton, who in recent off-seasons began to explore Europe, and then places further afield, cities like Istanbul, Bucharest, Jerusalem and Dubai. Asia and South America are being considered as the next possible destinations. You dont understand until you grow up a little bit how cool places are.The more recent trips have been with two housemates  the former Marlins pitchers A. J. Ramos and Ricky Nolasco  and another friend, the Marlins clubhouse attendant Jeremy Ruder.Stantons Instagram feed  a montage of photos from shirtless workouts, vacation spots, celebrity hobnobbing and other areas of the baseball life  are often accompanied by pithy captions that show an often self-deprecating wit.On the field its hard to joke around  Im game time, Stanton said. But off, when Im not working, Im a jokester. I dont want to spend all my energy being mad and focused.While Stantons Yankees teammates have been struck by how fastidiously he adheres to his hitting and workout routines, he is adamant about leaving his work at the office. He has told his father, at times, that he does not want to talk about baseball with him. And Ramos, who has lived with him since 2011, said that in the time they have known each other, they have not had more than 10 conversations about baseball away from the ballpark.The travels over the winter also provide a necessary break from baseball.We play seven months, counting spring training, and youre so regimented that if you dont get away it makes you crazy, said Ramos, the Mets reliever who will share an apartment with Stanton in New York this season. We actually set a plan for what we want to do, and 100 percent of that time we dont even stick to that plan. Theres no one holding us to it but us. Thats the balance.While Ramos has relished experiences like riding to a pyramid in Egypt on camelback  It looks fake, like its in a movie, he said  their group also returned home with conversations that challenged the way they think. You go there and you see whats true and not true, he said.For Stanton, his first trip to Europe was a transformational one. Though it was regimented  he did baseball clinics in the Netherlands, Czech Republic and Italy after the 2011 season  the architecture, the food and the culture were unlike anything he had seen growing up in Los Angeles, bouncing through minor league towns or living in Miami.He also noticed how it sounded to hear names like Gianpiero, Gianpaolo, Gianluigi and even Giancarlo.When he returned to Los Angeles, he matter-of-factly mentioned to his parents that the next season he was no longer going to go by Mike.I was shocked, his mother said. I had my mouth open for a week. Hes going to go by Giancarlo now? Are you serious?Yeah, his father said. I didnt see it coming.Stanton said it was simply a matter of growing up, of coming to a fuller appreciation of what was important to him. And part of that was making sure that people knew him not only by the home runs he hit, but also by his name.
