As trade tensions rise between the United States and China, a small but vocal online community is calling for a boycott of U.S. products, fanning fears that American brands could see a backlash similar to that faced by South Korea last year.
Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China may dent production of German luxury SUVs made in the U.S. South and sent to China, with exports from electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and Ford Motor Co also vulnerable.
Chinese importers expecting cargoes of U.S. commodities from beef to propane said they hope to sell the goods to South Korea or Japan after Beijing's decision to slap extra tariffs on a swathe of items from agricultural products to chemicals. 
China's move to slap tariffs on U.S. farm products sent Brazil soy premiums surging to historic highs on expectations of higher export demand on Wednesday, but traders and analysts warned that Latin America could not entirely replace U.S. producti...
China aimed a direct strike at America's heartland on Wednesday, moving to slap an aggressive 25 percent retaliatory tariff against U.S. soybeans, farm country's most valuable export to China last year, worth $12 billion.
The Latest on U.S.-China trade tensions (all times local):
Global shares fell sharply Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, in an escalation of trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies.
Asian stock markets recouped the previous day's losses to trade higher on Thursday as earlier fears of trade conflicts between the world's two largest economies dissipated on signs of dialogue.
The measures, targeting $50 billion worth of soybeans, cars and other goods, were the latest move in the countries’ escalating trade confrontation.

“Denuclearization” is a strange term, unique to the Korean Peninsula. But it works for now.
Over 50 top Artificial Intelligence researchers on Wednesday announced a boycott of KAIST, South Korea's top university, after it opened what they called an AI weapons lab with one of South Korea's largest companies.
Success on two fronts will be the aim when Australia begin their Women's Asian Cup campaign in Jordan on Friday as they look to claim the title and give themselves an easier ride at next year's World Cup.
A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea's Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant's governance.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Trade wars are bad, but stocks seem to be overshooting their likely cost. Why?
On Tuesday, the same day that U.S. President Donald Trump announced his intention to deploy military to help patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, Edwin Valdez and four other Central American migrants were walking through dense brush at a south Texas wil...
Republicans see a chance to flip a congressional seat in northern Minnesota, where President Trump’s steel tariffs are being celebrated as a boost for the mining industry.
Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement agents have seized roughly 100 Northern California houses purchased with money wired to the United States by a Chinese-based crime organization and used to grow massive amounts of marijuana illegally, ...
His lauded book “Once Upon a Distant War” profiled a group of young, skeptical Vietnam War reporters. Other projects inspired movies.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
President Rodrigo Duterte says that inadequate sewage treatment on the island, a tourism hot spot, has turned its beaches into a “cesspool.”
