South Korea's finance minister said on Thursday the trade tussle between the United States and China was being closely watched and that the country had prepared measures for various scenarios.
President Trump said he would consider tariffs on $100 billion more in Chinese goods in retaliation for Beijing’s plan to set levies on American products.
The foreign ministers of Russia and China jointly denounced what they described Thursday as the unilateralism of the United States, criticism that underlined their growing rapport on global issues.
Two Singapore fighter jets escorted a civilian plane bound for Thailand safely back to the city-state on Thursday after a bomb threat by a passenger that police said was a hoax.
American companies want a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. China wants to build its industries into sophisticated global competitors. This week, both countries demonstrated a willingness to escalate trade tensions to defend the...
German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to diversify production of their sports utility vehicles (SUVs) outside of the United States as a result of Washington's growing trade tensions with China.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un told Chinese President Xi Jinping during talks in Beijing last week that he agreed to return to six-party talks on his nation's nuclear program and missile tests, the Nikkei newspaper said on Thursday.
China's move to impose tariffs on imported U.S. soybeans may boost palm oil's draw in the short term, traders and analysts say, as the spread between palm and soyoil is expected to widen as the latter becomes more costly in Beijing. 
On trade, Trump doesn’t know what he wants, except what he can’t get.
As the trade dispute between the United States and China was gaining steam last month, a half-dozen Chinese dancers and a person in a panda bear suit paraded across a stage inside a hotel lobby in the heart of Argentina's wine country.
A former New York City planner offers suggestions to ameliorate the situation.
U.S. stock futures slid and the yen rose against the dollar on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump proposed additional tariffs on China, aggravating trade tensions and smothering a revival in broader investor risk appetite.
The rival Koreas held preparatory talks Thursday for a summit later this month between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in amid a global diplomatic push to resolve tensions over the North's nuclear program.
To the North Koreans gathered beneath a crucifix in an apartment in this northeastern Chinese border region, she is known as "mom." She feeds them, gives them a place to stay and, on occasion, money.
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has approved the closure of the tourist destination of Boracay for up to six months after saying the waters off its famed white-sand beaches had become a "cesspool" due to overcrowding and development.
China's threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Monsanto Co on Thursday reported weaker-than-expected earnings for a second straight quarter, saying its corn business dropped as U.S. farmers planted fewer acres this spring, while low crop prices continued to drag the sector.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Most Asian stock markets turned higher Friday as investors brushed off initial worries about the Trump administration's latest threats of yet more tariffs on Chinese imports, indicating concerns were easing about a brewing trade battle between the...
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
A decision by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to shut the holiday hotspot of Boracay, which he has called a "cesspool", prompted airlines to cut flights on Thursday, as hotels prepared for cancellations and businesses appeared resigned to a m...
Dressed all in black and preparing his diving gear with loud zips and clicks, George Sarelakos looks like he's part of a Greek naval operation ready to storm an island or take down smugglers.
Pairing astronomers’ algorithms for star-hunting with drones equipped with infrared cameras, scientists have developed a new tool kit to help conservation and fight poaching.
After months of stalemate, American negotiators are eager for quick progress on the North American trade deal.
Hollywood has the Mexican directors. Now we’ll need the actors. The former teen idol and telenovela actor is ready to make like Tom Cruise.
A prosecution witness, Paul Le Roux, says he had once sold missile technology to Iran, shipped guns from Indonesia and trafficked methamphetamines out of North Korea.
Tim Tebow sure knows how to rise to the occasion.
Every month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April.
