LONDON  Hundreds of people lined the streets of the British city of Cambridge on Saturday, breaking into applause as the hearse carrying the remains of the famed scientist Stephen Hawking arrived at a local church for a private funeral for 500 invited guests.Dr. Hawking died on March 14 at age 76 after capturing popular imagination with his writings about space and time.His book A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes, published in 1988, has sold more than 10 million copies and inspired a documentary film by Errol Morris. His own story was the basis of an award-winning 2014 feature film, The Theory of Everything.The actor Eddie Redmayne, who portrayed Hawking in the 2014 biographical drama, gave a reading from Ecclesiastes during the service at St. Mary the Great Church. There was also a reading by Martin Rees, Britains Astronomer Royal, and eulogies by one of Hawkings children and a former student.The service was officiated by the Rev. Cally Hammond, the dean of Gonville and Caius College at Cambridge University, where Dr. Hawking was a fellow for 52 years.Flags were lowered to half-mast in many parts of Cambridge to pay tribute to him.Dr. Hawking, who suffered from motor neuron disease, was known for his groundbreaking research into black holes and other phenomena.Even as he gradually lost control of his muscles, he traveled the globe to scientific meetings, visiting every continent, including Antarctica; wrote best-selling books about his work; married twice; fathered three children; and was not above appearing on The Simpsons, Star Trek: The Next Generation or The Big Bang Theory.Dr. Hawking will be cremated at a later date, and his ashes are to be interred at Westminster Abbey in London near the remains of his fellow scientist, Isaac Newton.
LONDON   The life of renowned physicist and author Stephen Hawking was celebrated Saturday in English city of Cambridge, with hundreds of well-wishers lining the streets for a glimpse of the hearse carrying his remains to a private funeral.There was a spontaneous burst of applause outside St. Mary the Great church when the hearse arrived. The bells of the church tolled 76 times, one for each year of Hawking\'s remarkable life.Hawking was remembered as a brave man who triumphed over motor neurone disease by continuing his research into space and time even after paralysis set in and his muscles faded.Some 500 invited guests attended the funeral for Hawking, who died on March 14.Actor Eddie Redmayne, who portrayed the scientist in the 2014 biographical film "The Theory of Everything," gave a reading from Ecclesiastes during the service. There was also a reading by Astronomer Royal Martin Reese and eulogies by one of Hawking\'s children and a former student.Hawking\'s family released a statement saying they chose to hold the funeral "in the city that he loved so much and which loved him."Flags were lowered to half-mast in many parts of Cambridge to pay tribute to Hawking. The service was officiated by the Rev. Cally Hammond, Dean of Cambridge University\'s Gonville and Caius College, where Hawking was a fellow for 52 years.A private reception was held afterward at Trinity College.Hawking was known for his groundbreaking research into black holes and other phenomena. He was also the best-selling author of "A Brief History of Time" and other books and a pop culture figure known for, among other things, his appearance on "The Simpsons" TV series.Hawking will be cremated at a later date and his ashes are to be interred at London\'s Westminster Abbey near the remains of fellow scientist Isaac Newton.
Amazon ran a commercial on this years Super Bowl that pretended its digital assistant Alexa had temporarily lost her voice. It featured celebrities like Rebel Wilson, Cardi B and even the companys chief executive, Jeff Bezos.While the ad riffed on what Alexa can say to users, the more intriguing question may be what she and other digital assistants can hear  especially as more people bring smart speakers into their homes.Amazon and Google, the leading sellers of such devices, say the assistants record and process audio only after users trigger them by pushing a button or uttering a phrase like Hey, Alexa or O.K., Google. But each company has filed patent applications, many of them still under consideration, that outline an array of possibilities for how devices like these could monitor more of what users say and do. That information could then be used to identify a persons desires or interests, which could be mined for ads and product recommendations.In one set of patent applications, Amazon describes how a voice sniffer algorithm could be used on an array of devices, like tablets and e-book readers, to analyze audio almost in real time when it hears words like love, bought or dislike. A diagram included with the application illustrated how a phone call between two friends could result in one receiving an offer for the San Diego Zoo and the other seeing an ad for a Wine of the Month Club membership.Some patent applications from Google, which also owns the smart home product maker Nest Labs, describe how audio and visual signals could be used in the context of elaborate smart home setups.One application details how audio monitoring could help detect that a child is engaging in mischief at home by first using speech patterns and pitch to identify a childs presence, one filing said. A device could then try to sense movement while listening for whispers or silence, and even program a smart speaker to provide a verbal warning.A separate application regarding personalizing content for people while respecting their privacy noted that voices could be used to determine a speakers mood using the volume of the users voice, detected breathing rate, crying and so forth, and medical condition based on detected coughing, sneezing and so forth.The same application outlines how a device could recognize a T-shirt on a floor of the users closet bearing Will Smiths face and combine that with a browser history that shows searches for Mr. Smith to provide a movie recommendation that displays, You seem to like Will Smith. His new movie is playing in a theater near you.In a statement, Amazon said the company took privacy seriously and did not use customers voice recordings for targeted advertising. Amazon said that it filed a number of forward-looking patent applications that explore the full possibilities of new technology, and that they take multiple years to receive and do not necessarily reflect current developments to products and services.Google said it did not use raw audio to extrapolate moods, medical conditions or demographic information. The company added, All devices that come with the Google Assistant, including Google Home, are designed with user privacy in mind.Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used and are years from even being possible.Still, Jamie Court, the president of Consumer Watchdog, a nonprofit advocacy group in Santa Monica, Calif., which published a study of some of the patent applications in December, said, When you read parts of the applications, its really clear that this is spyware and a surveillance system meant to serve you up to advertisers.The companies, Mr. Court added, are basically going to be finding out what our home life is like in qualitative ways.Google called Consumer Watchdogs claims unfounded, and said, Prospective product announcements should not necessarily be inferred from our patent applications.A recent Gallup poll found that 22 percent of Americans used devices like Google Home or Amazon Echo. The growing adoption of smart speakers means that gadgets, some of which contain up to eight microphones and a camera, are being placed in kitchens and bedrooms and used to answer questions, control appliances and make phone calls. Apple recently introduced its own version, called the HomePod.But many consumers are also becoming increasingly nervous that tech companies are eavesdropping on them in order to serve them targeted ads, no matter how often the companies deny it. The recent revelations that a British political data firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users has only added to the publics wariness over the collection and use of personal information.Facebook, in fact, had planned to unveil its new internet-connected home products at a developer conference in May, according to Bloomberg News, which reported that the company had scuttled that idea partly in response to the recent fallout.Both Amazon and Google have emphasized that devices with Alexa and Google Assistant store voice recordings from users only after they are intentionally triggered. Amazons Echo and its newer smart speakers with screens use lights to show when they are streaming audio to the cloud, and consumers can view and delete their recordings on the Alexa smartphone app or on Amazons website (though they are warned online that may degrade their experience). Google Home also has a light that indicates when it is recording, and users can similarly see and delete that audio online.Amazon says voice recordings may help fulfill requests and improve its services, while Google says the data helps it learn over time to provide better, more personalized responses.But the ecosystem around voice data is still evolving.Take the thousands of third-party apps developed for Alexa called skills, which can be used to play games, dim lights or provide cleaning advice. While Amazon said it didnt share users actual recordings with third parties, its terms of use for Alexa say it may share the content of their requests or information like their ZIP codes. Google says  it will generally not provide audio recordings to third-party service providers, but may send transcriptions of what people say.And some devices have already shown that they are capable of recording more than what users expect. Google faced some embarrassment last fall when a batch of Google Home Minis that it distributed at company events and to journalists were almost constantly recording.In a starker example, detectives investigating a death at an Arkansas home sought access to audio on an Echo device in 2016. Amazon resisted, but the recordings were ultimately shared with the permission of the defendant, James Bates. (A judge later dismissed Mr. Batess first-degree murder charge based on separate evidence.)Kathleen Zellner, his lawyer, said in an interview that the Echo had been recording more than it was supposed to. Mr. Bates told her that it had been regularly lighting up without being prompted, and had logged conversations that were unrelated to Alexa commands, including a conversation about football in a separate room, she said.It was just extremely sloppy the way the activation occurred, Ms. Zellner said.The Electronic Privacy Information Center has recommended more robust disclosure rules for internet-connected devices, including an algorithmic transparency requirement that would help people understand how their data was being used and what automated decisions were then being made about them.Sam Lester, the centers consumer privacy fellow, said he believed that the abilities of new smart home devices highlighted the need for United States regulators to get more involved with how consumer data was collected and used.A lot of these technological innovations can be very good for consumers, he said. But its not the responsibility of consumers to protect themselves from these products any more than its their responsibility to protect themselves from the safety risks in food and drugs. Its why we established a Food and Drug Administration years ago.
CAMBRIDGE, England   Well-wishers filled the streets of Cambridge on Saturday for the funeral of British physicist Stephen Hawking, hailed by another leading scientist as "an imprisoned mind roaming the cosmos".Hawking, crippled since a young man by a degenerative disease, beat the odds stacked against him to became the most celebrated scientist of his era. His work ranged from the origins of the universe itself, through time travel and probing black holes in space.He achieved international renown after the publication of "A Brief History of Time" in 1988.His coffin was topped with white "Universe" lilies and white "Polar Star" roses and carried by pallbearers from the University of Cambridge, where he worked. It was greeted by a large crowd outside the church who clapped as it was carried in.The 76-year-old scientist was mourned by his children Robert, Lucy and Timothy, joined by guests including playwright Alan Bennett, businessman Elon Musk and model Lily Cole.Eddie Redmayne, the actor who played Professor Hawking in the 2014 film "The Theory of Everything" was one of the readers in the ceremony and Felicity Jones, who played his wife, Jane Hawking in the film also attended the service.The ceremony included space-themed music composed specially for Hawking called "Beyond the Night Sky", inspired by a poem and quotes from "A Brief History of Time" and whistling and "shh" sounds based on recordings of space.Astronomer Royal Martin Rees, a personal friend, read from Plato\'s Apology 40, "The Death of Socrates", which talks of the search for knowledge persisting after death.Confined to a wheelchair for most of his life after being diagnosed with Motor Neurone Disease when he was 21, Hawking\'s towering intellect and sheer persistence struck a chord with ordinary people, Rees said in an appreciation published earlier this month."Why did he become such a \'cult figure\'? The concept of an imprisoned mind roaming the cosmos plainly grabbed people\'s imagination," he said."His name will live in the annals of science; millions have had their cosmic horizons widened by his best-selling books; and even more, around the world, have been inspired by a unique example of achievement against all the odds  a manifestation of amazing will-power and determination."Hawking\'s ashes will be interred at Westminster Abbey in June, among some of the greatest scientists in history, Isaac Newton and Charles Darwin.(Reporting by Henry Nicholls; Writing by Elisabeth O\'Leary; Editing by Stephen Powell)
PARIS  A millionaire British hotel owner who is the father-in-law of Pippa Middleton, the sister of the Duchess of Cambridge, is under formal investigation in France over allegations that he raped an underage girl in the 1990s, a French judicial official said.The businessman, David Matthews, an owner of the luxury resort Eden Rock, faces potential charges of rape on a minor by a person with authority over the victim for events said to have taken place in 1998 and 1999 and for which a complaint was filed last year, according to the official.Mr. Matthews, 74, was questioned in Paris on Tuesday by police officers who specialize in crimes involving minors, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in line with departmental policy. No further information was immediately released.A spokesman for Mr. Matthews told the newspaper The Telegraph that he categorically denies the allegation and unequivocally contests the untrue and scandalous accusation.The hotel owner is the father of James Matthews, who married Ms. Middleton in May. She came to prominence at another wedding, in 2011: that of her sister, then Kate Middleton, to Prince William, grandson of Queen Elizabeth II and second in line to the British throne.The older Mr. Matthews is a former racing driver who ventured into car sales and then hotels after a violent crash ended his racing career in 1973. In 1995, with his second wife, Jane, he bought Eden Rock on the Caribbean island of St. Barthlemy.The French official said Mr. Matthews had been placed under judicial control but declined to comment further.In France, complex criminal cases are handled by special magistrates with broad investigative powers, who place defendants under formal investigation when enough evidence of serious wrongdoing has been found. Magistrates can either drop cases they believe have insufficient evidence to go to court or summon defendants to stand trial.The maximum sentence for rape in France is 15 years in prison, or up to 20 years if the victim was under 15.President Emmanuel Macron has said that combating violence against women is one of the top priorities of his government.The gender equality minister, Marlne Schiappa, recently put forward a draft bill, set to be debated by lawmakers in the next few months, that would among other measures declare that those aged under 15 could not legally consent to a sexual relationship.It would also extend the statute of limitations in cases of sexual assault involving minors to 30 years, currently 20 years after the victim has turned 18.
