

BEIRUT, Lebanon  When pro-government forces retook her hometown from Syrian rebels, Nisrine accepted the same surrender deal the government has offered tens of thousands of Syrians: a one-way bus trip to a place she had never been  the northern, rebel-held province of Idlib.Since Syrias war began, the population of Idlib has doubled as it has taken in a motley mix of fleeing civilians, defeated rebels, hard-line jihadists and those like Nisrine who have packed up their families to ride the government surrender bus.But as government forces wrap up a blistering campaign in eastern Ghouta, Idlib is likely to be the next target. And this time, there will be nowhere else to run.Maybe this is the last chapter of the revolution, Nisrine, 36, an Arabic teacher from the onetime tourist resort of Madaya, said in an online interview recently. Syrians are killing Syrians. Nothing matters anymore. We decided to die standing up. Im sad for the revolution, how its gone, how people called for freedom and now its gone.Idlib, a small, conservative province on the Turkish border, is Syrias largest remaining rebel-held area. One of the earliest regions to revolt against President Bashar al-Assad, it may be the place where the revolution that began more than seven years ago finally ends.The government has carried out scorched-earth airstrikes there with its ally, Russia, routinely hitting hospitals and clinics, schools and neighborhood markets.But people are still coming.In recent days, more than 10,000 fighters and civilians have been bused to Idlib from surrendering sections of eastern Ghouta. They arrive traumatized, exhausted and disillusioned, often with children suffering from malnutrition after years of siege.The government has treated the province as a dumping ground for those it does not want in its territory, and paints the province as a nest of jihadists. But the vast majority in Idlib are civilians, including nonviolent activists who could face arrest and torture if they remained in government areas and who often push back against hard-liners in the province they believe have co-opted the revolt.Marwan Habaq, who survived the barrages in eastern Ghouta in a basement with his wife and infant daughter Yasmina, is taking them to Idlib. It is a tough choice because, as they have no place to live in Idlib, they will have to leave his wifes parents behind and they will face more shelling. But if they stay, he is sure he will be arrested or forced into military service.Two bitter options, he said. Leaving to the unknown, or staying within Assads hands.But the move only delays the inevitable.Its a shame on the world, said Mehran Ouyoun, a member of the opposition council in exile for the Damascus suburbs, which meets in Turkey. If you approve the war crime of forced evacuation, at least make sure these people dont suffer again and again.Idlib was once controlled by a patchwork of clashing insurgents, some led by American-backed army defectors calling for a civil state. Others, including an Al Qaeda affiliate, welcomed foreign fighters and espoused a spectrum of Islamist ideologies. But hard-liners have seized the upper hand, playing into the governments portrayal of the region even as they create tensions with residents who oppose them.As they struggle to survive, many residents are caught between government attacks from the sky and the overbearing rule of extremist factions that dominate on the ground.Nisrine joined the revolution at the outset in 2011, pushing for a secular, civil democracy. Like a dozen other Idlib residents interviewed for this article by phone and email, she asked not to be fully identified for fear of retribution from any side.She boarded a bus for Idlib last year after surviving a year of siege and bombardment, hoping that her son Abdullah, 10, would not starve to death like some children had in her town, Madaya. At first, she was excited to be reunited with her husband, a former law student and rebel fighter who had gone to Idlib two years earlier.She did not regret leaving Madaya. After the government takeover there, her brother and brothers-in-law were drafted and sent to the front with minimal training. They died in battle.But Nisrine was troubled by Idlib Citys ubiquitous jihadist billboards, face veils and cafes segregating women and banning them from smoking water pipes. When she wears her usual head scarf and modest coat, religious enforcers lecture her for not veiling her face.One ultrareligious neighbor spoke constantly of fighting Shiites, never about building a new country. Eventually Nisrine lost her temper.Why did you climb on the revolutions back? she recalled asking the woman. I didnt join the revolution to see this.Her husband, who had been a rebel fighter back in Madaya, also struggled to find a way to keep fighting for a cause he believed in. After briefly joining two of Idlibs main Islamist factions, he quit to become a paralegal.They considered me an infidel, he said of the factions, and I considered them extremists.But the episode that shocked Nisrine most was the day her son, after a few months playing with other children in Idlib, announced: I want to join the jihad.Horrified, Nisrine decided to set up educational alternatives and start campaigning quietly against the recruitment of children into hard-line religious schools and rebel factions.She also helped open a chapter of an organization that provides psychological support and cultural activities.Umm Abdo, 36, a philosophy professor from Syrias largest city, Aleppo, takes a more confrontational approach. She fled to Idlib in 2014 for fear she would be arrested after government forces detained her husband.I dont stay silent, she said. Im not afraid of death. Welcome, death!She said she does not leave home without a gun.She could not find work in Idlibs university; Philosophy had been banned as polytheism. So she became a traditional healer, treating mostly women, and found that their already limited freedoms had contracted further under the hard-liners who control Idlib.She heard from students brainwashed into calling their parents infidels, teenage girls sold into marriage. One woman arrived unable to speak. It turned out her husband had badly beaten her after she caught him cheating.With a degree in Islamic law, she started defending underdogs in Islamic court. She helped farmers defeat attempts by the factions to take away their lands. She won a divorce for a woman whose father had sold her to a foreign fighter who raped and beat her.When we decided to revolt, it was against oppression, she said. But today were facing the worst oppression.Life in conservative Idlib poses challenges for everyone from relatively cosmopolitan Damascus, but especially for single women.Rima, a former political prisoner from Madaya, arrived in Idlib divorced with no local family ties or male relatives to protect her. Few landlords would rent to a single woman and one evicted her when she refused his advances.Even taxi drivers ask: Why are you single? Why dont you have brothers? she said.Recently local authorities in Idlib City announced single women would have to live in special camps.For Rima, the problem was solved when she got engaged. The catch: Her fianc wants her to veil her face.I will, she said, not because Im convinced, but because I love him.Fitting in remains a challenge, but there are few options.Idlib wasnt the best choice, she said. It was the only choice.
BERLIN   Germany\'s economy minister says he is confident that Europe and the United States can reach a "sensible compromise" by summer to resolve tensions over trade.President Donald Trump\'s administration has granted the European Union an exemption from punitive tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, but only until May 1. Several European leaders have criticized the little time that leaves for talks.German weekly Der Spiegel on Saturday quoted Economy Minister Peter Altmaier as saying that the EU and U.S. want to act together to counter the overcapacity in the global steel market that originated in China.Altmaier says they are seeking agreement on how to combat dumping prices and the theft of intellectual property.He said: "We want to find solutions that are compatible with international trade rules."
This is the final article in the Vietnam 67 series. To read previous articles, click here.A month ago, I decided to go to my house in Vermont from my home in Canada. The house is near Island Pond, about 25 miles below the Quebec border, in the area called the Northeast Kingdom. The region used to be largely agrarian, scarcely populated, farms with cattle, smallish in acreage, poor in cash. A land of subsistence farming, a practice left over from an earlier century.There are men I know there, damaged men who raise chickens for eggs and sell them in the town. I regard it as northern Appalachia, land covered with forest that once was open land back when the king needed ships masts and timber and sheep were important. In the beginning there were a few families, fewer than 20 in the 1830s. It stayed like that until a few years ago. Now it is second homes, snowmobiling, four-wheelers and soft ice cream.After crossing through immigration and customs I normally stop to pick up groceries at the Derby Village Store, an old-fashioned market with linoleum-covered wood floors, narrow aisles and seemingly pre-school-age cashiers. The choice is reasonable and the prices good. If you dont care for Walmart, Shop n Save or Shaws, you go to the Derby Village Store.Its a human-size place, where the carts bump into one another and you have to maneuver around corners with apologies. It does not sell lattes or 12 kinds of salami. It offers an assortment of inexpensive wine and beer. Its a Kelloggs and Campbells store, with a resident butcher and a polite staff.I had picked up cheese, eggs, vegetables, chicken tenders and ice cream. I stopped by the deli counter for sliced meat when I noticed an older man, some would say very old, with a cap on his head above a checked wool jacket too light for the season. His pants were out of fashion, baggy, rolled up and stained with oil, cinched at the waist with a belt that was too long and hung down one leg.He was slender and one shoulder was bent down, his face narrow, with stubble that showed the years and the tears of time. His hands were clawed with arthritis and spotted, misshapen nails with dirt under them that could not be scrubbed away. He was a man you would not notice, or if you did, not wish to touch as he shuffled behind the cart. He wore a cap that read in proud gold stitching, Vietnam Veteran U.S.N.It should be said that seeing Vietnam veterans is not unusual in Vermont or any other state, but the generation is declining in number and strength. About 400 die a day of the 2.7 million who served. It was a long time ago, and newer conflicts have taken the stage and headlines. Heroes and graves.The veterans of Vietnam are opaque coming to transparent, like onion paper held to light. Soon they will be crippled relics in homes and memories, photos on a dusty mantel or side table with a yellowed doily. You have passed them unseen a hundred times. You never knew their stories, because they are mostly private and you did not want to ask or know. Beyond the cap or the coat with the same words, they do not share. They wear these things for themselves and to say, I am here, and I was there.We stood by the counter waiting for our slices of pastrami and teriyaki chicken. The old man carried in his cart milk, ground coffee, a few cans of stew and soups. I could see that most of the food was ready to eat, or add water and stir. He likely lived by himself, wife dead or gone.During the pause of commerce I asked him where he had served. He responded by telling me simply that he had been in Danang on helicopters, and on a warship off the coast. It was vague and intentional. When he said he had piloted a chopper, I thought most likely a Huey with that iconic whooping sound of the blades biting the air and announcing its flight path, a sound that you know for life and run for the tree line when you hear. He might have flown something larger, a workhorse Chinook, used to carry anything that would fit or be hung, from troops to supplies, small artillery. It went where it was needed; you did what was required.Between the cutting of the meats and the wrapping of the cheese, each of us looked at the other. Maybe I had fewer scars in the open. Maybe I had more hair, a down winter coat and better boots, gloves, a wool scarf. It looked as if he had had a hard time after the war. The Kingdom offered a hard life, but easier than what he had done. His boots had uneven soles. His gait was off. He had probably been wounded.I did not want to ask. Fate had treated me more kindly. But as we used to say, no one gets out of here alive. It could have been my imagination, but our eyes reflected back into ourselves. We were doubled. He did not smile.He asked if I had been there. He asked because I had spoken first. He could not tell if I was a flatlander, from out of state, just curious or a fool. He wanted to know if he had to explain that place and the cap. His eyes saw the answer before I spoke. He asked if I knew Danang, Nha Trang, Dong Ha, the Highlands and the Delta. How many words did I use to reply? I said two or three, meaning years or tours. How many words do you need for the rainy season, fighting, the heat, humidity and the smell, fear?I said yes, remembering the firefights over the hills and low mountains at dusk, surrounding the bay at Danang, the jets coming in and dropping bombs and tumbling napalm. Heard the artillery, a different sound and cadence for every caliber. Beautiful parts in a violent orchestra, with strings, wind instruments and drums.I watched the earth explode and burn, green to black and dead. A Broadway show sitting on a folding aluminum chair for the afternoon matinee performance with a beer. He chuckled with his eyes, told me about rocket-propelled grenade attacks on the airport, running for cover, strafing runs on the riverbeds and trails, dancing to the music, killing men in the open. He told me about friends on the wall, the memorial we thought was going to be singular, unique, though we learned that was a lie.I told him about flying supplies into fire bases, coming in hot, breaking hard, slowing and throwing off ammunition and water, grabbing the wounded, engines whining to full power and the aircraft shuddering, lifting off short and hoping that the enemy we hardly knew did not have the range or luck. Dust choking, blinding. Laughing as we gained altitude, at the odds beaten, and hoping to go back for another run. Until next time. Every time we did this, the bets went back to even, the clock unwound.Our purchases were put on the glass counter top. He took his, tipped his head and cap and headed off, nothing else. I glanced as he turned, said, So long, watched him walk to the cash register, pay with bills, and out of the store, leaving his cart at the door. He limped and did not look back. If he had said other than an acknowledgment with his nod, it would have been more than he wanted to say and more than I needed to hear.What was it, two, three minutes of history? Meeting, touching and knowing that there had been a past and that the present was tinged with the gone before. Walking on. Shared survival and the pleasure of release with the conjugation of years. Nothing to be spoken or shared with clerks, cashiers or office workers. A diminishing private world with signals and symbols.Two men, strangers, known from and for a thousand years in kind, history buried, burned into the circuits of the brain and whatever passes for the soul. Pushed far back and down, down deep as it is possible to go. For a second, I thought I saw a young man, looking out the door of an aircraft at the jungle and rising flashes of light, soaring, swooping and rocking, smiling, wind in his hair, wind so strong that it made the eyes water and distorted his cheeks.What he saw was something else. Maybe nothing.We had validated ourselves at the meat counter in a small rural town under a winter sky. For a day I thought about the man that I would never meet again, except in myself. A man said that in our youths our hearts were touched by fire, and fire is cleansing. I am not sure. Fire leaves ash and scar. And a pale smoke that rises into the heavens and is gone.
DAMASCUS   Amira Gharmoush\'s family has been a victim of both sides of the war for the eastern Ghouta region near Damascus. The 67-year-old Syrian mother of nine is now hoping to piece back together what\'s left of it.She fled eastern Ghouta four years ago when, she said, one of her three daughters was killed by insurgents in the area, the last major rebel stronghold near Damascus until the Syrian government launched a ferocious campaign to recapture it.Two her six sons accompanied her on her journey out of eastern Ghouta at the time. They were detained by the Syrian government and she has not heard from them since.The other four sons stayed inside eastern Ghouta, separated from their mother by the frontlines of a war that has broken up countless families and killed hundreds of thousands of people over the last seven years.As the frontlines shifted in recent weeks, Gharmoush was reunited with two more of her sons. They fled eastern Ghouta two weeks ago as the government offensive pushed closer to their homes, uprooting them and many thousands more.Backed by Russia, the assault has underlined President Bashar al-Assad\'s unassailable position in the war.TEARS, HOPEGharmoush spoke at a Syrian government supervised shelter for displaced people, where she was visiting the sons who left Ghouta recently. She expressed hope that she would soon see the two sons who remain in the area.Both are in Douma, the last town under rebel control. "It\'s been four years since I\'ve seen them," she said, her eyes full of tears."My hope is that my sons who are in Ghouta get out, and that the ones who are detainees get out, and to bring my children together so we all live together," said Gharmoush.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says more than 1,600 civilians have been killed in the government bombardment of the area, which has been besieged for years.More than 140,000 people have been displaced from eastern Ghouta since the offensive got underway in February, according to figures cited by the Russian military and the Observatory.The Russian defense ministry said on Friday around 32,000 rebel fighters and members of their families had so far been transported to opposition-held areas in the Idlib region of northwestern Syria, Interfax reported.Many of those who have not gone to Idlib are in shelters for the displaced near Damascus. The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid has said the displaced are not permitted to leave the shelters until they have undergone a screening process.Gharmoush sat next to her seven-year-old granddaughter - the child of the daughter who was killed four years ago, who she has cared for ever since.Gharmoush says her daughter was killed for delivering bread to government troops stationed at a checkpoint near their village, Otaya.She did not say which rebel group the killers belonged to. Reuters could not verify the account.Gharmoush, who has been working as a household servant in the capital since fleeing her farm, says she dreams of going back to her home in Otaya, where they kept sheep and cows."I would be the first one to return. If my home is destroyed I will put up a tent like the one I am in now and stay there. I will gather my children and we will stay together."(Reporting by Kinda Makieh in Damascus; Writing by Tom Perry: Editing by Andrew Bolton)
AMSTERDAM   The International Criminal Court on Saturday said it has taken into custody at its detention center in the Netherlands a Malian man accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity.The suspect, identified by the ICC as Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz Ag Mohamed Ag Mahmoud, was indicted for crimes allegedly committed as de-facto chief of Islamic police in Timbuktu in 2012 and 2013 including destroying cultural monuments and enforcing policies that led to sexual enslavement of women and girls.The detention of Al Hassan is a boost for ICC prosecutors. The only other suspect arrested in Mali\'s conflict, Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi, pleaded guilty to destruction of cultural heritage for his participation in smashing mausoleums. He was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2017 after apologizing for his actions, and could appear as a witness against Al Hassan.Victims\' groups had been critical of the court for the limited scope of al-Mahdi\'s indictment, though his case was widely viewed as a landmark because it was the first time a person has been convicted of a war crime solely for destruction of cultural artifacts.In Al Hassan\'s case, judges said prosecutors had presented enough evidence to issue an arrest warrant for crimes against humanity including "torture, rape and sexual slavery; persecution of the inhabitants of Timbuktu on religious and gender grounds; and other inhumane acts."Al Hassan will have an initial court appearance next week at which he will be informed of the allegations outlined in his arrest warrant. He is not yet required to enter a plea.Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said in a statement she had asked judges to issue an arrest warrant for Al Hassan on March 20, and the warrant was issued under seal on March 27. Malian and Dutch authorities cooperated in the handover.Bensouda, who has been criticized for obtaining few convictions during her tenure, said her selection of Al Hassan for prosecution showed her commitment "to bring forward cases only guided and built on a strong evidentiary foundation."She said it also signaled her intent "to address the untold suffering inflicted upon the Malian population and what they hold dear as a people."(Reporting by Toby Sterling; Editing by Sandra Maler)
BASRA, Iraq   A world away from Iraq\'s battlegrounds, Basra\'s cat-lovers have found a haven for their favorite pets.Veterinary student Ahmed Taher Maki has turned his home in the southern city into what he believes is Iraq\'s first cat hotel.For as little as 5,000 Iraqi dinars ($4.20) a night - or half that for long stays - the guests can enjoy beds, regular meals, health checkups and a mini playground, all under the cooling purr of an air conditioner.Maki said he was hoping to encourage more people to adopt cats in the city and give them a place to leave their pets when they are away on a trip.Taking care of animals gives people a "merciful heart," he said. "The hotel is a noble thing and unprecedented in the south of Iraq and Basra in particular."(Writing by Andrew Heavens; Editing by Peter Graff)
BERLIN   Germany\'s finance ministry expects interest rates to rise in coming years, causing new Minster Olaf Scholz to take steps to cushion additional costs to meet budget goals, Der Spiegel weekly reported on Saturday."The financial planning up to 2022 (envisages) a necessary normalisation of the capital market environment," Spiegel cited an internal document as saying.Experts usually see interest rates of between 3 percent and 4 percent as "normal", compared to below zero percent now, reported Der Spiegel.The European Central Bank\'s deposit facility is at -0.40 percent while its benchmark refinancing rate is at a record low of 0.0 percent.German 10-year bond yields, which indicate the country\'s likely cost of borrowing, fell in March but remain at around 0.5 percent <DE10YT=RR>.Der Spiegel reported that a one percent increase in average interest rates in Europe\'s biggest economy would mean an additional 10 billion euros in costs which could complicate the new government\'s efforts to maintain a balanced budget.A spokesman for the finance ministry declined to comment on the report.Money markets are pricing in the ECB\'s first interest rate rise since 2011 next year and the euro zone central bank is also considering how and when to end its 2.55 trillion euro bond purchase scheme aimed at stimulating inflation and growth.A possible trade war with the United States is a possible dampener on the outlook but German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier told Spiegel he was confident the EU and Washington would "find a sensible compromise by the summer" in trade talks.Last week U.S. President Donald Trump temporarily excluded the EU, the United States\' biggest trading partner, and six other non-European countries from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium.The higher tariffs are aimed at curbing imports from China. Altmaier said Germany agreed with the United States in wanting to tackle overcapacity in the global steel market, partly caused by China."We are looking for a common line in the fight against price dumping and intellectual property theft. We want to find solutions that are compatible with international trade rules," he told Der Spiegel.(Reporting by Madeline Chambers; Editing by Catherine Evans)
HOSPERS, Iowa   In Sioux County, where swine barns interrupt the vast landscape of corn-stubbled fields, exports of meat, grain and machinery fuel the local economy. And there\'s a palpable sense of unease that new Chinese tariffs pushed by President Donald Trump  who received more than 80 percent of the vote here in 2016  could threaten residents\' livelihood.The grumbling hardly signals a looming leftward lurch in this dominantly Republican region in northwest Iowa. But after standing with Trump through the many trials of his first year, some Sioux County Trump voters say they would be willing to walk away from the president if the fallout from the tariffs causes a lasting downturn in the farm economy."I wouldn\'t sit here today and say I will definitely support him again," said 60-year-old hog farmer Marv Van Den Top. "This here could be a real negative for him."Last week, Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on a range of Chinese goods, a move aimed at punishing Beijing for stealing American technology. The Chinese government responded with a threat to tag U.S. products, including pork and aluminum, with an equal 25 percent charge.That sent a chill through places like Sioux County, which ranks first among Iowa\'s 99 counties in agricultural exports. In 2016, the county sold $350 million in meat, grain, machinery and chemicals overseas. Far closer to the sparsely populated crossroads of South Dakota and Minnesota than Iowa\'s bustling Des Moines metro area, Sioux County is home to just 34,000 people, but more than 1 million hogs, 6 million chickens and nearly as impressive numbers of cattle and sheep.Brad Te Grootenhuis sells about 25,000 hogs a year and could lose hundreds of thousands of dollars if the tariffs spark a backlash from China. He said it\'s possible he would abandon Trump if pork\'s price decline continues and lasts."Any time you\'re losing money, nobody\'s happy," the 42-year-old farmer said. "I\'ve got payments to make, plain and simple."Nationally, opinions on Trump\'s tariffs, which were a central part of his campaign pledges to get tough on China, are mixed.Although GOP congressional leaders have argued tariffs would prompt a trade war and have urged Trump to reverse course, 61 percent of Americans who identify as Republicans nationwide favor a tariff, according to a national poll taken this month by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Still, 39 percent of Republicans say it will lead to a decrease in jobs, according to the poll, compared to 32 percent who think it will lead to an increase. That\'s similar to the views of all voters, the survey shows.Countermeasures by China, which is second only to Canada in importing Iowa products, could cause pain across the American agricultural sector, according to economists. For instance, a pork tariff imposed by China, which spent $42 million on Iowa pork products in 2017, would back up the Iowa market and force prices sharply downward."Retaliatory tariffs from China would have a devastating impact on U.S. agricultural exports, especially if they focus on products like soybeans and hogs," said Adam Kamins, a senior economist at Moody\'s Analytics. "This puts northwest Iowa and the Great Plains more broadly on the front line in a trade war."For hog farmer Tim Schmidt, the fallout of a geopolitical spat with China would force him to hold off on any new construction or maintenance on the decades-old buildings on his family-run farm along the Missouri River."There is an uncertainty to exactly what the next two to three years are going to look like," Schmidt said. A Trump voter in 2016, Schmidt said that if "things are bad and someone better comes along, we\'re willing to take a look."Sioux County seed dealer Dave Heying echoed a common refrain that any downturn in the farm economy would curb spending throughout the local economy, with direct impact on farm machinery dealers, mechanics and agricultural construction, among other businesses."Protecting our U.S. industries is important, but my concern is, at what expense to the farmer?" Heying said of Trump\'s trade moves. "It is too early to say whether or not I would support him. These types of decisions give you hesitation."As a presidential candidate, Trump was a somewhat awkward fit for Sioux County, where a third of its residents are members of the Dutch Reformed Church of America, which holds strictly conservative social positions. In striking contrast, the bombastic New Yorker has been married three times and shadowed by allegations of sexual harassment and infidelity.Trump finished fourth in Sioux County in Iowa\'s Republican presidential caucus, but carried 81.3 percent of the vote in the general election, his second-highest county share in the state. And a large core of voters in Sioux County, where Franklin Roosevelt was the last Democratic presidential candidate to win, remains with Trump, even if the farm economy suffers as a result of his trade policies."You have to have faith in our innovation and entrepreneurialship in this country," said Ed Westra, a grain cooperative manager and Trump devotee. "You\'ve got to think of the big game."___AP polling director Emily Swanson contributed to this report from Washington.___

COPENHAGEN  The statue of the woman is nearly 23 feet tall. Her head is wrapped and she stares straight ahead while sitting barefoot, but regally, in a wide-backed chair, clutching a torch in one hand and a tool used to cut sugar cane in the other.In Denmark, where most of the public statues represent white men, two artists on Saturday unveiled the striking statue in tribute to a 19th-century rebel queen who had led a fiery revolt against Danish colonial rule in the Caribbean.They said it was Denmarks first public monument to a black woman.The sculpture was inspired by Mary Thomas, known as one of the three queens. Thomas, along with two other female leaders, unleashed an uprising in 1878 called the Fireburn. Fifty plantations and most of the town of Frederiksted in St. Croix were burned, in what has been called the largest labor revolt in Danish colonial history.This project is about challenging Denmarks collective memory and changing it, the Virgin Islands artist La Vaughn Belle, one of two principal forces behind the statue, said in a statement.The unveiling comes at the end of a centennial year commemorating the sale by Denmark of three islands to the United States on March 3, 1917: St. Croix, St. John and St. Thomas. The price: $25 million.Though Denmark prohibited trans-Atlantic slave trafficking in 1792, it did not rush to enforce the ban. The rule took effect 11 years later, and slavery continued until 1848.They wanted to fill the stocks first and ensure enough slaves would remain to keep plantations running, said Niels Brimnes, an associate professor at Aarhus University and a leading expert on colonialism in Denmark.Three decades after slavery formally ended on what today are known as the United States Virgin Islands, conditions for the former slaves had not improved significantly.That continued injustice fomented the uprising on St. Croix.Mary Thomas was tried for her role in the rebellion and ferried across the Atlantic to a womens prison in Copenhagen. The statue created in tribute to her, called I Am Queen Mary, sits in front of what was once a warehouse for Caribbean sugar and rum, just more than a mile from where she was jailed.The only other tribute to Denmarks colonies or those who were colonized is a statue of a generic figure from Greenland.The Danish artist Jeannette Ehlers, who teamed up with Ms. Belle to create the Queen Mary monument, said, Ninety-eight percent of the statues in Denmark are representing white males.The torch and the cane bill held in the statues hands symbolize the resistance strategies by those who were colonized, the artists said in a statement. Her seated pose recalls the iconic 1967 photograph of Huey P. Newton, founder of the Black Panther Party.And the plinth on which her chair rests incorporates coral cut from the ocean by enslaved Africans gathered from ruins of the foundations of historic buildings on St. Croix.Henrik Holm, senior research curator at Denmarks National Gallery of Art, said in a statement: It takes a statue like this to make forgetting less easy. It takes a monument like this to fight against the silence, neglect, repression and hatred.He added: Never before has a sculpture like this been erected on Danish soil. Now, Denmark is offered a sculpture that addresses the past. But it is also an artwork for the future.The preferred self-image of this country of 5.5 million is that of a nation at the forefront of democratization and a savior of Jews during World War II.And even though the Vikings raped and pillaged their way around the shores of Britain and Ireland, the Viking Age is generally a source of national pride and amusement in Denmark.Over the centuries, Danes have not undergone a national reckoning about the thousands of Africans forced onto Danish ships to work the plantations in Danish colonies in the Caribbean, historians say.It may have to do with the narrative of Denmark as a colonial power saying, We werent as bad as others, Professor Brimnes said. But we were just as bad as the others. I cant identify a particular, humane Danish colonialism.In a speech last year, the Danish prime minister, Lars Lokke Rasmussen, expressed regret for his countrys part in the slave trade  but he stopped short of an apology.Many of Copenhagens beautiful old houses were erected with money made on the toil and exploitation on the other side of the planet, he said.Its not a proud part of Denmarks history. Its shameful and luckily of the past.
BEIJING   China wants to share its development opportunities with other countries, but protectionism will mean closing the door into China, the country\'s top diplomat said, amid a festering trade dispute with the United States.U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move last week to slap up to $60 billion in tariffs on some Chinese imports has since provoked a warning from Beijing that it could retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports.Speaking at a regional forum in Vietnam\'s capital Hanoi on Friday, Chinese State Councillor Wang Yi said the country\'s reform and opening up policy will neither be changed nor be affected by any external factors, China\'s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Saturday."China\'s reform and opening up is in line with the interests of the Chinese people, and will also benefit other countries," the statement cited Wang as saying, adding China will provide an even better investment environment for foreign companies."Opening up should work both ways. China opens itself to other countries and hopes others will be open to China," he said, without mentioning any countries by name.While friction and disputes over trade are normal, what is important is to work for reasonable solutions through equal consultations in line with laws and rules, Wang added."Any unilateral or protectionist measures are an approach against the trend of the history, will go nowhere and will see their own interests undermined," he said."Protectionism equals shutting the door into China, and they will suffer the consequences of their actions. Both time and facts will prove it."China has repeatedly promised to open its economy further, but many foreign companies continue to complain of unfair treatment.China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in the deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Susan Thomas)
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo set the stage for an ambitious congestion pricing plan when he declared that it was an idea whose time has come.But that time is not now.There was little about congestion pricing in the state budget negotiated Friday by Mr. Cuomo and state lawmakers despite months of lobbying by advocates, a six-figure media campaign, and rallies by transit riders. The most significant development was a new surcharge that will be tacked on to every ride in for-hire vehicles in Manhattan south of 96th Street: $2.50 for yellow taxis; $2.75 for other for-hire vehicles, including Ubers and Lyfts; and 75 cents for car pool rides such as Via and UberPool.Notably missing was the congestion zone that was the centerpiece of a congestion pricing plan, laid out by a state task force to reduce gridlock on the streets and raise money for the citys struggling subway, which is operated by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Under that plan, unveiled in January, drivers could have been charged a daily fee  $11.52 for passenger cars, $25.34 for trucks  to enter a congestion zone in Manhattan, from 60th Street south to the Battery, at busy times.The budget agreement drew criticism from a coalition of transportation advocacy groups, which expressed disappointment that months of pushing for congestion pricing had yielded so little.Fixing our transit system should have been Albanys first priority this year, they said in a joint statement. Unfortunately, the final budget does not offer a credible plan to modernize the M.T.A., nor provide a sufficient revenue stream to make it possible. The crisis in our subways and on our streets will continue, and New Yorkers will continue to demand action from Governor Cuomo and state lawmakers.From the start, there was resistance from drivers, their advocates, commercial truckers and some elected officials  including state legislators  who saw congestion pricing as mainly benefiting Manhattan residents, at the expense of those from outside the borough who have to drive for work, school, medical appointments or other obligations because they do not have easy access to public transit or cannot use it.I havent won the war yet on congestion pricing, but I did win this battle  its not getting in the budget, said Assemblyman David I. Weprin, a Queens Democrat who helped lead the opposition.Still, Mr. Cuomo and some congestion pricing advocates have sought to cast the new surcharge on for-hire vehicles as a first step toward congestion pricing, which would reduce car congestion and establish a long-term revenue source for public transportation. The task force had also recommended a per-ride surcharge of $2 to $5 on for-hire vehicles in a phased-in approach to congestion pricing.Peter Ajemian, a spokesman for the governor, said the new surcharge fees would provide hundreds of millions of dollars in additional revenue to the M.T.A. every year, and called the budget a huge win for the millions of people who rely on mass transit every day. Fix NYC Transit, another coalition, said, the governor and legislative leaders deserve credit for enabling New York to begin tackling our traffic and transit woes.The budget agreement also expands an existing traffic camera program that targets drivers who block bus lanes, and provides funding for half of an $836 million emergency subway repair program, but would force the city to pay the remainder.Supporters of congestion pricing said they would continue to fight for a congestion zone and other measures.We are disappointed that traffic challenges, aside from more bus enforcement cameras, are not addressed, said Kathryn Wylde, a member of the task force and president and chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, a group of the citys top business leaders. The legislature is in session until the end of June, and congestion pricing can be taken up outside the budget, so we will continue to urge moving forward.While congestion pricing has been shown to work in London, Stockholm and Singapore, it has stalled in New York since at least the 1970s. The last major effort in 2008 by then-Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg sought to charge drivers $8 to enter a similar congestion zone in Manhattan, but died in Albany after legislative leaders refused to bring it to a vote.Many had expected it to be different this time after Mr. Cuomo almost single-handedly revived congestion pricing last summer and assembled the task force, Fix NYC, to come up with a plan. Supporters saw the citys subway meltdown and daily traffic problems as giving new urgency and momentum to the issue.But despite the backing of dozens of influential business, labor, transportation and community groups, congestion pricings prospects again waned in Albany. In a sign of things to come, the congestion zone was not in budget amendments submitted by the governor, or in budget proposals by the Republican-led Senate and the Democrat-dominated Assembly.Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who faces re-election in November, came under increasing criticism from advocates who said he did not do enough to move congestion pricing forward. They pointed out that he did not aggressively line up legislative support as he had with other divisive issues such as same-sex marriage and the minimum wage  a suggestion the governors aides rejected.In recent weeks, the governor and his aides had sought to work around legislative opposition to the congestion zone by negotiating for authorization of about $200 million for infrastructure and technology investments for a congestion zone. The more controversial details of how it would actually work  the boundaries, prices, hours and any exemptions  would be shelved until next year or later.But in the end, what they got was the surcharge on for-hire vehicles, whose skyrocketing numbers have added to congestion woes. It was Assembly leaders who initially proposed the $2.75 per-ride surcharge for Uber, Lyft and the other ride-hailing apps, though they have said the surcharge was not about congestion pricing but about raising money for the M.T.A.Other cities and states  including Chicago, Philadelphia and Portland, Ore.  have increasingly imposed fees or taxes on ride-hailing services to raise money. Last year, New York State also approved a 4 percent assessment on trips by the ride-hailing services that begin outside New York City (rides in the city are already subject to state and local taxes), which is expected to raise $24 million a year for the states general fund.Today, more than 103,000 for-hire vehicles operate in New York City, or more than double the roughly 47,000 in 2013, according to the Taxi and Limousine Commission. In contrast, yellow taxis are capped by city law at 13,587.Alix Anfang, a spokeswoman for Uber, which backed the Fix NYC plan, said that the company supported the new surcharge because it was limited to Manhattan, where there is more congestion and also more transportation options than in the other boroughs.We will continue to advocate for the adoption of a comprehensive congestion pricing plan that is applied to all vehicles because it is the best way to fully fund mass transit and reduce traffic in the central business district, she said.While the surcharge on taxis is lower, it is still a blow to an industry that has been decimated by the advent of ride-hailing apps.Taxi owners and drivers have argued that they should be exempt from any new fees because it is their rapidly expanding rivals who are creating much of the congestion, and because they pay far more for medallions that should already give them access to Manhattan streets.It is deeply concerning and disappointing that the state is piling on costs on the yellow taxi industry when it is well known that the yellow taxi industry and its mainly immigrant medallion owners and drivers are struggling, said Ron Sherman, president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which represents medallion owners.
NEW YORK   Though Facebook gets the attention because of a recent privacy gaffe, the social network is far from alone in collecting massive amounts of data on you to help marketers sell you stuff.Google, for one, also does extensive tracking to power its advertising engines. And many other websites and apps run ads sold by Facebook and Google and exchange data with them. Beyond that, plenty of services including Uber and Amazon keep detailed histories on you.Here are some of the ways to block or minimize such tracking  but they come with trade-offs.___TRACKING IDsWebsites have long used unique IDs in "cookies"  data files stored in your browser  to know it\'s you when you return a week later. Cookies also let advertising networks run by the likes of Facebook and Google connect you as you visit multiple websites. Phones and tablets have a device advertising ID that apps can use to track you. Combatting this: You can reset the cookie ID by clearing cookies periodically. Most browsers also have a private mode to limit tracking through cookies, though it\'s not foolproof. Companies can still link you if you\'ve signed in, for instance. As for the device ID, you can reset that or tell advertisers not to target ads through the phone\'s settings.Many browsers also let you install add-ons that block ad trackers. Notable add-ons include Ghostery or the Electronic Frontier Foundation\'s Privacy Badger. The trade-offs: You\'ll still get ads, just not targeted ones. And clearing cookies makes your browser forget who you are, so you\'ll have to sign back into any site that was saving your login. Tracker blockers can sometimes prevent websites from displaying or working properly.___LOCATION SERVICESMany apps need your location to work. Mapping apps, for instance, can\'t tell you when to turn without knowing where you are. Video services typically have rights only in certain countries and need to verify your location. But location can be used for much more. Google, for instance, keeps a fairly detailed account of your whereabouts through a feature called Timeline. Combatting this: You can turn off location services in the phone\'s settings, though for apps to work property, it\'s better to turn them off for specific services that don\'t really need them. As for Timeline, you can pause or delete location history in Google settings. The trade-offs: Some apps won\'t work without your location. Others, such as weather apps, will require you enter your location manually. And you might miss out on recommendations such as better commuting routes via apps like Waze.___SIGNING INSigning into an online account gives services a sure-fire way of tracking you. Facebook won\'t work at all without an account; Google merely works better with one. And you\'ll generally need an account with any service that charges you, although sometimes you can sign in with your Facebook or Google ID instead. Combatting this: Resist creating an account or signing whenever you can  such as when you\'re merely browsing rather than buying. Avoid using Facebook or Google IDs whenever possible, as those companies could then track you. You can also use a different email address for each account to frustrate efforts to connect you across services, although it can be a major pain. The trade-offs: Some services require signing in, and creating accounts on each service means more passwords to remember (though you might consider using a password manager ). Whatever you do, don\'t reuse the same passwords across service; that makes them easy to hack.___IP ADDRESSThe Internet Protocol address lists where your phone or computer lives on the internet; it\'s how you get messages and load websites. But IP addresses can also help companies remember who you are and link the various devices you use, since most homes use a single IP address for the whole network. Databases can also map IP addresses to physical locations. Combatting this: You can mask your IP address by using a secure intermediary. VPN services, common in corporate settings, will route your traffic through a separate IP address; a secure web browser called Tor automatically sends traffic through multiple third parties. You still need to avoid signing in. The trade-offs: Tor can slow down performance, particularly with high-data tasks such as video. And with VPNs, you need to trust the VPN operator, whether that\'s your boss or a private service.
NANYUKI, Kenya   The death of the world\'s last male northern white rhinoceros  this month led a Kenyan government official to declare anyone caught possessing ivory should be sentenced to life in prison."Ivory belongs to elephants and rhinos," said Najib Balala, Kenya\'s tourism minister, during a memorial service held at Ol Pejeta Conservancy on Saturday for Sudan, the 45-year-old rhino, who died 11 days ago.Wildlife officials at Ol Pejeta, about 250 kilometres (155 miles) north of Nairobi, put down the rhino on March 19 because of rapid deterioration in his health.Sudan is survived by the last two females of his species, his 27-year-old daughter Najin and 17-year-old granddaughter Fatu. The only hope for preserving their species is through in vitro fertilisation using their eggs and stored semen, according to Ol Pejeta.Thousand of southern white rhinos still roam sub-Saharan Africa, but decades of rampant poaching have drastically cut the number of northern whites. Poachers could sell northern white rhino horns for $50,000 per kilo, making them more valuable than gold.Kenya had 20,000 rhinos in the 1970s, falling to 400 in the 1990s. It now has 650, almost all of them black rhinos."We are going to change our laws so that anyone caught with ivory will be jailed for life," Balala said.Kenya introduced tough wildlife-protection laws in 2013 in an attempt to stop highly lucrative ivory smuggling, mainly to Asia, which has led to the slaughter of thousands of rare and endangered animals.Those found guilty of ivory trafficking already face a life sentence. But the minimum sentence for possessing it is just five years.After a court sentenced a Kenyan man to 20 years in jail for possessing ivory, the top prosecutor sought for the punishment to be changed to a life sentenced. The convicted man\'s appeal is still in the courts.The slaughter of endangered animals in Africa for profit continues, but there is ever greater awareness of the bloody cost of ivory, and more international action to stop the trade.In a move with major implications for the illegal wildlife trade from Africa, China banned ivory sales in December. The country is the world\'s largest importer and end user of elephant tusks.(Reporting by George Nganga, writing by Maggie Fick, editing by Larry King)
HANOI, Vietnam   The leaders of six countries along the Mekong River on Saturday adopted an ambitious investment plan worth $66 billion over the next five years.At least $7 billion will come from the Asian Development Bank and the rest from governments and the private sector.The plan was adopted at a summit in Vietnam that included the prime ministers of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam, as well as a vice president of Myanmar and the Chinese foreign minister.The Greater Mekong Sub-regional (GMS) economic cooperation program was initiated by the ADB in 1992 and has since mobilized $21 billion, with the bulk going to infrastructure projects."GMS is starting a new era of development with unprecedented opportunities and challenges which require us to have a creative approach with long term and comprehensive vision in order to tap into the internal power of each country while effectively promoting connectivity to create strength resonance across the GMS for rapid economic growth and harmonizing economic and social development with environmental protection," Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said in his opening remarks.The five countries along with China\'s Yunnan province and the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous region with the population of 340 million and combined GDP of $1.3 trillion have recorded one of the world\'s fastest-growing economies.Closing the one-day summit, Phuc said cooperation will remain the driving force the region\'s development."I believe that given the results we have realized as well as our solidarity and determination, GMS cooperation will continue to be part of the cooperation mechanism of the region and will make concrete contribution to the economic and social development of member countries, promote sustainable development and reinforce the peaceful and stable environment in the region," he said.In the meantime, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the world\'s second-biggest economy supports "the multilateral trading system and promotes an open, inclusive and balanced economic globalization that benefits all.""China has long been an advocate of an open world economy. China is committed to win-win cooperation in opening up and firmly opposes trade protectionism," Wang said. "Protectionism harms others without benefiting oneself  it is a one-way street that leads to nowhere. The right approach to address trade disputes is to conduct consultation in line with international rules and as equals."President Donald Trump\'s move last week to impose tariffs on as much as $60 billion on Chinese goods prompted Beijing to consider imposing tariffs on a number of American goods exported into the country.
ADEN   A fire broke out at the Houthi-controlled Yemeni port of Hodeidah early on Saturday, destroying warehouses filled with cooking fuel and foodstuffs, port workers said.They told Reuters that, as of 1100 GMT, fire trucks had not been able to put out the blaze in the warehousing area, which they said appeared to have been caused by an electrical short circuit.Reuters television footage showed thick plumes of smoke rising into the air and fire fighters dousing flames.Hodeidah port, on the Red Sea, handles the bulk of Yemen\'s imports, including critically-needed food and aid supplies. The three-year war in the country, which was already the Arab world\'s poorest, has pushed it to the verge of famine."The fire destroyed huge amounts of fuel and humanitarian aid and foodstuff," a U.N. World Food Programme (WFP) employee told Reuters by telephone, adding that there would be an investigation to determine the cause.The Houthi-run Saba news agency reported the fire at the port, but did not mention the cause.Workers said the warehouses also contained hundreds of thousands of mattresses meant for those displaced by the war, which has killed more than 10,000 people and crippled the economy. The United Nations says that three out of four Yemenis - 22 million civilians - need relief aid.A Saudi-led coalition intervened in Yemen\'s civil war in 2015 to restore the internationally recognized Yemeni government that was forced into exile by the Iran-aligned Houthis.Late year the coalition, under international pressure, eased a three-week blockade imposed on Yemeni ports and airports in November in response to a ballistic missile fired by the Houthis toward the Saudi capital, Riyadh.(Reporting by Mohammed Ghobari in Aden; Writing by Ghaida Ghantous; Andrew Bolton)
BEIRUT   An Israeli drone crashed in southern Lebanon overnight between Friday and Saturday, the Israeli military and Hezbollah\'s al-Manar TV reported."An unmanned Israeli spy plane crashes between the villages of Beit Yahoun and Baraachit," al-Manar reported.A statement from the Israeli military said the drone had crashed because of a technical malfunction. "The incident is currently being reviewed. There is no risk of leaked information, the statement said.Israel and Lebanon\'s Hezbollah last fought a war in 2006. Israeli and U.S. officials say Iran is helping the group build factories to manufacture precision-guided missiles or refit its longer-range missiles with precision guidance systems.The heavily armed Hezbollah joined the Syrian civil war in support of Assad in 2012, and has played a critical part in helping his government defeat Sunni rebels backed by the United States and its regional allies - Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey.Hezbollah has spearheaded a coalition of Tehran-backed Shi\'ite militias that have deployed to Syria from Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Iran\'s expanding power in Syria has caused deep alarm in neighboring Israel.Israel has mounted numerous air strikes in Syria against what it has described as Hezbollah and Iranian targets.Sheikh Naim Qassem, the deputy leader of the Iran-backed Shiite group, told Reuters in an interview on March 15 that Hezbollah does not expect Israel to launch a war for now in Lebanon but that it is prepared for one.(Writing by Tom Perry and Maayan Lubell; Editing by Catherine Evans)
JERUSALEM   The Israeli military says one of its drones has crashed in southern Lebanon because of a technical failure.The military says Saturday's incident is being investigated but that there was no risk of any sensitive information being leaked.Israel typically uses its unmanned aerial vehicles to conduct surveillance and gather intelligence along its borders. The drones have become a regular part of modern warfare and Israel in February shot down an Iranian one that infiltrated its airspace.In September, Israel shot down a Hezbollah surveillance drone that veered too close to the Syrian border with Israel. The military said the unmanned aircraft was Iranian-made and launched from a Damascus airport before it was shot down near the Israeli-controlled side of the Golan Heights.Israel and Hezbollah fought a monthlong war in 2006.
SANAA, Yemen   A massive fire broke out on Saturday and engulfed storage facilities belonging to the World Food Program in the Yemeni Red Sea port city of Hodeida damaging humanitarian aid inside, Yemen\'s official news agency said.Yemen\'s minister of local administration, Abdel-Raqeeb Fatah, was quoted by SABA news agency as saying that the fire destroyed much-needed aid deliveries inside the facilities and called for an investigation.The port of Hodeida, under the control of Shiite rebels, known as Houthis, is vital lifeline for most of Yemen\'s population, which depends on the port for food and medicine.Footage obtained by The Associated Press shows firefighters trying to extinguish the fire which sent clouds of heavy black smoke into the sky. It was not immediately clear how many facilities were damaged by the fire or what caused it."We have contained the fire and tried to not let it expand to other facilities as the area includes factories, companies and storage facilities belonging to businessmen and other organizations," Abdul-Rahman al-Faqih, public relations director of the civil defense Hodeida branch, said. "It (the fire) may have been caused due to negligence."Mohammed Ghalleb, a guard for a storage house in the area, said he saw some light smoke at around dawn but initially thought it was caused due to waste burning."Had the fire been controlled from the beginning, it wouldn\'t have reached this extent," he said.Yemen has been embroiled in a civil war pitting a Saudi-led coalition backing an internationally recognized government against the Iran-backed Houthis since March 2015. The coalition aims to restore the government of self-exiled President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi to power.The three-year stalemated war has damaged Yemen\'s infrastructure, crippled its health system and pushed it to the brink of famine. The country is now the world\'s worst humanitarian crisis, with more than 22.2 million people in need of assistance. Malnutrition, cholera and other diseases have killed or sickened thousands of civilians over the years.
SAN DIEGO   Christian Yelich tied his career high with five hits, and the Milwaukee Brewers swept the San Diego Padres with a 7-3 victory on Saturday night.Yelich scored three times and drove in two runs as Milwaukee improved to 3-0 for the first time since it won its first five games in 2006. Lorenzo Cain had three hits and two RBIs, and Travis Shaw drove in three runs.The Brewers acquired Yelich in a January trade with Miami and signed Cain to an $80 million, five-year contract during free agency, bolstering their outfield with a pair of bold moves.Looks pretty good so far.Yelich had his first three hits off Luis Perdomo (0-1), including a single in the first, a single in the third and an RBI double in the fourth. He then singled off Robbie Erlin in the sixth and added an RBI single in the eighth to chase Erlin, who missed all of 2017 while rehabbing from reconstructive elbow surgery.Yelich set his career high with five hits for the Marlins against Philadelphia on Oct. 3, 2015.Shaw singled in Yelich in the first and brought in Yelich and Cain in the third with a double that bounced over the left-field fence. Cain singled in Yelich in the fourth and added an RBI single in the eighth.Brewers left-hander Brent Suter (1-0) went five innings, allowing three runs and three hits. He combined with Josh Hader and Jacob Barnes on a six-hitter.Freddy Galvis hit a two-run homer for San Diego in the second, and Eric Hosmer doubled home a run in the third.Perdomo allowed five runs and seven hits in four innings.With the Padres facing a right-hander, Ryan Braun was out of the lineup and left-handed hitting Eric Thames started at first and batted leadoff. Braun's impressive three-run homer capped a five-run rally in the ninth inning Friday night that gave Milwaukee an 8-6 win.TRAINER'S ROOMPadres: OF Wil Myers will take two days off because of a sore back.UP NEXTBrewers: Following an off day, RHP Zach Davies is scheduled to start the home opener Monday against RHP Miles Mikolas and the St. Louis Cardinals.Padres: RHP Bryan Mitchell is scheduled to make his Padres debut Monday night in the opener of a home series against Colorado, which will counter with RHP Chad Bettis.
Today in HistoryToday is Saturday, March 31, the 90th day of 2018. There are 275 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On March 31, 1968, at the conclusion of a nationally broadcast address on Vietnam, President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned listeners by declaring, "I shall not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your President."On this date:In 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain issued an edict expelling Jews from Spanish soil, except those willing to convert to Christianity.In 1889, French engineer Gustave Eiffel unfurled the French tricolor from atop the Eiffel Tower, officially marking its completion.In 1917, the United States took formal possession of the Virgin Islands from Denmark.In 1923, the first U.S. dance marathon, held in New York City, ended with Alma Cummings, who had danced with six consecutive male partners, setting a world record of 27 hours on her feet.In 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Emergency Conservation Work Act, which created the Civilian Conservation Corps.In 1943, "Oklahoma!," the first musical play by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, opened on Broadway.In 1958, the Chuck Berry single "Johnny B. Goode" was first released on the Chess label.In 1976, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that Karen Ann Quinlan, a young woman in a persistent vegetative state, could be disconnected from her respirator. (Quinlan, who remained unconscious, died in 1985.)In 1986, 167 people died when a Mexicana Airlines Boeing 727 crashed in a remote mountainous region of Mexico.In 1993, actor Brandon Lee, 28, was accidentally shot to death during the filming of a movie in Wilmington, North Carolina, when he was hit by a bullet fragment that had become lodged inside a prop gun.In 1995, Mexican-American singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, 23, was shot to death in Corpus Christi, Texas, by the founder of her fan club, Yolanda Saldivar, who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison.In 2005, Terri Schiavo (SHY\'-voh), 41, died at a hospice in Pinellas Park, Florida, 13 days after her feeding tube was removed in a wrenching right-to-die dispute.Ten years ago: HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson announced his resignation amid the wreckage of the national housing crisis. A Bahamas jury ruled that Anna Nicole Smith\'s son, Daniel, died from an accidental drug overdose, just like his mother. American movie director Jules Dassin, whose Greek wife, Melina Mercouri, starred in his hit movie "Never on Sunday" and six more of his films, died in Athens at age 96.Five years ago: Pope Francis marked Christianity\'s most joyous day at the Vatican with a passionate plea for world peace as he celebrated his first Easter Sunday as pontiff. The Houston Astros, coming off consecutive 100-loss seasons, made an impressive debut in the American League, trouncing the Texas Rangers 8-2 on opening night.One year ago: President Donald Trump signed a pair of executive orders focused on reducing the U.S. trade deficit; the first order gave the Commerce Department 90 days to assemble a report on the factors behind the trade deficit, while the second sought to increase collection of duties on imports. Evgenia Medvedeva of Russia retained her world figure skating title at the championship in Helsinki. William T. Coleman Jr., a civil rights lawyer who served as transportation secretary during the Ford administration, died in Alexandria, Virginia, at age 96.Today\'s Birthdays: Actor William Daniels is 91. Actor Richard Chamberlain is 84. Actress Shirley Jones is 84. Musician Herb Alpert is 83. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., is 78. Former U.S. Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., is 78. Actor Christopher Walken is 75. Comedian Gabe Kaplan is 74. Sen. Angus King, I-Maine, is 74. Rock musician Mick Ralphs (Bad Company; Mott the Hoople) is 74. Former Vice President Al Gore is 70. Author David Eisenhower is 70. Actress Rhea Perlman is 70. Actor Robbie Coltrane is 68. Actor Ed Marinaro is 68. Rock musician Angus Young (AC/DC) is 63. Actor Marc McClure is 61. Actor William McNamara is 53. Alt-country musician Bob Crawford (The Avett (AY\'-veht) Brothers) is 47. Actor Ewan (YOO\'-en) McGregor is 47. Actress Judi Shekoni is 40. Rapper Tony Yayo is 40. Actress Kate Micucci is 38. Actor Brian Tyree Henry (TV: "Atlanta" Stage: "Book of Mormon") is 36. Actress Melissa Ordway is 35. Jazz musician Christian Scott is 35. Pop musician Jack Antonoff (fun.) is 34. Actress Jessica Szohr is 33.Thought for Today: "Man does not speak because he thinks, he thinks because he speaks."  Octavio Paz, Mexican poet (born this date in 1914, died 1998).
RIYADH   Saudi air defense forces intercepted a missile fired by Houthi fighters in neighboring Yemen at the southern Saudi city of Najran on Saturday, the Saudi-led coalition said.In a statement carried by state news agency SPA the coalition said that according to initial findings an Indian resident was injured by falling debris after the missile was intercepted.The Houthi-run Saba news agency earlier said a missile was fired at a Saudi National Guard base in Najran, and that it had led to "losses in the ranks of the enemy and its military equipment".The Iran-aligned Houthis have launched scores of missiles at the kingdom since the coalition intervened in Yemen\'s civil war in 2015 after the Houthis drove Yemeni President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi into exile.Last week, Saudi air defense forces intercepted a flurry of missiles, and falling debris caused the first death in the capital Riyadh.Saudi Arabia accuses Iran of supplying missile parts and expertise to the Houthis, who have taken over the Yemeni capital Sanaa and other parts of the country. Tehran and the Houthis deny the charge.(Writing by Ghaida Ghantous; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
BEIJING   China will prosecute a former senior provincial official for corruption after an investigation found he illegally accepted gifts and abused his power, the ruling Communist Party\'s anti-graft watchdog said on Saturday.Feng Xinzhu, once a deputy governor of the northwestern province of Shaanxi, was put under investigation in January.In a statement, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said the probe had found Feng had accumulated a huge amount of assets which it suspected were bribes and promoted officials at the request of private companies.Feng has been sacked and expelled from the party and his case has been handed over to legal authorities, the watchdog said, meaning he will be prosecuted.It was not possible to reach Feng or a legal or family representative for comment.President Xi Jinping has waged war on deep-seated corruption since assuming power more than five years ago, vowing to go after lowly "flies" as well as powerful "tigers".(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Kim Coghill)

WASHINGTON   Carolina is a long shot to make the playoffs. Coach Bill Peters is still looking for a strong finish for the Hurricanes.Justin Faulk scored midway through the second period, and Carolina beat the Washington Capitals 4-1 on Friday night to remain in the postseason race.It was the fourth win in five games for the Hurricanes, who haven\'t made the playoffs since 2009. Carolina must win its final four games while Florida and New Jersey lose their remaining games in regulation to play beyond the regular season.Asked if the playoffs were a realistic goal, Peters answered tersely: "No." But Peters believes there are genuine incentives for his team."You\'ve got to play," he said. "These guys are pros. You\'re paid to play."Metropolitan Division-leading Washington had won five in a row. Michal Kempny scored his first goal with the Capitals after he was acquired in a February trade with Chicago."We\'ve been playing great the last month," Capitals forward Devante Smith-Pelly said. "I don\'t want to say this was expected, but a game like this maybe was going to happen eventually. It was probably better tonight than Sunday."Washington visits Pittsburgh on Sunday, and the teams have a long history."Overall, obviously we don\'t like those guys," Smith-Pelly said. "It\'s a huge game. We\'ll be back."Carolina goaltender Scott Darling stopped 20 shots, and Braden Holtby had 26 saves for Washington.Capitals coach Barry Trotz thought his team was simply outplayed."This league is way too good if you have a little bit of an off-night or you\'re not on your \'A\' game, this league can humble you in a very hard way and a quick way," Trotz said. "We didn\'t have enough invested. We didn\'t have enough guys pulling on the rope."Kempny put the Capitals in front at 2:35 of the second, but Carolina\'s Derek Ryan quickly responded. He beat Holtby for his 14th goal at 3:15."There\'s pride on the line," Ryan said. "We\'re not quite in the playoff race. We\'re not eliminated, but we realize where we\'re at. We\'re just continuing to play our game. We\'re not thinking about it. We have four games, so we\'re going to make those games count."Faulk\'s eighth goal of the season put the Hurricanes ahead to stay at 11:43. It was Faulk\'s first goal since he scored three times in a 7-3 victory over the Los Angeles Kings on Feb. 13.Sebastian Aho\'s 28th goal at 14:36 of the third made it 3-1, and Brock McGinn added an empty-netter at 17:50.NOTES: Trotz said he enjoyed the story of emergency goalie Scott Foster\'s outstanding performance for Chicago on Thursday night. Trotz doesn\'t know who the Capitals\' emergency goalies are. "I just know that we have them," Trotz said. "Someone has a phone book with numbers. If you need a goalie, you start phoning. ... I\'d like to meet them, just not on our bench." ... Washington F Lars Eller played in his 600th career game. . Capitals F T.J. Oshie, who had an assist on Kempny\'s goal, logged just 14 minutes of playing time, his lowest since Dec. 30. Trotz said Oshie was being checked for an injury, but wouldn\'t comment on its specifics. ... Carolina D Jaccob Slavin had two assists.UP NEXTHurricanes: Host New York Rangers on SaturdayCapitals: Visit Pittsburgh on Sunday___More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey

SOFIA   Bulgaria needs more time to decide whether to follow NATO and EU allies in expelling Russian diplomats over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy, its deputy prime minister said on Thursday.Bulgaria, current holder of the European Union\'s presidency, recalled its ambassador from Moscow after the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter in England in the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two.But it has stopped short of following most EU members and allies in NATO, including the United States, which have expelled dozens of Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain over the March 4 attack."The political situation in Bulgaria is such that these types of decisions have to be taken by consensus," deputy prime minister Tomislav Donchev told Reuters in an interview."At the moment, for good or bad, there is no such consensus," he said.The diplomatic standoff between the West and Russia has struck a raw nerve in Bulgaria, where one of the junior partners in the coalition government and also the opposition Socialists, favour pursuing good ties with Russia.On Friday Prime Minister Boyko Borissov said the government has expressed its solidarity with its EU and NATO allies, but would not expel Russian diplomats for now as it needed to keep dialogue open with Moscow as an EU chair.Bulgarian deputy foreign minister Juri Sterk met the Russian envoy to Sofia on Friday and expressed Sofia\'s serious concerns over the reports of a possible link of persons and organisations from Russia and the use of a nerve agent in England.Separately, further highlighting the sensitivity of the issue for the coalition, the government issued a statement saying Donchev had not made any "assessments" about the government\'s stance regarding the parties to the Skripal case."BARBARIC" ATTACKBulgaria, which was liberated from Ottoman Turkish rule by Russia, became one of the most obedient Soviet satellite states during the Cold War. Many Bulgarians feel a strong cultural affinity for Russia, with which they share the Cyrillic script and Orthodox Christianity.This legacy translates into a coalition government in which the centre-right GERB party shares power with three smaller nationalist parties which to varying degrees support better ties with Russia and argue that Bulgaria should take a balanced position over the Skripal case.They have opposed a call by a senior GERB official for Bulgaria to follow the lead of its allies and expel Russian diplomats.Both President Rumen Radev and the biggest opposition party, the Socialists, are also insisting that more concrete proof is needed of Russian involvement in the Skripal poisoning."I categorically think these (calls for Bulgaria to expel  Russian diplomats) are a mistake," said Volen Siderov, leader of the pro-Russian, nationalist Attack party, one of GERB\'s junior coalition partners."We have one unclear case. We have no evidence of Russia\'s participation," he said in a statement.Donchev said in his interview that any action undertaken by Bulgaria would be seen as a signal of solidarity with Britain and its allies and also as a signal to Russia.Touching on the domestic political situation, he said: "Taking into account that our government is a coalition... I am not convinced that such a decision can be taken so easily and so quickly."Donchev said Bulgaria would wait for a report from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, adding that Sofia was monitoring developments closely."What happened in Great Britain is ... unacceptable. It is barbaric, it is a chemical weapon, it is a military toxic substance," Donchev said.Referring to Bulgaria\'s history of close ties with Russia, Donchev said: "This is an undeniable fact. History, though, is sometimes a good, and sometimes a bad, teacher in politics."(Additional reporting by Angel Krasimirov; Editing by Richard Balmforth and Gareth Jones)
HANGBERG, South Africa  One man vanished diving at midnight. Another was attacked by a great white shark in deep water. Two more drowned, one in borrowed scuba gear he wasnt qualified to use.All four men, who died over the past few months, were casualties of an entrenched illicit trade: poaching abalone, a seafood delicacy that sells for enormous prices in Asia.The shellfish, which once smothered reefs in South Africa, in some places packed as tightly as cobblestones, has become more difficult to find as a result of overfishing, luring untrained divers into deeper and more deadly waters.The old reefs have been hit too hard and havent had time to recover, said a diver from Hangberg, an impoverished fishing community in Cape Town, who insisted on anonymity because he did not want to alert the police to his poaching.With stocks of the shellfish declining in South Africa, legal quotas on harvesting it are strictly enforced. But in Hangberg, hundreds of families have turned to the abalone black market for income, as factory closings and the demise of commercial fishing have contributed to a spike in unemployment in recent years.Fueling the demand for exports of the mollusk is Chinas rising middle class, increasingly eager to consume high-status foods. For more than 2,000 years, abalone has been served to celebrate special occasions and honor guests, taking a pride of place alongside other luxury ingredients like shark fin and sea cucumber. It has a rich, buttery flavor, and, when prepared correctly, the flesh is tender, though it can be rubbery and tough.One of the worlds most expensive abalone species, Haliotis midae, occurs only on the southern and western shores of South Africa, where its high value, set amid sweeping poverty, has fueled a poaching epidemic since the end of apartheid in the early 1990s.When abalone was more plentiful closer to shore, the greatest threat to poachers was arrest, and the authorities continue to patrol the remaining patches where the mollusk can still be found.Despite the prospect of fines and prison terms, poachers are driven by a strong economic incentive because abalone fetches high prices. As a result, abalone smuggling has become an important part of the underground economy in many fishing communities.While first-time offenders may face fines as low as $10, the penalties for kingpins can rise to $10,000, with prison sentences exceeding 15 years. But for most poachers, jail terms are seldom longer than a year, and convictions are rare in South Africas overburdened court system.Over the years, the diver from Hangberg said, he has upgraded his house with the money earned from poaching, adding extra rooms and a watertight metal roof, and it stands apart from the lopsided shanties of his neighbors.But now resource depletion is changing the risk calculus, with divers forced to try to find abalone in turbulent waters and areas known to be frequented by sharks, making death a bigger part of the poaching equation.Abalone have been harvested heavily in kelp beds, so now poachers try rougher areas or deeper and more exposed places, said Serge Raemaekers, a researcher from the University of Cape Town, who has studied the abalone trade.One community, about 100 miles east of Cape Town, has been hit especially hard as divers venture into some of the most dangerous waters in the world.In a desolate informal settlement near the town of Gansbaai, divers with no historical connection to the fishing industry have taken to swimming nearly two miles out to Dyer Island, a global hot spot for shark cage diving, to hunt in comparatively untouched abalone beds.Last September, one diver, Sivuyile Xelela, was dragged to his death by a great white shark in front of other poachers.Despite the risk of such violent death, poaching has become an important source of revenue here. Before, when we were working on the farms here, we were hungry, said Thami, a diver from the community, who insisted on using only his first name because he feared prosecution for poaching.Formal employment is hard to find in the township, a clutch of small government homes and metal shacks at the end of a dirt track, and many men have begun diving for abalone, residents said.The work is very dangerous, but the men do it for the money, said a local priest, Jonathan Xama. In church we pray for their safety. This is not a good job for anybody, and we also pray that they find something better.Within a month of the September shark attack, two more local divers, Bradley Fick and Waylon Love, had drowned, one at Dyer Island and one in the nearby fishing community of Hawston. Both had recently begun using scuba equipment without proper training, friends and family said, in order to access abalone on deeper reefs.In February, Raeburn Jansson died trying to poach abalone in the waters off Cape Town. His widow told local news media that he was trying to earn money to fend off the threat of the couples four children being taken by social services.Divers at the start of the poaching supply chain say they earn around $15 a pound of shucked meat.A decent harvest of 35 pounds can bring $525, almost double South Africas monthly minimum wage, $295. When abalone was more abundant, it was common for divers to harvest 150 pounds or more on a single diving trip.For commercial divers working for legal abalone fisheries, the work is done under safer conditions, for less pay.Once harvested, the shellfish enters a network of buyers and middlemen, and is predominantly shipped to Hong Kong, where dried South African abalone is worth over $200 a pound, meaning large profits for those further up the supply chain.According to Markus Burgener, a senior program officer with Traffic, a nonprofit organization that monitors wildlife smuggling, poachers have stripped more than 40,000 tons of abalone from South African waters since 2000.Some 3,500 tons were poached in 2016, Mr. Burgener said, more than 30 times the entire legal catch. Poaching has been steadily increasing, he said.Quotas for the legal abalone fishery have been slashed by nearly 85 percent since the mid-1990s, with three formerly productive zones closed entirely to fishing.Illegal harvesting will eventually lead to commercial extinction, where the fishery ceases to be viable at all, said Peter J. Britz, a marine biologist at Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa.Yet, the syndicates controlling the poaching have shown little interest in sustainability: They are Chinese criminal groups who source abalone from local street gangs, often in exchange for drugs like methamphetamine, according to police officials and a report from the Institute for Security Studies.In Cape Town, on a recent hot afternoon in South Africas summer, four poachers from Hangberg scrambled down some granite boulders near Clifton, a beach crowded with vacationers. The men, who were carrying a cooler to disguise their catch as a picnic, were gambling on finding undisturbed abalone beds in a highly visible area.Three of them pulled on tattered wet suits as the fourth kept watch; a few minutes later, they splashed into the frigid water with snorkels and began hunting for perlemoen, the Afrikaans term for abalone, derived from mother-of-pearl, for the shells inner sheen.In the kelp beds they descended to peer into rocky cracks, jabbing flat metal levers to dislodge the small creatures they found. Yet the abalone was scarce, and they got only enough to earn around $120 each  barely worth the risk, they said.Too many divers, they said, had been there already. Next time, they would have to go farther out.
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone   Voting appeared to be peaceful on Saturday in Sierra Leone\'s runoff presidential election, which had been delayed by a few days after a court challenge of the first round.Turnout in the West African nation was lower than in the first round on March 7. Security was tight and many streets were quiet for the holiday weekend.The winner of the runoff will be tasked with helping Sierra Leone continue to rebuild after the devastating 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic as well as a deadly mudslide in August that claimed some 1,000 lives in the capital, Freetown.The runoff vote had been set for Tuesday but was delayed after a ruling party member filed a court challenge alleging irregularities in the first round and a temporary injunction was issued, stalling preparations. The high court lifted the injunction early this week and the election commission asked for a few more days to prepare.The opposition Sierra Leone Peoples Party, which took 43.3 percent to the ruling All Peoples Congress party\'s 42.7 in the first round, has not held the presidency since 2007.The opposition called the court challenge a delaying tactic and its candidate Julius Maada Bio, a former military leader, accused President Ernest Bai Koroma and the ruling party of "pushing us to the point of chaos in the country."Koroma has served two terms and is barred by the constitution from running again.Bio, who is making his second bid for the presidency after losing in 2012, stands to pick up votes from the 14 candidates eliminated in the first round.The election is the fourth since Sierra Leone\'s brutal civil war ended in 2002, and the previous vote in 2012 was largely peaceful."We do not need any violence or confusion," said one voter, Tenneh Kamara. "All we need is to improve things for our nation so that we will be proud as citizens of this, our country."___
BEIJING   The Chinese government will spend 1.875 billion yuan ($298.92 million) to improve irrigation systems in the heavily ethnic Uighur southern part of the violence-prone far western region of Xinjiang, state news agency Xinhua said on Saturday.The government has increasingly turned its focus to development in southern Xinjiang in recent years, in an implicit recognition of the economic causes of some of the unrest there.Xinjiang, a huge region bordering Central Asia, has long been a security worry for Beijing, which has led a massive clamp down after deadly bouts of ethnic violence it blames on Islamist and separatist extremists amongst the Uighur population.Xinhua said the funds will be used to upgrade irrigation facilities and promote water-saving technology to boost farm output in southern Xinjiang, where it said most the region\'s poorest people live.Southern Xinjiang is a major producer of cotton and fruit."However, a lack of water and outdated irrigation systems have long hampered agricultural development in the region," Xinhua said. It did not provide a timeframe for the investment.Aksu, Kashgar and Hotan in southern Xinjiang are among the poorest parts of China, with more than 1.6 million people living below the poverty line as of the end of 2017, the report added.These three areas have also been at the epicenter of what China terms its war on terror, with hundreds having died in violence over the past few years.The Uighurs are a mostly Muslim people who speak a Turkic language.Rights groups and exiled Uighurs say repressive Chinese government policies are more to blame for the unrest than any organized Islamist or separatist groups. China denies any repression in Xinjiang.But recognizing the economic roots of some of the violence and frustration of many young Uighurs at missing out on China\'s economic boom, Beijing has increased its focus on southern Xinjiang, pumping in money and encouraging development.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Kim Coghill)
VANCOUVER, British Columbia   Thatcher Demko couldn\'t stop grinning the whole game in his first NHL start despite giving up the tying goals before the Vancouver Canucks won it in overtime.Alex Edler scored 1:21 into the extra period and Demko finished with 26 saves in the Canucks\' wild 5-4 win over the Columbus Blue Jackets on Saturday."I just tried to enjoy it," the 22-year-old Demko said. "I had a blast. ... Even when they scored on three consecutive shots I was still smiling. It was a lot of fun to be part of it."On the winning goal, Edler picked up a loose puck in the Blue Jackets\' end, waited patiently, then beat Columbus goalie Joonas Korpisalo with a shot to the far side."I knew we had a 2-on-1," Edler said. "I wanted to pass it but it just wasn\'t there."Jussi Jokinen had a goal and two assists against his former team, and Darren Archibald, Bo Horvat and Nikolay Goldobin also scored for the Canucks, who tied a season-high with their fourth straight win and fifth in six games after a seven-game skid.The Blue Jackets erased a 4-1 deficit by scoring three goals in 2:37 late in the third period to tie it.Pierre-Luc Dubois started the comeback with a power-play goal with just under four minites remaining, Zach Werenski pulled Columbus within one with 1:37 left and Cam Atkinson tied it 16 seconds later."We\'re a team that regardless of the score we are never out of the fight," said Atkinson. "We\'re still fighting for our lives, so we can\'t afford to take our foot off the gas pedal for a second. When we did, it showed."Seth Jones had a goal and three assists, Artemi Panari had four assists and Korpisalo finished with 24 saves for the Blue Jackets, who are 12-1-1 in their last 14 games as they try to pass Pittsburgh for second place in the Metropolitan Division.Columbus coach John Tortorella was happy his team didn\'t quit."There were a number of guys that struggled, some big guys that struggled, but those last few minutes some big guys stood up," he said. "No matter what happened we found a way to get a point."Demko, picked 36th overall in the 2014 draft, was called up from Utica of the AHL because backup goalie Anders Nilsson has the flu. He arrived in Vancouver late Friday night, then was in net for the game which started at 1 p.m. Vancouver time."My body was pretty confused," he said. "I was almost too tired to be nervous."Demko looked tight early in the game. Just 19 seconds into the first period Atkinson blasted a shot that hit the crossbar behind him. Four shots hit the post."I think the posts are bigger up here than they are in the AHL," Demko said.By the second period, Demko seemed more relaxed and looked sharp getting a pad on Atkinson\'s shot during a 3-on-1 Columbus breakaway."I thought he looked good," Canucks coach Travis Green said. "I don\'t think he looked out of place. ... He\'s confident enough to do what he does."Jokinen gave Vancouver a 3-1 lead at 5:14 of the third period. He took Jake Virtanen\'s pass from behind the net and sent a shot over Korpisalo\'s blocker. It was Jokinen\'s third goal since coming to Vancouver along with center Tyler Motte at the trade deadline in a deal that sent Thomas Vanek to Columbus."Every time you play against your old team you want to show they made a mistake letting you go," Jokinen said. "For sure I had extra motivation."He also assisted on Horvat\'s goal later in the period, giving him five assists and eight points in 11 games with the Canucks.The Canucks scored goals 1:44 apart in the second period to take a 2-1 lead.Archibald tied it at 11:53. His shot from the faceoff circle looked to be tipped by a Columbus defenseman. Korpisalo still managed to get a piece of the puck but it went off his glove and into the net. Ashton Saunter, another callup from Utica, earned an assist for his first NHL point.Goldobin put Vancouver ahead on a pretty give-and-go with Jokinen, scoring his sixth of the season on a sharp-angle shot.The Blue Jackets opened the scoring at 13:55 of the first period, just seven seconds after Daniel Sedin was called for tripping. Jones scored after taking a pass from Atkinson and ripping a shot from the blue line. Demko looked slow at moving across his crease on the play.NOTES: Jones\' two-point night gave him 54 points, setting a Columbus record for a defenseman. ... Blue Jacket D Markus Nutivaara left the game in the second period with an upper-body injury. ... Sedin\'s 54 penalty minutes is the most in his 17-year career with the Canucks. He had 50 minutes in 2007-08. ... The last time Vancouver won four consecutive games was Oct. 20-26.UP NEXTBlue Jackets: Host Detroit on Tuesday night.Canucks: Host Vegas on Tuesday night.
RALEIGH, N.C.   Drive past clustered hog sheds containing thousands of animals in the country\'s No. 2 pork-producing state on the wrong day and the reason hundreds of North Carolina neighbors are suing in federal court is clear: it really stinks.The question facing jurors in a federal lawsuit starting Monday is whether the open-air animal waste pits that proliferated over a generation generate intense smells, clouds of flies and noise.The trial\'s outcome could shake the profits and change production methods of pork producers who have enjoyed legislative protection and promotion in one of the nation\'s food hubs. Supporters see industrial-scale hog complexes as generating jobs and revenues in rural communities. Friendly lawmakers last year sought to retroactively sink the lawsuits by more than 500 neighbors now lined up to go to trial one after another.Neighbors like Randy Davis contend the industry\'s long practice of storing liquid waste in what producers call lagoons, then spraying treated excrement onto nearby fields as fertilizer, spells misery for them."A lagoon is something that a pretty 15-year-old in the South Pacific swims in," said Davis, a state employee whose Green County home is about is about  mile (1.15 kilometers) from the nearest impoundment. "This is not a lagoon. It\'s a cesspool. It\'s a 9-acre feces and urine pit."The plaintiffs\' attorneys also say that information uncovered about company influence campaigns show their "knowledge of the harmful health effects of its hog operations," the inadequacy of regulations to address those health effects, and the availability of feasible alternatives.Pork producers say they not only care about their rural neighbors, but their operations are inspected annually to make sure they comply with environmental regulations. There are 14 state inspectors checking 2,100 hog operations.Hog growers are keeping an eye on the litigation that could force them to make changes or part with big payouts."Certainly we\'re watching it. There\'s some levels of concern in particular as it relates to possible impact to the economy" of the rural communities where the farms operate and pay wages, said Andy Curliss, CEO of the North Carolina Pork Council, a trade group.The upcoming string of federal lawsuits target Murphy-Brown LLC, the hog production division of Virginia\'s Smithfield Foods. Smithfield was bought in 2013 by a division of China-based WH Group, the world\'s largest pork producer. China, with higher feed and labor costs than American pork producers, is one of the fastest-growing markets for U.S. exports and including Hong Kong now makes up about 9 percent, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department.The cases are being overseen by Judge W. Earl Britt, who was born 86 years ago in a town of about 130 people along the South Carolina border and joined the court in 1980 after Democratic President Jimmy Carter\'s nomination.The first case to be tried next week involves 10 neighbors of Kinlaw Farm, a Bladen County hog operation located 10 miles (16 kilometers) east of a massive Smithfield Foods slaughterhouse. The farm and its owners, who raise hogs under contract with Murphy-Brown, are not defendants. Instead, the target is the company that set specific standards of how the farm must operate.The neighbors\' lawyers hand-picked the plaintiffs for this first trial. A second trial starting later this spring will involve parties selected by hog industry lawyers. The two sides will alternate choosing the players for further trials.Such test cases allow lawyers to measure the strength of their evidence. The resulting verdicts - and any financial penalties - create guiderails for a possible settlement, said Christopher Seeger, a New York attorney who helped negotiate a $4.85 billion settlement over the health risks of arthritis painkiller Vioxx.Perhaps more important in shaping the ultimate resolution are the precedent-setting decisions judges make to accept some evidence and keep other details from jurors, Seeger said. Hog industry attorneys say the trial should be strictly limited to whether the 10 suing neighbors are suffering with a foul nuisance. They don\'t want jurors to hear about alternative disposal hog waste methods used elsewhere, industry lobbying, or evidence of Chinese ownership."You generate data from these bellwether trials that are very informative," Seeger said. "Where people would get more, where people would get less" based on how evidence persuades jurors.____Follow Emery P. Dalesio at http://twitter.com/emerydalesio. His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/emery-p-dalesio .____Associated Press writer Allen G. Breed contributed to this story.
PHILADELPHIA   It\'s Philadelphia\'s other bell, the bigger, uncracked twin of the Liberty Bell. Britain bestowed the Bicentennial Bell to the city as a gift for America\'s 200th birthday, but it\'s been out of sight and out of mind since 2013. Now, a nonprofit group is hoping to bust the bell out of storage and put it on proper display, just a few blocks away from its better-known relative.Here are some details:WHAT IS THE BICENTENNIAL BELL?The 6-ton bell was cast at the Whitechapel Bell Foundry in London, the same 16th century foundry that cast the Liberty Bell.It was presented to Philadelphia in 1976 by Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip, who disembarked from the royal yacht Britannia (fans of the Netflix royal drama "The Crown" might remember the ship from Philip\'s four-month tour around the Pacific in 1956) on July 6 at Penn\'s Landing on the Delaware River. Their arrival marked the first time a British monarch had visited Philadelphia, birthplace of the Declaration of Independence that severed the Colonies\' ties from the crown.The queen, a direct descendant of the patriots\' nemesis King George III, indicated there were no hard feelings. She told a crowd of 20,000 that the founding fathers taught her country "to respect the right of others to govern themselves in their own way."On the bell is an inscription reading:"For The People of The United States of AmericaFrom the People of Britain4 July 1976Let Freedom Ring"___WHY WAS IT REMOVED?The bell was hung in a red brick tower at what was then the visitors\' center of Independence National Park, built expressly for the bicentennial. The National Park Service removed it in 2013 because the building and tower were being demolished to make way for the Museum of the American Revolution, which will celebrate its first anniversary April 19. The bell was crated up and stored in an undisclosed location, waiting for a new home.___WHAT ARE THE PLANS?A nonprofit group that supports projects around Independence Park has a new campaign to relocate the Bicentennial Bell to a garden at the corner of Third and Walnut streets, in Philadelphia\'s Old City neighborhood. It\'s currently called the Benjamin Rush Garden, on the site of what once was the founding father\'s home. So far, they have a conceptual design, and are in the midst of raising funds , said Tom Caramanico, the executive director of the Friends of Independence National Historical Park.Caramanico said he hopes interest in the group\'s other project , restoring the First Bank of the United States, will help bolster interest in the bell project, since they are nearby.It would be called the Bicentennial Bell Garden and feature the bell in the center, a small plaque featuring Queen Elizabeth\'s speech and benches and other plantings."This project will achieve the goal that was set when the Bicentennial Bell was cast in 1976: to show the world that two great nations that started in strife and war can become great partners and allies," the group said in a statement.
MOSCOW   Russia expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries on Friday and said it reserved the right to take action against four other nations in a worsening standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.Russia said it was responding to what it called the baseless demands for scores of its own diplomats to leave a slew of mostly Western countries that have joined London and Washington in censuring Moscow over the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.A day earlier, Moscow ordered the expulsion of 60 U.S. diplomats and the closing of the U.S. consulate in St Petersburg, Russia\'s second city, in retaliation for the biggest ejection of diplomats since the Cold War.Preparations appeared to be under way on Friday to close the St Petersburg mission down, with a removals truck making repeated journeys to and from the consulate which took delivery of a large pizza order for its staff.Russia summoned senior envoys on Friday from most of the other countries that have expelled Russian diplomats and told them it was expelling a commensurate number of theirs.Russia has already retaliated in kind against Britain for ejecting 23 diplomats over the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two. British ambassador Laurie Bristow was summoned again on Friday.The Russian Foreign Ministry said Bristow had been told London had just one month to cut its diplomatic contingent in Russia to the same size as the Russian mission in Britain.A spokeswoman for the British Foreign Office did not say how many British diplomats would be affected, but said Russia\'s response was regrettable and Moscow was in flagrant breach of international law over the killing of the former spy.The poisoning, in southern England, has united much of the West in taking action against what it regards as the hostile policies of President Vladimir Putin. This includes the United States under President Donald Trump, who Putin had hoped would improve ties.Russia rejects Britain\'s accusation it stood behind the attack and has cast the allegations as part of an elaborate Western plot to sabotage East-West relations and isolate Moscow.The hospital where she is being treated said on Thursday that Yulia Skripal was getting better after spending three weeks in a critical condition due to the nerve toxin attack. Her father remains in a critical but stable condition.The BBC, citing sources, reported on Friday that Yulia was "conscious and talking".EXPULSIONSDuring the course of Friday, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned senior embassy officials from Australia, Albania, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, the Netherlands, Croatia, Ukraine, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Canada and the Czech Republic.All were seen arriving in their official cars at the Foreign Ministry\'s gothic building in Moscow."They (the diplomats) were handed protest notes and told that in response to the unwarranted demands of the relevant states on expelling Russian diplomats ... that the Russian side declares the corresponding number of staff working in those countries\' embassies in the Russian Federation persona non grata," the ministry said in a statement.Four other countries -- Belgium, Hungary, Georgia and Montenegro -- had only "at the last moment" announced that they too were expelling Russian diplomats over the Skripal affair, and Moscow reserved the right to take retaliatory action against them too, it said.Emerging from the Foreign Ministry building, German ambassador Rudiger von Fritsch said Russia had questions to answer about the poisoning of Skripal, but Berlin remained open to dialogue with Moscow.The U.S State Department said after Russia announced the expulsions on Thursday evening that it reserved the right to respond further, saying the list of diplomats designated for expulsion by Russia showed Moscow was not interested in diplomacy.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, disagreed with that assessment, saying that Putin still favoured mending ties with other countries, including with the United States.(This version of the story refiles identifying location of reporter Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh, not London. No changes to story text)(Additional reporting by Maria Kiselyova, Maxim Rodionov and Christian Lowe in Moscow, Toby Sterling in The Hague, Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh, Steve Scherer in Rome and Jussi Rosendahl in Helsinki; Writing by Andrew Osborn; Editing by Edmund Blair and Peter Graff)
LOS ANGELES   President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation, including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.In a tweet , Trump referred to Brown as "Moonbeam," referencing a nickname a newspaper columnist coined for him in the 1970s. Trump then listed the ex-convicts\' crimes before they were pardoned Friday. They include misdemeanor domestic violence, drug possession, and kidnapping and robbery.Trump wrote: "Is this really what the great people of California want?"A spokesman for Brown responded to a request for comment with more information about the five men but did not directly address Trump\'s criticism.In a news release about the pardons on Friday, the governor\'s office said that "those granted pardons all completed their sentences years ago and the majority were convicted of drug-related or other non-violent crimes.""Pardons are not granted unless they are earned," the governor\'s office said.Brown\'s pardons marked the third time the Democrat has intervened on behalf of immigrants who were deported or faced deportation over convictions. Brown has accused the Trump administration of "basically going to war" with California over immigration policy.Brown\'s pardons don\'t automatically stop deportation proceedings, but eliminate the convictions on which authorities based their deportation.Trump has been criticized for his own pardon, that of former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted last year of a misdemeanor contempt charge for flouting the courts in carrying out his signature immigration patrols.Trump\'s pardon spared Arpaio from a possible jail sentence. The 85-year-old longtime lawman announced a run for Senate in January.Those pardoned Friday by Brown included Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach, who face deportation to Cambodia, a country ruled in the 1970s by the genocidal Khmer Rouge. Chhan was convicted of two counts of misdemeanor domestic violence in 2002 and served about a year in jail.Pheach was convicted of possessing drugs and obstructing a police officer in 2005 and served six months in jail. His wife said he is in federal custody.Also pardoned was Daniel Maher, who served five years in prison stemming from the 1994 armed robbery of a San Jose auto parts store. He was convicted of kidnapping, robbery and being a felon in possession of a firearm in the case.Maher is facing deportation to China, where he has never lived. Maher is from Macau, which became part of China after his family immigrated to California when he was 3.Also pardoned while facing deportation were Daniel Mena and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz. Mena served three years of probation after being convicted of possessing illegal drugs in 2003. Alaniz served five months in prison for a 1997 car theft conviction.The governor is a former Jesuit seminarian and traditionally issues pardons close to major Christian holidays. Easter falls on Sunday.California\'s longest-serving governor has now issued 1,519 pardons, including 404 during his first two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983.___Associated Press writer Janie Har contributed to this report from San Francisco. Elias reported from San Francisco.
FREETOWN   Sierra Leone voted on Saturday in a poll delayed by fraud allegations to choose a successor to President Ernest Bai Koroma who leaves a country struggling after the Ebola epidemic and a commodity price crash.The face-off between opposition leader Julius Maada Bio and ruling party standard-bearer Samura Kamara was supposed to take place on Tuesday but was rescheduled after a complaint about ballot tampering in the first round of voting this month from a member of Kamara\'s All People\'s Congress.Neither is a clear front runner after a first round that Maada Bio narrowly won with 43.3 percent of the votes versus 42.7 for Kamara, short of the 50 percent needed for outright victory. Counting had begun on Saturday evening and the elections commission said a result would be announced in the coming days.Whoever succeeds Koroma, who is stepping aside after his maximum two five-year terms in office, faces an uphill struggle to overturn years of hardship. A slump in the price of its commodity exports since 2015 and the Ebola crisis in 2014 and 2015 crippled the economy, which shrank by a fifth in 2015."I want a better country, I want development for my country, so today I come to cast my vote for a leader who can develop this country," said Mohamed Kamara after casting his vote at a polling station in western Freetown.Voting was completed on a hot and humid day in mostly peaceful conditions though there were clashes between supporters in at least one polling station, according to witnesses. On the streets of Lumley in western Freetown, police opened fire during a violent dispute. A Reuters witness said no one was killed.Many voters complained that a heavy police presence inside polling stations had deterred people from casting their ballot.Staff at two polling stations said turnout was lower than in the first round. Many were forced to walk to their nearest voting station because of a driving ban imposed on election day for security reasons."There is low turnout in different parts of the country because of the huge presence of security forces," Julius Maada Bio said after voting in Freetown.President Koroma also noted the low turnout when he spoke in Freetown, and urged people to head to their polling stations.Concern about policing comes after the National Electoral Commission last week said that police had tried to intimidate staff in the run-up to the election.Speaking to the media, army spokesman Major Paow Kagbo said the military personnel were there to ensure the election was "free and fair".Politics in the West African country of over seven million people has been dominated by two parties: the ruling All People\'s Congress, now fielding ex-foreign minister Samura Kamara, and the Sierra Leone People\'s Party behind Julius Maada Bio, who briefly ruled as head of a military junta in 1996.The generally peaceful nature of the election, and the fact Koroma is stepping down while some other African presidents seek to extend their mandates, is seen as a positive sign for Sierra Leone that was ripped apart by a 1990s civil war.(Additional reporting by Christo Johnson; Writing by Edward McAllister; Editing by Stephen Powell)

CARDIFF   Britain\'s Anthony Joshua moved a step closer to becoming undisputed heavyweight champion of the world on Saturday after beating New Zealander Joseph Parker on a unanimous points decision in their title unification bout.The 2012 Olympic champion, taken to 12 rounds for the first time in his professional career after 20 previous knockouts, added Parker\'s WBO belt to his own WBA Super, IBF and IBO titles.The three judges scored it 118-110, 118-110 and 119-109 to Joshua, leaving only Deontay Wilder\'s WBC title still to conquer."Wilder. Let\'s go baby, let\'s go," shouted Joshua from inside the ring to raucous cheers from the 78,000 crowd packing Cardiff\'s Principality Stadium, also namechecking Tyson Fury as another possible opponent."Do I want to become undisputed heavyweight champion of the world? IBO, WBO, IBF, WBA...I\'m not into the hype, I\'m about business. So let\'s get the business done."Let\'s see what the future holds, I\'m down for whatever, whenever," added the Briton, making clear he wanted Wilder to face him in Britain rather than Las Vegas.The American was not among those present, despite being invited by organizers, the undefeated champion opting to watch from afar instead.STICK BEHIND THE JABBoth fighters had stepped into the ring undefeated, with Joshua weighing in six pounds heavier than his shorter opponent and with a longer reach.If some had expected an early knockout it did not pan out that way, even if Joshua could be said to have controlled most of the 12 rounds by using his jab and left hooks to telling effect.Apart from an explosive sixth round, with both trading some stinging blows, neither looked likely to buckle with Parker showing more staying power than any of Joshua\'s previous opponents.The referee also intervened repeatedly, breaking up the fight whenever the fighting livened up and calling a time out in the ninth with Joshua returning to his corner to tighten up his gloves."My strategy in there was to stick behind the jab," said Joshua."It\'s one of the most important weapons. The old saying is the right hand can take you around the block, but a good jab will take you around the world. And that secured me another world title belt," he added."I know the bookies say I might get a knockout...but forget the hype, Joseph Parker is a world champion. So I knew he was going to be determined. So this does become a boxing match, not a fight."Joseph Parker stated this would be war, I stated this would be boxing finesse. I stuck to my word and I controlled it behind the jab, the counter-punches."The 26-year-old New Zealander, who had been led into the ring by Samoan chiefs under a barrage of strobe lights before Joshua walked in to the sound of \'Paid in Full\' and \'Another One Bites the Dust\', was gracious in defeat."Today I got beaten by a better champion, a bigger man," he said."I\'m going to come back stronger. No regrets, take it on the chin. Better man on the day."I would love to have another go."(Reporting by Alan Baldwin in London, editing by Ed Osmond/Peter Rutherford)
GAZA CITY  Israel will target militant groups inside Gaza if violence along the territorys border with Israel drags on, the chief military spokesman warned on Saturday, a day after 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire in the areas deadliest violence in four years.The violence significantly diminished Saturday as just small groups of Palestinians threw stones in several areas near the border fence, drawing Israeli fire that injured 25 people, the Gaza Health Ministry said.Fridays mass marches were largely led by Gazas ruling Hamas group and touted as the start of a six-week-long protest campaign against a stifling decade-old blockade of the territory.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel congratulated soldiers Saturday for allowing the rest of the country to celebrate the Passover holiday safely.Israel is acting determinedly and decisively to protect its sovereignty and the security of its citizens, he said.Palestinian health officials said 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire and more than 750 hit by live rounds Friday, making it the bloodiest day in Gaza since the 2014 cross-border war between Israel and Hamas.In Fridays confrontations, large crowds gathered near the fence, with smaller groups of protesters rushing forward, throwing stones and burning tires.Israeli troops responded with live fire and rubber-coated steel pellets, while drones dropped tear gas from above.On Saturday, the chief army spokesman, Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, said that while thousands of Palestinians approached the border Friday, those engaged in stone-throwing were in the hundreds.General Manelis denied soldiers used excessive force, saying those killed by Israeli troops were men between the ages of 18 and 30 who were involved in violence and belonged to militant factions. He said Gaza health officials exaggerated the number of wounded, and that several dozen at most had been injured by live fire, with others suffering from tear gas inhalation or other types of injuries.Shifa Hospital in Gaza City received 284 injured people Friday, the majority with bullet injuries, said a spokesman, Ayman Sahbani. He said 70 were under the age of 18.Mr. Sahbani said 40 surgeries were performed Friday and that 50 were planned Saturday. These are all from live bullets that broke limbs or caused deep, open wounds with damage to nerves and veins, he said.General Manelis said that Hamas and other Gaza militant groups are using the protests as a cover for staging attacks. If violence goes on, we will not be able to continue limiting our activity to the fence area and will act against these terror organizations in other places too, he said.The border protests were seen as an attempt by Hamas to break the border blockade, imposed by Israel and Egypt after the Islamic militant group seized Gaza in 2007 from forces loyal to its rival, President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority.At the United Nations, Secretary General Antnio Guterres called for an independent investigation, while Security Council members urged restraint on both sides.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip   Israel will target militant groups inside Gaza if violence along the territory\'s border with Israel drags on, the chief military spokesman warned on Saturday, a day after 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire in the area\'s deadliest violence in four years.The violence significantly petered down Saturday as just small groups of Palestinians threw stones in several areas near the border fence, drawing Israeli fire that injured 25 people, the Gaza Health Ministry said.Friday\'s mass marches were largely led by Gaza\'s ruling Hamas group and touted as the launch of a six-week-long protest campaign against a stifling decade-old blockade of the territory.Protests are aiming to culminate in a large border march on May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel founding. The date is mourned by Palestinians as their "nakba,"or catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands were uprooted in the 1948 Mideast war over Israel\'s creation.Organizers set up five tent encampments, each several hundred meters from the border to serve as launch points for protest.Some young men broke away Saturday, throwing stones at Israeli soldiers on the other side of the fence, drawing live rounds and tear gas.In two separate incidents, an Associated Press reporter saw two men who walked close to the fence get shot in the legs by soldiers.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu congratulated the soldiers Saturday for allowing the rest of the country to celebrate the Passover holiday safely."Israel is acting determinedly and decisively to protect its sovereignty and the security of its citizens," he said.Palestinian health officials said 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire and more than 750 hit by live rounds Friday, making it the bloodiest day in Gaza since the 2014 cross-border war between Israel and Hamas.It appears unlikely protests will continue at such a scale, with larger turnouts only expected after Friday noon prayers, the highlight of the Muslim religious week.In Friday\'s confrontations, large crowds had gathered near the fence, with smaller groups of protesters rushing forward, throwing stones and burning tires.Israeli troops responded with live fire and rubber-coated steel pellets, while drones dropped tear gas from above. Soldiers with rifles were perched on high earthen embankments overlooking the scene.Israel\'s military initially claimed Friday that "thousands of Palestinians are rioting in six locations throughout the Gaza Strip, rolling burning tires and hurling stones." Video released by the army appeared to show fewer actually engaged in direct violence.On Saturday, the chief army spokesman, Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, said that while thousands of Palestinians approached the border Friday, those engaged in stone-throwing were in the hundreds.Manelis denied soldiers used excessive force, saying those killed by Israeli troops were men between the ages of 18 and 30 who were involved in violence and belonged to militant factions. The army later released the names and ages of 10 of the dead, including eight members of Hamas and two from other militant groups.Manelis alleged Gaza health officials exaggerated the number of wounded, and that several dozen at most were injured by live fire, with others suffering from tear gas inhalation or other types of injuries.Manelis said soldiers knew who they were shooting at and how many people were hit by live fire.The Gaza Health Ministry did not provide names and ages of those killed.Four of the 15 dead were members of the Hamas military wing, the group said Saturday. The group said a fifth member who was not on the Health Ministry list was killed near the border, and that Israel has the body. It said another man is also missing in the border area.Gaza City\'s Shifa Hospital received 284 injured people Friday, the majority with bullet injuries, said spokesman Ayman Sahbani. He said 70 were under the age of 18 and 11 were women.He said 40 surgeries were performed Friday and that 50 were planned Saturday. "These are all from live bullets that broke limbs or caused deep, open wounds with damage to nerves and veins," he said.Among those recovering from surgery was 16-year-old Marwan Yassin who said he had thrown stones with a slingshot at the fence Friday and was shot in both legs. One leg was wrapped in bandages and the other had a cast and metal fixtures.Yassin said he would not return to the border because of the risks. His mother said at his bedside that she would forbid him from participating in future protests.Protest organizers have said mass marches would continue until the day of the "nakba," an anniversary with particular resonance in Gaza where the vast majority of 2 million residents are descendants of refugees. The day, May 15, will this year also coincide with the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.Manelis reiterated Saturday that Israel "will not allow a massive breach of the fence into Israeli territory."He said that Hamas and other Gaza militant groups are using protests as a cover for staging attacks. If violence continues, "we will not be able to continue limiting our activity to the fence area and will act against these terror organizations in other places too," he said.The border protests were seen as a new attempt by Hamas to break the border blockade, imposed by Israel and Egypt after the Islamic militant group seized Gaza in 2007 from forces loyal to its rival, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. The continued closure has made it increasingly difficult for Hamas to govern.Life in the coastal strip has deteriorated further in recent months, with rising unemployment, grinding poverty and daily blackouts that last for hours.The prospect of more protests and Palestinian casualties in coming weeks could also place Israel on the defensive.At the United Nations, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an independent investigation, while Security Council members urged restraint on both sides. The council didn\'t decide on any action or joint message after an emergency meeting Friday evening.Abbas, the West Bank-based leader, renewed a call for international protection of Palestinians.In the West Bank, shopkeepers observed a commercial strike called by political activists Saturday to protest Israel\'s response to the Gaza marches.___Heller reported from Tel Aviv, Israel. Associated Press writer Karin Laub in Ramallah, West Bank, contributed to this report.
MOSCOW   Moscow has told Britain it must cut just over 50 more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia as a standoff deepened over the poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter in England, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.Moscow also demanded an official explanation for the search of a Russian passenger plane in London, saying it reserved the right to act similarly against British airlines in Russia. Britain said the search was routine.Russia advised its citizens to think carefully before traveling to Britain, warning they could fall victim to official harassment.More than 100 Russian diplomats have been expelled by Western countries, including 23 from Britain, to punish the Kremlin over the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the historic English city of Salisbury.London says Moscow was responsible for the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two, and Britain\'s defense minister on Saturday said it was "heartening" to see the backing of international allies."The world\'s patience with Putin\'s repeated pattern of malign behavior has worn thin," Gavin Williamson wrote in a newspaper column, urging that Britain\'s defense capabilities needed to keep better step with Russia\'s broadening tactics.Russia denies responsibility for the attack. It has cast the allegations as a Western plot to sabotage East-West relations and isolate Moscow.Russia had already retaliated in kind by ejecting 23 British diplomats. On Friday, the Foreign Ministry summoned British Ambassador Laurie Bristow and told him London had one month to further cut its diplomatic contingent in Russia to the same size as the Russian mission in Britain. It also expelled 59 diplomats from 23 other countries for backing Britain.A spokeswoman for Britain\'s Foreign Office called the Russian move regrettable, and said it was considering the implications of the measures. She did not say how many diplomatic staff in Russia would be affected, while the British Embassy in Moscow says it does not make staff numbers public.But Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the demand meant Britain would have to cut "a little over 50" more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia on top of the 23 diplomats who have already gone home."We asked for parity. The Brits have 50 diplomats more than the Russians," Zakharova said on Saturday.Asked if that meant London would now have to cut exactly 50 diplomatic and technical staff, she said: "A little over 50."RUSSIAN TRAVEL WARNINGThe Russian Foreign Ministry later published a list of 14 questions its London embassy had sent Britain\'s Foreign Office. It included queries about why Russia had been denied consular access to the Skripals and about France\'s role in the case.In a move underlining the serious nature of the diplomatic crisis, the Russian Embassy also advised Russians to think twice before traveling to Britain, warning of rising anti-Russian sentiment and possible harassment from the authorities, including the risk of objects being planted in their luggage."We can\'t rule out increased attention by British law enforcement agencies and intelligence services to Russian passport holders," the embassy said in a statement.Russia\'s Ministry of Transport meanwhile demanded Britain explain an Aeroflot airliner was searched at Heathrow Airport on Friday, in what the Russian Embassy in London called a "blatant provocation".Britain disagreed with that assessment."It is routine for (Britain\'s border agency) to search aircraft to protect the UK from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country," Security Minister Ben Wallace said.The Russian Embassy said Wallace\'s logic was "difficult to comprehend" and only amplified its doubts about the incident.Britain\'s Foreign Office also said on Saturday it was considering allowing visits under consular access terms to Yulia Skripal, who is recovering in hospital against all expectations and is no longer in critical condition.Russia\'s embassy said that it had contacted Viktoria Skripal, Yulia\'s cousin. "Upon receiving confirmation that Yulia Skripal\'s condition is getting better and she is able to communicate, she said she would like to go to London and to visit her cousin," the embassy said.The BBC reported on Friday that Yulia was "conscious and talking," which may help the investigation of how she and her father were poisoned.The poisoning on British territory has united much of the West in taking action against what it regards as the hostile policies of President Vladimir Putin. This includes the United States under President Donald Trump, whom Putin had hoped would improve ties.(Additional reporting by Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh and Gabrielle Ttrault-Farber in Moscow; Editing by Stephen Powell and Sandra Maler)

AMMAN   The Syrian army command said on Saturday it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta and was pressing its military operations in the last rebel bastion of Douma.In a televised statement, the Syrian army spokesman said the weeks-long military campaign had now brought security to the Syrian capital, Damascus, and also secured its main links to other parts of the country, stretching north and all the way to the Iraqi border to the east.A last group of fighters and families had earlier left the main towns of Jobar, Zamalka, Arbeen and Ain Tarma. Footage on state television showed top army commanders entering by the same route the rebel convoys had used to leave.Tens of thousands of people have now evacuated once-bustling towns in the suburbs east of the capital, which had nearly two million people before the start of the conflict and were major commercial and industrial hubs.The army command said military operations were continuing in the outskirts of the city of Douma, controlled by the Jaish al-Islam rebel group, the last patch of eastern Ghouta still held by insurgents.Douma\'s fall would seal the rebels\' worst defeat since 2016, driving them from their last big stronghold near the capital, and would also carry potent symbolism. The town was the main centre of street protests in the Damascus suburbs against President Bashar al-Assad\'s rule that ignited the conflict seven years ago.The army said hundreds of rebels had been killed in the ferocious offensive. The opposition says a relentless air campaign was waged in which the army used napalm, chlorine and incendiary bombs to demoralize rebels by targeting civilian areas.The rebels say the indiscriminate bombing forced them to capitulate and agree to surrender deals that force them either to make peace or leave to rebel-held areas after weeks of  bombing and sieges that prevented food from reaching the enclaves.The Syrian army has repeatedly said regaining control over  rebel-held suburbs would stop rocket attacks on the capital.They deny that many civilians were killed in bombardments that rescuers and residents say reduced whole neighbourhoods to rubble in densely populated areas where at least 350,000 people lived.Defence analysts say a major goal of the campaign was to complete a security belt around the capital, where for years rebels dug into an elaborate network of tunnels and well- fortified position had resisted countless offensives to seize the enclave.President Assad said recently securing eastern Ghouta, which was the soft belly of the heavily defended capital, had foiled plots by his foreign enemies to topple him."The gains have been achieved after units of the army eliminated hundreds of terrorists, their headquarter and their fortifications," the army statement said.Douma is surrounded by government forces, many of whom were elite forces from the Republican Guards and special army units, who have been amassing troops in recent days and threatening to storm the city if the rebels do not agree to leave.Tens of thousands of civilians remain in Douma, which is the largest urban centre in the enclave, facing worsening humanitarian conditions.The rebels there deny they are negotiating an evacuation deal and say talks with the Russian military aim to find a solution that would allow them to stay in the city under Moscow\'s protection."Army units are continuing their combat operations to rid Douma of terrorists," the army statement said.The Russian-backed offensive in eastern Ghouta has killed more than 1,600 civilians and thousands of wounded, rescuers said. The authorities say about 150,000 people have now been displaced from eastern Ghouta.Thousands of people -- fighters, their families and other civilians -- have been leaving for northwestern Syria from other parts of eastern Ghouta in convoys of buses that have been given safe passage to Idlib province.Many evacuees who arrived at rebel-held territory after grueling trip through government controlled villages said many residents hurled abuses and threw shoes and stones at their buses.The conflict began after mass protests calling for an end to Assad\'s authoritarian rule on March 15 2011, dragging in regional and global powers and forcing millions of people - more than half the pre-war population - to flee their homes.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; editing by Angus MacSwan, Larry King)
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   The Latest on protests over the police killing of an unarmed black man in Sacramento (all times local):9:40 p.m.About 150 people staged a vigil and protest in honor of Stephon Clark outside a sheriff\'s department office in South Sacramento.The event on Saturday night was the latest disruptive but mostly peaceful demonstration since the unarmed, 22-year-old Clark was shot and killed on March 18 by Sacramento police.The Sacramento Bee says protesters held candles, chanted near a busy intersection and marched in the street.The protest was held outside the sheriff\'s office because of the department\'s involvement in the March 18 chase of Clark. A sheriff\'s deputy is heard In helicopter video saying the suspect, later identified as Clark, broke a window and was running.The latest protest was organized by the ANSWER coalition, which stands for Act Now to Stop War and End Racism.At one point, it appeared in video that a slowly moving sheriff\'s vehicle hit a protester but the demonstration continued.___6:40 p.m.The family of Stephon Clark joined hundreds of people at a peaceful rally to renew calls for police reform nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old, unarmed black man was killed by Sacramento officers.Clark\'s fiancee, Salena Manni, stood on stage with his two young sons, grandmother and uncle for the gathering Saturday organized by Sacramento native and former NBA player Matt Barnes, who pledged to create a scholarship fund for the children of black men killed by police.Barnes amplified calls for charges against the two officers who are on administrative leave after the killing of Clark.The demonstration drew between 200 and 300 people to a downtown park.The night before, several hundred protesters marched through downtown for nearly four hours, with Black Lives Matter Sacramento leaders diffusing tensions on several occasions to keep the march peaceful.___12:50 p.m.Dozens of protesters of a Sacramento police shooting of an unarmed black man have gathered for a rally, including the man\'s fiancee and young children.At least 150 people were at a downtown park Saturday afternoon for a demonstration in the wake of the March 18 shooting death of Stephon Clark by two police officers.Clark\'s fiancee is on stage and expected to speak.The rally was organized by former NBA player and Sacramento native Matt Barnes, who says the fight for justice for Clark is about "more than just color."An autopsy commissioned by Clark\'s family and released Friday shows police shot him in the back.___1 a.m.Police have handcuffed shut a downtown Sacramento hotel door to stop protesters from entering as they march against the recent killing of an unarmed black man.Capital Public Radio reports protesters had a brief confrontation with police outside the hotel. The scuffle came during the fourth hour of a protest that began at City Hall and continued through downtown streets blocking traffic.The protest has largely remained peaceful, with leaders of Black Lives Matter Sacramento helping diffuse tensions. Protesters and the police had a brief standoff near a ramp onto the interstate before protesters went a different direction.They\'re calling for justice for 22-year-old Stephon Clark who was shot March 18 by police who were responding to a call of someone breaking car windows. An autopsy commissioned by Clark\'s family and released Friday shows police shot him in the back.__12 a.m.Calls for justice and charges against two police officers who fatally shot an unarmed black man aren\'t abating in California\'s capital city after an autopsy showed Stephon Clark was shot in the back.The findings by pathologist Dr. Bennet Omalu counter the department\'s narrative that Clark was approaching the officers when he was killed.Several hundred protesters marched through downtown streets Friday for the fourth evening in a row after a community meeting at a South Sacramento church with several Sacramento Kings players.Another rally is planned for Saturday afternoon, hours before a Sacramento Kings-Golden State Warriors game will bring thousands of fans to the downtown arena that protesters have twice blocked.Clark was killed March 18.
AMMAN   The Syrian army command said on Saturday it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta and was pressing its military operations in the last rebel bastion of Douma.In a televised statement, the Syrian army spokesman said the weeks-long military campaign had now brought security to the Syrian capital, Damascus, and also secured its main links to other parts of the country, stretching north and all the way to the Iraqi border to the east.A last group of fighters and families had earlier left the main towns of Jobar, Zamalka, Arbeen and Ain Tarma after the fall of other towns, leaving only the city of Douma still in rebel hands.Footage on state television showed top army commanders entering by the same route the rebel convoys had used to leave.Tens of thousands of people have now evacuated once-bustling towns in the suburbs east of the capital, which had nearly 2 million people before the start of the conflict and were major commercial and industrial hubs.The army command said military operations were continuing in the outskirts of the city of Douma, controlled by the Jaish al-Islam rebel group, the last patch of eastern Ghouta still held by insurgents.Douma\'s fall would seal the rebels\' worst defeat since 2016, driving them from their last big stronghold near the capital, and would also carry potent symbolism. The town was the main centre of street protests in the Damascus suburbs against President Bashar al-Assad\'s rule that ignited the conflict seven years ago.The army said hundreds of rebels had been killed in the ferocious offensive. The opposition says a relentless air campaign was waged in which the army used napalm, chlorine and incendiary bombs to demoralize rebels by targeting civilian areas.The rebels say the indiscriminate bombing forced them to capitulate and agree to surrender deals that force them either to make peace or leave to rebel-held areas after weeks of  bombing and sieges that prevented food from reaching the enclaves.The Syrian army has repeatedly said regaining control over  rebel-held suburbs would stop rocket attacks on the capital.They deny that many civilians were killed in bombardments that rescuers and residents say reduced whole neighbourhoods to rubble in densely populated areas where at least 350,000 people lived.Defence analysts say a major goal of the campaign was to complete a security belt around the capital, where for years rebels dug into an elaborate network of tunnels and well- fortified positions had resisted countless offensives to seize the enclave.President Assad said recently securing eastern Ghouta, which was the soft belly of the heavily defended capital, had foiled plots by his foreign enemies to topple him."The gains have been achieved after units of the army eliminated hundreds of terrorists, their headquarter and their fortifications," the army statement said.Douma is surrounded by government forces, many of whom were elite forces from the Republican Guards and special army units, who have been amassing troops in recent days and threatening to storm the city if the rebels do not agree to leave.Tens of thousands of civilians remain in Douma, which is the largest urban centre in the enclave, facing worsening humanitarian conditions.The rebels there deny they are negotiating an evacuation deal and say talks with the Russian military aim to find a solution that would allow them to stay in the city under Moscow\'s protection.Negotiators, however, reached a deal with the Russian military late on Saturday to evacuate wounded in the city to insurgent-held areas in northwestern Syria, local sources said.It was not clear if the step would pave the way towards a broader deal to evacuate fighters in an arrangement similar to one that was brokered by the other main rival rebel group, Failaq al Rahman, with Moscow that has allowed most of its fighters to leave their former areas of control.The Syrian army offers defeated rebels either the option of making peace and switching sides or surrendering their weapons and leaving for government-controlled areas."Army units are continuing their combat operations to rid Douma of terrorists," the army statement said.The Russian-backed offensive in eastern Ghouta has killed more than 1,600 civilians and thousands of wounded, rescuers said. The authorities say about 150,000 people have now been displaced from eastern Ghouta.Thousands of people -- fighters, their families and other civilians -- have been leaving for northwestern Syria from other parts of eastern Ghouta in convoys of buses that have been given safe passage to Idlib province.Many evacuees who arrived at rebel-held territory after a grueling trip through government-controlled villages said many residents hurled abuses and threw shoes and stones at their buses.The conflict began after mass protests calling for an end to Assad\'s authoritarian rule on March 15 2011, dragging in regional and global powers and forcing millions of people - more than half the pre-war population - to flee their homes.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; editing by Angus MacSwan, Larry King and Jonathan Oatis)
BANJA LUKA, Bosnia and Herzegovina  The Night Wolves, a Russian motorcycle gang known as Putins Angels and widely feared as agents of meddling and mayhem beyond Russias borders, provoked more bemusement and giggles than awe on their latest outing, a nine-day tour of the Balkans designed to show that Russia still had some fervent friends left in Europe.Instead of roaring into town amid throbbing engines and clouds of smoke, the tattooed, potbellied bikers arrived by car and minivan in Banja Luka, the capital of Republika Srpska, a would-be state born in bloodshed during the Balkan wars of the 1990s.Anxious about the cold weather, they left their bikes behind in Moscow but did bring along leather vests, an icon of the Virgin Mary and a press secretary, a snarling Russian woman whose main job was to keep away the press.At a time of growing alarm over Russias readiness for reckless action abroad following the nerve agent attack on a former  spy in England, the bikers so-called Russian Balkans Tour set nerves on edge, highlighting how easily Russia can keep everyone off balance by dialing tensions up and down with low-cost foreign forays.The Night Wolves billed their tour, funded with a $41,000 grant from the Kremlin, as a pilgrimage meant to showcase the shared Orthodox faith of Russia and the region, at least the bits of it inhabited by ethnic Serbs like Republika Srpska, which is legally part of Bosnia and Herzegovina.But they enveloped their activities  mainly visits to churches and drinking sessions with local nationalist hot heads  in such secrecy that they stoked concern over what Russia is up to in Bosnia, a rickety state backed by the West but undermined from within by the Republika Srpska, which covers about half its territory and wants to secede.Russia is very good at creating tension and getting attention  it is like a dog running after a car, said Aleksandar Trifunovic, the editor of Buka, a popular online news site in Banja Luka. The tubby bikers, he added, were a joke but had nonetheless sent a message that Russia stands behind the Republika Srpska and its leader, Milorad Dodik, whom the United States last year labeled a significant threat to Bosnia and placed on a Treasury Department sanctions list.Sending bikers without bikes, Mr. Trifunovic noted, was much cheaper than sending hard cash, with which Moscow has been extremely sparing.Mr. Dodik, the Republika Srpskas president, complained in an interview that, despite his frequent meetings with Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin, he was still waiting for Moscow to follow through on what he said was a 2014 promise to provide his government with loans of at least $625 million.We have received nothing from Russia, said Mr. Dodik, a former American protg who has morphed into a hard-line Serb nationalist. We had a promise but got nothing. We are a bit disappointed.Instead, Mr. Dodik got the Night Wolves, such a motley crew that one local newspaper asked whether it would not have been better for Moscow to send some ballet dancers.They looked pathetic; even I am taller than they are, said Srdjan Puhalo, a bookish, ethnic Serb psychologist who posed with the bikers for photos outside Christ the Savior Cathedral in Banja Luka, perhaps the most enthusiastically pro-Russian city outside Russia.Mr. Dodik, whose security forces have been stocking up on weapons and recently purchased 2,500 automatic rifles for the police forces, insisted that he did not want violence and wanted the Republika Srpska to secede peacefully from Bosnia and join the European Union. The chances of that happening, however, are near zero, not least because his would-be country claims territory, like the border town of Brcko, that does not belong to it and has a habit of belittling Bosnian Muslims as fanatics.He described the Night Wolves, a mix of Russians and Serbs, as harmless tourists who were far more welcome than men in short trousers with beards but no mustaches, a reference to the dress code and shaving habits of Muslims who follow a rigid form of the faith promoted by Saudi Arabia and who many Serb nationalists believe, against all evidence, are numerous in Bosnia.While claiming not to know much about the Night Wolves, Mr. Dodik in January gave a medal to their leader, Alexander Zaldostanov, a burly bruiser and friend of Mr. Putins, to honor what he described as the bikers contribution to human rights, the rule of law and relations between Republika Srpska and Russia.That the Night Wolves are not just another group of motorcycle enthusiasts, never mind human rights activists, however, has been evident since March 2014, when its members traveled, this time with their bikes, to Crimea to set up road blocks and provide other support for a Moscow-orchestrated takeover of the Ukrainian peninsula on the Black Sea.Some of them went on to fight alongside pro-Russian rebels who seized power in eastern Ukraine.They then reappeared in 2016 in Montenegro, joining events celebrating pan-Slavic solidarity and hostility to the West ahead of what the authorities there have since claimed was an unsuccessful, Russian-sponsored coup attempt aimed at blocking the countrys entry to NATO.Washington takes such a dim view of the Night Wolves that the Treasury Department placed the gang on a sanctions list in December 2014, accusing the bikers of kidnapping, assault and close ties to Russias security services. It has since added various affiliates, like a bike shop in Moscow, to the list.These guys are not good-will ambassadors  we can all be sure about that, said Emir Suljagic, a former deputy defense minister in Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital.The Night Wolves gang, which has local branches around the region, he added, is part of an extremist ecosystem nurtured by Russia through its ties to the Serbian Orthodox Church and radical Serb nationalists who still dream of a Greater Serbia. It was that idea that led to murderous ethnic cleansing in the early 1990s and also the creation of the Republika Srpska, whose founding president, Radovan Karadzic, was convicted in The Hague of war crimes in 2016.The Security Ministry in Sarajevo declared the bikers a security threat and barred Mr. Zaldostanov and the leader of the Night Wolves Serbian chapter from its territory. The Bosnian news media covered the progress of the Night Wolves as if they were an invading army, something that Mr. Dodik dismissed as anti-Russian hysteria.As the bikers started out on their meandering journey from Belgrade, the Serbian capital, to Banja Luka and then back, the United States put down markers of its own by sending the assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, Wess Mitchell, on a diplomatic tour of the region.The parallel tours, one by a button-down American diplomat, the other by a group of unkempt Russian and Serbian bikers, are all part of a long struggle for influence in an unstable region with an unhappy history of inciting wars and an insatiable appetite for great power conspiracy theories.Spying is a very popular game in the Balkans, said Milos Solaja, a professor of international relations at the University of Banja Luka. People here greatly enjoy intrigue and conspiracies.Russia is not going to start World War III over the Republika Srpska, he said, and only wants to be represented here  there is no big conspiracy. Bosnia, he added, has been permanently failing for more than a decade and did not need any prodding by Russia to become a failed state.After a night of heavy drinking, the Night Wolves started their Russian Balkan Tour with a visit to Velika Remeta, an Orthodox monastery founded in the 14th century near the Serbian town of Novi Sad.Their host was the monasterys abbot, Father Stefan, whose office displays a big map of Serbia showing the countrys borders at the time of the monasterys founding: They reach down into what are now Greece and Albania. We had access to three seas then, the abbot lamented. Now we have none.He denied having any interest in politics and said he was not sure what the bikers were up to. But, with a clock decorated with a portrait of Mr. Putin on his office wall and a Russian flag on his desk, Father Stefan said he was happy to receive anyone who cherished the long spiritual bonds between Russia and Serbia.He served the bikers  who he acknowledged did not seem very religious  homemade red wine and cherry liquor.Apparently eager to avoid parallels with the Night Wolves antics in Crimea, the groups leader, Mr. Zaldostanov, did not join his comrades on their Balkan tour.The purpose of our pilgrimage is to expand the spiritual bond between people and friends in Serbia and the Republic of Srpska, Yevgeny Strogov, the stand-in leader, told journalists at the border crossing between Serbia and Bosnia.The trip, he said, was all about connecting cultures, adding that Russia and Serbs have the same culture and the same religion. That means a lot to us.


WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon," while at odds with his own policy, was not a one-off: For weeks, top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out, U.S. officials said.Only two months ago, Trump\'s aides thought they\'d persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended  not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated, but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February, Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS, he wanted American troops out of Syria, said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon, where officials have been planning for a gradual, methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria, the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria, officials said. The money, to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power, water and roads, had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.The officials said the hold, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.The officials weren\'t authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.The State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community, members of the Coalition, and our partners on the ground to provide much needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad," according to a statement from the State Department.Trump\'s first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23, when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday, in a domestic policy speech in Ohio, Trump went further."We\'ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon, we\'re coming out," Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new, unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials, the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House\'s National Security Council for clarification.The White House\'s ambiguous response, officials said: Trump\'s words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed," said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway, a Pentagon spokesman.Still, without a clear directive from the president, planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria, officials said, and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.For Trump, who campaigned on an "America First" mantra, Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations, Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn\'t foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq, but with only limited success.Yet it\'s unclear how Trump\'s impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster, both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria, were recently fired, creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton, a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president\'s thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump\'s impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup, several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces, who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey\'s security."This is a serious and growing concern," State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS, there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal, officials said, chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel, America\'s closest Mideast ally, and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies, including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah, inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity, and especially against Tehran\'s desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia, which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad\'s forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France, which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon," Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up, the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria, the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months, the officials said.___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.
AUGUSTA, Ga.   A look at some of the anniversaries this year at the Masters:75 years ago (1943): Bobby Jones and Clifford Roberts decided after the 1942 Masters to stop the tournament for the rest of World War II. According to the Augusta Chronicle, the club\'s greenskeeper raised turkey and cattle on the grounds while the club was closed. Roberts said in his autobiography that the cattle destroyed several azalea and camellia bushes and ate the bark of several young trees. There were plenty of WWII connections to the Masters. Jones was commissioned as a captain in the Army Air Corps, and his unit landed at Normandy a day after the D-Day invasion. Leading the Normandy invasion was Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, who later became a member at Augusta National during his two terms as U.S. president.___50 years ago (1968): The 1968 Masters is best remembered for five words: "What a stupid I am." Roberto de Vicenzo birdied the 17th hole in the final round to take a one-shot lead over Bob Goalby, only to bogey the last hole. The Argentine was so angry at his bogey that he didn\'t properly check his card, which was kept by Tommy Aaron, and he signed for a 4 on the 17th instead of a 3. Under the rules, he had to accept the higher score, giving him a 66 instead of a 65. And instead of an 18-hole playoff the next day, Goalby was the winner by one shot. Goalby closed with a 66 to finish at 11-under 277. De Vicenzo had won the British Open a year earlier, but this scorecard blunder remained his most famous moment until his death last year.___25 years ago (1993): Bernhard Langer won the 1993 Masters for his second green jacket, closing with a 2-under 70 for a four-shot victory over Chip Beck. His first Masters victory in 1985 was remembered for Curtis Strange twice going for the green when he had the lead and finding water. The 1993 Masters featured Beck choosing to lay up when he was trailing. Langer had a three-shot lead when Beck laid up on the par-5 15th from 236 yards away. He made par, while Langer followed with a birdie to stretch the lead. There was one other similarity to Langer\'s victories. He was harshly criticized in 1985 for saying "Jesus Christ" in the Butler Cabin interview while expressing surprise at Strange\'s lead. The controversy led to Langer becoming a Christian, and when he won in 1993, he said it again because it was Easter. "I sometimes joke that I\'m the only one to mention \'Jesus Christ\' in Butler Cabin twice," he said.___20 years ago (1998): Mark O\'Meara became the first player since Arnold Palmer in 1960 to birdie the last two holes for a one-shot victory in the 1998 Masters, which also was the last year the Augusta National gallery witnessed a Jack Nicklaus charge. O\'Meara holed a 20-foot birdie putt on the last hole for a 67 to beat Fred Couples and David Duval, and at 41 he became the oldest first-time winner of the Masters. Couples had a wild back nine with a double bogey on No. 13 and an eagle on the 15th. Duval missed birdie chances on the 17th and 18th for a 67. He was in Jones Cabin watching O\'Meara when Augusta National chairman Jack Stephens told him: "Don\'t worry, David. Nobody ever makes that putt." O\'Meara made the putt. Nicklaus, 58, birdied four of his first seven holes and pulled within three shots of the lead, causing so many roars that even Tiger Woods in the group ahead backed off putts. But he had to settle for a 68 and tied for sixth.___10 years ago (2008): Four months after Trevor Immelman had a tumor removed from his diaphragm, the South African won the 2008 Masters by three shots over Tiger Woods. And it wasn\'t even that close. Immelman had a five-shot lead with three holes to play until hitting into the water for double bogey at No. 16. He closed with a 75 and joined Arnold Palmer in the record book with the highest closing round by a Masters champion. Only four players broke par in the final round. For Woods, it was his second straight year finishing as the runner-up at Augusta National in his bid for a fifth green jacket. Among those who had a chance were Brandt Snedeker, who briefly tied for the lead with an eagle on No. 2, and Steve Flesch, whose hopes ended with a tee shot into Rae\'s Creek at No. 12.___5 years ago (2013): Adam Scott won the 2013 Masters in a playoff over Angel Cabrera, and Australia had a Masters champion after more than a half-century of trying. Scott thought he had it won with a 20-foot birdie putt on the 18th hole, only for Cabrera to stuff his shot into 3 feet for birdie as Scott was signing his card. They both made par on the first extra hole, and Scott ended it with a 12-foot birdie putt at No. 10 on the second playoff hole. Greg Norman, who knew nothing but hard luck at Augusta National, was watching from Florida and said when it was over, "I\'m over the moon." It was a wild week for Tiger Woods, who was on the verge of taking the lead on Friday when his wedge into the 15th hole hit the pin and went back into the water. Woods took his penalty drop in the wrong place, which was pointed out by a rules expert watching on TV. The rules committee at the Masters failed to act on the information, and when it was clear a penalty was involved, the committee gave Woods a two-shot penalty and allowed him to stay in the tournament despite having signed for an incorrect score. Woods finished four shots behind.


MONTCLAIR, N.J.  On a strangely warm morning in late winter, the cosmetics tycoon Bobbi Brown was in her new headquarters here: a former auto body shop left with pipes exposed and concrete floor unfinished. On a bookshelf was a case that used to belong to Frank Sinatras makeup man; a sign reading, Im Not Bossy, Im the Boss; and a photo of Ms. Brown dancing onstage with the rap star Flo Rida, with my 14-year-old son watching in amazement or horror, she said. Please dont find it on YouTube.Against one wall was an inspiration board with pictures of the many, many fashion models whose faces Ms. Brown has daubed. Im a crazy visual person  words are hard for me, she said. I cant make a business plan, but I could visually explain what I want to do, which is good if you can read my brain and in order to work with me you kind of have to. Right?Titters from several staff members who were hanging around.After more than two decades turning her famously simple makeup line, Bobbi Brown Essentials, into a billion-dollar global brand with Este Lauder Companies, Ms. Brown, 60, is back on her own and ready to roll out her next act. Like Oprah, Gwyneth and Martha before her she is starting a lifestyle company, Beauty Evolution, with an accompanying editorial website, justbobbi.com.On April 20, she will start selling products on QVC, like a 60-calorie vanilla collagen cocktail and a chocolate drink fortified with protein, fiber and coconut oil. The idea is that when youre in a slump, instead of grabbing a coffee you have this, she said. It fills you up, keeps your brain going, and you wont eat the bread basket when you go to dinner.What does she have against bread?I love bread more than I love my children, Ms. Brown said. She has three grown sons  Dylan, Dakota and Duke  with her husband, Steven Plofker, a real-estate developer with many projects in the area. Like Oprah, she shared a bread fantasy: I would have crusty bread with steak tartare. Pizza. I think I would rather have bread than pasta. I like crunch. And on it she would put?Butterrrr! she said lasciviously, to shrieks of laughter from her colleagues. I mean, why mess around with cheese?Ms. Brown sat on a leather sofa with her plump mutt, Biggie, at her feet, and shared that a tenant upstairs was Luke Parker Bowles, a film producer who is the president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts and the nephew of Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall. He just comes down nonstop, she said. Its like a sitcom.When Mr. Parker Bowles indeed made an appearance an hour later, he called Ms. Brown the kindest woman I know in this area code, and along with Mr. Plofker, the beating heart of Montclair. They are active in the towns philanthropy, and every Yom Kippur they have a break-fast party at their house attended by prominent locals like Senator Cory Booker, Stephen Colbert and the journalist Jonathan Alter.Still, driving past the Whole Foods near a main street in her Range Rover, Ms. Brown will say things like Im a suburban mom that goes to the grocery store.The couples newest baby is the George Inn, a 32-room boutique hotel, with rooms starting at around $200 per night and a library and lobby filled with pictures of famous Georges and Georgias: OKeeffe, Hamilton, Harrison, George Herman Ruth Jr. (a.k.a. Babe Ruth), Washington, Jefferson from the TV program, Costanza (the two presidents Bush have not yet found their spots). It is the latest addition to a portfolio that has included retail, office and sports complexes, along with her namesake eyeglass line and nine books.Back at headquarters, Ms. Browns phone beeped the opening bars of (I Cant Get No) Satisfaction. She took the call, looking like a teenager in a white Brandy Melville T-shirt and black sweater, legs curled up under her in jeans with prefabricated holes.On another board nearby were some of Ms. Browns favorite mantras, which she has had put on pencils, like Be Who You Are  Everyone else is taken, you know, she said, once off the phone  and Focus On What You Do Like and Simple Is The New Black and Be Nice.Duh. Hello? Ms. Brown said. Like, you dont like something? Be nice.If this all seems terribly basic, consider how she amassed her fortune.Ms. Brown first moved to New York in 1980, the child of an amicable divorce in suburban Chicago (down the block, at one point, from Hugh Hefner and his ex-wife) who had gotten a degree in theatrical makeup from Emerson College after years of struggling with schoolwork. She lived with her boyfriend from high school, a photographer, in a one-bedroom apartment on West Fourth Street that cost $500 a month, maxing out credit cards and making cold calls to agencies and bookers.Her ad in The Village Voice offering makeup lessons got one answer, from a preppily dressed man who said he was in a play and needed to look like a woman. I was freaked out, Ms. Brown said. He dressed up in drag and then wanted me to teach him how to do makeup. I made a few bucks, but I didnt put an ad in again.The makeup artists union helped find her some work, including assisting on Saturday Night Live, and within a year she got a good gig at Glamour magazine, but there was discouragement aplenty. I had a hairdresser tell me I would never work in this town because I didnt have a style, I didnt have a thing, Ms. Brown said. And now? Well, I know hes in Palm Springs and hes got a salon, ha-ha, and Im still here.If Ms. Brown had any look at the time, it was Flashdance meets Madonna, who worked out at her gym. She knew she disliked what was then modish: white skin, red lips and the practice of contouring to create cheekbones. Just not necessary, she said, though she admired the work of Way Bandy and Kevyn Aucoin, who could literally paint a face. But the finished product is not a woman that walks outside. Its being photographed. Its not a real look. She tried to conform and get along, watching once as Jerry Hall redid her own makeup for a Cosmopolitan shoot.Ms. Brown got a break when an agent called to ask if she was available the next day to work with the photographer Bruce Weber. I was a wreck, she said. I must have tried on 15 outfits because I wanted to just have the perfect cool when I walked in.She and Mr. Weber were a good match. He didnt want any makeup! she said. He wanted not to see anything. Asked if she witnessed any bad behavior from Mr. Weber, who has been accused of sexual misconduct, Ms. Brown said, Honestly, I grew up in the fashion industry, with photographers and assistants and male models and you know, the 80s, everything just seemed like a big party. Which I really wasnt a participant in because I either had a boyfriend or a husband.She was introduced to Mr. Plofker in 1988 by a friend over dinner at Raouls, a restaurant in SoHo. All I can say is, Boom, Ms. Brown said. They talked nonstop, she remembered, then put the friend in a cab, then talked for an hour outside my building.The next day, Ms. Brown was happy to find out that her new swain had a masters degree from Harvard and was, like her, Jewish. Then I realized his last name was Plofker, she said. But I married him anyway.After the newlyweds moved to Montclair and began raising a family, Ms. Brown started to tire of the fashion industrys constant travel. She had fantasized about creating her own line. My philosophy was women dont need a lot of makeup, they just need a few things, she said. Clearly thats not what happened to the billion-dollar brand.Its origin story is now part of corporate lore: the chemist she met during a Mademoiselle shoot at Kiehls, the 10 subtly colored lipsticks (including one named, conveniently enough, Brown) that sold 100 units their first day at Bergdorf Goodman in 1991.Four years later, Leonard Lauder courted Ms. Brown and a business partner, Rosalind Landis, over grilled chicken, steamed vegetables, brown rice and wine on the terrace of his Fifth Avenue penthouse. It was an out-of-body experience, to see Picassos and Dubuffets and everything there, Ms. Brown said. As the sounds of the New York Philharmonic playing in Central Park wafted toward the sky, Mr. Lauder told her she reminded him of his mother, Este.Youre beating us in all the stores, and I want to buy you, she recalled him saying. What if I told you could do exactly what you love to do and want, and I would give you complete autonomy?I didnt even know what autonomy was, Ms. Brown said.She added that her companys reported selling price of around $75 million was inaccurate, but she doesnt remember the precise amount. Oh, it was a lot, she said. Yeah, I never had to work again.Mr. Lauder, she said, was supportive and always very fatherly with her. Leonard used to tell me, Dont ask for permission, beg for forgiveness, Ms. Brown said. Thats the way he ran the company.But she missed not being the boss, disliked corporate-speak  things like optimize! That just means do it better!  and hated meetings. In the middle of one long, boring one, Ms. Brown took out a concealer shed been given that was way too thick under the eyes. She put it all over her face, experimented and looked in a mirror. It turned into a sheer product, she recalled: the Retouching Wand, joining her much copied Gel Eyeliner and Shimmer Brick, a highlighter.By 2010, Bobbi Brown Cosmetics was available in more than 980 doors and 56 countries. By 2012, there were over 60 freestanding Bobbi Brown Cosmetics stores worldwide. But in her later years there, Ms. Brown said she experienced more aggravation, like when she started a JustBobbi Instagram account. I would always get in trouble, she said. Someone from corporate would always call down, you know, What did Bobbi post? and I was like, Guys, Im a person.Eventually such strictures began to chafe. Look, anyone that leaves any kind of company will tell you how tough it was  thats why youre not there anymore, Ms. Brown said. Im a good girl. I dont live my life trying to piss people off, but honestly sometimes I cant help it.After leaving her namesake company behind in 2016, Ms. Brown cycled through relief, anger and sadness. I thought I was going to spend weeks and days in bed, she said. I didnt. I moped around for a couple days and drank tequila with my best friends.In the Bahamas with Mr. Plofker for his 60th birthday, she met a chef who said, I cant wait to see what you do next. I dont know, Ms. Brown said.Dude, you got this! the chef said admiringly.And thats why Ive got posters and pencils and hats that say, I got this, Ms. Brown said. It just kind of clicked.Not all of her experiments have worked out. A stint as editor of Yahoo Beauty ended after two years. (Like going to grad school, Ms. Brown said.) A consultancy at Lord & Taylor, with justBOBBI boutiques selling products from other lines as well as her own, has quietly ended. We just didnt have the manpower, she said. It was a great creative project, but were overwhelmed and something had to give.It was time for lunch. Ms. Brown ordered a Bobbi salad, whose christening raised $10,000 for a school fund-raiser, from the renowned local sandwich shop Egan & Sons: avocado, string beans, white and black beans, bell peppers, red onion, chopped romaine, cilantro and lemon vinaigrette. Plus anchovies on the side.She had gone to bed at 9:30 the previous evening after returning again from the Bahamas, splashing her face with water (of makeup, she said, I dont really wear any) and applying a new soothing cream derived from hemp oil on her neck and feet. The name escaped her.Theramu! her team said in chorus.I think I took too much of it last night, Im a little tired this morning, Ms. Brown said. I was supposed to do a half a dropper but didnt measure. THC is marijuana to get you high. This is the CBD part, this is legal, and I think its going to be the biggest trend. Its amazing, Ive been putting some on Biggie, she has a little boo-boo on her tail.An employee, Tara Tersigni, mentioned that Ms. Brown just met with Jen Atkin, a hairstylist and social-media influencer with her own line. She kind of came up with the Kardashians, did their hair and still does all the It girls, Ms. Tersigni said. And she said to Bobbi, Youre the O.G. Pause. Original gangster.Then she said Im cool AF and Im like, what the hell is AF? Ms. Brown said.How are millennial women, who have embraced pared-down makeup lines like Emily Weisss Glossier, different from her generation?I think they are much cooler, much more simple and caring about things that matter, meaning family, work, Ms. Brown said. I think its not about the big giant handbag, not about the designer. Its not about a cream that promises you endless possibilities. Honestly, I think that the young girls are more simple and they just want the truth. They dont want, like, marketing-speak. They dont want gobbledygook.The Satisfaction riff sounded; Ms. Brown let the call go to voice mail. She recalled early in her career, doing a shoot with the photographer Annie Leibovitz. She shut the dressing room door. Then a stylist reopened it. As Im cleaning up, I look in the mirror and Im with the Rolling Stones in their underwear, Ms. Brown said. All of them!Years later she became friends with a girlfriend of Mr. Jagger, the fashion designer LWren Scott who had asked her and the hairdresser Sam McKnight to work on one of her last fashion shows in London. (Ms. Scott committed suicide in 2014.) She was so kind to me, Ms. Brown said. Once she invited me to this amazing dinner with Mick and Ron Wood and Daphne Guinness. One by one all these people would show up. Bryan Ferry.The next season, she and Mr. Plofker were invited to a dinner party at Mr. Jaggers house. Ill never forget, we were wondering what are we going to bring them for a gift  what do you give Mick Jagger? Ms. Brown said. So Steven bought him a bottle of wine and a Coravin. They said to come at 7 so we came at 7, rang the doorbell. It was only Mick, home alone. LWren had to run out for something, and they showed us up to the study  Oh, Bobbi, Steven! How are you? And Ill never forget, hes like, Oh my God! I cant believe you bought me a bottle, its amazing! He loved the Coravin and we sat there like a half-hour, talking with Mick. So there have been so many of those kind of cool situations in my life because of makeup.Another happened when the musician Patti Scialfa hired Ms. Brown to do her makeup for the 12/12 concert to raise money for Hurricane Sandy. Ms. Brown told Ms. Scialfas husband, Bruce Springsteen, that the first time she came to New Jersey she slept in the Livingston Mall to get tickets to see him, and sat in the last row.And here I was in his S.U.V. driving to New York for the 12/12 concert, she said. Im with Patti and Bruce and their daughter who is a doll, and the phone rings and I hear Bruce on the phone saying, Bobby, no, oh Bobby thats too bad. Oh Bobby, Bobby whatever. He hangs up and he says to Patti, you know, Bobby was going to surprise but he couldnt come. Patti looks at me and she said, Thats Bob Dylan. So Im in the Lincoln Tunnel with Bruce Springsteen talking to Bob Dylan. It was bizarre. Yeah, it was one of those moments.Finished with her salad, Ms. Brown ate a piece of dark chocolate, which, she said, kind of closes the deal. She said she is not concerned about whether the new projects work out. She might do a museum, a confidence center  you know, empowerment, write a 10th book, though not a business one, despite that shes been approached. I know the title: Duh. D-U-H. I have no advice except follow your gut, just be open.Ms. Brown was going to do Michelle Obamas makeup for the 2009 inauguration, but it fell through.You know, she went with someone else, she said. I was so bummed and someone said, Oh I know someone who knows the Bidens. I was hired to do Mrs. Bidens makeup, which was awesome. It was an amazing experience. I did Jills makeup and touched the vice president up and I found myself alone with him in a hotel room, just me and him with a ruffled bed. I have a picture of it. The door was left open.The former second couple now visit Ms. Browns beach house on the Jersey Shore, she said. Joe Biden is the most simple, by-the-book guy. Hes amazing.It was the next afternoon, and Ms. Brown, surprisingly fresh considering shed made a quick trip to Syracuse the previous evening to watch a basketball game and feed barbecue to her youngest son and 60 of his fraternity brothers, was alone in the living room of her penthouse pied--terre, in Chelsea, overlooking the Highline, with spectacular views of uptown, downtown, the Hudson River and New Jersey.She was wearing the same casual attire as the day before. Even at the White House I wear jeans, she said. I dont go to the White House anymore. Ill just say that.Ms. Brown was, however, scheduled to give a talk about anti-counterfeiting at the United States Chamber of Commerce (which happened this week). When they first called, I thought they made a mistake, Ms. Brown said. But they said, No, we really want you, a female entrepreneur that had a global business.At the Obamas last state dinner, she and Mr. Plofker were in line when former President Barack Obama got her attention. And I run over and I say, Hey! And I said, Oh my God, your skin looks so good! Can I touch it? He said yes. He had quit smoking, I think, at the time. And hes like, Michelle! B. Brown just told me my skin looks good! And Michelle goes, Steven! So we had a moment.She hesitated to call Mr. Obama her friend. But when I would walk into the White House, the president of the United States would say, Hey B squared, how you doing? Nice kicks, Ms. Brown said. Mr. Obama eventually appointed her to serve on the United States Trade Commission.Even when that happens in my life, my husband says, Thats really dumb, you hate going to meetings, she said. And I said, I know but its so cool.And the truth is, those particular meetings werent so bad. Id be sitting next to someone, the head of the pork bellies, Ms. Brown said.Her maternal grandfather, Papa Sam, had owned Sandra Motors, a big car dealership in Chicago named after Ms. Browns mother. Calling himself Cadillac Sam, he appeared in local TV commercials. And every time I was in these situations I would look up at Papa Sam, Ms. Brown said, and think, I used to sit in these corporate meetings, and now Im here at the White House?In the apartment, staring down at her, was a large portrait of Queen Elizabeth II.I mean, look, I havent met the queen, Ms. Brown said. But I did get a private tour of Buckingham Palace because I had breakfast with her granddaughter Eugenie. I started asking her questions: Eugenie, so your grandmas the queen? Because Eugenies this nice sweet girl, Fergie and Andys daughter. Ive had breakfast with Kate Middleton  not Kate, Pippa! Wrong Middleton. But Kate wore Bobbi makeup on her wedding. So all those moments are close though I havent met the queen. Yet.#Goals.
In June 1966, less than two years before he was killed, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached from his Atlanta pulpit of the dynamic dance between Good Friday and Easter, between death and resurrection, between despair and hope.The church must tell men that Good Friday is as much a fact of life as Easter; failure is as much a fact of life as success; disappointment is as much a fact of life as fulfillment, he said. Dr. King added that God didnt promise us that we would avoid trials and tribulations but that if you have faith in God, that God has the power to give you a kind of inner equilibrium through your pain.From nearly the moment he emerged on the national scene in the mid-1950s until his tragic end in 1968, 10 days before Easter, Dr. King was hounded by death. It was his deep faith that saw him through his many trials and tribulations until the time he was fatally shot on that motel balcony at 6:01 p.m. on April 4 in Memphis.Faith summoned Dr. King, an ordained Baptist preacher, to the ministry. It made him a troublemaker for Jesus and it led him to criticize the church, criticize the world around him and, in turn, be criticized for those things. In honoring his legacy today, we must not let complacency or narrow faith blind us to what needs to trouble us too.Dr. King passionately believed that a commitment to God is a commitment to bettering humanity, that the spiritual practices of prayer and worship must be translated into concern for the poor and vulnerable. Dr. King would want us to live his specific faith: work to defeat racism, speak out in principled opposition to war and combat poverty with enlightened and compassionate public policy.In his lifetime, he was disappointed in the complacency of both black and white churches. He would be as disappointed today. The white church largely remains a bastion of indifference to the plight of black people. White evangelicals continue to focus on personal piety as the measure of true Christianity, while neglecting the Social Gospel that enlivens Jesus words for the masses. Dr. King saw faith as an urgent call to service, a selfless ethic of concern that, he said, quoting the Hebrew prophet Amos, made justice roll down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.Today, in the midst of resurgent bigotry and deep divisions in this country, faith is too often viewed as an oasis of retreat, a paradise of political disengagement. On this Easter Sunday, as we mark 50 years since Dr. Kings death, it is a perfect and necessary time to remember his faith  and rekindle its urgency.Dr. King often declared his preachers vocation by citing something like a biblical genealogy of black sacred rhetoric that traced through his family: I grew up in the church. My father is a preacher, my grandfather was a preacher, my great-grandfather was a preacher, my only brother is a preacher. My daddys brother is a preacher. So I didnt have much choice.But Dr. Kings faith underwent significant change. At first, he was discouraged from the ministry by a strain of black preaching that was long on emotion and short on reason. Then, at Morehouse College, his encounter with preachers like the schools president Benjamin Mays convinced him that the ministry was intellectually respectable.A midnight kitchen experience over a cup of coffee after he received phone calls threatening to blow out his brains and blow up his house during the Montgomery bus boycott gave the fear-stricken Dr. King a sense of Gods unshakable presence. He said that instead of inherited faith, he had to forge the terms of his own relationship to the Almighty.I had to know God for myself, he explained. I could hear an inner voice saying to me, Martin Luther, stand up for righteousness, stand up for justice, stand up for truth. And lo, I will be with you, even until the end of the world.For the rest of his life Dr. King did just that. His faith propelled him to fight Jim Crow, the ugly hatred it bred in the white soul and the haunting inferiority it left in black minds. It led him to speak valiantly against the lynching, bombing and shooting of black people who merely wanted what white people took for granted: a cup of coffee at any lunch counter, a room at any hotel they could afford, a drink at any water fountain they passed, a seat on a bus wherever they pleased and a desk in the nearest schoolhouse.Dr. Kings faith put him at odds with white Christians who believed it was their mission to keep separate the races  the same people whose forebears believed it was their duty to enslave Africans and punish blacks who sought to escape their hardship. Dr. King realized that he wasnt simply in battle against a society built on legal apartheid, but that he also had to fight against a racist culture that derived theological support from white Christianity.White evangelicals were opposed to Dr. King because they conveniently divided body and soul: Race was a social issue that should be determined by rules in society and laws generated by government. Such a view meant that the racist status quo was sacred. The point of religion was to save the souls of black folk by preaching a gospel of repentance for personal sin, even as segregation often found a white biblical mandate. After Dr. King spoke at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in 1961, the most prominent institution of the nations largest Protestant denomination, many white churches in the South withheld financial contributions to the school.If rabid racists were a clear threat to black well-being, it was the white moderates who claimed to support civil rights but who urged caution in the pursuit of justice who proved to be a special plague. In 1963, eight white Alabama clergymen issued a statement pleading for black leaders to slow their aggressive campaign against segregation in Birmingham, Ala. The clergymen cited outsiders who had come to Birmingham to lead demonstrations that were unwise and untimely.The white clergymen blamed the black protests for inciting hatred and violence through their extreme measures, arguing that their cause should be pressed in the courts and in negotiations among local leaders, and not in the streets.Their statement led Dr. King, imprisoned for his protests against injustice, to draft his well-known Letter From Birmingham Jail, in which he almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negros great stumbling block in the stride toward freedom is not the White Citizens Council-er or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate who is more devoted to order than to justice. It was the same white moderates who led Dr. King near the end of his life to conclude that most Americans are unconscious racists.It wasnt only the white church Dr. King had to combat. In 1961 he joined other black ministers who were dissatisfied with the conservative leadership of the National Baptist Convention to form a rival body, the Progressive National Baptist Convention. Dr. King reserved some of his harshest criticism for the black church. Less than two months before he perished, Dr. King and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference organization convened a meeting of ministers in Miami.We didnt come to Miami to play, Dr. King warned his listeners in an address titled To Minister to the Valley. And he didnt. Let us admit that even the black church has often been a taillight rather than a headlight, Dr. King preached. As social injustice roared, these ministers kept silent behind the safe security of stained-glass windows. As their members struggled with poverty, they mouthed pious irrelevancies and sanctimonious trivialities.Then Dr. King came in for the kill: Let us honestly admit that all too often weve been more concerned about the size of the wheelbase on our automobiles, and the amount of money we get in our anniversaries, than weve been concerned about the problems of the people who made it possible for us to get these things. Dr. King argued that the great tragedy is that Christianity failed to see that it had the revolutionary edge.Christianity is again failing to see that edge.While black bodies are punished or disappear into oblivion, under the repressive reign of police brutality, many white churches remain silent. Instead, an overwhelming number of white evangelicals line up in support of a president who has evinced even less of a public embrace of religion than Ronald Reagan did. Yet President Trump has been prayed for by white evangelicals as his administration and his words have preyed on black people, immigrants, transgender people and the poor. There are some brave contrarians among Southern Baptists, like the Trump critic Russell Moore, who have dared to dissent. But their voices are too few.The black churchs behavior has been shameful as well. With a few notable exceptions, black churches have often been chronically indifferent to the fight against white supremacy. . On this Easter Sunday, many ministers will dutifully preach about a crucified God without dwelling on the death in Sacramento of 22-year-old Stephon Clark in a police shooting that even the citys mayor, Darrell Steinberg, said was plain wrong.Instead, black churches have been invested in personal prosperity and upward climbing at the expense of the Social Gospel that Dr. King preached. For every progressive pastor like Frederick Douglass Haynes in Dallas, there are hundreds more who turn their dire warnings about sin into bigger cars and more cash for their lucrative pastoral anniversaries. For every preacher of the virtue of social conscience, like Gina Stewart in Memphis, there are so many more pastors who use the Bible only to reprimand fornicators and backsliders.Some black ministers have even frowned on Dr. King for his moral failures as an excuse to avoid the message that he trumpeted as an itinerant preacher for social justice. To Dr. Kings credit, he acknowledged his flaws and warned people against making him a saint.Martin Luther King Jr. was a man of faith who didnt mind making trouble for God. He believed his purpose in life was to bring justice to as many of Gods children as possible while proclaiming the revolutionary power of belief. And that wasnt a mere metaphor: He believed that America must undergo a revolution of values so that it might begin to fulfill the mandate of the Gospel to look after those who needed Gods help the most.God didnt call America to do what shes doing in the world now, Dr. King said in his famous Drum Major Instinct sermon, delivered from his home pulpit at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta two months before his assassination. God has a way of even putting nations in their place. The God that I worship has a way of saying, Dont play with me.As America in its present incarnation, with its present leadership, teeters toward an arrogance, isolationism and self-importance that are the portals of moral decline and political self-destruction, the nation must recall the faith of Martin Luther King Jr. He saw faith as a tool for change, a constant source of inspiration to remake the world in the just and redemptive image of God. On this holy day, instead of shrinking into the safety of faith, we should, as Dr. King did, bear the burdens of the less fortunate and rise again to serve humanity.
