Retaliatory tariffs are a blow to exporters increasingly catering to young, newly wealthy Chinese looking for bottles with cachet.
Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday China and the United States  should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease access for American businesses, as China scrambles to avert a trade war.
Companies are united around the idea of addressing China’s unfair trade practices, but details of the president’s plan have set off fierce opposition.
A writer, executive and Republican fund-raiser who dabbled in Cold War foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, a famous general in World War II.
A special court in The Hague is set to examine violence against ethnic Albanians by their former liberators — if anyone dares to testify.
Shares in the United States were up slightly a day after the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell more than 10 percent from its recent peak.
Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.
The Trump administration released a list of Chinese goods that it will subject to tariffs, including electronics, iron and steel plates, engines and optical scanners.
The Trump administration on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing's intellectual proper...
European stocks retreated on Tuesday as investors began the second quarter in a fragile mood amid international trade tensions and mounting pressure on big technology companies.
Britain says it will ban the sale of ivory, no matter how old, to help protect the world's elephant population.
China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora's Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in a deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute. 
Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each c...
Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China are unlikely to hurt global economic growth, Brazilian central bank chief Ilan Goldfajn told Reuters on Tuesday, playing down recent turmoil in Latin American markets.
Tom Brady is losing one of his top receivers, and Jared Goff is getting a speedy new target.
Bosnia's top court has scrapped court fines issued to rape victims and other survivors of the Bosnian 1990s war after they had reparation claims rejected, in a decision praised by rights lawyers and a victims association on Tuesday.
Jon O'Neill flew 23 hours from Florida to the mountainous jungles of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific in search of clues to the life of his war hero father, whom he can barely remember.
The Philippine Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered police to hand over full records of thousands of deadly encounters in the country's war on drugs, thwarting a government bid to keep operational details of the bloody crackdown secret.
Three days of presidential tweets contained many false and misleading accusations. 
A governor’s election in California is a changing of the guard at a moment when the state is involved in a high-stakes battle with President Trump.
Urban gun violence is driven by a very small group of people. To keep them from shooting — and being shot — cities are focusing on those most at risk.
China on Tuesday condemned the U.S. announcement of tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese imports and said it would "take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products."
“Unfortunately some of our civilian countrymen have also been killed and wounded,” the governor’s office said. The dead also included children.
China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China's ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.
China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China's ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.
China imposed tariffs on 128 U.S. products ranging from wine to oranges in order to "balance the losses" caused by U.S. duties and to protect China's national interests, according to a commentary on the front page of the official People's Daily. 
China's commerce ministry said on Wednesday it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs following the Section 301 probe and will take counter measures, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
The Trump administration on Tuesday escalated its aggressive actions on trade by proposing 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing's policies that require foreign companies to hand over their technology.
The United States, Canada and Mexico could soon announce a deal in principle to update NAFTA that would likely tackle the key issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, three sources familiar with the m...
Britain's top share index declined with other European bourses at the start of the second quarter, but a few stocks such as Sky managed to rise through the session. 
President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he will make a decision about pulling troops out of war-battered Syria very soon, expressing remorse about the U.S. role in violent conflicts going back to the country's invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq nearl...
Sales of light vehicles in Canada dipped 0.6 percent in March according to data released on Tuesday, amid signs that the economy was on track for a weaker-than-expected first quarter.
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday told President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe that they should work towards a new chapter in ties, during the African leader's first state visit to China since he seized power last year.
As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy. 
He has undertaken so many actions that contributed to the weakening of Russia that you have to wonder.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The Latest on the Trump administration's proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing's alleged theft of American technology. (all times local):
A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea's Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant's governance.
Britain is looking for a "proportionate way" to respond to the threat posed by Russia, a spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Tuesday, after a retired Russian army official said the poisoning of a former spy could start a new world war...
The search for Nirav Modi captivates a country increasingly frustrated by corruption cases involving state banks that could cost taxpayers dearly.
China has notified the World Trade Organization it is imposing $611.5 million worth of retaliatory tariffs on $2.75 billion worth of U.S. imports including pork, nuts and ethanol in response to U.S. duties on aluminum and steel, a WTO document sho...
The U.S. International Trade Commission said on Tuesday that the dumping of biodiesel imports from Argentina and Indonesia harms American producers, a move that locks in place duties on the imports.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Yemen's foreign minister called on Tuesday for a return to the negotiating table to end the war in the Arabian peninsula's poorest country, where Saudi-backed Yemeni government forces are fighting Iran-aligned Houthi fighters. 
Spotify is a loss-making company that might not report a profit until next decade, but that didn’t stop investors from valuing the company at $30 billion.
High-speed rail executives asked skeptical lawmakers Monday to provide more stable, long-term funding for the bullet train in the face of ballooning costs.
The Mexico economy ministry said on Tuesday it has formally imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of carbon steel pipe from South Korea, Spain, India and the Ukraine after completing an investigation into "unfair" trade practices.
Russia's defense ministry said on Tuesday that more than 40,000 civilians who had fled Syria's eastern Ghouta have returned, Interfax agency reported.
California farmers, many of whom voted for President Donald Trump and his tough talk on trade, say China's increased tariffs on products like almonds, pistachios and wine are a competitive blow, but some are hopeful they will lead to a better deal...
Almost 35,000 private-sector workers organised by Norway's largest labour unions plan to go on strike from April 8 unless a deal is found over wages, pensions and other compensation, the unions said on Tuesday.
The shards of a story in this experimental film initially focus on two men living on a decaying compound.
The United States, Mexico and Canada have made significant advances on reworking the NAFTA trade deal and ministers will meet in the coming days to determine the scope to agree on the basics of a deal, Mexico's economy minister said on Monday.
U.S. defense contractor General Dynamics Corp said on Tuesday it completed its purchase of peer CSRA Inc in a deal valued at about $9.7 billion.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates drew praise Tuesday at a U.N. conference for offering $1 billion in aid for Yemen, where their air campaign against Houthi rebels has killed thousands of civilians and their crippling blockade has hindered...
Sri Lanka's Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe faces a no- confidence motion on Wednesday that could go down to the wire and lead to political instability in the island nation, even if the government manages to scrape a win.
- Following is the text of the Reserve Bank of Australia's statement on Tuesday after its monthly monetary policy meeting. At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.
The Latest on Spotify's Wall Street debut (all times local):
The company that makes British passports will challenge the decision to use a foreign firm in future, a government decision that some eurosceptics in the tabloid press have called unpatriotic.
Yemen's Houthi group hit a Saudi oil tanker off the main port city of Hodeidah on Tuesday, the Saudi-led coalition said, in an attack that could complicate a new United Nations push to end a war that has killed more than 10,000 people.
Shares of Spotify Technology SA ended up 12.9 percent on their first day of trade on the New York Stock Exchange, a smooth debut that could pave the way for other companies looking to go public without the aid of Wall Street underwriters.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trum...
Mostly Christian militia fighters attacked a U.N. peacekeeping base in the Central African Republic early Tuesday, and one peacekeeper from Mauritania was killed and 11 others were injured in a gunbattle that lasted several hours, the United Natio...
U.S. auto sales grew 6.3 percent in March on rising sales of SUVs and pickup trucks.
The jury in the trial of a U.S. Border Patrol agent charged in the fatal shooting of a teen across the Mexican border was taken to the scene after dark to observe conditions as they may have existed at the time.
Investors raised their bets against Tesla Inc shares by 10 percent since mid-March on the view that the market was too optimistic on the electric car maker's prospects, financial analytics firm S3 Partners said on Tuesday.
Asian stock markets were mixed in early trading Wednesday as investors pondered the latest volley of tariff measures and threats between the U.S. and China.
A museum in Los Alamos, New Mexico &#8212; a once-secret New Mexico city that developed the atomic bomb which helped end World War II &#8212; has put an exhibit from Japan on hold because of its theme of abolishing nuclear weapons.
Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told North Korea's foreign minister on Tuesday that Beijing supports the North's planned summits with South Korea and the United States.
U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged the warring sides in Yemen on Tuesday to reach a political settlement to end a conflict that is now in its fourth year and has left 22 million people in urgent need of aid.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's meetings with the leaders of Baltic states (all times local):
Corporate Japan expects to see only minimal inflation in a year and barely any change in the next three to five years, a central bank survey showed on Tuesday, highlighting yet again the difficulty the Bank of Japan faces in reaching its elusive 2...
Germany's Lutheran church said Tuesday that a swastika has been removed from a church bell in a small northwestern town, following a local controversy over the Nazi symbol.
Christian militias stormed a U.N. base in southern Central Africa Republic early on Monday, killing one peacekeeper and wounding 11, the United Nations said. 
The Trump administration is postponing until September a summit with Gulf Arab leaders that had been planned for this spring amid an ongoing dispute between Qatar and other U.S. allies in the region, according to five U.S. officials.
Australia's central bank left interest rates at record lows on Tuesday, the longest stretch without a change in almost three decades, and looked set to extend this period of "masterful inaction" for some time yet.
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable, as his advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilise areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.
Three foreign powers who have shaped Syria's civil war - Iran, Russia and Turkey - will discuss ways to wind down the fighting on Wednesday despite their involvement in rival military campaigns on the ground. 
"Letters from Baghdad," a documentary on Gertrude Bell, the British writer, explorer, spy and political officer who helped shape modern Iraq, had its first screening in the country on Monday, drawing loud applause from an audience of academics, di...
In some of the Mexican towns playing host to a "caravan" of more than 1,200 Central American migrants heading to the U.S. border, the welcome mat has been rolled out despite President Donald Trump's call for Mexican authorities to stop them.
The young men and women in traditional costumes of red, blue and white, the colors of the Assyrian flag, jumped into the middle of the park. With feathers or gold tiaras on their heads, they danced, kicking up their feet to a traditional song as t...
Judges on a popular British cooking show are being ridiculed for ignorance of Asian food after insisting a Malaysian contestant's chicken rendang curry should have been crispy.
Six South African miners were burnt to death when the bus taking them to work was set alight by a petrol bomb thrown by unknown attackers, police and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said on Tuesday. 
Britain's biggest supermarket chain Tesco said on Tuesday the price of its own brand fizzy drinks will not increase after a sugar levy comes into force this week as they already fall below a government-imposed threshold. 
Ministers from the two Koreas agreed to push for a unified delegation from both countries parading together in the opening ceremony at this year's Asian Games in Indonesia, according to the Yonhap News Agency.

Spotify SPOT.N shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday with an opening price of $165.90 per share, nearly 26 percent above the reference price of $132 a share set by the NYSE late on Monday.
President Donald Trump's strategy for the U.S.-Mexico border includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said on Tuesday, after Trump had earlier spoken publicly to reporters about "guarding our border with the military" to stop illega...
After its first day on the New York Stock Exchange, the music streaming service was valued at $26.5 billion, putting it in the company of firms like General Mills.
The Minnesota Wild made sure the bad news didn't defeat them.
Tesla Inc sought to squash any speculation it might need to raise more capital this year on Tuesday, driving the company's battered shares higher as it announced it built 2,020 of its cheaper Model 3 sedans in the last seven days.
The married couple in Anna Quindlen’s “Alternate Side” would seem to have everything. But their reactions to a neighborhood attack prove otherwise.
Blake Wheeler and the playoff-bound Winnipeg Jets were just glad to get a win against an Ottawa Senators team playing its final home game in a disappointing season.
I was a Bush-era political analyst at Sinclair. Its propaganda was bad then, and it’s getting only worse.
Somalia's breakaway northern region of Somaliland declared its independence nearly three decades ago, but despite having its own currency, parliament and military the predominantly Muslim country hasn't been recognized by any foreign government.
A musician fled war-torn Sierra Leone for the United States, formed a band and introduced an ancient music, bubu, to a broad audience.
A Palestinian man was killed by Israeli gunfire in Gaza on Tuesday, Palestinian medics said, raising the death toll from clashes along the border to 17, and Israel's defence minister warned further protests would be met with similar force.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
King Salman reiterated Saudi Arabia's support for a Palestinian state after his son and heir apparent said Israelis were entitled to live peacefully on their own land - a rare statement by an Arab leader.
A Turkish court on Tuesday jailed nine university students, pending trial, on a charge of spreading terrorist propaganda after they protested against Turkey's military offensive in northern Syria, state-run Anadolu news agency said.
We owe it to Dr. King to commemorate the man in full: a radical, ecumenical, antiwar, pro-immigrant and scholarly champion of the poor.
Saudi Arabia's crown prince said in a published interview that Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land, another public sign of an apparent thawing in ties between the two countries.
The Croatian president thanks Argentina for taking in notorious pro-Nazi war criminals after World War II. In Bulgaria, a top politician calls the country's Roma minority "ferocious humanoids." And Hungary's prime minister declares the "color" of ...
Israel's defense minister said Tuesday that the military will not change its tough response to Hamas-led mass protests near Gaza's border with Israel, warning that those who approach the border are putting their lives at risk.
Today in History
A half century after the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., U.S. civil rights leaders say they are fearful President Donald Trump could reverse progress made on civil rights in the United States since King's death.
A developer of planned communities is joining with General Electric to build a smart city near Boston with driverless cars and heated sidewalks.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday he hoped a planned meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog would help to defuse a major diplomatic row triggered by the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England.
The head of Britain's military research center said on Tuesday it was unable yet to say whether the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned a Russian double-agent last month had been produced in Russia.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Tuesday that his country's plan to purchase Russia's long-range missile defense system is a "done deal," brushing aside concerns from some NATO allies.
Villagers in a Taliban-controlled area of Afghanistan's Kunduz province buried dozens of dead on Tuesday, a day after an air strike they said hit a religious gathering but which the government said targeted a meeting of insurgent leaders.
The remarks by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto ruler of the kingdom, reflect his view of Israel as an economic and strategic partner.
Italy's Mediaset has started reshaping its struggling pay-TV business after the group signed a content deal with Sky's Italy unit and a source said it would not bid for Serie A soccer match broadcasting rights.     
An Indonesian soldier was shot dead and two separatist rebels killed in clashes with security forces near the giant Grasberg copper mine in Papua operated by Freeport McMoRan Inc, an Indonesian military spokesman said on Tuesday.
The roads in Central African Republic present more obstacles than solutions.
The pre-Incan ruins of Kuélap share similarities with their more famous cousin. But getting there can be a herculean effort.
Facebook is expanding its response to people using the platform improperly and on Tuesday said it had deleted hundreds of Russian accounts and pages associated with a "troll factory" indicted by U.S. prosecutors for fake activist and political pos...
The White House said Tuesday night that President Trump plans to deploy the National Guard to confront what it called a growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.
The internet giant has plenty of problems to fix. Andrew Ross Sorkin thinks explaining why particular ads are presented to users would be a good start.
Scott Pruitt, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, turned his sights this week on a nearly half-century-old federal waiver that allows California to pursue its own, tough tailpipe emission standards, and allows other states t...
When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators' watchful eyes. 
Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each c...
Britain's defense laboratory acknowledged Tuesday it hasn't tracked down the source of the nerve agent that poisoned a Russian ex-spy, a statement the Kremlin said proved that British accusations of Moscow's involvement were baseless.
A U.S. jury on Tuesday found a former president of Bolivia and his defense minister responsible for killings by security forces during 2003 unrest in the South American nation, awarding $10 million in damages in a lawsuit filed by Bolivians whose ...
In his last years, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King was grappling with many issues: workers’ rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty. We inherited them all.
His moniker was "DARKKING22," and authorities say he offered a cornucopia of illicit drugs through the click of a mouse.
The Russian president knows the advantages of authority.
Target Margin Theater’s tantalizing reconception of “The Thousand and One Nights” reminds us that there have always been unreliable narrators.
Australia has disavowed its home minister’s view that white farmers needed refuge in a “civilized country,” South Africa’s top diplomat says.
President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we've almost completed that task."
Dr. King said in 1957 that democracy was failing to live up to its “noble ideals and principles.” That remains true today.
Syrian rebels in a besieged area northeast of Damascus have been told they must accept state rule or leave, a rebel group said on Tuesday, as the government and its Russian ally seek to wipe out the last pockets of opposition territory near the ca...
The chasm between India’s digital governance aspirations and its ability to protect that data collected from hundreds of millions of citizens is growing increasingly wider.
The Office of Management and Budget and the Treasury Department are at odds over the Treasury’s longtime independence in writing tax regulations.
The decision to join an event organized by a group that has called Israel a “steaming pile of sewage” rekindled accusations of anti-Semitism in the British opposition party.
In an abrupt and startling reversal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu nixed his own deal Tuesday with the United Nations to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants in Israel and other Western nations, caving in to nationalist criti...
Debating for sport used to be tolerated online — but that was before you could argue with everybody, all the time.
Asne Seierstad’s new book is about sisters who went to Syria without telling a soul, and their father’s attempt to get them back.
The movement faced discord, persistent support for segregation, and, ultimately, fatal violence of people who opposed civil rights. 
Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April.
