First, the United States imposed a tax on Chinese steel and aluminum. Then, China counterpunched Monday with tariffs on a host of U.S. products, including apples, pork and ginseng.
China has increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, from frozen pork and wine to certain fruits and nuts, escalating a dispute between the world's biggest economies in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel. 
Wall Street shares plunged on Monday as investors fled technology stocks amid resurgent trade war worries, with key indexes trading below their 200-day moving averages and the S&amp;P 500 closing below that pivotal technical level for the first ti...
Cherry and apple growers in Washington state are worried their exports to China will be hurt by a growing trade war that escalated Monday when that country raised import duties on a $3 billion list of products.
Global stock markets fell for a second day Tuesday as investors continued to fret over a looming trade war between the U.S. and China and mounting public scrutiny of technology companies.
On a trip from Iraqi Kurdistan to Sinjar, Alissa J. Rubin encountered an unsettling number of checkpoints that made travel nearly impossible.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce announced duties of up to 25 percent on American goods, including pork, retaliating against steel and aluminum tariffs.
U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell sharply on Monday, undermined by weakness in the technology sector while a growing trade dispute with China has investors pulling back on concerns over economic growth.
White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said on Monday he did not see the United States and China responding to each other's tariff moves in a tit-for-tat escalation of trade tensions.
The Chinese industry body which recommended targeting scrap aluminium in retaliatory trade action against the United States is already exploring what other measures could be taken, an official said on Monday.
Oil prices rose on Monday, lifted by a drop in U.S. drilling activity as well as by expectations that the United States could re-introduce sanctions against Iran.
China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products Monday in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.
The stock market continued to plunge Monday, as investors were unnerved by the unpredictable White House. Stocks are now down 4 percent this year.
The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):
For months, the stock market plowed through the obstacles the Trump administration threw in its way. Now, the S.&P. 500 is down more than 10 percent from its high.
Clara Ester's eyes were fixed on the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as he stood on the concrete balcony of the Lorraine Motel.
U.S. President Donald Trump will discuss "reciprocal trade and investment ties" with Japan's prime minister Shinzo Abe during a visit later this month, the White House said on Monday.
Another spring on the Korean Peninsula, another round of war games by the U.S. and South Korean militaries.
A World War II soldier who became a spy in Europe for the forerunner of the CIA has died in Maine. Irving Isaacson was 102.
The White House on Monday accused China of distorting global markets and said the country should not target "fairly traded U.S. exports" after Beijing increased tariffs on 128 U.S. products in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminium and st...
A Belarusian escort and her “seduction coach” fear deportation from Thailand, saying they know too much about Russian meddling in the 2016 American election.
The Defense Ministry said helicopters had targeted members of the Taliban who were planning an attack, but witnesses said there were civilians among the victims.
Asian markets were mostly higher in muted trading Monday, as Hong Kong and Australian markets were closed for Easter, and Wall Street and other global markets have been closed for a long weekend after Good Friday.
U.S. stocks tumbled Monday after China raised import duties on U.S. pork, apples and other products. Technology companies took some of the worst losses, and while it's too soon to call it the beginning of a trade war, investors aren't sticking aro...
Global markets mostly fell in muted trading Monday, as markets in Hong Kong, Australia and Europe were closed for Easter.

Asian stocks began the new quarter on Monday with mild gains following a strong performance by global equities last week, while the dollar held steady ahead of key economic indicators. 
The Trump administration this week will unveil a list of advanced technology Chinese imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to punish Beijing over technology transfer policies, a move expected to intensify trade tensions between the world's two largest...
Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labour costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.
Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labor costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.
China's manufacturing activity expanded at its weakest pace in four months in March as export demand faltered, prompting companies to shed staff more quickly as they looked to cut costs, a private survey showed on Monday.
A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan's central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years.
As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy. 
Take the time to make a platter of country captain, or riff off of a new Nigella Lawson recipe for roasted sausages with onions and apples.
U.S. factory activity slowed in March amid shortages of skilled workers and rising capacity constraints, but growth in the manufacturing sector remains underpinned by strong domestic and global economies.
The Games will soon descend onto the Gold Coast’s beaches, bringing with it an array of the world’s best athletes, and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley is demanding information from Facebook following allegations that the social media giant mishandled user data.
Volkswagen's premium brand Audi aims to double sales in China over the coming six years, sales chief Bram Schot told Automobilwoche.
In a tight labor market, positions in poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that spells opportunity for recruiters like Ray Wiley.
Syria's Assyrian community is marking the New Year by its calendar &#8212; and is celebrating its survival.
Chinese buyers of U.S. ethanol will have to cut imports because of higher tariffs, but eventually will have to return to the overseas market to meet government targets for using the fuel, industry participants and analysts said on Monday.
Asian shares slipped on Tuesday amid escalating trade tensions and worries over the fading outlook for global tech giants, but investors held their nerves to focus instead on prospects for stronger world growth.
U.S. bank regulators on Monday agreed to relax commercial real estate lending rules and allow more deals to go ahead without an independent appraisal of the property's value.
Indonesia and Philippine stocks were the worst performing in the Asia-Pacific region in March, when concerns over global trade tensions and rising interest rates gripped markets.
Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Monday:
How far a row escalates between Moscow and the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain does not depend on Russia, its Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told a news briefing on Monday.
Colin Moran's name will forever be entwined with Gerrit Cole's whether the new Pittsburgh Pirates third baseman likes it or not. It simply comes with the territory when you're part of the trade that sends a franchise cornerstone out of town.
Mexican left-wing presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has an 18-point lead ahead of the July 1 election, according to a poll published on Monday that showed him with a growing advantage at the start of formal campaigning.
The last Syrian rebel group in eastern Ghouta near Damascus began withdrawing on Monday under an agreement with the government, state media said, though a military source said a group of insurgents were still rejecting the deal.
U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March, with many factories saying they're having a tough time getting supplies in order to meet demand from customers.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Tuesday:
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd on Monday sued a Dubai-based firm it said has caused confusion by using its trademarked name to raise more than $3.5 million in cryptocurrency known as "Alibabacoins."
“King In the Wilderness” looks at a lesser-known period of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life. And “The Good Karma Hospital” returns.
U.S. President Donald Trump intends to nominate Justin Muzinich, an aide to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, to be the deputy secretary of the Treasury, the White House said on Monday.
Kupchak, the longtime Los Angeles Lakers executive, could soon go to work for the Michael Jordan-owned Charlotte Hornets.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Monday:
Arizona outfielder Yasmany Tomas cleared waivers and was assigned outright to Triple-A Reno by the Diamondbacks, who are responsible for the $42.5 million he is owed in the remaining three seasons of a $68.5 million, six-year contract.
British passport-making company De La Rue Plc said on Monday it would appeal a decision by the British government that would allow Franco-Dutch company Gemalto NV to make new blue national passports from 2019.
Trading firms are negotiating buying, selling and lending digital currencies like bitcoin and ether over Skype, catering to big investors looking to avoid rocking already volatile online exchanges. 
President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.
An air strike by the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen killed 12 civilians on Monday in the coastal city of Hodeidah, medics and a witness said, and the Houthi rebels later targeted Saudi Arabia's southern border area with a missile.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
Japanese flea market app operator Mercari Inc targets rapid expansion in the United States, its founder and chief executive told Reuters on Monday, after a recent funding round boosted its value beyond $2 billion.
Shares in Russian transport companies that are part-owned by Summa Group fell on Monday after its billionaire owner Ziyavudin Magomedov was detained on embezzlement charges.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday he plans to visit the U.S. this month to discuss North Korea with President Donald Trump ahead of expected summits between the North and the U.S. and South Korea.
Russia's foreign minister accused Britain and the United States of spreading "lies and disinformation" about the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in England, declaring Monday that East-West tensions are worse now than during the Cold War.
Several thousand Palestinians remained in tent camps along the Gaza border on Monday, continuing their protest for a right of return for refugees and their descendants to what is now Israel even after 16 demonstrators were killed by Israeli troops...
Today in History
Witnesses said at least 14 unarmed civilians, including children, died in a Saudi missile strike on a residential area of Yemen’s Al Hudaydah port.
Several volunteers helped restore a car for a World War II veteran who was cheated by someone he paid more than $8,000 to do the work.
The U.S. Justice Department sued California over a state law that aims to stop the Trump administration from selling or transferring federal lands to private corporations, hitting the state with yet another legal challenge.
Turkey has ordered the arrest of the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen and seven others over the 2016 assassination of the Russian envoy to Turkey, the Haberturk newspaper said on Monday, a day before Russian President Vladimir Putin visits the countr...
Indonesia's military said Monday that one solider has been killed in an ongoing clash between security forces and Papuan independence fighters near the U.S.-owned Grasberg copper mine in the country's east.
An airstrike by the Saudi-led coalition near Yemen's Red Sea port of Hodeida killed at least 14 people on Monday, according to a senior health official.
A real estate developer-in-training finds a home in Hudson Yards, the largest construction site in the city.
Jose Antonio Meade's race for Mexico's presidency so far has looked more like a slog through mud &#8212; a struggle to free himself from the scandal-stained reputation of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party that chose the seemingly apo...
Maybe family life would be more harmonious if we just outsourced the housework we disliked, research suggests.
Vancouver Canucks forwards Henrik and Daniel Sedin announced they will retire at the end of the season.
The promotion of Mr. Muzinich, who spent most of his career on Wall Street, elevates a moderate voice within the Trump economic team.
Daniel and Henrik Sedin, 37, have played together with the Vancouver Canucks for 17 seasons, each of them accumulating more than 1,000 career points.
Labor activists are being arrested and assaulted simply for demanding their wages.
Israel must temper its lethal response to protests in the Gaza tinder box, or risk an escalation neither it nor the Palestinian leadership can contain.
Saudi Arabia's crown prince said Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land in an interview published on Monday in U.S. magazine The Atlantic, another public sign of ties between Riyadh and Tel Aviv appearing to grow closer.
The Latest on the Syria conflict (all times local):
Syrian state media said Monday that the largest rebel group in the suburbs of Damascus has begun evacuating its last stronghold after seven years of war, but the rebels refused to say whether they had surrendered, and it was unclear who was on boa...
When the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, public perception of him was more mixed than it is today. Readers recount the mood they witnessed 50 years ago.
“There is neither optimism nor strong pessimism, honestly.”
Facts on the Commonwealth Games to be held in Australia's Gold Coast:
Ties between Russia and Turkey are growing closer than ever, as Russia runs into widespread diplomatic fallout from the poisoned spy scandal and Turkey's relations with its Western allies worsens over human rights issues and its military operation...
Spurred by lobbyists, the E.P.A. administrator moves to relax or kill a mileage mandate and undo a crucial tool for combating global warming.
When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators' watchful eyes. 
Familiar scents like chai and black pepper are the basis of Bombay Perfumery’s eight eau de parfums.
Israel's military rejected new allegations Monday of unlawful use of force against unarmed Palestinians during mass protests in Gaza last week, as the Palestinian death toll rose to 18.
Israel announced a deal with the U.N. on Monday to resettle African migrants in Western nations, but hours later put the agreement on hold.
The photographer Tim Franco explores the stories of North Korean defectors in a new portrait series called “Unperson.”
Environmental regulators announced on Monday they will ease emissions standards for cars and trucks, saying that a timeline put in place by President Barack Obama was not appropriate and set standards "too high."
Artists and artisans, including the men’s wear designer Craig Green, have built their businesses with support from Mr. McQueen’s foundation.
Iran froze its nuclear program after months of talks. If Trump kills that deal, Kim Jong-un will see little reason to trust him in negotiations.
On the economics and politics of America’s growing economic disunion.
You don’t have to like Amazon to fear Trump’s attack on it.
Streets. Schools. A bridge in Burkina Faso. The name of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. can be found across Africa, a measure of the global influence of the American civil rights leader who was shot dead 50 years ago after speaking out against inj...
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.
The state Capitol in Kentucky filled with teachers protesting pension changes and demanding generous school funding Monday, and thousands of Oklahoma educators walked out of classrooms in the latest evidence of teacher rebellion in some Republican...
A ruling party official apologized to South Korean reporters at their hotel after they were kept from a concert in Pyongyang attended by Kim Jong-un.
The appointments illustrate the church’s focus on international recruitment as membership in the United States levels off.
Republican Marc Molinaro vowed Monday to change what he called Albany's climate of corruption and behind-closed-doors deals as he formally kicked off his campaign for New York governor.
In America, college student loan defaults are a really big problem. In Australia? No worries.
The obituary, which was published on April 5, 1968, celebrated the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as a prophet of a crusade for racial equality and a voice of anguish for millions of people.
The Kremlin said it hoped President Trump would follow through on his proposal for such a session, made before last week’s tit-for-tat expulsion of diplomats.
Ramon and Audrey take some time off from their respective forms of martyrdom.
Even here in Tennessee’s gun country, keeping armed people out of schools is not too much to ask.
“The Recovering” is about romanticizing the “unhinged sparks of luminous chaos” in artists’ lives, and then learning not to do that.
The science fiction spy thriller ended its first season Sunday night.
The story of Seneca and Nero may show Trump advisers it’s not too late to come to their senses.
Tate Modern focuses on a single year, with more than 100 paintings, sculpture and drawings. This was a fraction of the artist’s prodigious output.
A museum wasn’t sure whose head it had put on display. That’s when the F.B.I.’s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agency’s oldest case.
In the wake of mass shootings, a lifetime of gun ownership leads to unsettling questions.
Part rousing sermon/part somber premonition, “I’ve Been to the Mountaintop” proved prophetic as Dr. King reflected on a near-death experience from a decade earlier and how he knew there were threats against his life in Memphis. He expressed his jo...
