BERRYVILLE, Va.  For more than a month now, the questions have ricocheted down this Main Street culled from a Norman Rockwell dreamscape  past the dueling barbershops and the outdoor broom sale and the mural with the horse  quietly at first, when the Florida massacre was still fresh, and then not so quietly.Why would this time be different? Why should it be?Every time something happens, everybodys hollering, Garland Ashby, 77, the owner of an estimated 75 guns, said of the recent protests over gun control, rubbing at his cigarette stub from a park bench in this town of 4,200. A couple of months its in the news, and then its gone.More than a week has passed since some 800 student-led marches pulsed through the country and abroad  more than a week for momentum to build, or stall out, or morph into something beyond anyones control. And in this tossup congressional district, a short drive from the demonstrations nexus in Washington, and in other House battlegrounds nationwide, a consensus has formed on at least this much: Both sides think they are being underestimated. Both insist their adversaries will tire eventually, punching themselves out.Itll go away, Mr. Ashby predicted, grinding the cigarette into the mud. Like all the other times.Theyre looking for us to get bored, said Rosie Banks, 17, a high school junior about 40 miles east in Sterling, Va., whose bedroom includes the Am I Next? sign she hauled across the capital last month and a fish named Malcolm X. Were not going to get bored.This has certainly not happened yet. Both before and after the march, high school students have shown themselves eager to hatch longer-term plans, with some plotting together last week through their spring breaks.In this stretch of Northern Virginia, students are trying to organize a town hall with Representative Barbara Comstock, one of the most vulnerable Republicans in Congress, recognizing that her support from the National Rifle Association could be a drag in a district that preferred Hillary Clinton in 2016.New voter registration pushes, steered by teenagers, are well underway. Students are consulting with established (and adult-run) groups like Everytown for Gun Safety, founded and financed by Michael R. Bloomberg, and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence  with plans to discuss how to host their own candidate events before November or start clubs at their schools.Even less politically active students in Virginias 10th Congressional District have learned Ms. Comstocks name. They know who she is, said Paige Thimmesch, 16, Ms. Bankss classmate in Sterling, Va., who is hoping to arrange the forum with the congresswoman. They dont know every single policy. They do know that she is pro-gun.Looking to history, fledgling activists are researching Vietnam-era student protests for context and inspiration. They are using words like intersectional. They are quoting favored lyrics from Hamilton: This is not a moment, its the movement.That movement, though, will hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout among young Americans  translating sound and fury into the long, slow work of lasting change.In the 2014 midterm elections, less than 20 percent of voters between the ages of 18 and 29 turned out to cast ballots, compared to more than 40 percent of voters between 45 and 59, according to an analysis of survey data by the United States Elections Project, which is run by Michael P. McDonald, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida. Recent polling suggests the gap could close, at least somewhat, this fall. A Quinnipiac University survey released in late February found that 54 percent of those 18 to 34 said they were more motivated than usual to vote, outpacing every other age group.While youth-driven movements in recent years, like Black Lives Matter and Occupy Wall Street, have installed themselves as forces in Democratic politics and the national discourse, their effects at the ballot box have been uncertain.Gun owners, mindful that flurries of mass activism have often dissipated on their own after past shootings, are still taking no chances. Some efforts have been unsavory: Survivors of the Parkland, Fla., massacre in February have been the subject of internet conspiracy theories and bizarre fictions. More civic-minded supporters of gun rights are discussing counter-rallies this month to demonstrate their collective might.All these calls for gun control are only making gun owners snap to attention, said Philip Van Cleave, the leader of the Virginia Citizens Defense League, a gun rights group. This is not a one-way movement by any means.Then there is the N.R.A., whose track record includes few political losses in recent memory  its power derived less from direct donations than a fine-tuned electioneering machine primed to mobilize voters with a letter-grade system for assessing candidates and tens of millions of dollars in campaign ads and voter-guide mailings. Shortly after the Parkland shooting, President Trump expressed support for gun restrictions opposed by the N.R.A., scolding fellow Republicans for kowtowing to the group. It did not take long, after an Oval Office meeting with N.R.A. officials, for the president to reverse himself.Yet even in corners of the country unaccustomed to dissent on gun issues, supporters of restrictions sense an opening. In Maines Second Congressional District, a region that includes both small cities and parcels of land so rural they are officially called unorganized territory, school walkouts and satellite March for Our Lives protests have specked the map, powered by students and Democratic activists.Though gun owners have betrayed little immediate concern  If they hang around, well still be here, and if they dont, well still be here, said Todd Tolhurst, the president of Gun Owners of Maine  students seem comfortable with their odds in any war of attrition.Well outlive them, said Sean Monteith, 17, a junior at Lewiston High School, adding that he hoped his peers would be able to outvote them, too. His cellphone includes a list of action items and reminders: connect with city council, draft legislation, do not go on assumptions.Back in Washington, a handful of Republicans seem attuned to at least two of those directives, hedging their positions in recent weeks to accommodate the post-Parkland moment. Several vulnerable members signed on to a Democratic bill authorizing federal research into gun violence. Two of them, Brian Mast and Carlos Curbelo, both Republicans from Florida, have endorsed an assault weapons ban.Activists appear determined to make others pay a professional price for declining to engage. In Colorados Sixth District, where Representative Mike Coffman is widely considered one of the most endangered Republican incumbents, organizers with Never Again Colorado, a new group advocating gun control, are planning a forum to discuss guns with or without Mr. Coffman. The district includes Aurora, where a gunman killed 12 people in a movie theater in 2012.We have a lot of momentum right now, said Ian Gaskins, 17, a high school junior who is helping to plan the event. I dont want people to stop caring about this until the next mass shooting.For Democrats, the zeal for gun control has at once presented an uncommon opportunity and an occasion to revisit plans for midterm messaging. After Mr. Trumps election, his opponents did not necessarily expect a gun reckoning to be central to their 2018 strategy.Last summer, as the party strained to communicate its own agenda in the Trumpian haze, Democrats chose Berryville as the backdrop to introduce a broad-strokes platform of economic populism. Their top leaders in Congress, Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi, and progressive stars like Senator Elizabeth Warren schlepped 65 miles outside Washington to deliver their message in the same park where Mr. Ashby, the gun owner, flicked away his cigarette on a recent afternoon.Eight months later, it is gun violence, more than any fiscal issue, that has galvanized a new generation of prospective Democrats, some not yet old enough to vote.In Virginia, the party had already long targeted Ms. Comstock, casting her as a poor fit for a district that includes some rural pockets, like Berryville, but also left-leaning Washington suburbs and vast reserves of more moderate voters repelled by Mr. Trump. Barbara Bump-Stock, said Candy Baracat-Donovan, 34, from Leesburg, Va., whose morning routine now includes a round of phone calls to the offices of representatives like Ms. Comstock.A spokesman for Ms. Comstock, Jeff Marschner, said the congresswoman was committed to a multipronged effort to prevent gun violence, citing her support for additional mental health funding and narrow, N.R.A.-backed legislation improving reporting to the national background check database, among other measures.It is not clear if she will agree to a town hall with students. They seem to understand the calculation.High school students are scary, said Jay Falk, 18, a senior in Virginia who co-founded Students Demand Action DMV, a gun control group with over 100 members. We are not cynical yet.
The lawsuit brought by family members of those killed in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School has been watched closely over years of winding its way through the court system. But a new hurdle stands in the way of a much-awaited ruling.Remington, one of the nations oldest gunmakers and a defendant in the lawsuit, recently filed for bankruptcy as its sales have declined and debts have mounted. The company manufactured the AR-15-style weapon used by the gunman in the 2012 attack in Newtown, Conn., in which 26 people, including 20 first graders, were killed.The case is now before the Connecticut Supreme Court, where families brought an appeal with the aim of bringing the case to a jury trial. Remingtons bankruptcy does not guard the company from potential liability, but it has stalled the court from issuing a ruling on the lawsuit until the company emerges from the process. The court has been weighing the case after hearing oral arguments last year.The families lawyers contend that the bankruptcy will ultimately have little influence on the cases viability. The bankruptcy proceeding doesnt affect our claim, said Katie Mesner-Hage, one of the lawyers representing the plaintiffs, nine families who had a relative killed and a teacher who was shot and survived. The only thing the process does is delay it to some degree.The lawsuit has high stakes for both gun companies and gun-control advocates because it is testing a novel strategy to find a route around the broad protections granted by federal law that shield the companies from litigation if their product is used to commit a crime. Supporters contend that the case, if it makes it to trial, could offer a glimpse into how the gun industry operates and possibly provide a road map for the survivors and relatives of victims in other mass shootings who have otherwise been hamstrung in pursuing legal action.The case, amid recurring episodes of deadly mass violence, has drawn an intense response. When the lawsuit reached the Connecticut Supreme Court, gun control advocates, school officials and emergency doctors who treated victims of assault rifle fire submitted amicus briefs in favor of the lawsuit. Gun-rights organizations also weighed in, including the National Rifle Association, which argued that the case stood to eviscerate the gun companies legal protections.Remington will remain in business as it reorganizes and unloads hundreds of millions of dollars in debt, according to court records. The process could be expedited because the company is using a so-called prepackaged bankruptcy, which could be completed as early as May. Remingtons lawyers did not respond to messages seeking comment.The military-style rifle used in the attack was made by Bushmaster, which was bought by a New York private-equity fund in 2006. The $48 billion fund, Cerberus Capital Management, eventually folded Bushmaster into Remington along with other gun companies. Remington is also the target of another high-profile case, a federal class-action lawsuit claiming that trigger defects have caused some of its shotguns to accidentally discharge.Remington, which has about $950 million in debt, began hinting this year that it was likely to file for bankruptcy. Before the 2016 presidential election, the gun industry had maintained a robust manufacturing operation. But gun sales have plummeted since President Trump won the election; many attribute the decrease to gun buyers believing that the Trump administration and a Republican-controlled Congress would be less inclined to pursue tougher gun-control measures.Remington recently hired Lazard, a financial advisory firm, as the company devised its restructuring plans and searched for financing for its reorganization. Lazard approached more than 30 potential lenders on Remingtons behalf before finding financial companies willing to give them a loan, according to court filings. A Lazard representative wrote that many lenders indicated that they were reluctant to provide financing to firearms manufacturers. And even some of the ones who ended up lending Remington money had their names redacted from court documents.Susheel Kirpalani, a bankruptcy lawyer who has been consulting the Sandy Hook families legal team, said that he and others had been scouring Remingtons voluminous filings and disclosure documents, looking for anything in the complex financial transactions that might affect the Sandy Hook lawsuit. The companys filings indicate that creditors, including the Sandy Hook plaintiffs, would be unimpaired by the Chapter 11 process, which means that the lawsuit can resume after the reorganized Remington emerges from bankruptcy.Even so, beyond the bankruptcy, the Sandy Hook lawsuit has faced long odds of success.Congress granted gun companies industrywide immunity from blame when one of their products is used in a crime. But the law, enacted in 2005, includes exceptions for sale and marketing practices that violate state or federal laws and instances of so-called negligent entrustment, in which a gun is carelessly given or sold to a person posing a high risk of misusing it.The lawsuit argues that Remington  along with a wholesaler and dealer, which were also named in the suit  erred by entrusting an untrained civilian public with a weapon designed for maximizing fatalities on the battlefield. It also asserts that the companies relied on advertising, with messages of combat dominance and slogans like Consider your man card reissued, that appealed specifically to disturbed young men like Adam Lanza, the 20-year-old gunman.The gun companies contend that federal law shields them from the families claims, and a lower court judge agreed, dismissing the lawsuit in 2016.Still, the families believe that the companies bear a measure of responsibility. The families ultimate goal in filing the lawsuit is accountability, Ms. Mesner-Hage said.
SHELBY, N.C.   Authorities in North Carolina say four men suffered gunshot wounds in a "running gun battle" while driving on a highway.The Cleveland County Sheriff\'s Office said in a news release it appears shots were fired between the occupants of two vehicles around 2:15 a.m. Saturday on U.S. 74 near Kings Mountain.One vehicle carrying three wounded men ended up stopped in the eastbound lane, and the other left the scene. The four men who got shot were treated at hospitals for wounds that did not appear to be life-threatening. All are in their mid-to-late 20s.Sheriff Alan Norman called it an "incredibly stupid incident with so much potential danger to innocent people." The participants were not cooperating with investigators.Cleveland County is on the North Carolina-South Carolina line.
BANGKOK   A Thai editor faces possible criminal charges for sharing a student\'s "disrespectful" picture of historic kings wearing face masks to highlight air pollution in the northern city of Chiang Mai.The governor of Chiang Mai told Reuters on Sunday that he believed Pim Kemasingki, editor of the Chiang Mai Citylife magazine, had breached the Computer Crime Act by sharing the picture."It is up to the police to gather evidence," Pawin Chamniprasart said.In a letter to police, he wrote that the kings are worshipped and respected in Chiang Mai and "using the picture with the three kings wearing masks is disrespectful."Thailand\'s cyber crime law, which criminalizes defamation and obscenity, has been widely critisized by international rights groups for curtailing freedom of expression.Pim, a Thai-British national, said the image of the three statues wearing masks had been shared on a Facebook page publicizing a "Right to Breathe" anti-air pollution rally that had later been canceled at the request of the governor."I shared this picture thinking it was pertinent and powerful," Pim told Reuters."For decades I\'ve been promoting the city and loving it... so it\'s quite unsettling that fighting for healthy air for my fellow citizens has turned into me besmirching the city."Recently, Thailand has suffered from some of its worst air pollution in years.Achariya Ruangrattanapong, a lawyer for Pim, said he was confident that sharing the picture was not a violation of the cyber crime law."How can this be a computer crime if it involves a picture that a child drew?" he said.Pawin said he was not seeking charges of royal insult against Pim. Under Thailand\'s strict lese majeste law, those found guilty of insulting the monarchy face up to 15 years in prison.(Additional reporting by Panu Wongcha-um; Writing by Amy Sawitta Lefevre; Editing by Matthew Tostevin and Kim Coghill)
LOUISVILLE, Ky.   A man was shot and wounded after police say he fired a revolver at an officer during an early-morning incident in Louisville, Kentucky.Louisville police said 20-year-old Elijah Eubanks was in stable condition Saturday at University of Louisville Hospital. Neither officer was injured.It happened around 1 a.m. Saturday at an apartment complex. Louisville Metro Police body camera footage, released Saturday, shows the officers talking to several people in a car. As the officers repeatedly ask a passenger to exit, he asks why he\'s being harassed.As an officer opened the car door, police say the man fired a shot at him. Police say both officers fired back. Multiple shots are heard on the video.Police Maj. Frank Hardison, commander of the department\'s special investigations division, said a revolver was recovered from the sceneAt a Saturday afternoon news conference, Hardison said the officers were responding to a report of an "occupied, suspicious" vehicle that was called in by a "courtesy officer"  a city police officer who lives in the complex and provides security there.In the body camera footage, an officer identified as Ian Stuart tells the car\'s driver to exit, while the other officer, Eric Goldschmidt, approaches the passenger side where Eubanks is seated.The officers repeatedly ask Eubanks to exit, but he doesn\'t."Why are you harassing me, sir?" Eubanks asks Goldschmidt."We had a call of suspicious individuals, nobody recognized in this car," Goldschmidt replies"This is her house," Eubanks responds, gesturing to an unidentified person in the backseat. "This is his mom\'s car."After more back-and-forth, Goldschmidt goes to the passenger door. As it opens, footage shows Eubanks bringing up one hand and pointing it in the officer\'s direction. Although his hand is in shadows, he appears to be holding something dark.Goldschmidt immediately shouts, "Gun! Gun, gun, gun!" as multiple shots ring out.Police Chief Steve Conrad said the video was released quickly because it\'s imperative for the department to be "a model of transparency."The shooting came two days after an off-duty police officer in Hopkinsville, Kentucky, was shot and killed.  The suspect in that case was found and killed Friday by law enforcement officials in Tennessee.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   The family of Stephon Clark joined hundreds of people at a rally urging California\'s capital city not to let his memory or calls for police reform fade nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old unarmed black man was killed by Sacramento officers.Clark\'s fiancee, Salena Manni, stood on stage with his two young sons, grandmother and uncle for the gathering Saturday organized by Sacramento native and former NBA player Matt Barnes, who pledged to create a scholarship fund for the children of black men killed by police."All he wanted to do was go see his sons again, and unfortunately he can\'t," Curtis Gordon, Clark\'s uncle, said as he recalled seeing his nephew hours before the shooting. "So remember that  while we mourn, while we shout, while we cry  because it ain\'t just our pain, it\'s their pain."Barnes amplified calls for charges against the two officers who are on administrative leave."It\'s more than color  it comes down to right and wrong," he said. "You\'re trying to tell me I can kill someone and get a paid vacation?"The peaceful demonstration that drew between 200 and 300 people to a downtown park came a day after a private autopsy released by the family showed Clark was shot from behind.Clark was killed March 18 by two police officers responding to a call of someone breaking into car windows. They yelled that he had a gun before shooting, but it was only a cellphone. The police department says it has not received an official autopsy report from the county coroner\'s office.A female demonstrator was hit by a Sacramento County Sheriff\'s Department vehicle as a crowd began marching in the streets after another vigil Saturday night. In a statement early Sunday, the department said "the collision occurred while the patrol vehicle was traveling at slow speeds," adding that the woman suffered minor injuries.The statement also said the sheriff\'s vehicle, which was surrounded by protesters yelling and pounding on the car, "sustained scratches, dents, and a shattered rear window."Activists and faith leaders called for justice not just for Clark, but for all black men killed by police. Family members of Joseph Mann, who was killed by Sacramento police in 2016, also spoke. The chairman of a police oversight commission urged attendees to continue their activism by showing up to meetings and pushing for systemic change.Community leaders urged the city to set a national example."This little small town can show this nation our great big heart," the Rev. Kevin Ross said.About 150 people attended another vigil and protest Saturday night outside a sheriff\'s department office. It was the latest disruptive but mostly peaceful demonstration since Clark was killed.Protesters have twice blocked fans from entering games involving the NBA\'s Sacramento Kings at a downtown arena, but there were no signs of trouble amid a big police presence at a game Saturday night against the Golden State Warriors.The Friday release of the private autopsy commissioned by Clark\'s family has prompted fresh outrage. Pathologist Dr. Bennet Omalu, known for his study of a degenerative brain condition in football players, announced that Clark was hit by eight bullets  six in the back, one in the neck and one in the thigh  and took three to 10 minutes to die. Police waited about five minutes before rendering medical aid.Omalu said the proposition that Clark was assailing the officers, meaning he was facing them, is "inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence." He said it was unclear if Clark would have survived had he gotten immediate medical attention.A day after the shooting, police distributed a news release that said the officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands."Police video of the shooting doesn\'t clearly capture all that happened after Clark ran into his grandmother\'s backyard. Clark initially moved toward the officers, who were peeking out from behind a corner of the house, but it\'s unclear if he was facing them or knew they were there when they opened fire after shouting "gun, gun, gun."After 20 shots, officers called to him, apparently believing he might still be alive and armed. They eventually approached and found no gun, just a cellphone.___Associated Press reporters Sophia Bollag and Don Thompson in Sacramento and John Antczak in Los Angeles contributed to this story.
SHOPIAN, Kashmir  An Indian Army operation against militants fighting Indian rule in the Muslim-majority Kashmir Valley killed at least 12 militants on Sunday, the largest one-day death toll of insurgents in recent years, officials in Kashmir said.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were wounded in the army crackdown in the district of Shopian, according to the Kashmir authorities.Army officials called the operation a major success. It is a special day for our forces, Lt. Gen. A. K. Bhatt said.Kashmir  caught in a territorial dispute between Hindu-majority India, which controls much of the territory, and Muslim-majority Pakistan  has endured brutal conflict for decades.A violent secession movement that started in the late 1980s saw many guerrilla fighters crossing the border from Pakistan into India. In turn, India increased its military presence in the region to try to quell the uprising.The insurgency accelerated after Indian forces killed a charismatic militant leader,  Burhan Muzaffar Wani, in July 2016. Since then, the frequency of protests against Indian rule has increased. This year, dozens of people, including many civilians, have been killed in the fighting.On Sunday, as a gun battle raged in the village of Draged-Sugan, where at least seven of the militants were killed, protesters took to the streets to demonstrate against Indian security forces.Many of the protesters threw stones at the security personnel in an apparent attempt to provide cover for the militants, members of the Hizbul Mujahedeen and Lashkar-e-Taiba groups.For as long as the last Kashmiri is alive, we will come out to support militants, said Numaan Ahmad Malik, 27, a college student, who was wounded in the clashes and was treated at a hospital.Indian officers retaliated by firing pellet guns and rifles with live ammunition into the crowd, and the state government shut down the internet in an effort to prevent further protests from being organized online.Many of the injured sustained bullet wounds or pellet injuries, officials said. Shesh Paul Vaid, the top Indian police officer in the region, said that 213 militants were killed last year  the largest number in seven years.Around the village of Kachdora, where another gun battle unfolded on Sunday, shots and tear gas pierced the sky.For every 10 killed, 20 more will join until this land is freed from Indian occupation, said Imtiyaz Ahmad, a protester in Kachdora.
MONDAY PUZZLE  When we last saw Jason Mueller, he was busy spilling the beans on the real identity of a famous person, and today he takes us on a tour of a city that he says hes never even visited.Stay with the group, please. This could get messy.Mr. Mueller hits some of the big spots in the world capital of PARIS, FRANCE. The theme is built on cross-referenced clues, which means that solvers will need to know the answer to 62A, because thats how the theme clues are worded (62-Across landmark for EIFFEL TOWER, for example).Fortunately, the crossings around 62A are kind, so most should suss out the World capital revealer quickly.One thing I really liked about this was the extra French flavor in the clues outside the theme, like Dme DES Invalides (historic church) and St. Genevieve, for 62-Across, or PATRON saint of Paris in the Roman Catholic Church.If you get itchy feet and want to explore beyond Mr. Muellers PARIS, theres always the Grand TOUR around Europe.There are a lot of ways to get started in Mr. Muellers puzzle. I hopped on board at the fill-in-the-blank clues at 41A (Artoo-DETOO), 56As ALOE vera and NONE of the above at 38D.There are other gimmes depending on your wheelhouse, and the only speed bump I ran into was when I really wanted AD AGE for 8Ds AD WEEK and couldnt think of the other publication.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? Weve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?
NEWARK, N.J.   A recent court ruling could give a reputed mobster\'s family access to sealed evidence from a 14-year-old criminal case, materials they say can prove his murder was caused by law enforcement officials outing him as an informant.Frank Lagano was one of dozens arrested in 2004 in a high-profile gambling and loan-sharking investigation dubbed "Operation Jersey Boyz." Three years later he was shot to death outside the restaurant he co-owned in East Brunswick. The murder remains unsolved.In a federal lawsuit filed in 2012, Lagano\'s family made the explosive allegation that a Bergen County prosecutor\'s office member divulged to organized crime members that Lagano was working as an informant, allegedly leading to his death.In court filings, the prosecutor\'s office and former chief of detectives, Michael Mordaga, dispute the claims and deny any connection to Lagano\'s death. They\'ve sought to dismiss the suit, but a federal appeals court has ruled it can move forward.Through attorney Benjamin Clarke, Mordaga, a veteran investigator who left the prosecutor\'s office in 2007, said, "there is not now and has never been the slightest evidence" connecting him or any member of the prosecutor\'s office to Lagano\'s death. He called the family\'s allegations "agenda-driven fabrications, without any foundation in fact."Recently, the family earned a victory when a state appellate court granted them access to sealed wiretaps and other evidence from the Jersey Boyz bust, which the family hopes will prove its contentions.The family also wants the return of more than a quarter-million dollars belonging to Lagano that was seized in the bust, claiming it was earned legally.The legal actions have shone a spotlight on the Jersey Boyz case, a nearly yearlong investigation into a gambling, loan-sharking and money laundering operation. The ring allegedly was run by members of four organized crime families out of the Caffe Roma restaurant in East Rutherford, near MetLife Stadium and the Meadowlands Racetrack.More than three dozen people were charged in December 2004, but the case ran into problems when a judge dismissed many of the charges because the prosecutor\'s office didn\'t disclose that its wiretaps had picked up talk between a state investigator and an informant involved in a separate investigation.The investigator, James Sweeney, later filed a claim against the state attorney general\'s office after he was fired in 2008. The Lagano family\'s wrongful death lawsuit relies on the allegations in Sweeney\'s complaint.Sweeney alleged Lagano agreed to become a state informant after his 2004 arrest and alleged Lagano had a personal and business relationship with Mordaga. After Lagano\'s arrest, Sweeney said, Lagano rejected Mordaga\'s recommendation that Lagano contact a lawyer Mordaga knew who could make his problems "go away."While Sweeney contended information he gave to state investigators "provided a possible motive for FL\'s murder possibly arising out of FL\'s relationship with and connections to MM," his complaint didn\'t explicitly allege Mordaga exposed Lagano as an informant.Eric Kleiner, an attorney representing the Lagano family, said the wiretaps and other sealed evidence will bear out the family\'s claims."We\'re on the verge of discovering the unlawful acts of the government," he said.Nonsense, said Clarke, the attorney representing Mordaga. Clarke said he and his client have never opposed the release of the sealed materials."We of course don\'t know exactly what\'s in the sealed documents, but we do know what is not in them: Anything connecting Michael Mordaga to Frank Lagano\'s murder," he said.John Molinelli, the Bergen County prosecutor who oversaw the Jersey Boyz case and is now in private practice, declined to comment on the Lagano claims last week. In the past, he has denied the allegations made by Lagano\'s family.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Tensions mounted over the fatal police shooting of an unarmed Sacramento, California, black man when a protester sustained minor injuries when struck by a sheriff\'s patrol car that was under attack by demonstrators, authorities said on Sunday.About 150 people demonstrated in Sacramento on Saturday night to protest the March 18 shooting death of Stephon Clark, 22, who was gunned down in his grandmother\'s yard.The death of Clark, a father of two, was the latest in a string of killings of black men by police that have triggered street protests and fueled a renewed national debate about bias in the U.S. criminal justice system.Protesters on Saturday night surrounded two marked Sacramento County Sheriff\'s Department patrol cars and "began yelling while pounding and kicking the vehicles\' exterior," the Sheriff\'s Department said in a statement early Sunday."A collision occurred involving the sheriff\'s patrol vehicle and a protester who was walking in the roadway," the statement said. "The patrol car was traveling at slow speeds."The protester was identified by local media as Wanda Cleveland, 61, who regularly attends Sacramento City Council meetings.The protester was transported by the Sacramento Metro Fire Department to a hospital, where she was treated for minor injuries, the Sheriff\'s Department said."Vandals in the crowd" damaged the patrol car, which "sustained scratches, dents, and a shattered rear window," the Sheriff\'s Department said.Demonstrators interviewed by local radio and television stations, who prompted a flurry of similar Twitter responses, said the sheriff\'s car failed to stop and called the incident a hit-and-run accident.The incident is under investigation by the Sheriff\'s Department and the California Highway Patrol.Saturday\'s demonstration brought together a multi-racial crowd, many in it holding signs such as "Stop Police Rage" and "Power to the People." It was led by retired National Basketball Association player Matt Barnes, who grew up in the area and had two stints with the Sacramento Kings franchise.Clark was shot by police responding to a report that someone was breaking windows. Police said the officers feared he had a gun but that he was later found to have been holding a cellphone.Police have said he was moving toward officers in a menacing way. The shooting was captured on a body cam video released by police.In several days of sporadic protests, protesters have blocked traffic and twice delayed fans from reaching games played by the Kings at the Golden 1 Center.(Additional reporting by Barbara Goldberg in New York: editing by Steve Orlofsky)
BELTSVILLE, Md.  About an hour outside Washington, tucked in a cinder-block building run by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, orderly piles of charred and twisted matter are spread across a secure laboratory.Inside is evidence from Austin, Tex., where Mark Conditt, 23, terrorized the city for three weeks in March by setting off a half- dozen homemade explosives before blowing himself up.The collections in the Maryland lab look more suited to a landfill than to a secure government facility. Though law enforcement officials would not discuss specifics or allow photographs of evidence, each jumble would be tested and prodded, with technicians hoping to unlock insight into Mr. Conditt and the small but active group of people like him: Americas domestic bombers.Evidence from hundreds of domestic bombing cases passes through A.T.F. labs every year. A few, like the one in Austin, attract widespread attention. The majority prompt no headlines: husbands trying to kill wives with amateur car bombs, rival motorcycle gangs lobbing improvised explosive devices, a mischievous student who accidentally blows up a mailbox.Each explosive investigation is going to be different, said Matt Farr, section chief of the DNA analysis division at the laboratory here. Its very scene- and device-specific.Few domestic bombings are the same. Deconstructing them requires a combination of logistical skill  physically analyzing explosives and their components  and creative psychology, involving analysis of the motivation and patterns of the bombers. And the digital age has made it increasingly easy to experiment with amateur devices.Theres a lot of information available on the internet now, said Doug Klapec, the chief of the arson and explosive division in Beltsville. People used to have to go to the library and check out Anarchist Cookbook.In the post-9/11 era, the notion of bombings has become almost inextricably linked to Islamic extremist terrorism, which the F.B.I. investigates. But the majority of bombings in the United States bear no nexus to Islamic terrorism. The evidence in those cases is sent to Beltsville, or one of its two sister labs, in Atlanta and Walnut Creek, Calif.Since 1886, the A.T.F.s laboratory division has been spread across those three places. Its modest staff includes chemists, forensic biologists and scientists who analyze evidence each year from thousands of fires, explosions and other crimes. In 2017, A.T.F. labs helped close 314 explosives cases.I dont know that theres a better bomb lab in the country, Brad A. Galvan, a former A.T.F. agent who ran the bureaus explosives unit in San Diego until 2017, said of Beltsville.To go from a blast site to Beltsville or a similar facility, a deactivated bomb  or parts of it  is transported to one of the A.T.F. labs. Stored at the facilities in bunkers, the samples can be road maps to suspects.Were going to dissect that device down to its lowest common denominator, Mr. Galvan said. Anything thats used and recovered, were going to try and identify. Its very manpower-intensive.Each piece, down to the type of tape used to hold a bomb together, helps build a profile of the suspect. Shrapnel types, a certain kind of PVC piping, spit on the back of a stamp  any could lead to the right security footage or hardware store.Sometimes these areas are remote enough that youve only got one Lowes or one Home Depot in the whole area, Mr. Klapec said.In one instance, Mr. Klapec said, investigators found a suspect through DNA that his girlfriend had left on the cork of a wine bottle. The bottle had been filled with gasoline and put into a gift basket, which detonated when handled.Its only limited by your imagination and the size of the container you want to put it into, Mr. Galvan said of improvised bombs.Pipe bombs remain the typical case, Mr. Klapec said. Most bombings use what is called a low explosive, something like black powder, instead of a high explosive like dynamite. Most are one-offs aimed at specific targets, not serial bombings.The macabre mentality of multiple bombings can be gripping, Mr. Klapec said.Most serial bombers take their time, he said. Theres a lot of psychological components.Crucial to catching a bomber like Mr. Conditt is finding a pattern.As you do more and more things in a bomb, you create more and more of a signature, Mr. Klapec said.The A.T.F. maintains a database known as the Bomb Arson Tracking System, or BATS, where every detail of every domestic bomb in the United States is supposed to be logged. It can help investigators connect cases committed by the same person, even years apart.Historically given limited resources, the A.T.F. has at times struggled to keep up with the volume of requests that enter its lab system.We have so much work that we have to turn some cases away, Mr. Klapec said.Current and former agents and officials at the agency lament its political handicaps  as the broker of the countrys gun regulations, it has been  hamstrung by the powerful gun lobby  and the A.T.F.s tendency to work in the shadow of bigger agencies like the F.B.I., which has its own bomb division.A memorandum of understanding between the two agencies, brokered by the Justice Department, helps guide jurisdiction of bombing investigations. But those guidelines have pitfalls.The biggest time we butt heads is when you have domestic terrorism. What really is that? said Mr. Klapec, noting the debate that emerged about whether Mr. Conditt should be considered a domestic terrorist. Is everything domestic terrorism?Law enforcement officials have said Mr. Conditt should not be labeled a terrorist because he did not appear to be motivated by hate.But for the city terrorized by him, Mr. Conditts actions qualify. There is no mistaking the fear these attacks inflicted on an entire city, the editorial board of The Austin American-Statesman wrote the morning after he killed himself. That makes this terrorism.
John Legend steps into the sandals of Jesus. And Benedict Cumberbatch stars in a new movie about grief and loss. JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR LIVE IN CONCERT 8 p.m. on NBC. Celebrate Easter by watching John Legend portray Jesus. The R&B superstar will take center stage to play the son of God in Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rices once-villified, now-canon rock musical. I had a hard time turning down the role of Jesus Christ, Mr. Legend told The Times. Hell be joined at the live Brooklyn armory performance by a starry cast that includes Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene and Alice Cooper as King Herod. And Brandon Victor Dixon, who recently played another conflicted antagonist as Aaron Burr in Hamilton, will take the role of Judas.MLB BASEBALL There may have been a big snowstorm recently, but thats not stopping baseball from heralding the return of spring. Two games will be televised nationally on Sunday: At 1:10 p.m., the St. Louis Cardinals face the New York Mets on ESPN. And at 8:37 on ESPN, the San Francisco Giants hope to kick-start another year of Even Year Magic as they wrap up their series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, who came within one victory of winning the World Series last year. Rich Hill, who started two World Series games, gets the ball for Los Angeles.BEVERLY HILLS DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on USA. Despite protests at other events, expect to see lots of fur on the red carpet.IN ICE COLD BLOOD 7 p.m. on Oxygen. As Fin Tutuola on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Ice-T has spent a lot of time around crime scenes and corpses. He turns his attention to real victims in this new series, which spotlights crimes involving sex, money, and murder through interviews, archival footage and re-enactments. Is it any good? Well, this writer would prefer not to draw Ice-Ts ire toward critics, as seen in a recent Twitter outburst: Criticizing things??! Is the EASIEST job in the world. Its [sic] takes NO talent what so ever, he wrote on Wednesday. So youll have to watch to find out for yourself.THE CHILD IN TIME 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Benedict Cumberbatch has built a huge fanbase and drawn accolades for playing emotionless and highly poised characters, as in Sherlock and The Imitation Game. He plunges into a character with the opposite characteristics in this adaptation of Ian McEwans 1987 novel. He plays Stephen Lewis, a writer whose daughter disappears; he and his wife (Kelly Macdonald) struggle to cope with the trauma, and he is soon besieged by memory jumps and hallucinations that leave him with a shaky grasp on reality.ROSEANNE on Amazon Prime. Fuller House didnt get nearly as many headlines. The reboot of Roseanne Barrs family sitcom stormed to the center of the countrys culture war last week, as the first episode drew huge ratings and earned a congratulatory call from the president. Return to earlier, less contentious times by binging the original nine seasons. (Heres a guide to the best episodes.)
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Los Angeles-area voters go to the polls Tuesday in special elections to fill three open Assembly seats. Two spots are vacant because lawmakers resigned amid harassment claims, potentially making room for more female lawmakers, but candidates say issues related to sexual misconduct at the Capitol aren\'t top-of-mind for many voters.Assemblymen Raul Bocanegra and Matt Dababneh resigned amid sexual misconduct accusations, while Sebastian Ridley-Thomas quit citing health issues.Women could replace all three. At least one female contender in each race has a well-funded campaign.In interviews, female candidates said it\'s important to have women in the Legislature but pointed to their leadership credentials as their main qualifications.If any candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote Tuesday  an unlikely scenario with crowded fields in all three districts  they win outright. Otherwise the top-two finishers, regardless of party, will advance to a June runoff.The runoff contests would coincide with the statewide primary June 5.Seven candidates are vying to replace Bocanegra, who resigned after multiple women said he kissed or groped them without consent. He said he was not guilty of any crimes against the women.Luz Rivas, a nonprofit founder and engineer, and Antonio Sanchez, a workforce development director, are the race\'s leading fundraisers.Former Assemblywoman Patty Lopez, who won the seat from Bocanegra in 2014 before he defeated her and secured the spot again in 2016, also is running.Three other Democrats  Bonnie Corwin, Yolanda Anguiano and Patrea Patrick  are also on the ballot. Just one Republican, Ricardo Benitez, is running in the heavily Democratic district.Some voters want the culture surrounding sexual harassment in Sacramento to change, Rivas said, but others are less aware of the allegations against Bocanegra and other lawmakers."Some of them don\'t know the reason he resigned," she said. "I think people want their state legislator to focus on the issues that affect their day-to-day lives."Sanchez said the allegations against Bocanegra rarely come up in his conversations with voters, who seem primarily concerned with high housing costs.Democrats outnumber Republicans by a more than a 2-to-1 margin in the three districts. But the region where, demographically, a GOP candidate has the best chance of making the top two is Dababneh\'s old district, said Jaime Regalado, a political science professor emeritus at California State University, Los Angeles.The only Republican running in that district is 18-year-old Justin Clark, a college student who works part-time in an ice cream shop. Clark said his campaign comprises mostly friends and family members who are volunteering their time.His best-funded Democratic rivals are Jesse Gabriel, a constitutional rights attorney, and Tricia Robbins Kasson, a Los Angeles City Council aide.Democrats Ankur Patel, Daniel Brin, Jeff Bornstein and Ray Bishop are also in the race. Dennis Zine, a no-party-preference candidate, will appear on the ballot but has announced he isn\'t campaigning.The Florida school shooting shifted many voters\' attention to gun safety, said Larry Levine, who works on Robbins Kasson\'s campaign. But he said many are still concerned about the Dababneh allegations.Dababneh resigned after a lobbyist said he pushed her into a bathroom during a Las Vegas social event and masturbated in front of her. He has denied the accusations."Some people are very angry that they lack representation because of the way that seat was vacated," Robbins Kasson said.A pervasive culture of sexual harassment at the Capitol persisted under Democrats\' watch, and the lawmakers who resigned amid allegations are Democrats. That will have a negative effect on Democrats in the elections, Regalado said, but probably not enough to swing the outcome in favor of Republicans because the districts are so strongly Democratic.Rivas and Robbins Kasson said they believe electing more women to the Legislature will combat the pervasive sexual harassment in the capital.First-time candidate Tepring Piquado says the issue hasn\'t been raised in any candidate forums. Piquado, a neuroscientist, is running to replace Ridley-Thomas.She and fellow female candidate Sydney Kamlager, a Los Angeles Community College District trustee, are the leading fundraisers in the race. Kamlager has secured many big endorsements, including from the California Democratic Party. Republican Glen Ratcliff and Democrat Grayson Pangilinan are also running for the seat.
HARTFORD, Conn.   The cries for embattled U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty to step down for not protecting female staffers who said they experienced violence, death threats and sexual harassment by her former chief of staff intensified on Saturday, with fellow Democrats saying the allegations were shocking and she needed to "do the right thing."Esty, an outspoken advocate for the #MeToo movement, was put in the awkward position of having to apologize for not protecting the staffers in her Washington office. But she has repeatedly dismissed calls for her to resign, and on Saturday her office said she was standing by her statement from a day earlier: She\'s not leaving.Among those suggesting Esty leave office were former Secretary of the State Susan Bysiewicz, who said the emerging story of "battery, harassment and threatening" from Esty\'s ex-chief of staff and Esty\'s handling of the response were "very troubling."Bysiewicz, who has two daughters in their 20s, said employers should provide safe work environments and Congress should hold itself to an even higher standard but, "Sadly, this is clearly not the case, and this needs to change immediately.""I know Congresswoman Esty to be a woman of action rather than words, and in this case, words are not enough," said Bysiewicz, who is exploring a run for the governor\'s office. "I believe that under the circumstances, Congresswoman Esty must step down from her position."Senate President Pro Tempore Martin M. Looney said Esty has long been a leader in the fight against workplace harassment and abuse but if recent news stories are true "Congresswoman Esty should do the right thing and resign.""The heartbreaking stories of so many victims only reinforce the need to ensure that we must do all within our power to protect those who depend on us and ensure safe work environments so that no one at her or his place of employment ever feels exposed to discrimination, harassment or retaliation of any kind," Looney said in an emailed statement.Esty has issued press releases calling for tougher harassment protections for congressional staffers and was among those demanding that then-U.S. Rep. John Conyers, of Michigan, resign amid allegations of misconduct. She issued her own public mea culpa on Thursday following newspaper reports she didn\'t suspend or fire her chief of staff until three months after learning about allegations against him in 2016.She said she regrets not moving along an internal investigation, which revealed more widespread allegations of abuse, and regrets providing "even the slightest assistance to this individual as he sought a new job."In her apology, she said she was "horrified and angry" to learn of allegations a former employee had been harassed and physically harmed by former chief of staff Tony Baker. She said she demanded Baker receive counseling and then conducted an internal review of her office practices, later learning "the threat of violence was not an isolated incident" but a pattern of behavior by Baker affecting many female staffers.Baker went to work as the Ohio state director of Sandy Hook Promise, an anti-gun violence advocacy group created after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Esty\'s district, but he no longer works there. A spokesman for Baker told Hearst Connecticut Media and the Washington Post that he denies some of the allegations. A phone number listed for a Tony Baker in Columbus, Ohio, was disconnected.State Sens. Mae Flexer and Cathy Osten also said Esty should resign, as did several Republicans. The state\'s Republican Party sent out emails accusing Esty of being "complicit in covering up assault."Esty\'s Republican challenger in the 5th Congressional District, Manny Santos, said Esty had committed a "gross mishandling of abuse within her office." He said she claimed to be "a champion of women\'s rights" but "did everything possible to hide this terrible abuse perpetrated by her own Chief of Staff."Esty received mild criticism from fellow Democratic members of Connecticut\'s congressional delegation, with nearly all noting that Esty acknowledged she had made mistakes."I\'m deeply disappointed," U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal said.Asked whether Esty should resign, Blumenthal said it was "really a decision for her constituents."
MADISON, Wis.   Eric Holder came to town to campaign for the liberal candidate, and his group dumped $165,000 into the race. Joe Biden, Corey Booker and Gabby Giffords endorsed her, and more money came from a fundraiser in San Francisco. Meanwhile, Wisconsin Republicans poured in $400,000 to support the conservative candidate, the state\'s largest business group tripled that and the National Rifle Association publicly backed him.The race drawing so much heat isn\'t for Senate or even Congress. It\'s for Wisconsin Supreme Court  a supposedly nonpartisan office that is the latest election to be treated as a barometer of voter attitudes heading into the fall midterms."As the first statewide race in the nation, this is our chance to set the tone for 2018," read an invitation to the San Francisco fundraiser for Rebecca Dallet, the liberal-leaning Milwaukee judge. A Dallet win "is a critical first step in proving our values can prevail in swing states across the country," it added.Dallet faces Michael Screnock, a county judge who was appointed by GOP Gov. Scott Walker and has received Walker\'s endorsement, in Tuesday\'s election.Conservatives are trying to keep their 5-2 majority on a high court that has been a reliable ally for Walker and his legislative agenda. The court upheld Walker\'s signature 2011 law that effectively ended collective bargaining for most public workers and more recently stopped a secretive probe into Walker and conservative groups over alleged illegal campaign coordination.Democrats feel emboldened after a surprise win in January for a state Senate seat held by a Republican for 17 years in a district Donald Trump won by 14 points. Democrats hope to keep the momentum going with a Dallet win ahead of two special legislative elections this summer."It seems like people are looking everywhere for signs of what may happen in November," said Douglas Keith, an attorney with the Brennan Center for Justice, which tracks spending on court races nationwide. "I have no doubt whatever the outcome of this race, that\'s how people will talk about it afterward."Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court elections have been expensive and partisan battles for more than a decade. Spending on TV ads in the race likely will end up around $4.5 million, about what was spent on the 2016 race, according to the Brennan Center.While there\'s no doubt that Democrats this year are more energized than Republicans, it\'s dubious whether one election can be an accurate bellwether of what\'s to come in November, said Ryan Owens, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin who heads the Tommy G. Thompson Center on Public Leadership.The race\'s predictive ability for the November midterms could be tempered by low turnout. In seven contested elections for Supreme Court since 2000, average turnout was 21.5 percent  less than half of the 50 percent average for the past four midterm elections.Mark Graul, a Republican strategist, pointed to Supreme Court elections in 2007 and 2008 where conservative candidates won, victories that came in between huge Democratic wins in the fall 2006 and 2008 elections."These Supreme Court races always come down to the candidate. In general, the candidate with the better profile wins every time," Graul said.Dallet, 48, has run as a tough-on-crime judge, focusing on her 11 years of experience as a prosecutor followed by 10 years working as a judge in Milwaukee. She\'s argued the conservative-controlled court is "broken," and she\'s criticized the justices for not adopting a recusal rule forcing them to step down from cases involving large campaign donors.Screnock, 48, has branded Dallet a hypocrite for taking donations from attorneys arguing cases before her court in Milwaukee, something state law permits. Dallet argues those donations, which totaled about $21,000, are small in comparison to the roughly $1.3 million being spent by the Wisconsin Chamber of Commerce to help Screnock. He\'s declined to promise to step aside in cases involving the chamber.He\'s also refused to promise to step aside in abortion-related cases, although he was twice arrested for blocking access to a Madison abortion clinic during his college days in the 1980s.Screnock has said he\'s devoted to the rule of law and a strict interpretation of the Constitution. He argues that his experience overseeing the finances in Ashland and running city government in Washburn and Reedsburg, together with his nearly nine years\' experience as a private practice attorney before Walker appointed him in 2015, sets him apart from Dallet.As an attorney, Screnock defended Walker\'s collective bargaining law and political boundary maps drawn by the Republican-controlled Legislature that are now subject to a U.S. Supreme Court case alleging they amount to unconstitutional partisan gerrymandering.The winner of Tuesday\'s election will be on the state court during the next round of redistricting that follows the 2020 census.___Follow Scott Bauer on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sbauerAP . Sign up for the AP\'s weekly newsletter showcasing our best reporting from the Midwest and Texas: http://apne.ws/2u1RMfv
QASR AL-YAHUD BAPTISM SITE, West Bank  One by one, the pilgrims plunged under the cool, khaki-toned waters of the Jordan River, wading in from the Israeli-controlled western bank to rededicate their faith at the spot where John the Baptist is believed to have baptized Jesus.The river here is narrow and lazy, lined with vivid green bulrushes and dotted with palm trees.It was freezing cold! exclaimed Laura Ng, 58, a member of a Christian Bible study group from Singapore, as she emerged from the murky water in a purple T-shirt. But when I got immersed, I felt cleansed all over.On the opposite bank, a few gentle swim strokes away, a smaller group of tourists stood on the Jordanian side and took photos on their cellphones.In the days before Easter, Holy Land tour groups were arriving by the busload at the Israeli-run baptism site known as Qasr al-Yahud. Arabic for the Castle of the Jews, the name is said to be a reference to the castle-like appearance of a nearby Greek Orthodox monastery and to Jewish belief, which holds that this is where Joshua led the Israelites into the Promised Land.Located a few miles north of the Dead Sea and east of the town of Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, the baptism site drew about 570,000 visitors last year, according to the Israeli authorities. Yet the peaceful scenes of pilgrimage today belie the areas turbulent history as a battle zone.The site remained off-limits for decades after Israel captured the West Bank from Jordan in the Arab-Israeli War of 1967. Israel and Jordan made peace in 1994, and Israel has since renovated a small portion of the site, opening it to the public in 2011.But armed Israeli soldiers still patrol here to make sure nobody crosses the river to or from the Jordanian side. To get to the water, pilgrims have to get through a military zone, sticking to a narrow path surrounded by minefields.The anti-personnel and anti-tank mines were planted by Israeli military battalions after the 1967 war as part of a new defense line. In mid-February, an Israeli military jeep went over a land mine buried in the sand here; seven soldiers were injured. The blackened hulk of the vehicle is visible from the road lined with danger signs.The churches and compounds of eight denominations built around the 1930s in the area were abandoned five decades ago and remain out of bounds.Israeli Army engineers are believed to have booby-trapped the windows and doors of the sanctuaries and monks cells, mostly belonging to the Eastern Orthodox churches, because they were being used as cover for Palestinian fighters infiltrating from Jordan to attack Israelis.Now, in an effort to rehabilitate and open up the rest of the site, the Halo Trust, a British-American mine clearance charity, has begun a mine-clearing operation with the cooperation of the Israeli National Mine Action Authority, working under Israels Ministry of Defense, and the Palestinian Mine Action Center under the auspices of the Palestinian Authority.The project is being jointly funded by the Ministry Defense and Halo, which has raised more than $1 million so far, and it will probably take at least a year.Despite the political awkwardness of working in occupied territory, the Palestinians and Israelis share an interest in promoting Christian tourism. Both Israel and the West Bank boast major Christian sites like Nazareth and Bethlehem, and the pilgrim trade is lucrative.Experts estimate that there could be as many as 3,000 mines and other explosive devices littering the site, an area less than half a square mile, as well as other war detritus like unexploded rockets, mortars and artillery rounds.War is a way of achieving a political objective, said James Cowan, the chief executive of the Halo Trust. Land mines remain lethal for decades after that political purpose has passed.Mr. Cowan, who was a major general in the British Army, described the anti-personnel mines as being about the size of a Camembert cheese and the anti-tank mines as being around the size of a 12-inch pizza.The idea is to restore the properties to the churches, allowing monks  and pilgrims  to return.The work, which started on March 11 in the southern Ethiopian Church compound, is painstaking. The various Israeli units passing through left no record or maps of where they put the anti-personnel mines, and commanders who could be tracked down could not remember with any precision. Recently, a multinational team of Israelis, Palestinians and Georgians worked gingerly, using detectors and armored mechanized equipment.The churches have time, said Ronen Shimoni, the Halo Trusts program manager in the West Bank, standing by an abandoned Israeli military post atop a hill with a commanding view in the already searing heat of spring. They will remain here after all of us.The expansion of Qasr al-Yahud may heat up the competition between the two banks of the Jordan River, over which is the authentic baptism site. The Jordanian side, which boasts a church complex with a golden dome, is known as Al Maghtas, Arabic for baptism, or as Bethany beyond the Jordan.In 2012, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or Unesco, designated the eastern, Jordanian bank as a World Heritage Site, declaring it is believed to be the location of Jesuss baptism.Though remains of ancient churches, chapels and monks cells dating to the Roman and Byzantine periods have been found on the eastern side, there does not appear to be any archaeological evidence on either side from the first century.Matthew 3:13 describes Jesus coming to the Jordan to be baptized by John from the Galilee, in what is now northern Israel. An apparent reference to the eastern bank comes in John 1:28, which states: These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.But Qasr al-Yahud, on the Israeli-controlled side, has already proved more popular with pilgrims. Entry is free and it is close to other Christian sites.Neil Taylor, 63, a tourist from Sussex, England, surveyed the scene by the riverbank as members of a Russian pilgrim group in white robes, available from the souvenir store for $9 a piece, sang praises, then entered the water.Mr. Taylor said he was not fazed by the warnings of minefields and more signs proclaiming Border Ahead.When John the Baptist was baptizing people, I imagine that was pretty chaotic as well, he said. To see the young lady with a machine gun is a little off-putting, he said of an armed Israeli border guard at the waters edge.Brenda Ben, 59, and her husband Michael Ben, 58, Canadians, both took the opportunity to be rebaptized in the Jordan River. They said they had traveled to a lot of crazy places before, including the Democratic Republic of Congo.We came because of our faith, Mrs. Ben said. Its just amazing seeing some of the sites and realizing the presence of God.Dripping wet, Mr. Ben added, Well worry when the sirens go off.
Here are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. No amount of kindness or compassion alone would have changed the person that Nikolas Cruz is and was, or the horrendous actions he perpetrated. That is a weak excuse for the failures of our school system, our government and our gun laws.Among our best-read articles this week was an Op-Ed written by Isabelle Robinson, a senior from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. She wrote the piece because she was disturbed by the notion that the shooting might have been prevented if Mr. Cruzs classmates were nicer to him. Above, a memorial outside the school after the attack.John Paul Stevens, the retired Supreme Court justice, also wrote a well-read Op-Ed on guns. He labeled the Second Amendment a relic and called for its repeal.Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. Heres the front page of our Sunday paper, and our crossword puzzles.____2. President Trumps advisers are urging tougher policies on Russia after a week of mass expulsions of diplomats. But Mr. Trump has refused to embrace a tough public posture, and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go. Above, the American Embassy in Moscow.Meanwhile, turnover continued in his administration with the departure of Hope Hicks, the communications director, and David Shulkin, the secretary for veterans affairs. Heres our running tally.And heres a roundup of the five biggest stories in politics this week, including the uproar over a citizenship question on the census.____3. In Ohio, President Trump visited a training center for union workers to promote his infrastructure plan. But he diverted to other topics, saying he might delay a trade deal with South Korea  and promising to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria. Above, American service members near Manbij.Two members of the U.S.-led coalition fighting there were killed this week  one American soldier and one British. Mr. Trump ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for stabilization and humanitarian aid, as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict.Idlib Province, the largest remaining rebel-held enclave in Syria, has been flooded with refugees from other areas. As the government wraps up a blistering military campaign in the eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus, Idlib is likely to be the next target, and civilians there are trapped.____4. The Israeli military killed 15 Palestinians in confrontations on the border with Gaza.Tens of thousands of Gazans had gathered for what was billed as a peaceful demonstration against Israels longstanding blockade and in support of their right to return to their homes in what is now Israel.Gazas economy is collapsing and residents  most of whom are refugees or their descendants  face intense restrictions on the movement of goods and people in and out of the territory.The Israelis said that some demonstrators hurled stones, firebombs and burning tires, and that two gunmen fired at them. They responded with tear gas and gunfire. Some 1,000 people were injured.____5. Stephon Clark, the unarmed man killed by the Sacramento police in his grandmothers backyard last month, was shot eight times from behind, according to a private autopsy. Above, an image from police footage of the shooting.Protesters in Californias capital have taken to the streets nearly every day since Mr. Clarks death, demanding that the citys leadership fire the two officers involved. An activist at a rally outside the city on Saturday was struck by a Sheriffs Department vehicle and was treated for minor injuries.And the police in Baton Rouge, La., fired the officer who shot Alton Sterling in 2016. The department released new footage of the killing that shows the officer shouting profanities at Mr. Sterling, slamming him into a car and threatening to shoot him in the head.____6. The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case.Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State.After our recent coverage of the bombings in Austin, Tex., some readers took issue with our reporting, asking why we didnt label him a terrorist. Some of our editors and reporters addressed those questions here.____7. We took a look at recent patent applications filed by Amazon and Google. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.)Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used and are years from even being possible.But the recent filings offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices.For example, a device could start analyzing speech when it hears love, bought or dislike and then send out targeted ads based on that information.____8. Our critic writes that the clock is ticking on the overdue International African American Museum in Charleston, S.C. Above, a rendering. But will $11 million be found to fully fund it?And the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is Wednesday. As we sorted through historical photographs for our coverage, we encountered many people, particularly women and children, who had gone unnamed.Now we want to know: Who were they? Were hoping you might be able to help us.____9. Tax Day is approaching.The deadline to file is April 17. Our personal finance experts say its also an excellent time to give yourself a financial tuneup.Theyve created a weeklong program that walks you through some of the simplest financial tasks you can do to tidy your finances, optimize your spending and make sure you are planning appropriately for the long term.____10. Why are Catholic colleges so good at basketball?While theological explanations are tempting, there is more than just something in the holy water. Our college sports reporter explains.One of those colleges is Loyola-Chicago, whose fans, above, cheered its long-shot run to the N.C.A.A. tournaments Final Four. The team lost to Michigan, which will face Villanova in the championship game Monday night.____11. Finally, competing bunnies were beaten by a cat in the race to No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list for childrens picture books.The bunnies are both named Marlon Bundo. (One was created by the vice presidents daughter, and the other by the staff of Last Week Tonight With John Oliver.) They were overtaken by Pete the Cat: Big Easter Adventure.On that note, if youre looking for last-minute Easter recipes, weve got you covered. Above, homemade Peeps, also known as saffron honey marshmallows. We also have a wide array of recipes for the Passover table.Up for some more reading? Try this collection of our best weekend reads, which includes our coverage of the Roseanne reboot, Sean Penns literary adventures and a bittersweet return to Puerto Rico.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
SAN FRANCISCO  Ryan Knight, a Democratic activist in Los Angeles, called for a boycott of Apple in February because it hadnt responded to calls to delete a channel from the National Rifle Association from its streaming-video service after the Parkland, Fla., school shooting.Dear @Apple, Mr. Knight wrote on Twitter. Your silence is deafening. #BoycottApple. More than 330 accounts retweeted the message.How did Mr. Knight post the message? He used an iPhone.As the reach and influence of Silicon Valleys tech giants have increased, so have the calls to boycott their products and services. The problem is that pulling off a boycott is not exactly easy: The tech companies products are so pervasive that they are difficult to avoid.That issue was crystallized in recent weeks with Facebook. Hundreds of people deleted their accounts after revelations that the political-data firm Cambridge Analytica had improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Yet many of those same people promptly instructed their friends to find them on Instagram, which is owned by  you guessed it  Facebook.Its exactly the same company. I realize its ridiculous, said Sachi Cunningham, a documentary filmmaker in San Francisco who deactivated her Facebook last week and shifted her attention to Instagram, where, she said, the conversation is less toxic.Ms. Cunningham, who has freelanced for The New York Times, added that she had immediately begun missing Facebook as a research tool for her documentaries. I dont know if I can get out of the ecosystem, she said.People looking to punish major tech companies by abstaining from their products have been bedeviled time and again by the difficulty in escaping them. After Google fired an engineer, James Damore, for criticizing the companys diversity efforts last year, hundreds of people on social media called for a boycott of the company. But an analysis of nearly 7,000 tweets using the hashtag #BoycottGoogle since August showed that 26 percent of the tweets came from devices using Googles Android software, according to Keyhole, a social-media research firm.One Twitter account named Milton Prescott tweeted on Aug. 8: Googles firing of James Damore proves his point completely. I will no longer be using Google for any services. #BoycottGoogle. The tweet came from an Android device. A message to the account went unreturned.Even Breitbart is running into the same dilemma. The conservative website is planning to host a panel on how tech platforms like Facebook suppress conservative voices  and it said it would livestream the discussion on Facebook. Breitbart didnt respond to a request for comment.Marisa Richardson, a program manager at a life-sciences company, said she began boycotting Amazon recently after learning that it offered the NRA channel on its streaming-video service. So when she needed laundry detergent, she avoided the e-commerce site and instead braved the crowds and traffic  and spent a few dollars more  at a nearby Target.But a few days later she shopped at the Whole Foods near her home in Oakland, Calif. I completely forgot that theyre owned by Amazon, she said.After the shooting in Parkland in February, gun-control activists called for a boycott of certain Apple and Amazon services because they hosted the NRA channel.People used the hashtag #March1NRABoycott to spread the message on social media. An analysis of about 58,500 tweets with the hashtag showed that nearly half came from an iPhone or an iPad, according to Keyhole. Those included popular tweets using the #March1NRABoycott hashtag from the actress Alyssa Milano.Had I sent the same tweets from an Android phone, the same issue would apply. There is an NRATV app for Android phones, Ms. Milano said through a spokeswoman. We are only just beginning to understand how these companies have infiltrated not only our ideologies, but also our lives in the most in-depth way imaginable.Nearly a third of the 4,700 tweets using the #BoycottApple hashtag since August came from iPhones, according to Keyhole.I do have an iPhone, but as a customer of Apples, am I not allowed to hold them accountable? Mr. Knight, the activist who used an iPhone to call for an Apple boycott, said in an interview.Eddy Cue, a senior executive at Apple, recently said that the NRA channel didnt violate the companys policies. Facebook, Google and Amazon didnt respond to requests for comment.Many of those who recently abandoned their Facebook accounts are still in the companys orbit, not only with Instagram but also with the companys popular messaging apps WhatsApp and Messenger.When Cher recently deleted her Facebook page, she said on Twitter, 2day I did something VERY HARD 4 me. But her Instagram account, with 768,000 followers, was still active.Likewise, Elon Musk, chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, deleted the Facebook pages of both companies  but left their pages and his personal account active on Instagram. The photo-sharing platform, he said on Twitter, is fine so long as it stays fairly independent.Stephen Cox, 39, a woodworker in Los Angeles, recently posted on Facebook that he was deactivating his account in favor of Instagram. When someone commented that the two sites were owned by the same company, he replied, Its a double-edged sword, but for me one edge is slightly more blunt than the other.Instagram has proved an effective hedge for Facebook against people losing interest or trust in its main site. While the percentage of American adults who use Facebook has remained flat at 68 percent since 2016, according to a January survey of 2,002 American adults by the Pew Research Center, Instagram use rose to 35 percent from 28 percent over that period. Instagram is also more popular with younger people than older people, according to the survey.Rayven Bruzzese, 26, a sign-language student in Philadelphia, said she had been a frequent user of Facebook for years but deleted her account in March because she found it upsetting and a drain on her time. Now she spends her time on Instagram.While she acknowledged the irony of moving to another Facebook-owned service, she said her options were limited. Few of her friends are on Twitter, and many have stopped using Snapchat.Where am I supposed to go? she said. I wish there was something else.
LONDON  British officials investigating the poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian double agent, believe it is likely that an assassin smeared a nerve agent on the door handle at his home. This operation is seen as so risky and sensitive that it is unlikely to have been undertaken without approval from the Kremlin, according to officials who have been briefed on the early findings of the inquiry.This theory suggests that an assassin, who Britain believes was working on behalf of the Russian government, walked up to the door of Mr. Skripals brick home on a quiet street in Salisbury on March 4, the day that he and his daughter, Yulia, were sickened.Mr. Skripal, who was freed in a spy swap with the United States in 2010, is still in critical condition and unresponsive, but Yulia is conscious and talking, according to a BBC report.Because the nerve agent is so potent, the officials said, the task could have been carried out only by trained professionals familiar with chemical weapons. British and American officials are skeptical that independent actors could have carried out such a risky operation or obtained the agent without approval at the highest levels of the Russian government  almost exactly the same phrase that American intelligence agencies used in October 2016, when they first attributed the hacking of emails from the Democratic National Committee to a team of Russian hackers.Four weeks after the assassination attempt, British and American officials are turning to the question of whether President Vladimir V. Putin himself was aware of, or ordered, the attack.They say there is no evidence so far of his direct participation, but the Russian president, a former K.G.B. officer, is skilled at hiding his communications.Russia has denied involvement in the poisoning, and in the election hack.British and American officials say they are struck by the symbolism of the attack on Mr. Skripal, as well as its effectiveness. There were many ways the former spy could have been killed: He could have been shot, or killed in a staged accident.But the assassins knew the nerve agent would be identified, and knew it would be linked to Russia, the officials said. That was meant to send a chilling message to others who would think of defecting to, or informing, the West.And by conducting the operation in an historical British town, some distance from London, the attack was meant to indicate that no place was out of reach of Russian assassins, the officials said.The boldness of the attack on Mr. Skripal, which took British authorities by surprise, has caused them to reassess Mr. Putins use of what has come to be called hybrid warfare.The officials are now viewing those actions as part of a pattern  one rarely seen in the Cold War  in which Mr. Putin exerts Russian power in ways that are hard to attribute directly to Russian actors, but leave little doubt in the minds of adversaries about the countrys willingness to use a range of new tactics.NATO allies are now thinking anew about coordinated responses, which is what the simultaneous ouster of the Russian agents was intended to represent. But it is unclear whether those countries can hold together in a continuous series of confrontations with Russia.Eight days after the Skripals collapsed, Prime Minister Theresa May identified the poison as Novichok, developed in the last years of the Soviet Union.For an assassin to leave poison on Mr. Skripals door handle would require considerable knowledge of the underlying chemistry, said Richard Guthrie, an independent chemical weapons expert and editor of CBW Events.The nerve agent would have to be designed so that it would remain on the door handle, and then reliably be transferred to the targets hand, he said.Its a huge implication, if it was the door handle, because it means someone had to be in the U.K. with the material, Mr. Guthrie said. Anything you create that would stick to the door handle, youve got to make it so that it would be removed from the door handle when it was handled, and not dropped off too quickly. Thats complicated chemistry.The assassin, he added, would have had to possess a high confidence that his target would be affected, because, he said, you dont want to stand in front of the front door.Alastair Hay, an emeritus professor of toxicology at the University of Leeds, agreed that such an attack would require specialized knowledge, to ensure the poison adhered to the door handle but felt innocuous to the targets.Once they touched it, they would know that this handle was wet, Professor Hay said. But they would not have dreamed that someone was trying to poison them. If they had, they would try to wipe it off.Some experts have expressed caution about assuming that Mr. Putin approved the attack. Its timing was awkward, coming too late to help him much in last months election, and casting a diplomatic shadow over Russias hosting of the 2018 World Cup.And the Kremlins embrace of proxy forces in recent years has opened the door to freelancing from other power centers, like security agencies or the countrys military intelligence, which may not share their plans in detail.In their consultation with the United States and other allies, British officials shared a three-part case against Russia, the officials said.The first element was an analysis of the nerve agent provided by mass spectrometry, a technique that sorts ions based on their mass-to-charge ratio. If the sample is strong enough, this technique could provide scientists with a chemical signature identifying its national source or even the specific laboratory that produced it, said Paul F. Walker, a chemical weapons expert at Green Cross International, a disarmament advocacy group.The second element was evidence that Russia had publicly stated its intent to assassinate defectors living abroad. British officials pointed to 2006 legislation passed by the Russian Parliament, which granted Russias president expanded powers to use force against opponents living in other countries.Russia has never acknowledged using the authority under the law, and has denied any role in high-profile deaths, like that of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former Russian K.G.B. officer who was poisoned with a rare and highly radioactive isotope known as Polonium 210 a few months after it was passed.A third element of the British case against Russia consisted of intelligence  either human intelligence, intercepted communications or other information  that the officials would not share.The dispute between Russia and Britain deepened last week, after the United States and European allies expelled more than than 150 Russian diplomats suspected of being spies.Russias government has said it insists on the right to visit Ms. Skripal, a Russian citizen. The British foreign office has said it will consider Russias request, taking into consideration both international law and Ms. Skripals wishes.Russia also protested the search of an Aeroflot passenger jet on Friday after it traveled from Moscow to Londons Heathrow Airport, and said that the British Border Force had tried to search the plane in the absence of its crew or captain. Ben Wallace, the British security minister, said there was nothing unusual about the search.It is routine for Border Force to search aircraft to protect the U.K. from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country, Mr. Wallace said.Russia on Saturday also released a list of questions addressed to Britain, France and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the Skripal poisoning.The questions scrutinize the British claim that the nerve agent originated in Russia, noting that an antidote was provided to the Skripals within hours of their poisoning, and questioning whether British scientists had produced Novichok nerve agents in their own laboratories.
WASHINGTON/IXTEPEC, Mexico   President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.After tweeting a "Happy Easter" message on Twitter, he said: "Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous."\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!" he wrote, adding a threat to kill the North American Free Trade Agreement which is being renegotiated with Mexico and Canada.DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is a program created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Trump sought to rescind last autumn.Designed for people brought to the United States as children by parents who were undocumented immigrants, the program shielded them from deportation and gave them work permits.Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats who want to protect DACA in exchange for funding to build a U.S.-Mexico border wall, a campaign trail promise.He insisted during his 2016 White House run that Mexico would pay for the wall, something the Mexican government has repeatedly rejected.Mexico\'s presidential front-runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, launched his campaign close to the border on Sunday demanding respect for Mexicans and signaling he may take a harder line toward Trump if he wins the July 1 election."Mexico and its people will not be the piata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, which borders El Paso, Texas.  "It\'s not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Whether Trump will stick to his guns on DACA is unclear. Trump last month threatened to veto a spending bill because it did not address the fate of Dreamers and did not fully fund his border wall but he ultimately signed the bill.In the months after Trump took office, apprehensions of illegal crossers along the U.S.- Mexico border dropped from more than 42,400 arrests in January 2017 to a low of around 15,700 in April, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection data. Since then, the number of arrests has risen and in the first months of 2018 was above Obama administration levels."Mexico has got to help us at the border," the president, who is spending Easter at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, told reporters on his way into an Easter church service. "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA. They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it."MIGRANT CARAVANTrump\'s DACA tweets came after a report on the Fox New Channel\'s Fox & Friends program, one of his favorites, that a "caravan" of mostly Honduran migrants was crossing Mexico and headed to the United States, "either illegally or by asking for asylum."More than 1,000 would-be migrants have passed through Mexico\'s southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca in recent days in a so-called "refugee caravan" organized by U.S.-based immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In the town of Ixtepec, more than 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala waited in a sweltering warehouse on Saturday, mattresses rolled and bags packed, as local authorities and immigration officials from Mexico\'s federal government organized 15 buses to take them to their next stop on the long journey north.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.Gina Garibo, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras traveling with the migrants, said the group would hold a meeting to discuss Trump\'s statements on Sunday and stressed that the caravan\'s aim was to protect vulnerable people."The main people here are fleeing criminal violence, political violence, in their country and this allows us to save lives," she said in response to Trump\'s comments.A guest on Sunday\'s Fox & Friends show, Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council union, said illegal immigrants benefit from the "catch and release" program that Trump referenced in his tweet. Under it, they can be freed while awaiting court hearings if detained in the United States.If recent border crossers do not claim asylum, they can usually be deported quickly. But if they say they fear targeted violence or persecution in their home countries, they can begin the long process of petitioning for asylum in immigration court.Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that Mexico is doing "very little, if not NOTHING," to stop the flow of people across the southern border. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said the United States and Mexico work together on migration every day."An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter," he said in a tweet.Mexico deported some 80,000 people in 2017, down from about 160,000 in 2016, official statistics show. The vast majority were from Central American nations. The drop reflects fewer Central Americans crossing the country last year.(Reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Delphine Schrank in Ixtepec, Mexico; Additional reporting by by Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Mica Rosenberg in New York, David Lawder in Washington and Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Daniel Wallis)
