Gov. Phil Scott, a Republican, has vowed to sign the measure, representing a remarkable departure from the state’s existing gun laws, some of the weakest in the country.
Gun rights supporters protesting gun restriction legislation have gathered outside the Vermont Statehouse to urge the governor not to sign the bill.
As bail has grown into a $2 billion industry, bond agents have become the payday lenders of the criminal justice world, offering quick relief to desperate customers at high prices.
A man viewed as a local superhero with a matching car collection and a penchant for completing daring feats for charity is under investigation for his alleged involvement in a multi-million dollar Medicaid fraud scheme at his two Ohio substance ab...
With no other choice, tens of thousands of Syrians have fled to Idlib, a rebel-held province, where they are caught between government attacks from the sky and Islamists on the ground.
The video shows Officer Blane Salamoni repeatedly telling Mr. Sterling he is going to shoot him in the head. Moments later, Mr. Sterling is hit by a Taser and then fatally shot.
Britain said on Saturday it was routine for border officials to search aircraft, after Russia said Moscow would demand an official explanation why a Russian Aeroflot passenger plane was searched at London's Heathrow airport on Friday.
A prosecutor in Virginia has ruled that a police officer was justified in fatally shooting an armed man who took several people hostage inside a bar last year.
Rocker Ted Nugent says the Florida students calling for gun control have "no soul" and are "mushy brained children."
The family of Stephon Clark joined hundreds at a rally Saturday, urging California's capital city not to let his memory or calls for police reform fade nearly two weeks after the 22-year-old unarmed black man was killed by Sacramento officers.
Kept under wraps for nearly two years, body camera footage of a policeman killing Alton Sterling shows the officer threatening to shoot the man and screaming profanities before firing the fatal shots that stoked protests across the nation.
A white North Carolina police officer shot and killed a black passenger who refused orders not to reach for a gun after a late-night traffic stop led to a physical struggle, authorities said Saturday.
A man who killed 10 people in 1984 in one of New York City's most notorious massacres has been released from prison.
In the latest flare-up of tensions between California and Washington, President Trump criticized the governor for granting the pardons.
About 200 people demonstrated in Sacramento on Saturday to protest the fatal police shooting of Stephon Clark, in the latest of nearly two weeks of mostly peaceful rallies since the unarmed black man was gunned down in his grandmother's yard.
In the Pakistani hometown of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai, reminders are frequent of the daughter of scenic northwestern Swat Valley who survived a gun attack &#8211; and so are memories of harsh rule by the Taliban.
Venezuela&#8217;s government broke its silence about a riot and fire in a police station&#8217;s cells that killed dozens of prisoners on Wednesday, issuing a statement on Friday night sending condolences to relatives and promising an investigatio...
The widow of the gunman who slaughtered 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was acquitted Friday of helping to plot the attack and lying to the FBI afterward &#8212; a rare and stinging defeat for the U.S. government in a terrorism c...
The Fox News host was criticized for saying that the Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg was whining about getting rejected from colleges. Fox News said her vacation was preplanned.
The Philippine central bank has sounded an alert to local financial institutions following a cyber attack at the Malaysian central bank, in which hackers sought to steal money using fraudulent wire transfers, its governor said on Saturday.
The International Criminal Court on Saturday said it has taken into custody at its detention center in the Netherlands a Malian man accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Venezuela arrested five state police officials for their alleged role in a riot and fire that killed 68 people in an overcrowded police station cell, the country's public prosecutor said on Saturday.
A Burundian man recently deported from the United States after failing to receive political asylum has been detained without charge back home, activists said Saturday.
Dozens of Roman Catholic devotees dressed as ancient Romans and biblical figures fled a Good Friday procession in panic on Friday in the Mexican resort town of Acapulco after gunfire rang out over a nearby car robbery. 
Russian authorities on Saturday arrested billionaire Ziyavudin Magomedov on charges of embezzling more than $35 million, in one of the highest-profile prosecutions of a Russian tycoon in years.
Ms. Dash had declared her candidacy for the House of Representatives in California’s 44th District, a Democratic stronghold in the Los Angeles suburbs.
A young woman seeks comfort after a breakup in Mubi’s “Lover for a Day.” And the true crime documentary “Operation Odessa” arrives on Showtime.
Today in History
Moscow has told Britain it must cut just over 50 more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia as a standoff deepened over the poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter in England, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.
A tale of two Kushner brothers, on either side of the fractious Trump divide.
Discussions on some policy issues, such as gun control and criminal justice reform, were pushed back until after the April 1 budget deadline.
Mr. Belzberg was a Canadian who, with his brothers, amassed a fortune using the “greenmail” takeover tactic and later reinvented himself as a private-equity investor.
President Donald Trump hailed the start of his long-sought U.S.-Mexico border wall this past week, proudly tweeting photos of the "WALL!" Actually, no new work got underway. The photos showed the continuation of an old project to replace 2 miles o...
A group of childhood friends wants to create a safer community and challenge the notion that African-Americans can’t be cowboys. 
For years, employees complained about the behavior of the head of the division, Kevin Carwile, and what they viewed as a toxic culture.
