In the wake of mass shootings, a lifetime of gun ownership leads to unsettling questions.
Even here in Tennessee’s gun country, keeping armed people out of schools is not too much to ask.
A spokeswoman for the St. Louis family of a 7-year-old boy who was shot and killed by his brother says the 5-year-old found their father's gun while looking for candy and didn't know the difference between it and a toy gun.
The homicide rate in London so far has increased each month in 2018 as the British capital experiences a rise in knife-related crime.
President Trump’s son-in-law wants to overhaul the penal system, but the attorney general is bitterly opposed. That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.
The Trump administration’s second suit against the state called the statute unconstitutional, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions accused California’s leaders of acting as if they were “above the law.”
The city councilwoman in North Carolina whose district includes the area where a white police officer fatally shot a black man says she hasn't heard any complaints about officers.
Former Catalan separatist leader Carles Puigdemont says in a jail interview with two German members of parliament that he is "not a criminal" and that the campaign for the Spanish region's independence is based on democracy and nonviolence.
A Boko Haram attack in the Nigerian city of Maiduguri killed at least 15 people and wounded 83, a military spokesman said on Monday, in the biggest strike since the government said it was in talks with the Islamist militant group.
Rocker Ted Nugent says a Parkland, Florida, school shooting survivor who's become an outspoken advocate for gun safety is "so brainwashed" he probably can't be fixed.
A Facebook page claiming to be the Republican Party of Virginia Beach promoted a debunked theory over the weekend that the Holocaust could have been prevented if Jewish people had guns.
Authorities say a man has been shot wounded during a confrontation with police at a gas station in North Carolina.
A 3-year-old has been killed in a drive-by shooting in Georgia.
Police in Georgia say a woman who admitted posting a video depicting a shooting threat to an elementary school has been arrested.
Violence erupted in several parts of northern and central India on Monday as thousands of dalits, members of Hinduism's lowest caste, protested an order from the country's top court that they say dilutes legal safeguards put in place for their mar...
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
A magazine editor has apologized to a governor in northern Thailand after he threatened her with criminal charges for posting on Facebook a student's painting of ancient kings wearing pollution masks.
Despite advances the country has made since the Rev. Martin Luther King. Jr. was slain while fighting poverty and racism, "the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us," former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.
The city’s plan to build a jail in the once-blighted neighborhood is a key step to closing Rikers Island, but its future neighbors are concerned.
A Turkish court has issued arrest warrants for a U.S.-based Muslim cleric and seven other people for their alleged involvement in the killing of Russia's ambassador to Turkey, the country's state-run news agency reported Monday.
Justice Sotomayor issued an impassioned dissent, saying the majority had told officers that they can “shoot first and think later.”
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
A Mexican father arrested by immigration officials after dropping off his daughter at day care in California was released from a detention center on Monday and will be allowed to remain in the U.S. after a judge ruled he could face persecution wit...
A judge ruled Monday that a man charged with fatally shooting three people at a Colorado Walmart is competent to stand trial.
Students at the Florida high school where 17 students and staff members were massacred are now carrying their belongings in clear plastic backpacks in hopes that it will make it difficult to smuggle weapons onto campus.
Jose Antonio Meade's race for Mexico's presidency so far has looked more like a slog through mud &#8212; a struggle to free himself from the scandal-stained reputation of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party that chose the seemingly apo...
The main defendant, Joseph Hunter, has been charged with planning the murder of a Filipino woman while working as a security contractor for an international crime lord.
The agency that regulates guns and explosives in the United States and also fights firearm-related crime, does not have an accurate count of bullets, chemical weapons and other devices it possesses, an internal watchdog's report said.
The Fort Worth Police Department is investigating a weekend arrest in which a white officer was caught on video kneeling on a black man's back and punching him while a black officer kneed him.
Ramon and Audrey take some time off from their respective forms of martyrdom.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
“There is neither optimism nor strong pessimism, honestly.”
The Connecticut Democrat has been consumed by revelations that she waited three months to fire a former aide who harassed and threatened to kill a co-worker.
A white North Carolina officer is shown putting a black pedestrian in a chokehold in video released Monday that offers more footage of a police beating that has sparked outrage over use of force.
U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty announced on Monday she will not seek re-election this year amid calls for her resignation over her handling of the firing of a former chief of staff accused of harassment, threats and violence against female staffers in h...
From “Top Gun” to “Star Wars,” Mark Weinberg’s memoir looks back on evening screenings that staffers shared at Camp David with the commander in chief.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.
A federal judge found that the investigator had probable cause to suspect that a deputy sheriff had killed his girlfriend — a death that had been ruled a suicide.
President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.
These shootings keep happening because, on some level, America finds them acceptable.
American Indian tribes have taken greater control over prosecuting non-tribal members who commit some violent crimes in Indian Country five years after Congress passed a key law, a new report shows.
Clara Ester's eyes were fixed on the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as he stood on the concrete balcony of the Lorraine Motel.
A wave of walkouts and rallies in red states has been organized largely by ordinary teachers.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
It was July 2015 when the FBI, scrambling to contain a surge in Islamic State group propaganda, first visited an Egyptian-American newspaper deliveryman in Maryland.
In “The Common Good,” Reich argues that it all begins with a shared commitment to fundamental principles.
An agreement struck with the U.N. would have sent half the migrants to the West and let the rest stay, but the prime minister’s right flank revolted.
Israel announced a deal with the U.N. on Monday to resettle African migrants in Western nations, but hours later put the agreement on hold.
Bucking a global trend, Uzbekistan’s new leader is reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression.
