Two weeks before Christmas, I had a 9-millimeter pistol concealed in my waistband and a rifle with two 30-round magazines in the passenger seat beside me. I was driving down from the mountains to meet a fellow I didnt know at a Cracker Barrel off I-40 in the North Carolina foothills. He was looking to buy a Kel-Tec Sub-2000, and I had one for sale. Other than that, I didnt know him from Adam except for a few messages back and forth on Facebook.We were both members of a Facebook group where people post pictures of firearms and buyers private-message to ask questions and make offers  sometimes cash, sometimes trade. I needed money to pay a buddy for an old 70s model Lark teardrop trailer, and that rifle wasnt doing anything but taking up space in the safe.What I was doing was perfectly legal. In North Carolina, long-gun transfers by private sellers require no background checks. Likewise, its perfectly legal to sell a handgun privately so long as the buyer has a purchase permit or a concealed-carry license. But as I headed up the exit to the restaurant where we agreed to meet, I felt uneasy. I was within the law, but it didnt feel as if I should have been.He was backed into a space parallel to the dumpster, a black Ford F-250 with a covered bed, just as he described on Facebook Messenger. As I pulled in, he stepped out. He smiled, and I nodded.You can just leave it in the seat so we dont make anybody nervous, he said as I rolled down my window. There were families in rocking chairs in front of the restaurant. Customers were walking to their cars to get back on the road.I climbed out of my truck so he could look the rifle over while I counted the money hed left on his seat. He was about my age, somewhere in his early to mid-30s, white guy with a thick beard. He spoke with a heavy Southern accent not much different from my own. Said he built houses for a living, and that was about all the small talk between us. He liked the rifle. I needed the cash. We shook hands, and off we went.There is rarely a moment when Im not within reach of a firearm. When I lie down at night, there is an old single-shot New England Firearms Pardner leaned against the headboard, a loaded Smith & Wesson M&P Shield pistol on the nightstand. When I sit on the couch to work on an essay or a novel, there is a CZ 75 pistol on the coffee table. When I go to town for groceries, one of those two pistols is concealed inside my waistband.Where I live in the mountains of North Carolina, I am not alone. With fewer than a dozen guns in the safe, I wouldnt even be considered a gun nut. Most of my friends have concealed-carry licenses and pistols on their person. If there are 10 of us in a room, there are most likely 10 loaded firearms, probably more, with a few of us keeping backups in ankle holsters. Rarely do we mention what we carry. We dont touch the guns or draw them from their holsters. They are unseen and unspoken of, but always there.I cant remember a time in my life when I wasnt around guns. When I was a kid, there was a gun rack hanging on the wall in the living room. My father kept a single-shot .410 and an old bolt action .22, small-game guns, though he didnt hunt anymore. I can remember watching older boys shoot skeet at a junkyard in the woods behind my house, my fingers plugged in my ears while orange clays turned to smoke against a backdrop of post oak and poplar. I can remember the first time my father taught me to shoot a rifle, how he had me sit on the concrete driveway and use my knee for a rest, aiming for a cardboard target in a honeysuckle thicket across the road. I think I was 8 or 9. I pulled the stock in too high on my shoulder, and craned my neck awkwardly to line up the iron sights. I didnt know what I was doing, but I knew the rules: Always assume a firearm is loaded. Always keep the gun pointed in a safe direction. Know your target and whats beyond it.I come from a country people whose culture was destroyed by bulldozers and buildings. My fathers family settled in and around Charlotte in the late 1700s. As a child, I would ride around with my grandmother in her light blue Oldsmobile. Where Winn-Dixies and Food Lions stood, she remembered fields where she worked tobacco and picked cotton. I grew up in a tiny holdout spot of country where I ran through a pasture of chest-high field grass to fish a farm pond most evenings, where just a mile down the road my uncle still kept a kennel of hounds to run rabbit each fall.Guns were often a bridge between father and son. But my dad didnt keep a .38 Special on the bedside nightstand like my best friends father down the street. I never walked into the house and found him cleaning and oiling a dozen pistols at the kitchen table the way I did with my next-door neighbors dad. For my family, guns had always been a means of putting food on the table. My father never owned a handgun. He kept nothing for home defense.I was in eighth grade the first time I had a gun put to my head. It was December 1997, a year and four months before Columbine, at my middle school in Charlotte.A teacher named Mr. Madison sent me and three other boys outside to look for stuff to put under a microscope  rocks, tree bark, empty snail shells, anything we could find. The school was located in a neighborhood three miles from downtown. A sewer line ran parallel and cut a wide trail through the woods between two residential streets. We were at the edge of the clearing. I saw someone walking up with a hood over his head. When he got close, he pulled the gun and jammed it into my temple.I can remember that it was a little snub-nosed revolver, a brushed-steel frame. I can remember what it felt like pressed into the side of my head, how my heart raced when I went for my wallet, how I couldnt breathe. I had $50 my grandmother sent me for my birthday. My mom was going to take me to a skateboard shop after school to buy a new deck. There have been times I wondered what mightve happened if itd been like every other day, if I hadnt had a dollar to my name. If my wallet had been empty, would he have just walked away or become so frustrated that he pulled the trigger? Luckily, I had the money, and he took the $50 and ran.When he was gone, the four of us rushed for the classroom and tried to tell Mr. Madison what happened, our words broken by shattered breath, him screaming: Slow down! Slow down! The rest of the day we recounted our story over and over to the principal. In the end, what happened was swept under the rug. My parents said the school was probably trying to keep the story off the news.When I was 14, I couldnt imagine the impact that robbery would have on the rest of my life. I couldnt foresee a grown man feeling uncomfortable when he was corralled by passers-by on the street, an unnerving anxiety turning him to stone when he was surrounded by strangers. I remember an afternoon in my early 30s at a therapists office describing the years that followed that incident, and she speculated that I surrounded myself with the people I did as a form of protection. Theres a part of me that thinks thats too easy an answer, that its passing the buck instead of taking responsibility. But for those next few years, I ran around wild.I sat in the back of a police cruiser praying the officers wouldnt pop the trunk on the car parked in front of my truck, knowing my friend had a shotgun and a quarter pound of weed sitting on the spare. I rode in the passenger seat while a buddy rolled down the window and fired a pistol into the night, blowing off steam after a breakup, empty casings spitting against the windshield. I dropped to the ground as gunfire rang from a car at a bonfire party. I pushed friends behind the brick foundation of a house as a shootout erupted over pills. There were times when someone could have easily been shot and killed.The second and last time I had a gun put to my head it was by the police. After a drunken fight, I left a friends apartment to walk five miles and sleep on the porch of a buddys house across the river. I was walking down the side of Wilkinson Boulevard in Belmont. I was carrying a shoe box. I saw a police cruiser pass me and make a U-turn at a stoplight up ahead. When the Crown Vic came back, the driver jumped the median and next thing I knew there were multiple cars, lights flashing, officers ordering me to the ground.They had their guns drawn. There was a K-9 unit, and the German shepherd wouldnt quit barking. I was lying flat on my stomach, and one officer came forward and put his knee in my back, his service weapon pushed into the base of my skull. They let the dog close enough that I could feel him barking against my ear. They said I matched the description of someone whod burglarized some houses nearby. They asked what was in the shoe box, and I stuttered, Papers. They asked if they opened the box if there was anything inside that would hurt them. With my face in the grass and the officers weight making it hard to breathe, I was so terrified that I couldnt mutter a single word. I just shook my head, and they opened that box to find nothing but a stack of notebook papers, a pile of half-assed stories Id written. They told me I could get up, and I stood there trembling while they apologized. They gave me a ride across the river and dropped me off at the Mecklenburg County line, told me they were sorry but they couldnt take me any farther.I moved to the mountains not long after that. As soon as I arrived in Jackson County, I knew Id never leave. A hundred and fifty miles west of where I grew up, I found a community that reminded me of my grandmother, where folks still kept big gardens and canned the vegetables they grew. They still filled the freezer with meat taken by rod and rifle  trout and turkey, dove and rabbit, deer, bear, anything in season.I keep a close-knit group of friends here, most of whom are at least 20 years my senior. Our generational difference is erased by a shared passion for wilderness and time spent in the field with gun in hand. This past Christmas, one of the men I hunt with, a man we call Son in Law, handed down a Model 94 Winchester to his grandson. The grandson would be the fourth generation to hunt with that rifle. A few weeks later, the boy took that .30-30 lever action into the field and killed his first deer with it  the same as his uncle, his grandfather and great-grandfather. Those types of things are rare now, even in places like Appalachia.Im the youngest member of my hunting camp  me 34, everyone else in their mid-to-late 60s, a few on up past 70. Among these men, there are centuries of experience gathered around the campfire each night. After more than 40 seasons wandering the same woods, theyve come to know the land intimately. They toss around names  the Owl Boxes, the U.F.O. Hole, the Refrigerator Stand  places theyve killed deer for decades. They tell stories about men who have died, hunters like Goat Man, who carried an onion in his pocket and plowed down trees in his beat-up Bronco; or Hawkeye, who ran moonshine and damn near drank a boy to death after the kid slapped a sack of weed on the poker table and declared, Boys, thats the shit that killed Elvis. The old men talk, and I listen.I killed my biggest deer to date on the 2nd of November from a tree one of those men sent me to. Fifteen feet up a hickory, I watched a tree line at the edge of a clear cut. I heard heavy footsteps and eased around the right side of the tree for a look, and there he stood. The buck walked to my left, and I slipped behind the trunk, shouldered the rifle and balanced the fore end on a tree step Id augured into the opposite side for a rest.He was broadside when I slid the cross hairs onto his shoulder. The clear cut, strewn with downed timber and studded with sawed stubs, was too rough to track and drag, so I didnt want to risk a shot for heart and lungs and have the deer run a hundred yards. I wanted to drop him where he stood. Pin his shoulders together and buckle him.Just before the deer strolled behind a cedar sapling, I touched the trigger, and the .308 blew apart the morning. A hundred and fifty grains of copper-jacketed lead hit just behind the shoulder and blood-shot the backside to pudding. The buck stooped forward and sprinted, back legs driving him over tangled ground. He made it 40 yards before he crashed. From my stand, I could just make out the white of his stomach through the brush. I watched his ribs rise with each breath, that breathing slowing, slowing, then gone.There is a sadness that only hunters know, a moment when lament overshadows any desire for celebration. Life is sustained by death, and though going to the field is an act of taking responsibility for that fact, the killing is not easy, nor should it be.I climbed down a half-hour later but didnt walk straight to the deer. Instead I went to the place where I shot him, a yard shy of that cedar sapling, and followed the blood trail to where he lay. He was a big-bodied eight-point that would feed me for a year. I knelt there and ran my hands across his coat. It took nearly an hour to drag him back to the trail, another half-mile from there to the truck.A few days later, I was driving back home from hunting camp in McCormick, S.C., with the head of that eight-point in a cooler in the truck bed, the rest of the deer hanging to age at the processor. On a long straightaway, I passed a state trooper driving in the opposite direction. In the rearview, I saw him slam on the brakes and make a U-turn in the middle of the road, blue lights flashing. I was running just under 60 in a 55 and didnt think there was any way he was pulling me over.The 9-millimeter I always carry was loaded and concealed on my side. Until that moment Id never been pulled over while carrying a concealed weapon. I knew the protocol. I knew what I was legally obligated to say. But I was nervous as hell as the trooper stepped out of his cruiser, situated his campaign hat and approached the side of my truck.He was a young black man with braces on his teeth. He looked to be in his early 20s, had kind eyes and was built like a linebacker. He asked for my license and registration, and I told him I needed to inform him that I had a concealed-carry license and that there was a weapon on my person. He asked where the gun was located, and I told him roughly 4 oclock. He asked if I could get to my wallet, and I told him the pistol was pretty close to my back pocket. There was a moment of hesitation when he considered what to do next. Then he told me to move slowly as I took my wallet from my pocket.When the trooper had my license and registration, he went to his cruiser. In a few minutes, he came back to the window and issued me a warning for speeding. I asked if there was anything I couldve done differently to make him more comfortable when he first approached the truck. The trooper told me what Id said was fine. He said that some officers might have been uncomfortable with where the pistol was located, being holstered near my wallet, but that he felt we had a good rapport. Depending on the officer, some might have asked me to step out of the truck so they could remove the weapon. He smiled and told me: But this is South Carolina. Most every car I pull over has a gun.As I headed toward the mountains, all I could think about was Philando Castile, the young African-American man who had a permit to carry and was shot to death in his car in front of his girlfriend and her young daughter by a Minnesota policeman after notifying the officer that he had a weapon. All I could think about was how things might have been different if the situation was reversed and that young black state trooper with braces had been behind the wheel, a white trooper cautiously approaching the car. It was impossible not to think that if I were black, Id be too scared to carry a gun. It was impossible not to recognize how gun culture reeks of privilege.Last summer I drove back to Charlotte to visit my father for his birthday. While I was there, I went into a Cabelas store in Fort Mill, S.C., to buy him a new depth finder for his fishing boat. After I found what I was looking for, I headed across the store to see if there were any good deals on ammo.There were floor displays of AR-15s, and probably a hundred or more other rifles and shotguns for anyone to walk up and hold. I watched a kid about 8 or 9 pick up one of those ARs and shoulder it to the center of his chest. He held the gun awkwardly, cocked his head hard to the side, squeezed one eye closed to aim and dry-fired the weapon. I watched two men, presumably his father and grandfather, smile and laugh, then break out their cellphones to snap a few pictures.I remembered how when I was his age, I used to love going to the sporting-goods section of Walmart to look at fishing lures and camouflage clothes. Id walk over near the register and push the manual turntable on the curio display to look at all the rifles and shotguns. There were usually a few big game guns  a gray stock Remington 783 in .30-06, maybe a Marlin 336 lever action  a couple of pump shotguns, a single shot .410 or 20-gauge. There were always Ruger 10/22s and Marlin Model 60s, the .22LRs kids unwrapped when their grandfathers gave them their first rifles for a birthday or Christmas. There were always guns, but nothing like the assault weapons that line the shelves today.Maybe its how I was raised and the types of firearms my family kept, but the idea of owning a rifle designed for engaging human targets out to 600 meters just never interested me. I keep a Savage 10 in .308 to hunt whitetail and hogs. I have a CZ 920 thats absolute hell on a dove field. I have a handful of .22 rifles that I use for plinking at the range and hunting squirrels and rabbits each winter. Then there are the weapons I keep for defense  the shotgun by the bed, the pistols  firearms whose sole purpose would be to take human life if I were left with no other choice. Ive witnessed how quickly a moment can turn to a matter of life and death. I live in a region where 911 calls might not bring blue lights for an hour. Whether its preparation or paranoia, I plan for worst-case scenarios and trust no one but myself for my survival.My friends see no difference between the guns I own and their ARs. One or two of them rationalize assault weapons the same way I justify what sits by my bed. When I ask if those rifles are really the best option for home defense, they joke about the minute hand of the doomsday clock inching closer to midnight. They post Instagram photos of Sig Sauer MCXs and tac vests loaded with extra magazines, their bug-out bags by the door as they wait for the end of the world.But a majority defend their ARs the same way I defend the guns I use for plinking and hunting. They say they own them because theyre fun at the range and affordable to shoot. They use the rifles for punching paper, a few for shooting coyotes. Every weekend they fire hundreds of rounds from custom rifles theyve spent thousands of dollars building. They add bump stocks and Echo Triggers to increase rates of fire and step as close to Title II of the federal Gun Control Act as legally possible without the red tape and paperwork. They fire bullets into Tannerite targets that blow pumpkins into the sky.None of them see a connection between the weapons they own and the shootings at Sandy Hook, San Bernardino, Aurora, Orlando, Las Vegas, Parkland. They see mug shots of James Holmes, Omar Mateen, Stephen Paddock, Nikolas Cruz  crazier than a shithouse rat, they say. If it hadnt been that rifle, hed have done it with something else. They fear that what starts as an assault-weapons ban will snowball into an attack on everything in the safe. I dont believe that politicians are going to ban ordinary guns or overturn the Second Amendment, but I understand their reasoning because I understand whats at stake. I think about that boy picking up that AR in Cabelas, and Im torn between the culture I grew up with and how that culture has devolved. There are changes I know must come, changes to what types of firearms line the shelves and to the background checks and ownership requirements needed to carry one out the door. And there is an unrelenting fear of what could be lost  a subsistence culture already threatened by the loss of public land, rising costs and a widening rural-urban divide; the right of individuals to protect their own lives and the lives of their families.A few days after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., in February, I sat down with a buddy over coffee at the firehouse where he works. The news was on in the background. I told him Id be fine with an assault-weapons ban. He cut a look in my direction as if Id absolutely lost my mind. I asked him why anyone needs to own an AR, an AK, an SKS. He said that the question is irrelevant, that the reason doesnt supersede the right. I could feel my blood pressure rising and my face getting warm. I could see in his eyes that he was equally agitated. Despite everything we have in common, despite the fact that hes my best friend and we were going squirrel hunting in a few days, the two of us fundamentally disagree. Someone came into the room and changed the subject, and I could sense that he was as thankful as I was. As sad as it is to say, the silence is easier. While the two of us sat there sipping coffee, there were kids on the television in the background, high school survivors who were willing to say what we are not, and I was ashamed.One recent afternoon I rode with my girlfriend, Ashley, an hour east to Asheville. It was the first week of March, but a warm spell had the willows green along the creek in the pasture at our house. It was one of those pretty, late-winter days with bluebird skies when the trees are still naked on the mountains and you can see every shadow and contour of the landscape. Knowing how I hate going to the city, she bribed me with a trip to the Field & Stream sporting-goods store if I would ride along.As we pulled into the parking lot, I thought about the last time we were there, back before Christmas. Ashley didnt grow up with guns as I did. Shed never owned one before I gave her a shotgun to keep by the bed when Im away from home. For a year or so, shed been considering a pistol. Shed held dozens of models but still hadnt decided on anything.We were at the back of the store looking in the glass case at 1911s. All of a sudden, her eyes got big and she raised her hands then ducked behind me and grabbed onto my arm. I turned and stared down the aisle where a kid who looked about 18 was aiming an AR-15 the salesman had handed him. The muzzle was pointed in our direction. Ashley was terrified. Ive been at the counter enough to know the predicament  wanting to shoulder a rifle to test the feel but having nowhere sensible to aim. The kid lowered the rifle and went back to talking to the salesman, neither seeming to notice us standing there, Ashley frozen behind me.On the way out, she just kept saying: He was a kid. He looked like he shouldve been in high school. What does a kid need a rifle like that for? What does anybody need a rifle like that for? And the truth was, I didnt have an answer. The truth is, there are guns I feel justified in owning and guns I feel belong on battlefields. I know the reasons my friends give for owning these weapons, and I know that their answers feel inadequate to me. I know that part of what theyre missing or refusing to acknowledge is how fear ushered in this shift in gun culture over the past two decades.Fear is the factor no one wants to address  fear of criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the governments turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another. Theres no simple solution like pulling fear off the shelf. Its an intangible thing. I recognize this, because I recognize my own and I recognize that despite all I know and believe I cant seem to overcome it. Im sure that part of why I carry is having a pistol put to my head when I was 14. Im sure that part of it is having hidden behind walls while shots were fired. Maybe its a combination of those two things coupled with headlines and hysteria, the growing presence of mass shootings in American culture.I dont like being in places where I cant find the exits. I dont like crowds and being surrounded by more people than I can keep my eyes on. For the most part nowadays, I stay at the house. When I have to leave, I slide my holster into my waistband before I put on my boots. When a book tour sends me out of North Carolina, 36 states honor the concealed-carry license in my wallet. Unlike a lot of those who carry, I dont buy into that only-way-to-stop-a-bad-guy-with-a-gun-is-a-good-guy-with-a-gun bravado. I have no visions of being a hero. Instead, I find myself looking for where Id run, asking myself what I would get behind. The gun is the last resort. Its the final option when all else is exhausted.When Ashley and I left the store, we headed toward the Levis outlet, where she planned to buy a new pair of jeans. The walkway narrowed, and the sidewalks were filled with people and noise. Even though I knew the risk was remote, my mind raced with all those questions of what Id do if someone suddenly opened fire. As we walked, I could feel the pistol holstered on my side, the weight of my gun tugging at my belt. The fear was lessened by knowing that there was a round chambered, that all it would take is the downward push of a safety and the short pull of a trigger for that bullet to breathe. I felt safer knowing that gun was there.


LONDON   The homicide rate in London so far has increased each month in 2018 as the British capital experiences a rise in knife-related crime.The Metropolitan Police said Monday there were eight homicide inquiries in January, 15 in February and 22 in March. Police reported another homicide on April 1.If the upward trend continues, there would be substantially more homicides in London in 2018 than took place in 2017.The violence has alarmed Police Commissioner Cressida Dick, who believes social media is partly to blame. She says social media enflames young people and normalizes violence, making people more likely to commit major crimes.Dick has announced a substantial task force to combat street violence and said the use of "stop and search" tactics would be increased.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherPresident Trumps son-in-law wants to overhaul the prison system. The presidents attorney general bitterly opposes such a move.That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.On todays episode: Matt Apuzzo, a New York Times reporter based in Washington.Background reading: Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Jared Kushner square off, and prisoners hang in the balance.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration took aim on Monday at a land use law passed by California lawmakers last year, the latest salvo in a battle between the two governments that prompted Attorney General Jeff Sessions to complain that the states leaders were acting as if they were above the law.The Justice Department sued the State of California, Gov. Jerry Brown and the California State Lands Commission, claiming that the law illegally blocks the federal governments right to buy and sell federal land. The administration asked the federal court for the Eastern District of California to declare the law unconstitutional and block it from being carried out.The lawsuit was the second filed by the Trump administration against California, which has emerged as one of the states most strongly opposed to President Trumps agenda on issues including immigration, criminal justice and environmental protection. Last month, the Justice Department sued the state over its immigration policies, saying they interfered with federal immigration enforcement.The feud has pitted Mr. Sessions, a hard-line conservative, against liberal leaders in California who have emerged as vocal opponents of Mr. Trump, including Mr. Brown and Xavier Becerra, the states attorney general. For his part, Mr. Trump has dismissed Mr. Brown as Governor Moonbeam and labeled him soft on crime.The law at issue gives California the right of first refusal in any sale of public lands, an effort to prevent resource exploitation or development that would hurt the states interests. The state would have to raise the money to buy the property at market value, or find a buyer.Justice Department officials said they were prompted to sue after seeing notes that the state put out to federal agencies. The department said in its lawsuit that Congress had given federal agencies the power to control the purchase and sale of federal land, including the parties involved in the deals, the use of the land and when the sales occurs.According to the lawsuit, the California law has interfered with federal land sales at least four times since it was enacted. In Alameda County, the Army had planned to convey 78 acres of land to a developer who will construct facilities, and the Navy is trying to sell property to a land developer. The Veterans Affairs Department is hoping to lease part of its land in Los Angeles to provide housing for veterans. And the Post Offices plan to auction off a 1.7-acre parcel in Sacramento is at a standstill.Mr. Sessions assailed Californias political leaders in an unusually fiery statement, saying that the fight is distracting Justice Department officials from their work combating illegal gun sales, drug abuse and national security threats. The flurry of legal briefs being filed between the two sides is a waste of taxpayer dollars, he said.I regret the need to file yet another lawsuit against the State of California today, Mr. Sessions said, adding, We are forced to spend our resources to bring these lawsuits against states like California that believe they are above the law.He said the issue was compounded by the fact that other potential plaintiffs who want to sue the federal government are seeking judges in California whom they view as more favorable to their causes.Government-by-litigation isnt what the American people voted for, and attempting to thwart an administrations elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent, he said.California officials vowed to stand firm.Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder, Mr. Becerra said in a statement. Were prepared, as always, to do what it takes to protect our people, our resources and our values.Benjamin Allen, the state senator who was the lead sponsor of the land use bill, pushed for the legislation after former Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, proposed that the Interior Department sell or dispose of more than three million acres of public land. Mr. Chaffetz later withdrew the bill.We wanted to make sure that if the government sold off precious public land in California, we would be able to weigh in, Mr. Allen said. This law created a procedure for us to do that.California also has an economic stake in what happens to federal lands. Federally managed lands in the state generated about $3.3 billion a year, much of it from tourism, according to a 2011 study by BBC Research and Consulting.Tensions between California and federal officials have been building since Mr. Trump was elected. State leaders pushed back on the presidents ban on entry by people from some Muslim-majority nations that was unveiled in the first days of his presidency. The state has sued the government over its immigration policies, and local politicians have put aside money to aid undocumented immigrants.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.   The city councilwoman in North Carolina whose district includes the area where a white police officer fatally shot a black man says she hasn't heard any complaints about officers.Winston-Salem Council member Vivian Burke, who is black, said at a news conference that once someone crosses a line fighting with police there is a price to pay.Winston-Salem Police said 60-year-old Edward McCrae, who is black, had a gun when he wrestled with Officer D.E. McGuire, who is white, Saturday night during a traffic stop.Police say McCrae was shot after refusing several commands to drop the gun.Winston-Salem Mayor Allen Joines says the city will release officer body camera footage of the shooting as soon as a judge allows it. He promises full transparency in the shooting investigation.
FRANKFURT, Germany   Former Catalan separatist leader Carles Puigdemont says in a jail interview with two German members of parliament that he is "not a criminal" and that the campaign for the Spanish region\'s independence is based on democracy and nonviolence.Puigdemont said in an audio recording of the visit that "we are not criminals. We won the elections twice."Puigdemont has been detained in Germany on a European arrest warrant. Spain accuses the 55-year-old of rebellion in organizing an unauthorized referendum. German authorities are considering Spain\'s request to extradite him.He said "the crime of rebellion demands the use of violence, and there is no violence so there is no rebellion."The recording of Sunday\'s visit was published Monday by the weltnetz.de alternative journalism platform.
MAIDUGURI, Nigeria   A Boko Haram attack in the Nigerian city of Maiduguri killed at least 15 people and wounded 83, a military spokesman said on Monday, in the biggest strike since the government said it was in talks with the Islamist militant group.The military said the incident occurred late on Sunday and included gun battles between government troops and the militants as they tried to enter Maiduguri, a city in northeast Nigeria which is the epicentre of a nine-year conflict with Boko Harm that has caused the deaths of more than 20,000 people.President Muhammadu Buhari has prioritized improving security and has previously declared the defeat of Boko Haram, which is trying to establish an Islamic state and which split into two factions in 2016.The military said troops clashed with the jihadists in a cashew plantation around Bille Shuwa and Alikaranti villages, near Giwa barracks on the edge of Maiduguri\'s inner city, at around 08:10 p.m. (1910 GMT) on Sunday and fought gun battles with government troops during which multiple blasts were heard."Fifteen persons including a soldier have so far been confirmed dead in the encounter, while about 83 persons who suffered varying degrees of injuries are receiving due medical attention," said army spokesman Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu.He said 13 insurgents had been killed, including seven bombers, adding that the retreating militants attacked locals."It is clear that the remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists are hell-bent on remaining relevant by attacking soft and vulnerable targets," Nwachukwu added.TALKSIt is the most significant attack on the city since the government said last week it was in talks with the insurgents with the aim of securing a permanent ceasefire.The government has not disclosed which elements of Boko Haram it is in discussions with and it was also not clear which faction carried out Sunday\'s attack.The government has been saying since December 2015 that the jihadist group has been defeated but high-profile attacks in the last few months - including the kidnap of 111 schoolgirls from the town of Dapchi and a strike in the town of Rann that killed three aid workers - has shown the jihadists remain active.All but one of the girls taken from Dapchi, in Yobe state, on Feb. 19 were returned by the militants in March. The government later said it had negotiated their release as part of broader talks.In early 2015 Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land in northeast Nigeria around the size of Belgium but was forced out of most of that territory by the army with the support of troops from neighbouring countries.Since then the group has continued to carry out suicide bombings, gun raids and kidnappings in northeastern Nigeria as well as in neighbouring Cameroon, Niger and Chad.(Additional reporting by Kolowale Adewale; Writing by Alexis Akwagyiram; editing by Gareth Jones)
NEW YORK   Rocker Ted Nugent says a Parkland, Florida, school shooting survivor who\'s become an outspoken advocate for gun safety is "so brainwashed" he probably can\'t be fixed.Nugent says high school student David Hogg and his classmates are "not very educated" and "wouldn\'t know an AR-15 from a pterodactyl."The longtime member of the National Rifle Association\'s board of directors spoke Monday on the "Curtis and Cosby" show on New York\'s WABC Radio, continuing a tirade against the students.Parkland students say Nugent hasn\'t seen "the tears" they\'ve shed and want an apology.Nugent defended Fox News host Laura Ingraham, who mocked Hogg online and lost advertisers. Nugent says Ingraham is "great."Ingraham later apologized.Hogg says it\'s "time to love thy neighbor, not mudsling at children."Hogg and other student activists haven\'t responded on Twitter to Nugent\'s latest comments.
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va.   A Facebook page claiming to be the Republican Party of Virginia Beach promoted a debunked theory over the weekend that the Holocaust could have been prevented if Jewish people had guns.Republican Party of Virginia Beach Chairwoman Tina Mapes says the page is a copycat and not official, denouncing its posts.The Washington Post reports the Saturday morning post was directed at students who have walked out of school in recent weeks in response to the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, and called for stricter gun laws. It was posted along with a photograph of hundreds of shoes belonging to Holocaust victims and said "These are the shoes of Jews that gave up there firearms to Hitler."Page operator James Cohen said it was posted on accident by someone else.___Information from: The Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com
ZEBULON, N.C.   Authorities say a man has been shot wounded during a confrontation with police at a gas station in North Carolina.Zebulon Police Chief Tim Hayworth said 30-year-old Kurt Waters called 911 Sunday afternoon to say he was wanted by law enforcement. He also gave a detailed description of what he was wearing.Hayworth says officers approached Waters and he shoved one of them. The police chief says Walters pulled a weapon and officer Nathanial Brown fired his gun, striking Waters in the neck. The chief says Waters is in stable condition. He did not say what kind of weapon Waters had.Police say Waters had a warrant for a probation violation and a long criminal record.The officers were not hurt.Zebulon is 20 miles (32 kilometers) east of Raleigh.
DECATUR, Ga.   A 3-year-old has been killed in a drive-by shooting in Georgia.DeKalb County Police Department Chief James Conroy tells WXIA-TV that the child\'s mother was driving along Eastland Road near Atlanta at about 11:30 p.m. Sunday when someone shot into the car.He says a gray Dodge Charger pulled up next to the woman\'s moving car and pulled out what the woman thought was a paintball gun. The woman heard a gunshot but didn\'t think anything of it until she realized her son was unresponsive. She pulled over and called police when she realized her son had been shot.The child was taken to a hospital where he later died.Conroy called the shooting a "tragic incident."It was not immediately known if the woman was targeted. The investigation continues.___Information from: WXIA-TV, http://www.11alive.com/
SAVANNAH, Ga.   Police in Georgia say a woman who admitted posting a video depicting a shooting threat to an elementary school has been arrested.Savannah police said in a news release that 55-year-old Teresa Richardson was arrested Friday after she allegedly posted the video on YouTube showing a shooting threat at Godley Station Elementary School.News outlets report that the video showed a street view video of the school grounds while machine gun fire played in the background.Police say Richardson admitted to creating the video as an expression of her right to free speech. The video displayed obscene language aimed at teachers and students at the school.After an investigation, Richardson was arrested on dissemination of acts related to terroristic threats. It's unclear if she has a lawyer.
NEW DELHI   Violence erupted in several parts of northern and central India on Monday as thousands of dalits, members of Hinduism's lowest caste, protested an order from the country's top court that they say dilutes legal safeguards put in place for their marginalized community.Caste prejudice is endemic in Hindu-majority India, even though the constitution outlaws the practice and has made it a crime punishable by up to a year in prison.The law also states that anyone accused of a caste-related crime could face immediate arrest. However, last month the Supreme Court ruled that in order to prevent misuse of the law, government officers accused of flouting it can be arrested only after their supervisors sign off on an inquiry.Dalit groups say that the law is already poorly enforced with abysmally low conviction rates and that the top court's order dilutes it further. Several groups called for a nationwide protest on Monday demanding that the top court review its order.As protests spread across the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, India's law minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, told reporters that the federal government would petition the court seeking a review.The dalits are lowest in Hinduism's caste hierarchy and for centuries were marginalized and forced to perform only certain jobs considered menial by other castes. These included skinning dead animal carcasses and cleaning toilets. They were not allowed into temples or permitted to study religious texts.Independent India's constitution, which came into effect in 1950, outlawed the practice of discriminating on the basis of caste. Over the years, stringent laws were put into place to deter the practice. But caste-based discrimination continues even though it's less visible in modern India.Last week, news reports said a dalit man was hacked to death by upper caste villagers because he owned and rode a horse, long considered a status symbol in rural India. Dalit schoolchildren routinely complain of being mistreated in schools and colleges.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: A week after student-led marches around the U.S. called for gun control, both sides in the debate think they are being underestimated.Itll go away, a 77-year-old gun owner in Virginia said of the protests. Like all the other times.Forty miles away, a high school student had a different take: Theyre looking for us to get bored. Were not going to get bored.The young activists are hoping to drive real change in this falls midterm elections and beyond, but that would hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout for their age group. In an essay for The Times Magazine, a lifelong gun owner wrestles with the changes to gun laws that he says must come, and with his fears of what such changes might destroy. Twelve years ago, Charles Kushner was making wallets at a prison camp in Alabama.So it felt like redemption when the real estate barons son Jared was named President Trumps senior adviser.But being at the pinnacle of American political power has turned out to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushners. Their access to the president has brought criminal and regulatory inquiries, and their business empires deals are scrutinized for hints of federal influence. In a recent interview, Charles Kushner had an invitation for investigators: Go knock yourselves out for the next 10 years, he said. We didnt do anything wrong. Officials across the U.S. are struggling to control the use of e-cigarettes among students.The devices are so easily concealed that its possible to vape in class. E-cigarettes are widely considered safer than traditional ones, but health officials fear that vaping is creating a new generation of nicotine addicts. The Morning Briefing doesnt mention Uzbekistan very often, but the Central Asian nation has recently been a source of (relatively) good news, bucking a global trend toward authoritarian rule.Eighteen months after the death of its longtime dictator, Uzbekistans new leadership has been trying to open up one of the worlds most repressive countries by releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. The ice is melting in this country, a confidant of the new president told our correspondent. China announced tariffs as high as 25 percent on 128 American-made products today. The move is intended to pressure the Trump administration into backing down from a simmering trade war. Anchors at local TV news stations across the U.S. made identical comments last month about media bias. The script came from the stations owner, Sinclair Broadcast Group. In the tight U.S. labor market, positions in out-of-the-way places like poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that presents an opportunity for refugees. Speaking of jobs, the March employment report is among the headlines to watch this week. U.S. stocks were closed on Good Friday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette. Readers wrote to us about whether theyre leaving their children an inheritance and how their decisions have affected their finances and family. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Step by step, this interactive piece gently leads you into the story of a mother whose life was devastated by a gun attack.Somehow, it manages to be as lovely, even whimsical, as it is devastating. [WeTransfer/Five Dials] Sarah Lyall, writer at large Do you remember last year, when an airport in Portugal unveiled a bronze bust of Cristiano Ronaldo, which was widely mocked?A sports site interviewed the sculptor about the experience, and it is an unsettling and at points touching reminder that the social media world is also the real world. [B/R Football, via Twitter] Max Fisher, The Interpreter columnist On Easter Sunday, Pope Francis urged reconciliation in the Middle East and pressed for the fruits of dialogue in Asia. A public relations battle has erupted after violence along Israels border with Gaza left 15 Palestinians dead. President Trump blamed Democrats and Mexico for a dangerous flow of immigrants, and vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL. A Chinese space station the size of a school bus re-entered Earths atmosphere, scattering over the southern Pacific Ocean. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, greeted South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, at a concert in Pyongyang. Steven Spielberg successfully returned to his crowd-pleasing roots, as Ready Player One earned $53.2 million and the top spot at the North American box office. Redemption of a lost prodigyAs a child, Saul Chandler was a promising violinist, playing at Carnegie Hall before the age of 11. But at 16, he had a nervous breakdown and left the world of classical music.Fifty years later, he has found refuge at a boatyard in the Bronx. His story was one of our most popular this weekend. In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was among the pantheon of South Africas liberators, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81.Johan van Hulst helped save as many as 600 children from a Nazi concentration camp. He died at 107.Steven Bochco, a celebrated TV writer and producer, created boundary-pushing dramas like Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law and NYPD Blue. He was 74. Notre Dame 2, Buzzer 0Two days after Arike Ogunbowale hit a last-second shot to beat Connecticut, she did it again on Sunday, giving Notre Dame its second N.C.A.A. womens basketball title. The Fighting Irish beat Mississippi State, 61-58.The mens championship game, between Michigan and Villanova, is tonight. Heres how the teams match up. Quotation of the dayNo, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. Mike Stanton, father of the New York Yankees slugger Giancarlo Stanton, recalling what he told his wife at the time, Jacinta Garay, when she wanted to name their son Fidel. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Abraham Lincoln.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
BANGKOK   A magazine editor has apologized to a governor in northern Thailand after he threatened her with criminal charges for posting on Facebook a student\'s painting of ancient kings wearing pollution masks.Citylife Chiang Mai magazine had sought to draw attention to the region\'s sometimes dangerously unhealthy air pollution caused by crop burning and traffic.The magazine on Friday posted a letter signed by Chiang Mai Gov. Pavin Chamniprasart recommending police charge the publication with being disrespectful to the kings and endangering tourism. Editor Pim Kemasingki could be imprisoned up to five years if convicted under the Computer Crime Act, which has several broad provisions, including criminal penalties for undermining national security and entering false information into computer systems."To present the image of having a mask placed on the three kings is a blasphemous act, disrespectful, and affects the hearts of the people of Chiang Mai," said the letter, which stated that publishing the images violated the Computer Crime Act. "It also affects the image of Chiang Mai which would affect tourism and lead to unstable economics in the province of Chiang Mai," it said.Pim said Monday she had sought only to raise awareness of the health issue and had called the governor personally to apologize.The provincial government has been criticized for not being more active in addressing the seasonal haze.The governor did not respond Monday to requests seeking comment. His secretary stated he was attending meetings all day about the smog.The controversy also caused the magazine to cancel an anti-pollution rally it had planned for last Friday."Our intention was to create a positive gathering of concerned citizens and residents to petition the government to give us correct and greater information about the annual air pollution and the dangers it poses to our health," Pim wrote in an online message. "Unfortunately, there are elements in society with unknown agendas who have used our well-intentioned event to create chaos and plant seeds of suspicion about our intentions."We have recently been warned by many members of the media, government and related organizations that our event may be hijacked by ill-intentioned people who wish to cause chaos," she wrote, adding that she regarded some of these warnings as threats.The painting was made by a 12th grade high school student.Pim said she appreciated the painting because she also paints herself. "I\'m also an artist, I paint, and I saw this as a piece of art. I apologize to everyone if I didn\'t think it through properly, but I meant no harm."
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Despite advances the country has made since the Rev. Martin Luther King. Jr. was slain while fighting poverty and racism, "the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us," former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.The remark was one of two thinly veiled references to President Donald Trump that Holder made during his appearance at a symposium on the first of three days of events commemorating the 50th anniversary of King\'s assassination.King was supporting striking sanitation workers when he came to Memphis in 1968. He was talking with friends on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel on April 4 when he was struck by a rifle bullet and killed.Museums, colleges and activists have organized three days of marches, speeches and conferences to remember King and his legacy. His daughter, Bernice King, and Holder toured a new King-centered photo exhibit at the National Civil Rights Museum later Monday.  She and her brother, Martin Luther King III, are scheduled to speak Tuesday at the Mason Temple."This is a very emotional time for me and my family," she said.Holder, the first black U.S. attorney general, spoke at a symposium sponsored by the University of Memphis and the museum. He was introduced by U.S. Sen. Doug Jones, an Alabama Democrat who won a special election in December.Holder said he is proud that the nation has made progress in the past 50 years achieving racial, social and economic justice. He said women, minorities, students against gun violence and members of the LGBTQ community have been inspired by King\'s nonviolent protests and have launched movements calling for "fairness, opportunity and justice."But in remarks that appeared to reference Trump without mentioning his name, Holder also noted that King\'s dream of equality for all has not been reached."We\'re still marching, we are still striving, and we\'re still calling on our nation\'s leaders to act with a sense of justice, compassion and common humanity," Holder said. "The unfortunate fact is that in 2018, America\'s long struggle to overcome injustice, to eliminate disparities and eradicate violence has not yet ended, and the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us."Holder said he has spoken with young people who feel lost in their own country and are "fearful that America\'s too-long-standing divisions are threatening to tear our nation apart."Holder said he is concerned with gun violence, the disproportional incarceration of young black men, and uneven educational opportunities for minorities. King\'s legacy includes the lesson that "it is necessary to be indignant, and to be impatient, so that it impels us to take action," Holder said.Holder said the "chief civil rights issue of our time" is ensuring minorities have equal voting rights."In many communities, our political system is far from fair," said Holder, who chairs the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a group that is pushing back against gerrymandered political districts nationwide. "It\'s been undermined by spurious and outright false claims of widespread voter fraud and by acts of voter suppression."Holder asked the crowd of hundreds to do more to help realize King\'s dream of racial and social equality and come together to "heal this divided nation.""As easy as it is, we must not look back to a past that was comforting to too few, and unjust to too many," Holder said.Then, in a reference to Trump\'s campaign slogan, he added: "That is not how we make America great."
In the shadow of the Bruckner Expressway in the South Bronx, behind a metal fence topped with barbed wire, is a tow pound with a pivotal role in the citys campaign to close the notorious jail complex on Rikers Island.The city plans to build a jail on the lot it owns at Concord Avenue and East 141st Street, in a residential and industrial area of the Mott Haven neighborhood. The preliminary proposal, announced in February, is a key prong in the citys plan to close Rikers and replace it with smaller, safer jails in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx.But opposition is brewing among residents in the once-blighted neighborhood, who say the citys plan is an unwelcome step backward for the South Bronx as it works to shed its synonymity with urban decay. Residents and some elected officials, concerned about safety and quality-of-life in an area saturated with homeless shelters and methadone clinics, and near a sewage plant, said they regard the plan as an effort by the city to use their home as a dumping ground.It doesnt belong here; a jail is the last thing we need, said Arline Parks, a resident of the Diego Beekman Apartments within a stones throw of the lot. Ms. Parks is chief executive of the tenant-run complex, which encompasses more than 1,200 units spread among 38 prewar buildings. The nonprofit tenant group was formed in the 1990s as the South Bronx was reeling from fiscal and drug crises. Poverty and crime soared as violent gangs like the Wild Cowboys competed for turf, landlords abandoned buildings and blocks were burned down.In recent years, as developers have begun pouring money into the South Bronx and the city has advanced redevelopment plans, Diego Beekman has been putting together its own plan for what residents would like to see built on the site of the proposed jail and other locations, including more than 700 homes for low- and moderate-income families, a supermarket, manufacturing facilities and the revitalization of St. Marys Park.Ms. Parks said that many residents have relatives who have been in jail and support closing Rikers, but they worry that having a jail in Mott Haven could lead to more crime. The neighborhood is part of the 40th Police Precinct, one of the most violent in the city, inside one of the poorest congressional districts in the country.Were trying to break the cycle of crime here, Ms. Parks said on a recent morning, as she stood in front of P.S. 65 Mother Hale Academy, an elementary school on East 141st Street at Cypress Avenue, a corner where dealers openly sell drugs. Every day we have challenges related to our past.Diana Ayala, who represents the neighborhood on the City Council, supports the jail plan but acknowledged concerns.This is not the reality that parents that live in the South Bronx want their children to grow up seeing, she said. Their concern is that this facility is going to be a blight on the community.Ms. Ayala said she believes the project gives residents a chance to push the city to make investments in an area it has long neglected. The needs, she said, are numerous: programs for the aging, playgrounds, schools, community centers, libraries and housing for homegrown artists.I think its an opportunity to have the administrations ear, and to reassess the way that we provide social services in the South Bronx, she said.Building and preserving affordable housing is a key goal of Mayor Bill de Blasio, who wants to build 300,000 units by 2028. Natalie Grybauskas, a spokeswoman for the mayor, said building the jail is not an obstacle.We can certainly push forward our ambitious housing agenda without throwing away any piece of our plan to create smaller community-based jails, she said.In fact, the South Bronx has seen a miniboom in affordable housing construction in recent years. In Mott Haven and neighboring Melrose and Port Morris, the mayors housing plan has created or preserved 4,400 units of affordable housing, and 2,000 additional units are in the pipeline, according to city data.Rikers Island has been plagued for years by violence and other issues. Last year, an independent commission recommended that the city replace the nine-jail complex with several smaller, modern jails close to courthouses and public transit, in lots big enough to also provide spaces for community use.The lot, a Police Department tow pound for more than 40 years, takes up an entire city block; it is bordered by East 142nd Street to the north, East 141st Street to the south, Concord Avenue on the west, and Southern Boulevard and the Bruckner Expressway to the east. It is about two miles from the Bronx courthouse and around the corner from the No. 6 train.Across Concord Avenue, the lot faces brick townhouses with bracketed cornices. Farther down, on blocks that were once burned out, iron fences painted a shiny black surround brick and vinyl-sided townhouses built with the help of federal funds.Jonathan Lippman, the states former chief judge, who is chairman of the Independent Commission on New York City Criminal Justice and Incarceration Reform, said fears of the new jail reflect antiquated ideas about what it would look like, as well as unfounded ideas about how jails affect crime and property values in neighborhoods.Modern jails, designed to incorporate light and air, as well as community and retail space, can provide safety for everybody, yet space for everybody, he said.He pointed to the Manhattan Detention Complex in Chinatown and the Brooklyn House of Detention in Boerum Hill, both jails in low-crime neighborhoods where real estate values have climbed despite their presence. The city plans to expand and renovate both. (Boerum Hill thrived while the jail there was closed and it only reopened after the city prevailed in a lawsuit filed by residents to keep it closed.)The jails plan is years from fruition. The city says it will take 10 years to complete, unless lawmakers in Albany pass legislation on bail, parole and speedy trials that would reduce the jail population sooner. And the plan could be upended if the state steps in to take over the jails.Absent state intervention, the jails plan has to go through the City Councils Land Use Committee, and its chairman, Rafael Salamanca Jr., said he would stop it because it would put three jails within two miles of each other in the South Bronx.Mr. Salamanca, whose district borders the one where the new jail will be built, said the city needed to make closing the Vernon C. Bain Center, a medium-security barge on the shore of Hunts Point, and the Horizon Juvenile Center in Mott Haven part of its plan.Without something in writing, its a non-starter, he said. My community in the South Bronx has done more than its fair share.
ANKARA, Turkey   A Turkish court has issued arrest warrants for a U.S.-based Muslim cleric and seven other people for their alleged involvement in the killing of Russia\'s ambassador to Turkey, the country\'s state-run news agency reported Monday.An off-duty police officer fatally shot Ambassador Andrei Karlov while he was speaking at the opening of a photo exhibition in the Turkish capital on Dec. 19, 2016. The officer, Mevlut Mert Altintas, was later shot dead at the scene by police.The court in Ankara issued warrants for cleric Fethullah Gulen and seven people allegedly tied to his religious movement on charges of attempting to "destroy the constitutional order" and "pre-meditated murder," Anadolu Agency reported.Turkish authorities have alleged that Karlov\'s killer had links to Gulen, whom Turkey also accuses of masterminding a failed July 2016 coup and wants extradited from the United States. Gulen, who has lived in the U.S. since 1999, has denied involvement in the coup attempt.Turkey believes that Gulen\'s movement was also behind Karlov\'s assassination, maintaining that it was aimed at derailing warming relations between Turkey and Russia.Nine people, including three former police officers, have already been arrested over the killing.The warrants were issued as Russian President Vladimir Putin prepares to make a two-day trip to Ankara. Putin is scheduled to meet with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday. They are set to be joined by Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Wednesday for a summit on Syria\'s future.Associated Press photographer Burhan Ozbilici won the 2017 World Press Photo competition for his image of the gun-wielding policeman standing over the body of the Russian ambassador immediately after he shot Karlov.
WASHINGTON  The Supreme Court on Monday ruled for an Arizona police officer who shot a woman outside her home in Tucson. The courts decision was unsigned and issued without full briefing and oral argument, an indication that the majority found the case to be easy.In an impassioned dissent, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the majority had gone badly astray.Its decision is not just wrong on the law; it also sends an alarming signal to law enforcement officers and the public, she wrote. It tells officers that they can shoot first and think later, and it tells the public that palpably unreasonable conduct will go unpunished.The case started in 2010 when three police officers responded to a 911 call reporting that a woman had been seen acting erratically by hacking at a tree with a knife.They saw Sharon Chadwick standing in the driveway of a house. A second woman, Amy Hughes, emerged from the house, holding a kitchen knife. She stopped six feet from Ms. Chadwick.Although the officers did not know it, the two women were roommates. Ms. Hughes was not moving, spoke calmly, held the knife at her side and made no aggressive movements.Ms. Chadwick later said that she did not feel threatened and that Ms. Hughes had appeared composed.The officers drew their guns and told Ms. Hughes to drop the knife, but it is not clear that she heard them. Officer Andrew Kisela opened fire, shooting Ms. Hughes four times.Screaming and bleeding, Ms. Hughes asked, Whyd you shoot me?She survived and sued the officer for using excessive force. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, allowed the case to proceed.The Supreme Court reversed that ruling, saying that Officer Kisela was entitled to qualified immunity, a doctrine that shields officials from suits over violations of constitutional rights that were not clearly established at the time of the conduct in question.The majority did not decide whether Officer Kiselas actions violated the Constitution, but it did say there was no clear precedent that would have alerted him that opening fire in what he said was an effort to protect Ms. Chadwick amounted to unconstitutionally excessive force.In dissent, Justice Sotomayor, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, said the majoritys reasoning was perplexing.Hughes was nowhere near the officers, had committed no illegal act, was suspected of no crime, and did not raise the knife in the direction of Chadwick or anyone else, Justice Sotomayor wrote, adding that only one officer had opened fire.Kisela alone resorted to deadly force in this case, she wrote. Confronted with the same circumstances as Kisela, neither of his fellow officers took that drastic measure.Justice Sotomayor said a jury should have been allowed to decide the case.Because Kisela plainly lacked any legitimate interest justifying the use of deadly force against a woman who posed no objective threat of harm to officers or others, had committed no crime, and appeared calm and collected during the police encounter, Justice Sotomayor wrote, he was not entitled to qualified immunity.Justice Sotomayor said the courts decision in the case, Kisela v. Hughes, No. 17-467, was part of a disturbing trend of unflinching willingness to protect police officers accused of using excessive force.The courts decisions concerning qualified immunity, she wrote, transforms the doctrine into an absolute shield for law enforcement officers.Because there is nothing right or just under the law about this, she wrote, I respectfully dissent.
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large "Caravans" of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws..... [0702 EDT]- ...Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People. Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don\'t allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen! [0710 EDT]- DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon... No longer works. Must build Wall and secure our borders with proper Border legislation. Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime! [0717 EDT]- Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws! [0908 EDT]- So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. [0928 EDT]- Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field! [0935 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
SAN FRANCISCO   A Mexican father arrested by immigration officials after dropping off his daughter at day care in California was released from a detention center on Monday and will be allowed to remain in the U.S. after a judge ruled he could face persecution with a return to Mexico.Fernando Carrillo walked out of a U.S. immigration office in San Francisco and hugged his wife and daughter as dozens of supporters cheered around him.Last week, a U.S. immigration judge withdrew the order to remove Carrillo from the country after Carrillo proved that he would be persecuted if he returned to Mexico, said his attorney, Hedi Framm-Anton."Welcome home!" the crowd cheered as Carrillo held his daughter in his arms."I\'m extremely happy and thankful to all the people, my family and God," Carrillo said after his release. "I just don\'t believe it yet."Framm-Anton didn\'t provide specific information about what claims Carrillo made in court but told the Mercury News that the argument was "based on his blood relationship with a family member in Mexico who is involved in fighting a certain type of crime."Carrillo is from Mexico City and arrived in the U.S. in 2004, Framm-Anton said.He was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers in October after he was convicted of a drunken-driving offense. Officials have said he was previously deported from the U.S.Carrillo said he was driving his daughter to day care when he noticed an unmarked police car behind him. He turned back, went home and took another route to drop off his daughter, he said. After he dropped her off, he was approached by immigration officers and taken into custody, he said.Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Richard Rocha did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the case."This is something we were hoping for," Carrillo\'s wife, Lourdes Barraza said. "We obviously had faith that it would happen, eventually, and we are just very grateful to God and grateful to the community for the support we have received."___Balsamo reported from Los Angeles.
BRIGHTON, Colo.   A judge ruled Monday that a man charged with fatally shooting three people at a Colorado Walmart is competent to stand trial.Judge Mark Warner based his decision on an evaluation of Scott Ostrem done at the state mental health hospital at the request of his lawyers.Ostrem, 48, worked as a metal fabricator at a roofing company and left his work station without explanation hours before the Nov. 1, 2017 shooting in suburban Denver.According to police, he nonchalantly walked into the Walmart in Thornton, fired a handgun at a group of people in the checkout area before fleeing in a car. He was identified as a suspect based on security video.Authorities have not disclosed a motive for the shooting.His stepsister, Michelle Willoughby, told The Denver Post that he has been tormented by voices in his head since taking LSD nearly 30 years ago.She said Ostrem had been outgoing, sociable and athletic before taking LSD at a party in 1988, and afterward he became a recluse haunted by voices saying the devil was after him.The family contacted a hospital and Ostrem underwent a drug intervention but did not get psychological treatment, she said.Ostrem's apartment building neighbors say he was unfriendly and occasionally hostile toward them. His boss at the roofing company, David Heidt, said he worked there for three years without any problems.He's charged with killing 52-year-old Pamela Marques, 66-year-old Carlos Moreno and 26-year-old Victor Vasquez. He is also charged with 30 counts of attempted first-degree murder and committing a crime of violence.Ostrem has not been asked to enter a plea yet.A hearing is scheduled for June 8 to determine if there is enough evidence to put Ostrem on trial.
PARKLAND, Fla.   Students at the Florida high school where 17 students and staff members were massacred are now carrying their belongings in clear plastic backpacks in hopes that it will make it difficult to smuggle weapons onto campus.Officials at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School began issuing the donated backpacks to the school\'s 3,200 students Monday, The Sun Sentinel reports . The students are being allowed through four monitored gates before school starts and only one after the opening bell. Soon, the district plans to issue metal-detecting wands to the law enforcement officers stationed at the gates. Sports bags and musical instrument cases are being searched.Security has been bolstered by additional sheriff\'s deputies since the school reopened two weeks after the Feb. 14 shooting. Eight highway patrol troopers were added after a student brought a knife to school, another made online threats and the brother of suspected shooter Nikolas Cruz was found skateboarding on campus."The process will be very similar to when you enter a sporting event, concert, or even Disney World. As a first step, we are looking to see if we can get the kids through these entrances in a timely manner," Principal Ty Thompson said in a memo to parents. "It is very difficult to balance both convenience/privacy with safety/security; if there is more of one, the other often suffers, but I will do my best to balance the twoThe move was meant with skepticism and derision by students."I think it\'s the illusion of security, and it\'s not going to accomplish anything, except make students feel like their privacy is being violated," junior Kyrah Simon told The Sun Sentinel.Sophomore Kenya Warner agreed."I think if people want to bring weapons to school, they\'ll find a way, and clear backpacks are not going to solve anything," Warner said.Cruz, 19, a former Stoneman Douglas student, entered campus through an open gate shortly before school ended for the day, carrying his AR-15 rifle in a bag. Investigators say video shows him carrying the bag into a classroom building, pulling out the gun and beginning his six-minute shooting spree.His attorneys have acknowledged he is the shooter and have said he would plead guilty to murder in exchange for a life sentence. Prosecutors are seeking a death sentence.___Information from: Sun Sentinel , http://www.sun-sentinel.com/
MEXICO CITY   Jose Antonio Meade\'s race for Mexico\'s presidency so far has looked more like a slog through mud  a struggle to free himself from the scandal-stained reputation of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party that chose the seemingly apolitical economist as its standard-bearer.A string of governors from the party have been imprisoned  some after fleeing the country as fugitives  or are under investigation for corruption, and many Mexicans blame the party known as the PRI for failure to halt the growth of violence across much of the country. So Meade, a man who has worked in Cabinet for presidents of two different parties, is stressing his own, relatively untarnished record."I\'m the candidate," he said in an interview with The Associated Press. "And there is not just the perception, but the certainty of 20 years of an honest and transparent life and an honorable trajectory."So far, with the election three months away, that hasn\'t been enough. Nearly all polls say Meade is running third, favored by less than 20 percent of likely voters."Mexico\'s long-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party is now so linked with corruption that it may be hobbled in the 2018 national elections," the U.S. Congressional Research Service wrote in a March analysis.Meade argues that all the country\'s parties have a similar bad image and says he is the best-equipped candidate to tackle corruption. He has proposed eliminating presidents\' immunity against prosecution, increasing the autonomy of the Attorney General\'s Office and seizing the property of politicians found to be corrupt."To take on corruption what we have to do is give more tools to the government, and the only one who has put forward a serious proposal about this topic is me," Meade said.This is the first time that the PRI, the dominant force in Mexican politics for most of the past century, has ever named a non-member as its presidential candidate. The choice was widely seen as the only good option for a party tainted by scandals.It\'s also the first time Meade, 49, has ever run for public office, though his father  also a long-time government administrator  served a term in congress for the PRI.The lack of stump-speech experience shows. His speaking style often reflects his policy wonk background as a Yale-educated economist who also has a law degree.Meade served in a series of bureaucratic posts before joining the Cabinet of President Felipe Calderon, a member of the conservative National Action Party, as energy secretary in 2011 and as treasury secretary a year later. Incoming PRI President Enrique Pena Nieto kept Meade on as the head of foreign affairs, then social services, and finally the treasury again.Meade had left his job as Mexico\'s top diplomat before the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, whose repeated criticisms of Mexico and Mexicans have strained ties and whose demand for a renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement has created economic uncertainty.If he wins, Meade said, he will seek dialogue at all levels of government to preserve a relationship that is deeper than many believe and that goes beyond topics such as the current renegotiation of NAFTA, which Trump has said is unfair to the U.S.NAFTA doesn\'t anchor the relationship, Meade said. "The infrastructure anchors it, the communication links anchor it, the business ties, the investments."He also said he would continue to work with the U.S. on security issues, a key part of the current bilateral relationship, but added that Mexico has to look to itself for solutions. "The challenge is our challenge," he said.Security "is a goal that will be achieved when we have a sufficient police capacity, when we have a good capacity to control the flow of arms, when we have a good capacity to take money from organized crime," he said. His platform proposes legal reforms to make it easier to seize ill-gotten property.Pena Nieto, who leaves office Dec. 1, became president vowing to cut crime, much of it tied to drug gangs. Homicide rates initially dipped during his administration, only to soar back to historically high levels over the past year.The Calderon administration, in which Meade served as finance and energy secretary, launched an unprecedented offensive against drug trafficking and deployed thousands of soldiers and marines across the country, and Pena Nieto has continued to lean heavily on the military for police work despite complaints by human rights groups.Meade said public safety has to be the responsibility of civilian authorities, but the armed forces have to play a role.
Over the course of the next few weeks, a jury in New York will hear the story of a South African crime lord who dealt in guns and gold and the team of former military men he hired to do his dirty work.The panel may be told about a smuggling ship that sank one day in the waters off Manila or of plans to stage a rebellion in the Seychelles. There is likely to be testimony about safe houses in Africa, illegal pain pills trafficked out of Mexico and the murder of a Filipino woman who was shot in the face and then dumped from a van.Three men go on trial this week on charges connected to the murder, and the evidence is expected to tell a tale of international intrigue  one that resembles a James Bond movie, as one of the defendants was caught saying on a government recording.With its exotic locations and cast of violent characters, the trial, in Federal District Court in Manhattan, will also provide the jurors with a privileged glimpse of a rarely seen milieu: the covert world of mercenary soldiers.Joseph Hunter, 52, a former United States Army sergeant with Special Forces training, stands at the center of the trial, accused of planning the murder of the Filipino woman, Catherine Lee, while serving as the chief of security for a globe-trotting criminal named Paul Le Roux.The other two defendants, Adam Samia, a former Army sniper, and Carl D. Stillwell, a onetime weapons trainer, are accused of carrying out the murder on Mr. Hunters orders. All three have pleaded not guilty and deny the charges. The trial began on Monday with jury selection.Mr. Le Roux oversaw smuggling rings on four continents, prosecutors say, and is expected to emerge from the shadows for the first time to testify against his former henchmen.For more than 20 years, Mr. Le Roux was an enterprising kingpin with illicit businesses that included running weapons in the Philippines, smuggling opioids from Mexico to Texas and cultivating hallucinogenic plants at a secret compound in Somalia, authorities said.All of that ended in late 2012 when Mr. Le Roux, now in his 40s, was arrested in Liberia by the Drug Enforcement Administration and began to cooperate with the American authorities. In one of his first clandestine jobs, he helped the government arrange a sting operation in Phuket, Thailand, in 2013 that led to the arrests of Mr. Hunter and a group of other men, who were charged with planning to assassinate a D.E.A. agent and one of his informants.Mr. Hunter pleaded guilty to those charges and was ultimately sentenced to 20 years in prison. But in October, federal prosecutors in New York unsealed a new indictment charging him with a different crime: orchestrating the plot to kill Ms. Lee, a real-estate agent, on Mr. Le Rouxs behalf.Because the case in Thailand included allegations that Mr. Hunter and his partners had conspired to ship cocaine into New York, it was prosecuted by the United States attorneys office in Manhattan. Manhattan prosecutors are handling the current case as well, saying it emerged from the same investigation.On the witness stand, Mr. Le Roux is expected to explain how in 2008 two of his employees, David Smith and John ODonoghue, set up a company called Echelon Associates, which hired former soldiers to provide security on his gold-buying trips to Africa and to oversee his illegal shipments of military weapons, according to court papers.He is also likely to recount how Mr. Smith was murdered in 2010 (after he was caught stealing gold) and how Mr. Hunter  promoted to replace him  went on to hire Mr. Samia and Mr. Stillwell in the plot to kill Ms. Lee, according to court papers.Some of the evidence corroborating Mr. Le Rouxs account came from secret video recordings made in a villa in Phuket where Mr. Hunter was living at the time of his arrest. In those recordings, Mr. Hunter can be heard telling the men he recruited in the plot against the D.E.A. agent that he had killed other people for Mr. Le Roux in the past  among them, a Filipino real-estate agent.Mr. Hunters lawyer, Cesar de Castro, tried unsuccessfully to have the recordings thrown out, arguing they were obtained illegally and were not proof of a crime.While the government has never detailed a specific motive for Ms. Lees murder, it has provided evidence that Mr. Hunter helped get Mr. Samia, 43, and Mr. Stillwell, 50, firearms and silencers, and later paid them $35,000 each for what court papers say he called an act of ninja work.Prosecutors say the two men sent the payments back to their loved ones in North Carolina in illegal structured transfers intended to evade detection. They have also said that Mr. Stillwell kept a photo on his cellphone of a wounded human head taken around the time Ms. Lee was killed.When Mr. Samia was arrested in North Carolina in 2013, he told two agents from the D.E.A. that he had worked with Mr. Hunter in Africa, mostly providing protection to a business owner who bought gold on the continent and shipped it to Hong Kong and Dubai, court papers say. Mr. Samia acknowledged that he had also traveled to the Philippines on Mr. Hunters orders, but only, he said, to perform security work and advance work, according to the court papers.In his own interview with the D.E.A., however, Mr. Stillwell admitted that he and Mr. Samia had met Ms. Lee in the Philippines under the guise of asking her to take them on a tour of real-estate properties in the countryside. He said he was driving the van when Mr. Samia abruptly shot the woman in the face. According to court papers, Mr. Samia later disposed of her body, leaving it lying on a pile of garbage, Mr. Stillwell told the agents.
WASHINGTON   The agency that regulates guns and explosives in the United States and also fights firearm-related crime, does not have an accurate count of bullets, chemical weapons and other devices it possesses, an internal watchdog\'s report said.The report released on Monday said the armaments could easily go missing from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, commonly called the ATF. The agency has inadequate and inaccurate ammunition inventory logs, according to the office of the inspector general.The non-political watchdog within the Department of Justice,  which houses the ATF, conducted a physical inspection at 13 sites and found 31,000 rounds of ammunition had not been logged into ATF records and that there were problems with how bullets were stored at several locations."Given that the ATF has over 275 offices, the number of unaccounted ammunition rounds is likely much higher," said Michael Horowitz, the Inspector General, in remarks accompanying the report. "When inventories are inaccurate, there is increased risk that ammunition may be lost, stolen, or misplaced without detection."In the same vein, the quantities of some explosive materials ATF had on hand did not match inventory records or vendors\' invoices. Also, the ATF did not have strong physical controls over "less lethal munitions" such as flash-bang grenades and chemical agents, making them susceptible to disappearing without notice.The ATF referred a request for comment to its response included in the report, an appendix where it said it concurred with the office\'s nine recommendations for changes and was already working to correct how it stores ammunition and better monitor workers\' access to weapons.Horowitz\'s office found ATF personnel in some cases had easy access to seized firearms and other evidence, creating a risk "that the evidence may be lost, misplaced, stolen, or otherwise compromised."The ATF is infamous for the "Fast and Furious" scandal beginning in 2009 when Mexican drug cartels were allowed to  obtain guns. The bureau seizes around 23,000 weapons each year and also has more than 35,000 firearms, Tasers and silencers in its own inventory, according to the report.The ATF has greatly improved controls over its own weapon stocks in the last 10 years, the report said. Between 2014 and 2017, the bureau reported 26 instances of lost, stolen or missing firearms, cutting its monthly loss rate by more than half since a similar audit in 2008.(Reporting by Lisa Lambert; editing by Grant McCool)
FORT WORTH, Texas   The Fort Worth Police Department is investigating a weekend arrest in which a white officer was caught on video kneeling on a black man\'s back and punching him while a black officer kneed him.In the 50-second video of Saturday\'s arrest posted on Facebook by the Next Generation Action Network, which organizes demonstrations against police abuse, two Fort Worth police officers can be seen restraining Forrest Curry as he lies face-down in the street. A white officer kneels on Curry\'s back and repeatedly punches him as he cries, "Why the f--- are you punching me? Why?" A black officer next to Curry knees him repeatedly in his side.Police Chief Joel Fitzgerald said in a statement Sunday that the officers were responding to a call for backup from fire department personnel, who told the officers that Curry "appeared to be intoxicated and had attempted to assault them."It took three officers and one supervisor about five minutes to subdue Curry, Fitzgerald said.Curry, 35, was booked into Tarrant County Corrections Center on charges of resisting officers and evading arrest. He was released on bond Monday afternoon.One of his attorneys, L. Chris Stewart of Atlanta, said Curry has a history of seizures and had one Saturday while walking that caused him to collapse in the street.When Fort Worth emergency medical staff arrived in response to a call for help, Curry came to and, disoriented, took off running."It\'s just sad that in a medical emergency, (police) couldn\'t have been more patient or understanding," Stewart said.It is the latest in a string of confrontations that have raised questions about the Fort Worth Police Department\'s use of force policies.Two lawsuits related to the use of force by city police officers were filed in December.In one of them, Jeremi Rainwater, who is white, contends that an officer shot him in the back without cause and several other officers colluded to cover up the flawed police response.A grand jury that reviewed the officers\' behavior in the 2015 shooting did not file any charges against them.In the other, Jacqueline Craig, who is black, is suing over a December 2016 arrest in which a Fort Worth officer wrestled her and her teenage daughter to the ground. Those arrests were captured on cellphone video.Charges against Craig and her daughter were dropped, and the officer served a 10-day suspension for violating departmental policies.In addition, last December, a Fort Worth police sergeant was fired for ordering a rookie officer to use a stun gun on a woman who had called for help during a domestic dispute. Fitzgerald released a 12-minute video from the body camera of the rookie officer that he said showed the sergeant\'s behavior was "absolutely unacceptable."___Follow Emily Schmall on Twitter: https://twitter.com/ emilyschmall
Finally, Duc Bayer-Boatwright gets his moment in the sun. Dont get too excited; its not that he has a psychological breakthrough or stops being a jerk or even has a particularly substantial story line in this weeks episode of Here and Now. For the second week in a row, hes gritting his teeth through a colitis flare-up  and Ramons poop jokes arent helping. Ducs big scene takes place during a hike with his love interest, Carmen. Doubled over in pain, he gets so frantic about finding a place to relieve himself that he falls down a hill and exits the date in an ambulance.Duc is, in other words, as hapless as ever in Episode 8. But that makes him the ideal avatar for this weeks theme, as revealed in Gregs lecture. As an introduction to a lesson on The Myth of Sisyphus, Albert Camuss essay on embracing the absurdity of a meaningless life over suicide, Professor Boatwright alarms his students by pressing a gun to his chin and demanding a reason not to pull the trigger. By persisting, he explains, We become the absurdist hero, seeking meaning we know is not there, living life to its fullest in the face of a consistent and continuous struggle and inevitable failure. When the stunt ends in an involuntary six-month leave, the irony is that Gregs message to students was actually pretty life affirming, for once.Sisyphus, a character from Greek mythology, was condemned to spend eternity pushing a boulder up a hill, only to watch it fall each time to the bottom. Grim as that fate may seem, Camus reframes Sisyphus as an absurdist hero, scrambling fruitlessly but nobly to make meaning for as long as he can keep the rock that is his life rolling. The struggle itself toward the heights is enough to fill a mans heart, Camus writes in the essays famous conclusion. One must imagine Sisyphus happy. Considering that few afflictions scream absurdity like a benign yet incurable bout of diarrhea, I assume theres some symbolism in Ducs tumble down the hill.Usually, Ramon and Audrey are the shows great rock pushers, fighting tirelessly for empathy in a world that keeps knocking it down in favor of fear. But this week, both characters take some time off from their respective forms of martyrdom. Audrey, who is always there to comfort and nag her husband and children, skips a family dinner to consummate her flirtation with Steve. (She can thank Ashley for giving her the sexy heels that catch his eye.) Arriving at home next morning, she takes pleasure in informing a gloomy Greg of her conquest.Ramon, for his part, hasnt been the same since his hallucination at the video game expo. After blowing up at Farid, he flees his parents house for his own apartment and buries his sorrows over his deteriorating mental health (and perhaps his uncertain future as a game designer) in casual sex. I feel fire, Carmen, who comes across as a sort of New Age palm reader, tells him in their first session. She also mentions that hes heading for big changes and prods him about a mysterious near-death experience.When her intuition comes up short, she assures Ramon, The answers are in you. Whether she knows it or not, shes likely referring to his game and his therapy with Farid  neither of which look especially promising by the end of the episode.Farid seems to be approaching a breaking point. His dreams are haunted by butterflies. Hes seeing 11:11 everywhere. Out to dinner with Layla, he flies into a rage when the host asks her to remove her head scarf. And hes become so desperate for insight into his psychic connection with Ramon that he violates doctor-patient confidentiality by appealing to Audrey for help. Still convinced that her son is schizophrenic, she decides that Farid has come unglued and orders him to stay away from Ramon.Later in the episode, theres an awkward encounter at the store his uncle Amir used to own. Propelled by a dream involving the store, Farid stops by for the first time in quite a while. The shops new owner recognizes him and saddles him with a box of things Amir left behind. Inside, Farid finds an answering machine that he remembers from childhood, along with a tape. When he plays it, he hears what we can assume is his mothers voice. This is huge: Decades before, she had tried to contact him, but Amir lied to keep him from picking up the phone.Ramons and Farids mothers, who are prominent in their visions, clearly play a significant role in whatever connection the characters have to each other. So, if Farid manages to find some answers about his mom, those revelations could have major implications for both men  and for the shows supernatural plot, which is still creeping along at a frustratingly slow pace.At least weve got Kristen and Navid, whose quest to get even with Madison results in some satisfying mean-girl screams and a triumphant kiss between the two masked avengers. Like Ramon, they are among the shows best characters because their story lines revolve around who they are as individuals, rather than their identity markers. (Pity Ashley, whose slightly unbelievable confrontation with a middle-aged, white, male Black Lives Matter activist drives her to the gun range.) I love that Navid is attracted to girls, despite being drawn to womens clothing and makeup, and that his quiet iconoclasm seems to electrify the chronically bored Kristen.With only two episodes left in the season, Here and Now is going to have to cover a lot of ground to provide a satisfying finale. The future of Greg and Audreys marriage remains uncertain; Farid and Laylas relationship is also starting to look pretty fragile. The story of Ramon and Henry feels unfinished. Ashley and Duc have yet to become fully fleshed-out characters. Wonderful as they are together, Navid and Kristen are fighting a war with Madison that comes straight out of a teen comedy and isnt really connected yet with the rest of the show.Most of all, even if we dont get a full explanation of the connection between Ramon and Farid, weve got to have something more than just these dreams and hallucinations, which are becoming redundant. We need the show to stop throwing philosophical theories at us and start sketching out a distinctive point of view. Gregs lecture suggests that it is possible to find some fleeting semblance of meaning in an indifferent universe. Here and Now may not have a cure for our modern ailments, but it could at least give us a reason to keep pushing that boulder up the hill.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. The stock market tumbled.The cause: tit-for-tat tariffs imposed by China on Monday, and techs dark hour of the soul.Facebook is trying to contain the loss of about $100 billion in value. Amazon is under presidential attack.And Tesla shares fell amid concerns about the electric car makers quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, the chief executive, joked for April Fools that the company had gone completely and totally bankrupt._____2. DACA is dead.Thus tweeted President Trump, venting about the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and blaming Democrats for failing to salvage it. But if history is a guide, his position on shielding young, undocumented immigrants may remain a moving target.The Trump administration also moved to weaken Obama-era car pollution standards. And the Environmental Protection Agency said it was re-examining a federal waiver that has allowed California and 12 other states to follow more stringent air pollution rules.Last month, when Mr. Trump called Vladimir Putin, he suggested that the Russian leader visit the White House, according to a Kremlin official.As Robert Muellers Russia inquiry intensifies, many have wondered: If he were fired, what are the chances the president would be impeached?_____3. Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma, above, and Kentucky walked off the job, shutting down school districts in protest of cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts add to a wave of strikes in red states that began in West Virginia.Mainly organized on Facebook by teachers fed up with years of funding cuts, the protests have caught lawmakers and sometimes the educators own unions flat-footed._____4. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader of the bloody struggle against South Africas white rulers under apartheid, has died at 81.Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent, our obituary says, Ms. Mandela saw her heroic status eroded by scandal over corruption, kidnapping, murder and the adulterous implosion of her fabled marriage to Nelson Mandela.She came to resent her husbands global celebrity. I am not Mandelas product, she once said. I am the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy._____5. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____6. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness, we devised a bracket-style tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. Above, Sydney University.We wont spoil the results, but heres one (unsurprising) conclusion from our panelists: The best student loan repayment system  which would be based on students incomes and be able to collect automatically through the tax system  is a far cry from whats in place in the United States.The real March Madness ends tonight with the mens title game between Villanova and Michigan at 9:20 p.m. Eastern. Follow our live updates._____7. No sweatpants in public, an ideal weight, instructions on tampon use: These are just some of the extensive controls that N.F.L. teams place on their cheerleaders, according to seven team handbooks that our reporter reviewed. Above, Carolina Panthers cheerleaders.And the philanthropic world is feeling the effects of the #MeToo movement. A number of organizations have lost donors or relinquished gifts because of their ties to powerful men accused of sexual misconduct.One celebrity chef felled by #MeToo is plotting a comeback: Mario Batali. He retreated to near invisibility after reports of abusive behavior in his empire and at restaurants owned by friends, but is said to be exploring ways to jump back into his career._____8. The videos on social media were alarming, showing dozens of local news anchors eerily echoing the same warnings about biased and false news and journalists who push their own personal bias.These scripted speeches were recited to millions of viewers across the country last month at the behest of Sinclair Broadcast Group, the countrys largest broadcaster. The company has been criticized for advancing a right-leaning agenda and renewed a debate over media ownership.The must-reads went a step beyond the must-run video segments Sinclair regularly sends stations, which have included terrorism news updates or commentators speaking in support of President Trump. (He came to Sinclairs defense on Monday.)_____9. Fear is the factor no one wants to address, a lifelong gun owner writes in The Times Magazine, wrestling with the changes to gun laws that he says must come.Theres no simple solution, he writes, to the fear of criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the governments turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another._____10. Finally, what better way to commemorate Easter than a showing of Jesus Christ Superstar?That was NBCs thinking behind a live telecast starring John Legend as Jesus Christ and Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene, above. Our reviewers takeaway: From the multicultural cast to its deconstruction of religious iconography, this Jesus Christ Superstar was as thoughtful and challenging as the show has ever been.And with Passover in swing, read this Op-Ed essay by David Wolpe from Spain. While the country is a land of Jewish ghosts, he writes, there will be Seders for those who seek one.Have a great evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Representative Elizabeth Esty, a Connecticut Democrat, said on Monday that she would not seek re-election this year after days of controversy over what she called her failure to protect women on her staff from sexual harassment and threats of violence from her former chief of staff.Representative Esty, a vocal supporter of the #MeToo movement, has faced a storm of criticism since it was reported last week that she waited three months to fire her former chief of staff, Tony Baker, after Anna Kain, another former staff member who once dated him, said he had sexually harassed and threatened to kill her.I have determined that it is in the best interest of my constituents and my family to end my time in Congress at the end of this year and not seek re-election, Representative Esty said in a statement on Monday afternoon.Too many women have been harmed by harassment in the workplace, she said. In the terrible situation in my office, I could have and should have done better. To the survivor, I want to express my strongest apology for letting you down.Over the weekend, Connecticut Democrats called for Representative Esty to step down, including Martin M. Looney, the president pro tempore of the State Senate, who said on Saturday that the three-term congresswoman should do the right thing and resign if Ms. Kains allegations were true.Representative Esty, 58, disputed none of Ms. Kains allegations. On Monday, she asked the House Ethics Committee to review how her office handled the allegations against Mr. Baker, and his termination in 2016, a move that House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said was appropriate.Ms. Kain said Mr. Baker began to sexually harass and verbally abuse her when he became her boss in 2014, and once punched her at work. He repeatedly threatened to punish her if she came forward, she said.He would threaten that if I ever told anyone or if I ever went to the Ethics Committee, he would prevent me from ever working in politics again, she said in an email. She said Mr. Baker also told her that if she reported the abuse, Representative Esty would lose re-election.She was my hero and that thought was too much to bear, Ms. Kain said. She declined to comment on Representative Estys decision not to seek re-election.Representative Estys announcement on Monday was welcomed by Connecticuts Democratic establishment, including Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, who called her decision the right one.The truth is, too many facts about how this incident was handled fall short of appropriate standards for responsible and responsive leadership, the governor said in a statement.The announcement also offered a potential opening to Republicans. Matt Gorman, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, said his party would contest her seat, which covers territory represented by a Republican, Nancy Johnson, from 1983 to 2007.The abuse allegations, and Representative Estys response to them, were reported last week by The Washington Post and The Connecticut Post, which said Mr. Baker stayed on the congresswomans staff for three months after the accusations first emerged.In a statement last week in which she referred to Ms. Kain, Ms. Esty said she had failed to protect her and provide her with the safe and respectful work environment that every employee deserves.She said an investigation conducted after Ms. Kain came forward found the threat of violence was not an isolated incident, but part of a pattern of behavior that victimized many of the women on my staff.Mr. Baker declined a request to be interviewed on Monday, but through a spokesman, Andrew Ricci, said that he disputed none of Ms. Kains allegations except for the claim that he had punched her.Mr. Ricci said Mr. Baker is a recovering alcoholic who had been blackout drunk when he called Ms. Kain on May 5, 2016, and left a voice mail message threatening to kill her.Mr. Ricci said Mr. Baker continued to work in Representative Estys office until July 24, 2016, and attended the Democratic National Convention with her that month. He remained on her payroll until August 12.Mr. Ricci said Mr. Baker and Representative Esty spent much of that three-month period in consultation with the House Employment Counsel, which advised both parties to sign a nondisclosure agreement.Mr. Baker has been in an alcoholism treatment program since May 2016 and had also been in treatment for anger management at the congresswomans behest. In a statement, Mr. Baker said she was the only person who stopped to ask me how I was doing and urged me to get help beyond just becoming sober.Mr. Baker received a $5,000 severance package when he was fired, Mr. Ricci said. Representative Esty later acted as a reference when he was hired to do advocacy work in Ohio for Sandy Hook Promise, an anti-gun group founded after the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, which happened in Representative Estys district.Mr. Baker began working for Sandy Hook Promise in the late summer or early fall of 2016 and was fired last week, Mr. Ricci said. The organization said on Monday that he did not work there but declined to say whether he ever had.
RALEIGH, N.C.   A white North Carolina officer is shown putting a black pedestrian in a chokehold in video released Monday that offers more footage of a police beating that has sparked outrage over use of force.City officials in Asheville, North Carolina, released nine body camera videos of the August 2017 encounter  most of it made public for the first time  from multiple officers. Earlier this year, a shorter clip obtained by a newspaper sparked anger in the community and helped lead to assault charges against former officer Christopher Hickman.The new videos show for the first time the aftermath of the encounter, and Hickman acknowledges multiple times to Johnnie Jermaine Rush and to his supervisor that he struck the pedestrian.When Hickman\'s supervisor asks if the Taser was effective, Hickman said: "I hit him in the face with it. I hit him in the face as if it was a club. That was effective."The footage stretches into a 20-minute clip of conversation after Rush is released from the hospital and is heading to jail, and the two men have an almost oddly calm conversation."I didn\'t probably start choking you until I punched you 10 times," Hickman says to Rush.Another of the new clips from an officer arriving as backup appears to show Hickman using both arms to restrain Rush by his neck. Police have previously said Hickman put Rush in a chokehold, but it was difficult to see that on Hickman\'s own body-worn camera that leaked to the newspaper.A judge ruled a week ago that the new videos could be made public. North Carolina law generally prevents the release of body camera footage without court approval.Hickman is shown on the videos subduing Rush, then punching and shocking him with a stun gun. Rush was stopped because officers accused him of crossing outside a crosswalk near a minor league ballpark and cluster of breweries popular with tourists.In one of the new clips, Rush argues that a supervisor who arrived on the scene, Sgt. Lisa Taube, appears to put more faith in Hickman\'s account than his."You weren\'t even here to know what happened," Rush is heard saying. "You\'re just going by what your officer told you. There are two sides to every story."Taube then responds: "There are. And, thankfully, I\'ve got body-worn video camera to watch afterward."Police have said Taube was disciplined for her handling of the case.While the encounter happened late last year, it took six months for it to become public through the leak to The Citizen-Times.Hickman, 31, was arrested in March on a felony charge of assault by strangulation, plus misdemeanor counts of assault and communicating threats.His lawyer, Thomas Amburgey, released a statement Monday that Hickman showed no criminal intent to harm Rush."It\'s unfortunate that so many individuals have rushed to judge my client. I am confident that when a fair and impartial jury hears the whole story that Mr. Hickman will be acquitted," Amburgey said in the statement.In the clip at the hospital, the two laugh and calmly discuss what happened while standing outside the hospital. Hickman called Rush "super cool" as he prepares to take him to jail."Once we get there, is there any way y\'all can have them to let me go to the restroom so I can clean myself up?" Rush asks."Absolutely," Hickman answered. "Soon as they get those cuffs off, that will be the first thing we do."The Aug. 25 encounter came months after the city implemented the use-of-force policy that included training on de-escalating tense situations. The policy was drafted in the aftermath of a white officer killing an armed black man after a high speed chase.An arrest warrant for Hickman said Rush suffered head abrasions and swelling and that he lost consciousness when Hickman pressed his arm on his throat.Community outrage spilled over with angry comments at a March community meeting with the police chief, and even the City Council expressed anger that they weren\'t informed of the case for months.___Collins reported from Columbia, South Carolina.___
HARTFORD, Conn.   U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty announced on Monday she will not seek re-election this year amid calls for her resignation over her handling of the firing of a former chief of staff accused of harassment, threats and violence against female staffers in her congressional office.Esty, a Democrat from Connecticut and an outspoken #MeToo advocate, made the announcement not to seek a fourth term in the November election days after apologizing for not protecting her employees from the male ex-chief of staff.Since her Friday apology, which came after two news organizations published articles about her handling of the matter, a growing number of fellow Democrats, including the top two in the Connecticut Senate, had urged her to resign.The congresswoman, who insisted last week she would not resign, said Monday she determined "it is in the best interest of my constituents and my family to end my time in Congress at the end of this year and not seek re-election." She added how "too many women" have been harmed by workplace harassment."In the terrible situation in my office, I could have and should have done better," she said in a statement.Esty\'s announcement came hours after she asked the House Ethics Committee to review her actions to determine if there was any wrongdoing on her part.Esty has said she regrets not moving along an internal investigation into the 2016 allegations against Tony Baker, which revealed more widespread allegations of abuse, and regrets providing "even the slightest assistance to this individual as he sought a new job."A spokesman for Baker told Hearst Connecticut Media and the Washington Post that he denies some of the allegations. A phone number listed for a Tony Baker in Columbus, Ohio, where the spokesman said the former chief of staff was living, was disconnected.The 58-year-old Esty was a former member of her local town council in Cheshire and a one-term state representative in the state\'s General Assembly before winning her first term in Congress representing the 5th District in 2012. A graduate of Harvard University in 1981, she earned her law degree from Yale Law School in 1985. She is a mother of three and has often spoken about her time at PTA meetings and her children\'s soccer matches and hockey games.Esty won re-election in 2014 and 2016. While Connecticut\'s congressional delegation is all Democrats, Esty\'s district is considered more evenly divided politically compared with most of the others. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee expressed confidence it will remain in Democratic control.The district includes Newtown, where the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting massacre occurred. Esty has been a vocal advocate for stronger gun laws but has been mostly unable to pass any new federal legislation since the 2012 shooting. She recently attended President Donald Trump\'s White House meeting on guns and other issues following the Parkland, Florida, school shooting.Connecticut Democrats praised Esty\'s decision not to seek re-election."The truth is, too many facts about how this incident was handled fall short of appropriate standards for responsible and responsive leadership," said Democratic Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, who had not publicly called for her to resign.The Democratic state Senate\'s majority leader, Bob Duff, was among those to urge Esty to step down. He said several points led him to call for Esty\'s resignation, including her reluctance to speak out publicly about the situation and using taxpayer money to pay her former chief of staff about $5,000 in severance.Staffers said Esty repaid the federal government last week with her personal funds.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi commended Esty\'s former employee Anna Kain for coming forward and telling her story. Pelosi stopped short of calling on the congresswoman to resign, saying Esty had acknowledged "her actions did not protect Ms. Kain and should have."Esty has said she learned through a third party in 2016 about possible misconduct by Baker involving a former staffer, who worked in her office from 2013 to 2015. Esty said she fired Baker about three months later after receiving an internal investigation report that revealed improper behavior by Baker that affected multiple female staffers.Before news of the controversy broke, Esty had issued press releases calling for tougher harassment protections for congressional staffers and was among those demanding that then-U.S. Rep. John Conyers, of Michigan, resign amid allegations of misconduct.___Associated Press writer Matt Daly contributed to this report from Washington.
MOVIE NIGHTS WITH THE REAGANS A Memoir By Mark Weinberg Illustrated. 261 pp. Simon & Schuster. $28.During his presidency, Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, watched 363 movies at Camp David. Spread out over eight years, its a pardonably large total, especially for two former film actors, a couple who retained show business as a frame of reference long after theyd gone into its professional cousin, politics. All their viewing of the eras biggest hits probably kept the Reagans more connected to the country than watching four hours a day of cable news.Mark Weinberg, a young press aide detailed to Camp David on the weekends, would join a group of staffers in Aspen Lodge each time the president opened the door just before 8 p.m. Everyone would watch the films, and the staffers would also watch their hosts. More than 30 years later, with the former first ladys blessing, Weinberg began writing this amiable book about the experience. Movie Nights With the Reagans is fluffed with a loyalists nostalgia, but it does offer entertaining glimpses of the first couple, and it may lure even Reagan nonenthusiasts to indulge in some nostalgia of their own.The president was clearly excited to see Top Gun, though the sex scenes seemed to go on far too long for his and Nancys taste. The over-the-top violence of Red Dawn may have similarly dampened their appreciation of its Commie-repelling Colorado kids. (Both Reagans expressed disapproval of the pot-smoking scene in 9 to 5.) Among films with a political dimension, Weinberg insists that Ghostbusters helped energize the 1984 campaign, featuring as its villain an over-regulating E.P.A. bureaucrat. The director, Ivan Reitman, had unusually conservative leanings for Hollywood, but Reagan himself seems to have had a nonideological good time watching the movie.The president liked Return of the Jedi. He saw no connection between the Star Wars franchise and his Strategic Defense Initiative, but recognized the films as a lasered update of the westerns hed once starred in. One of those, Cattle Queen of Montana, is on the marquee at the Hill Valley movie theater in the portion of Back to the Future set in 1955. A nice touch, though Weinberg records that it felt as if the air had gone out of Aspen Lodge when Doc, disbelieving news from the future of Reagans ascent, asks Marty: I suppose Jane Wyman is the first lady? One pictures Nancy biting hard on a kernel of unpopped corn, but in the summer of 1985 popcorn had been banished from Aspen Lodge because of the presidents recent colon cancer surgery.Along with all the 80s blockbusters, the Reagans showed vintage films, including a few of the presidents own. The couples one co-starring venture, Hellcats of the Navy, allowed the young staffers to see the boss and his wife as a kind of cold-showered Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis. Reagan had a self-respecting view of his movie work and remained sufficiently connected to his old craft to suggest that Steven Spielberg shorten the credits of E.T. after it was screened at the White House in 1982.Back at Camp David, with not much to be seen watching the backs of the Reagans heads, Weinberg often struggles to fill the page: His recollections of Ferris Buellers Day Off contain a two-page aside about Reagans friendship with Wayne Newton, prompted by Matthew Brodericks lip-syncing of Danke Schoen. A large part of the Chariots of Fire chapter is taken up with a sentimental exploration of the Reagan/Thatcher partnership. The author has to sneak away from his seat to consult Reagan letters, diaries and biographies to fortify what is essentially a subjunctive enterprise. He will have to imagine whether Reagan was thinking about his vexed relationship with his daughter Patti when watching Henry and Jane Fonda in On Golden Pond. He could not help but wonder if the president may have seen parts of himself in Back to the Future, and can only suspect that Reagan may have reflected on travails with his alcoholic father when watching Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker.Conjecture is the big problem for any book about presidential film-viewing. Mark Feeneys ambitious, well-researched Nixon at the Movies, published in 2004, reveals that during his years in office Nixon watched just one movie featuring Reagan, a man of whom he had a thoroughly mixed opinion. The film was Dark Victory, shown at the presidents San Clemente home in August 1973. Feeney plausibly speculates on the contempt Nixon may have felt for the moneyed, time-wasting crowd (including Reagans character) surrounding Bette Davis, the pictures star. But here too, like Weinberg, Feeney can only wonder what the books subject actually experienced while the lights were down.Weinbergs memoir doesnt aspire to the depth of Feeneys study, but its fealty and kindliness have their own appeal. The anecdotes (like the two pages on Reagans effort to return a pen he accidentally walked off with) are sweet, not piercing; the hue is as rosy as the presidents cheeks. The author once fell asleep during a screening of Show Boat, and afterward was almost out the door when the president tapped me on the shoulder and said with a wink and a big smile, Guess you were pretending it was a cabinet meeting.Movie Nights With the Reagans probably would have worked better as a half-hour oral history, but here it is, not unwelcome, if only to remind us that the role of the president can be played by a charming gentleman instead of a scoundrel.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):4:20 p.m.Trump administration officials are working on a new package of legislation aimed at closing what they describe as immigration "loopholes."Among the measures they want Congress to address: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children traveling alone from countries that don\'t border the U.S.They also want Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to caretakers while their cases are making their way through immigration court.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House wish list on immigration that was released in October.It\'s unclear, however, whether there is any appetite in Congress for such changes, especially now that the president has said he is no longer interested in protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.___2:05 p.m.Political groups backed by the conservative Koch brothers are criticizing President Donald Trump for declaring that an effort to protect young immigrants from deportation is dead.Freedom Partners is backed by the wealthy Charles and David Koch. Its executive vice president is James Davis, and he says it would be "irresponsible and represent a grave injustice" not to compromise with Democrats on permanently protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for border security.Trump has rejected such a deal.Officials with Americans for Prosperity and The LIBRE Initiative released similar statements. LIBRE Initiative President Daniel Garza says Dreamers "have contributed to our economy and our communities."The Kochs didn\'t support Trump\'s 2016 presidential bid. They\'ve previously criticized his immigration stance but have backed many of his other policies.__12:55 p.m.President Donald Trump is attacking his own Justice Department and the FBI on Twitter, accusing them of withholding information and "slow walking" the production of documents to Republicans in Congress.Trump is also appearing to question the integrity of the Justice Department in his Tweet by putting quotation marks around the word "Justice" in referring to the department. He says the conduct of the agencies overseen by his appointees is an "embarrassment to our country."The criticism comes about a week after Trump-appointed FBI Director Christopher Wray assigned 54 FBI staff to work from 8 a.m. to midnight collecting and reviewing documents requested by various congressional investigations.The president could expedite the release of the documents on his own by declassifying the information in full.__11:20 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the state of the nation\'s economy at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.Trump spoke briefly to hundreds of guests on the South Lawn, pointing to a "special year" for the country and progress on the economy.The president and first lady Melania Trump, joined by 12-year-old son Barron, then walked over to the station where kids are rolling dyed, hard-boiled eggs across the lawn.Trump addressed reporters briefly, reiterating that Democrats have "really let" down young immigrants seeking a deal on protections from deportation.Trump has been trying to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Although he says he has been open to a law extending it, he and Congress have been unable to come to terms.__7:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is calling for new border wall and immigration legislation, tweeting that moving to the "nuclear option" in the Senate is only way to muscle such a measure through Congress. But that would require changing Senate rules, something for which Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has shown no enthusiasm.In early morning tweets Monday, Trump says "Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People." He added, "Act now, Congress, our country is being stolen."Trump also tweeted that the U.S. must build a border wall, but argued that "Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime!" He also said that a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants is "dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act."The $1.3 trillion funding package Congress passed last month included $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.__12:48 a.m.President Donald Trump has declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they\'re coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted Sunday one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump, who has taken a hard line toward immigration, said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can remain in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.It was unclear whether Trump, in any new immigration legislation, would support safeguards for people protected by DACA. The White House did not respond to requests for comment on Trump\'s tweets.Democrats blamed Trump for the tenuous status of a program that shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said on Twitter that the president created his own crisis."The President is blaming everyone under the sun, but he only has to look in the mirror to find the person who turned down six different bipartisan DACA deals from Congress - a few that included funding for his useless wall," Durbin said.Democrats had offered at one point to fully fund the wall Trump wants along the U.S.-Mexican border but rescinded the offer in January, accusing the president of reneging on elements of a tentative agreement."He walked away - not Democrats," Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein wrote on Twitter."Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People ... Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" Trump said in another Twitter post.Congress cannot pass any legislation immediately as lawmakers are on their second week of a spring recess, but taking a tough stance on immigration appeals to Trump\'s conservative base.Senate Republican leaders have ignored previous calls from Trump advocating the so-called nuclear option, which would involve changing Senate rules so Republicans could more easily overcome Democratic opposition to legislation in a chamber they control with a thin majority of 51 out of 100 seats.Cindy Agustin, 28, a DACA recipient and immigration activist in Chicago, said the impasse over the program breeds fear and uncertainty."It\'s frustrating because we\'re in limbo right now," Agustin added.Trump also reiterated his call for Mexico to stop people from entering the United States, after saying on Sunday he would terminate a major trade accord with Mexico if it does not do more to secure its border with the United States.The United States is currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.BACK AGAINST THE WALLTrump made building a border wall - and making Mexico pay for it - one of his top campaign pledges when he ran for president in 2016. Mexico has refused to pay.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday he indicated that time had passed, writing on Twitter: "\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are traveling in a "refugee caravan" organized by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump\'s requirements.In light of Trump\'s call for the "nuclear option," a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Monday noted that Republican senators oppose changing existing rules governing the debate and passage of legislation.Major legislation usually needs a supermajority to pass the Senate. Without 60 votes in support, the Democratic minority can sink a bill.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu in Washington and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)
In a stinging rebuke to one of Floridas most influential sheriffs, a federal judge found that a state law enforcement official had probable cause to believe that one of the sheriffs deputies had fatally shot his girlfriend as she was preparing to leave him.The sheriff, David B. Shoar of St. Johns County, had waged a yearslong campaign to convince the public that Rusty Rodgers, an agent with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, had violated the rights of the deputy, Jeremy Banks, during the states reinvestigation of the shooting, originally ruled a suicide by the sheriff more than seven years ago.The judge, Brian J. Davis, on Friday dismissed a lengthy civil case filed by Deputy Banks, with strong support from the sheriff, accusing Agent Rodgers of, among other things, coaching witnesses and filing false and misleading information to a state court in support of his request to search the deputys property.In the order tossing out the lawsuit, the judge concluded, Even in the light most favorable to the Deputy Banks, the record, considered in its entirety, reflects a thoughtful examination of difficult facts and circumstances.While concluding that Agent Rodgers had acted legally, the judge did not rule on whether the death was a suicide or a homicide  merely that the state agent had had probable cause, based on what he knew at the time, to believe that Deputy Banks might have been responsible.The case has long stirred strong emotions in St. Augustine, where the 2010 shooting of Deputy Bankss girlfriend, Michelle OConnell, pitted one law enforcement agency against another and led to the appointments of three special prosecutors.Deputy Banks remains on the force after prosecutors said they did not have enough evidence to charge him. He denies harming Ms. OConnell.The circumstances of the shooting and the sheriffs response raised broader questions about how well the police can investigate allegations of domestic violence within their own ranks. Ms. OConnell, a single mother of a 4-year-old girl, was fatally shot with Deputy Bankss service weapon. No suicide note was found.Agent Rodgers, a former agent of the year, was asked to re-examine the shooting after Ms. OConnells family complained that the sheriff had not properly investigated her death. The state agent subsequently determined that the sheriff had botched the case with missteps that included failing to collect important evidence at the crime scene. Agent Rodgers also uncovered evidence that appeared to contradict Deputy Bankss account of how Ms. OConnell had died.The shooting and the sheriffs attempts to discredit Agent Rodgers were the subject of two New York Times investigations as well as a documentary by the PBS program Frontline.The Times, after reviewing thousands of pages of investigative files and legal documents, reported in June that Sheriff Shoars attacks on Agent Rodgers were based largely on unsupported allegations and innuendo.The judges order on Friday tracked closely with what The Times had found. The court ruled that many of Deputy Bankss claims were argumentative and unsupported in the more than 3,000 pages of documents in the case record.According to Deputy Bankss account, he and Ms. OConnell were home alone late one night in September 2010 when she began packing her things to leave. Although they had argued that evening while driving back to the house they shared, he said, they did not argue once they were home.Yet Agent Rodgers found two neighbors who said they had heard a woman screaming for help before the sound of gunshots. The sheriffs officers had not bothered to interview neighbors, or Ms. OConnells family, before declaring the death a suicide.Sheriff Shoar repeatedly claimed that Ms. OConnell had been suicidal, but Judge Davis noted that the vast majority, if not all of Ms. OConnells family members and friends reported she was in good mental health, not likely to commit suicide, and was looking forward to the future.Sheriff Shoar has not retreated from his conclusion of suicide, citing the findings of two state medical examiners. A third pathologist, Dr. William R. Anderson, later hired by the family, concluded that Ms. OConnell had died from a gunshot inflicted by another. After exhuming the body, Dr. Anderson  himself a former state medical examiner  discovered that Ms. OConnell had a cracked jaw, a fact that had not been noted by the first two medical examiners.At the time, Sheriff Shoar issued a statement calling the exhumation reprehensible and accusing Ms. OConnells mother of molesting the body by removing it from its place of rest.A lawyer for Agent Rodgers, William J. Sheppard, said on Monday that the judges order was as expected, because Agent Rodgers did nothing but his job in an efficient and honorable way, as he has done for the past 30-plus years.In an email, Deputy Bankss lawyer, Mac McLeod, expressed disappointment in the judgment and said they would consider an appeal. We respect the efforts of the court and certainly will analyze the order in great detail as we move forward, he said.Sheriff Shoar did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump\'s latest comments on immigration, made via Twitter, came as the U.S. Department of Justice moved to establish first-ever quotas for immigration judges aimed at speeding up cases and clearing a backlog.Trump said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can stay in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.Trump also urged Congress to "pass tough laws and build the WALL," referring to a U.S.-Mexico border wall he has championed as a way to curb illegal immigration and the flow of drugs.In a move aimed at speeding deportations, the Department of Justice sent an email on Friday to federal immigration judges telling them their job performance would be evaluated based on how quickly they close cases.Judges will be required to complete at least 700 cases a year and have fewer than 15 percent of their decisions appealed and remanded back, according to Dana Marks, spokeswoman for the National Association of Immigration Judges.Another metric demands that 85 percent of removal cases for detained immigrants be completed within three days of a hearing on the merits of the case. The new policy is expected to take effect on Oct. 1.A growing backlog of immigration cases reached 687,000 in March, according to a Reuters analysis of court records, and caused asylum seekers to wait years to present their cases.Amiena Khan, executive vice president of the immigration judges union, said the new rules threatened to interfere with judicial independence. Its going to create havoc within the courts, said Khan, who also serves as an immigration judge in New York. The integrity of the entire process is at risk.On Monday, senior administration officials told reporters that legislation was being prepared aimed at helping speed deportations of some illegal immigrants. They did not provide a timetable for submitting it to Congress and did not say whether provisions to help DACA recipients would be included.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump\'s requirements.NO \'RELIABLE PARTNER\'Democrats have blamed Trump for the tenuous status of the DACA program that shielded hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said in a telephone interview: "After the experience of giving this president six different bipartisan options and having him reject them all ... I don\'t believe we have a reliable partner" in negotiations that are now dormant.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday, he indicated that the time had passed, writing on Twitter: "\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are travelling in a "refugee caravan" organised by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By travelling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States."The only person gaming DACA is not in the caravan. He\'s in the Oval Office" of the White House, Durbin said, referring to Trump.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu and Sarah Lynch in Washington; Reade Levinson in New York and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Writing by Caren Bohan; Editing by Peter Cooney)

FLAGSTAFF, Ariz.   American Indian tribes have taken greater control over prosecuting non-tribal members who commit some violent crimes in Indian Country five years after Congress passed a key law, a new report shows.But gaps remain after the Violence Against Women Act allowed tribes to bring criminal charges against non-Natives in domestic violence cases. For example, it doesn\'t extend to violence against children or other family members, and tribal prosecutors are urging lawmakers to expand the law to cover everyone in a household.Tribal land was long known as a safe haven because U.S. authorities would only prosecute the most serious offenses and tribes lacked the ability to charge those who weren\'t Native Americans. Since the law passed in 2013, tribal communities are empowered to report wrongdoing, governments are better collaborating and tribes are updating their laws, public safety advocates say."It really has changed the culture in some of these tribes around domestic violence in a way that many people there report as overwhelming evidence," said Elizabeth Reese, a project attorney for the National Congress of American Indians.The group released a report last month that shows the impact of the tribal provisions of the Violence Against Women Act: 143 arrests of non-Natives, leading to 74 convictions and five acquittals among 18 tribes in 11 states. About 90 percent of the victims are women.The majority of cases are being tried within four tribes: Pascua Yaqui near Tucson, Arizona; the Eastern Band Of Cherokee Indians in western North Carolina; the Tulalip Tribes north of Seattle; and Fort Peck Tribes in northeastern Montana. The United States has 573 federally recognized tribes.The Violence Against Women Act allows tribes to charge non-Natives for domestic violence against intimate partners or spouses and when protection orders are violated. The authority doesn\'t extend to violence against children, family members or law enforcement and doesn\'t include crimes by non-Natives who don\'t know their victims or crimes by tribal members against non-Indians."If you arrest a non-Native for domestic violence and the guy fights the cop, I wouldn\'t be able to charge that," said Scott Seifert, Fort Peck Tribes\' chief prosecutor. "And I wouldn\'t be able to charge if he had a baggie of dope in his pocket, or if he beats his child."Tribal prosecutors also cannot charge property crimes, sexual misconduct, false imprisonment, threats, trafficking or stalking  things they say limit their ability to make plea deals with offenders.Legislation pending in Congress seeks to address some of those holes and ensure tribes have the financial resources to implement the law  the most substantial hurdle for tribes, Reese said.The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, for example, had to pay an unexpected $60,000 in medical care for a defendant in tribal custody, the report said. At Pascua Yaqui, unexpected costs came in funding Spanish interpreters and transporting defendants to detention facilities.The National Congress of American Indians and others have called on Congress to give tribes full authority over all criminal offenses on land, regardless of the ethnicity of those involved.A 1978 U.S. Supreme Court decision stripped tribes of criminal authority over non-Natives. Which police agency responds depends on whether the victim, suspect or both are Native American  creating a complicated jurisdictional maze that sometimes results in no response, tribal officials say."It seems to be that perhaps our federal partners want to take more of a piecemeal approach  that\'s evident by what\'s occurring here and consistent with some of the concerns that were initially voiced," said Oscar "OJ" Flores, Pascua Yaqui\'s chief prosecutor. "I\'m anticipating it will probably happen in that fashion. Hopefully the increased pieces of jurisdiction will get larger as we go along."Deputy U.S. Attorney General Rod Rosenstein has said about 85 percent of the Justice Department\'s Indian Country investigations relate to violent crime. He said domestic and sexual violence against women and children is pervasive."But it is not a reality that we are willing to accept," he said in an address to the National Congress of Americans earlier this year.Giving tribes some criminal authority over non-Natives wasn\'t easy to push through Congress, with Republicans worrying about the fairness of tribal courts and not having impartial juries for trials on reservations.Under the tribal provisions, defendants could seek recourse in federal court but none have, and juries have been made up of both Natives and non-Natives, according to the National Congress of American Indians report.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Clara Ester\'s eyes were fixed on the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as he stood on the concrete balcony of the Lorraine Motel.King was in Memphis to support a sanitation workers\' strike, and Ester, a college student, had been marching alongside the strikers as they sought better pay and working conditions. She and some friends had gone to the motel for a catfish dinner when she saw King chatting happily, not far from where she stood.Then Ester heard the shot. It was 6:01 p.m. on April 4, 1968."I\'m still looking at him," Ester recalled. "He looked like he was lifted up and thrown back on the pavement. Next thing I remember, I was stepping over his body, and I\'m noticing that he\'s struggling for air."King\'s death changed the world and altered the lives of those who lived through it. Some would spend the rest of their lives fighting for racial equality and economic justice. Others, including Ester, would struggle to come to terms with what they saw.___King had won victories on desegregation and voting rights and had been planning his Poor People\'s Campaign when he turned his attention to Memphis, the gritty city by the Mississippi River.On Feb. 1, 1968, two sanitation workers were crushed when a garbage truck compactor malfunctioned, sparking a strike by about 1,300 black sanitation workers weary of horrible working conditions and racist treatment in the dirtiest of municipal jobs. The words that would come to signify their protest  "I Am a Man"  were not a given with everyone in Memphis at that time."We didn\'t have a place to shower, wash our hands, nothing," said Elmore Nickleberry, who at 86 still drives a truck for the department.King tried to lead a peaceful march on March 28, but it turned violent. Storefront windows were smashed, and police wielded clubs and tear gas.King went back to Atlanta but vowed to return to show that non-violent protest still worked. Criticism mounted in the press. He was suffering headaches and feeling depressed. He met with his advisers, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said, and "talked himself out of the depression."He flew back to Memphis on the morning of April 3.Mike Cody was among the lawyers working to persuade a judge to lift an injunction against a new march who met with King in his motel room."King felt strongly that unless he could get a success here in Memphis, with these workers using nonviolent, civil disobedience, then he would never get the Poor People\'s March in Washington that summer," said Cody, 82.Cody was in the crowd later that evening at the Mason Temple. Though King was ill, the Rev. Ralph Abernathy asked him to address the thousands who turned out despite a thunderstorm."It\'s a tin roof, so that\'s banging. There\'s rafters up there above us, and the rafters are blowing with the wind and hitting each other and hitting the walls from the fierceness of the wind and the rain," said the Rev. James Lawson, a prominent civil rights activist.With little preparation, King delivered a speech that, in retrospect, seemed to foretell his death: "Well, I don\'t know what will happen now; we\'ve got some difficult days ahead. But it really doesn\'t matter to me now, because I\'ve been to the mountaintop."When he finished, King slumped into a chair. He looked to Cody like a "toy that had the air taken out of it.""Ministers, men were crying," Jackson said.Cody went to court the next day with King aide Andrew Young, then dropped Young back at the Lorraine Motel in the late afternoon.King had spent most of the day in meetings. He asked Young where he\'d been and then threw a pillow at him. "Then everybody picked up pillows and beat me up," Young said. "All of us were in our 30s, and we were acting like 10-, 12-year-olds. But it was the happiest I had seen him in a long time."As dinner approached, King and his friends moved to the motel balcony. King turned to a bandleader who was standing nearby and made a request: Later, could he play his favorite song, "Take My Hand, Precious Lord"?Then: "Pow! A bullet," recalled Jackson, pointing to the right side of his own face."At first I thought it was a firecracker or car backfiring," Young said.Jackson ran toward the balcony steps."Someone said, \'Doc has been shot,\' and \'Get low,\'" Jackson said.Earl Caldwell, a New York Times reporter who had interviewed King on the balcony the previous day, ran out of his motel room in his boxer shorts. "I was thinking, \'It was a bomb. It was a bomb.\' Because the noise was greater than a gun," he said.A photo shows Jackson, Young and others pointing across the street, where the shot came from."I remember Rev. Abernathy saying, \'Back up, back up, this is my dearest friend. Martin you can\'t give up, don\'t leave us,\'" Jackson said.Ester said she noticed King\'s tie had been blown off. His eyes were open "with almost a pleasant expression on his face," she said.Sirens blared. People screamed. Police rushed to the motel.King was rushed to St. Joseph\'s Hospital, where college student John Billings worked as a surgical assistant on the night shift."Three doctors came over and walked to where I was standing. They said, \'OK Billings, go find somebody in charge and tell them that Dr. King has expired,\'" he said.Billings was then ordered to stay with King\'s body until someone could come get him."I walked over, pulled the sheet back, and there he was," Billings said. "His eyes were closed. I thought, \'How strange this is.\'"Security was heavy when Dr. Jerry Francisco, the Shelby County medical examiner, arrived. Men holding shotguns stood inside and outside the room. After the 1 hour autopsy, Francisco drove home through a city that had been placed under curfew, for fear of rioting."The streets were just virtually empty. I was the only car moving on the street," he said. It was eerie, he recalled.Coby Smith, a leader of the Invaders organization, which had a militant reputation, vividly remembers the aftermath, when tanks rolled into neighborhoods, the National Guard was called in, and police began arresting blacks in the streets."(Police) had put tape over their badges," Smith said. "This was like a war."___Fifty years after King\'s assassination, Ester has trouble talking about the months that followed. Haunted by her memories, she left her hometown.Billings, who is white, came to a new understanding of the struggle Southern blacks faced. He became a private investigator, met James Earl Ray, who pleaded guilty to killing King, and explored the notion that someone else had been involved.Young became a congressman, ambassador to the United Nations and Atlanta\'s mayor.Jackson ran for president twice, then stood in Grant Park in Chicago with tears streaming down his face after a black man was elected president in 2008.Cody continued working in civil rights law in Memphis, eventually serving as a U.S. Attorney and Tennessee attorney general.If King were alive today, "he\'d be in people\'s face" about issues relating to race, poverty and inequality, Cody says."We\'re not past all of that history."____Associated Press staffers Rhonda Shafner in New York; Robert Ray in Atlanta; Krysta Fauria in Los Angeles and Allen Breed in Hampton, Virginia, contributed to this report.____For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma and Kentucky walked off the job Monday morning, shutting down school districts as they protested cuts in pay, benefits and school funding in a movement that has spread rapidly since igniting in West Virginia this year.In Oklahoma City, protesting teachers ringed the Capitol, chanting, No funding, no future! Katrina Ruff, a local teacher, carried a sign that read, Thanks to West Virginia.They gave us the guts to stand up for ourselves, she said.The walkouts and rallies in Republican-dominated states, mainly organized by ordinary teachers on Facebook, have caught lawmakers and sometimes the teachers own labor unions flat-footed. And they are occurring in states and districts with important midterm races in November, suggesting that thousands of teachers, with their pent-up rage over years of pay freezes and budget cuts, are set to become a powerful political force this fall.The next red state to join the protest movement could be Arizona, where there is an open Senate seat and where thousands of teachers gathered in Phoenix last week to demand a 20 percent pay raise and more funding for schools.The growing fervor suggests that labor activism has taken on a new, grass-roots form.Our unions have been weakened so much that a lot of teachers dont have faith in them, said Noah Karvelis, an elementary school music teacher in Tolleson, Ariz., outside Phoenix, and leader of the movement calling itself #RedforEd, after the red T-shirts protesting teachers are wearing across the country.Mr. Karvelis said that younger teachers had been primed for activism by their anger over the election of President Trump, his appointment of Betsy DeVos as education secretary and even their own students participation in anti-gun protests after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla.Teachers for a long time have had a martyr mentality, Mr. Karvelis said. This is new.The wave of protest is cresting as the Supreme Court prepares a decision in Janus v. Afscme, a major case in which the court is expected to make it harder for public sector unions to require workers to pay membership fees. But the recent walkouts suggest that labor activism may not need highly funded unions to be effective. Unlike in strongholds for labor, like New York or California, teachers unions in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Kentucky and Arizona are barred by law from compelling workers to pay dues. Yet that has not stopped protesters from making tough demands of lawmakers.Striking West Virginia teachers declared victory last month after winning a 5 percent raise, but Oklahoma educators are holding out for more.Last week, the Legislature in Oklahoma City voted to provide teachers with an average raise of $6,000 per year, or roughly a 16 percent raise, depending on experience. Gov. Mary Fallin, a Republican, signed the package into law.Teachers said it was not enough. They have asked for a $10,000 raise, as well as additional funding for schools and raises for support staff like bus drivers and custodians.About 200 of the states 500 school districts shut down on Monday as teachers walked out, defying calls from some parents and administrators for them to be grateful for what they had already received from the state.To pay for the raise, politicians from both parties agreed to increase production taxes on oil and gas, the states most prized industry, and institute new taxes on tobacco and motor fuel. It was the first new revenue bill to become law in Oklahoma in 28 years, bucking decades of tax-cut orthodoxy.In Kentucky, teachers earn an average salary of $52,000, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, compared with $45,000 in Oklahoma. But teachers there, thousands of whom are picketing the Capitol during their spring break, are protesting a pension reform bill that abruptly passed the State House and Senate last week. If Gov. Matt Bevin signs it into law, it will phase out defined-benefit pensions for teachers and replace them with hybrid retirement plans that combine features of a traditional pension with features of the 401(k) accounts used in the private sector. Teachers in the state are not eligible for Social Security benefits.Andrew Beaver, 32, a middle school math teacher in Louisville, said he was open to changes in teacher retirement programs, such as potentially asking teachers to work to an older age before drawing down benefits; currently, some Kentucky teachers are eligible for retirement around age 50. But he said he and his colleagues, many of whom have called in sick to protest the bill, were angry about not having a seat at the negotiation table with Mr. Bevin, a Republican, and the Republican majority in the Legislature.What Im seeing in Louisville is teachers are a lot more politically engaged than they were in 2015 or 2016, he said. It really is a wildfire.In Arizona, where the average teacher salary is $47,000, teachers are agitating for more generous pay and more money for schools after watching the state slash funds to public education for years.Were going to continue to escalate our actions, Mr. Karvelis said. Whether that ultimately ends in a strike? Thats certainly a possibility. We just want to win.Mr. Karvelis, 23, said teachers would not walk out of class unless they were able to win support from parents and community members across the state, including in rural areas. But he said the movement would be influential regardless of whether it shuts down schools.Were going to have a lot of teachers at the ballot box who I dont think would normally go in a midterm year, he said. If I were a legislator right now, Id be honestly sweating bullets.With Republican legislators and governors bearing the brunt of the protesters fury, the Democratic Party is trying to capitalize on the moment. The Democratic National Committee plans to register voters at teacher rallies, and hopes to harness the movements populism.The teacher walkouts are a real rejection of the Republican agenda that doesnt favor working-class people, said Sabrina Singh, the committees deputy communications director. Republicans arent on the side of teachers. The Democrats are.That type of rhetoric is a sea change from the Obama years, when many Democrats angered teachers by talking less about core issues of schools funding than about expanding the number of charter schools, or using student test scores to evaluate teachers and remove ineffective ones from the classroom.School reformers kind of overshot the mark, and were now in a pendulum swing where teachers increasingly look like good guys, said Frederick Hess, director of education policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative-leaning think tank.Republicans, too, he said, should consider pitching themselves as teacher-friendly candidates, perhaps by tying teacher pay raises to efforts to expand school choice through private school vouchers or charter schools.Lily Eskelsen Garca, president of the National Education Association, the nations largest teachers union, called the movement an education spring.This is the civics lesson of our time, she said. The politicians on both sides of the aisle are rubbing the sleep out of their eyes.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Signs of an assassin in Britain, a thaw in Uzbekistan and a rebel queen in Denmark. Heres the latest: President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a dangerous flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations hard-line stance on immigration.Separately, our reporters examine how Mr. Trumps rise to power has affected the wealthy, scandal-racked family of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and presidential adviser. (Hint: It hasnt been good.)_____ British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on the door handle of Sergei Skripals home, above, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the poison, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional  on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government  could have administered it to the former Russian double agent and his daughter.That theory is raising questions about the role of Russias president, Vladimir Putin, in the attack, which has raised tensions between Russia and the West to their highest point since the Cold War._____ Bucking a global trend toward authoritarianism, Uzbekistans new leader is reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression.Its still too dangerous to utter the name of the countrys vicious security service in public, but human rights activists say repression has eased, if only slightly.The changes reflect a struggle between the new president and the brutal police state he is trying to tame. (Above, a memorial complex near Bukhara, Uzbekistan, in February.)_____ A rebel queen.In Denmark, where most public statues represent white men, two artists unveiled the countrys first public monument to a black woman. The sculpture, above, is a tribute to Mary Thomas, who led a fiery 1878 revolt against Danish colonial rule in the Caribbean._____ Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the carnage in the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria and urged reconciliation in the Middle East. The pope also baptized eight people into the Roman Catholic faith, including a Nigerian migrant who has been called a hero in Italy for foiling a robbery in Rome.Meanwhile, the Vatican will hold an exorcism training course for priests, as demands for the ridding of demonic possession have soared around the world, including in Britain, where the practice has reportedly become a booming industry. Technology companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.) The Chinese government retaliated against President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum by slapping tariffs as high as 25 percent on imports of 128 American-made products, including pork and seamless steel pipes. Facebooks latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending growth at any cost  even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.) People are trying to boycott the big tech companies amid a backlash. The problem is that Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Google are nearly inescapable. In Britain, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees must publish figures by Wednesday showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. Here are other headlines to watch for this week. Many markets are closed for the Easter holiday. Heres a snapshot of other global markets. In the U.S. push for gun control, both advocates and opponents think the other side will eventually give up. Itll go away, said a 77-year-old man, above, who owns about 75 guns. Like all the other times. [The New York Times] North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, was in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times] A Bulgarian government commission alleges that Julia Kristeva, one of Frances most respected philosophers, was also a Communist-era secret agent. Ms. Kristeva dismissed the accusation as fake news and a barefaced lie. [The New York Times] Israel and the Palestinians are waging a public relations battle over the shooting deaths of 15 Palestinians by Israeli troops during violent protests at the Gaza border. [The New York Times] A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old maid from the Philippines, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Deutsche Welle] April Fools? An alligator in the swimming pool, a Trump hotel room jail cell, and other news stories that sound like hoaxes  but arent. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Working out is great for you. Heres how to start. For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo. The U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis, above, was dismissed as a warmonger during the Obama presidency. But as global tensions rise under President Trump, he may be the only reliable voice of caution left in an administration inching closer to the brink. In memoriam: Johan van Hulst, 107, a Dutch educator who helped save 600 Jewish children from the Nazis. Despite his efforts, he was haunted by those he couldnt save. You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on, I asked myself, Why not 13? Can Europe lead on privacy? In an opinion piece, a former U.S. official hails new E.U. rules that let consumers control their private information online and says they can actually help Americans, too  especially since President Trump signed a law prohibiting such safeguards.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
BALTIMORE   It was July 2015 when the FBI, scrambling to contain a surge in Islamic State group propaganda, first visited an Egyptian-American newspaper deliveryman in Maryland.Agents needed to ask Mohamed Elshinawy why his phone number had surfaced in an investigation involving ISIS extremists and how he came to receive a $1,000 Western Union transaction from Egypt.During hours of questioning, Elshinawy first suggested the money was from his mother. Next he said it was for an iPhone purchase for a friend. After being reminded it was a crime to lie to federal agents, he proceeded to tell a whole new story  that he had indeed received money from the Islamic State but that he was actually scamming the group instead of planning an attack.It was a pivotal moment in a months-long FBI investigation. Elshinawy was sentenced Friday to 20 years in prison on terrorism-related charges.The investigation stretched from a modest townhome northeast of Baltimore across multiple continents, unveiled a shadowy network of illicit payments and shell companies, and revealed a direct link to an ISIS hacker killed in Syria just before Elshinawy\'s arrest. It also had a chilling twist: Officials say that among the roughly 150 IS-linked cases U.S. authorities have brought since 2014, this is the only prosecution they\'re aware of in which money was transmitted from IS group operatives abroad to someone in the U.S.Law enforcement officials involved in the case spoke to The Associated Press about it in detail, recounting a high-intensity investigation that required constant surveillance, the scouring of money transfers and concern that funds sent to Elshinawy would fund an attack.Brian Nadeau, a Baltimore FBI assistant special agent in charge, said the case raised a lot of red flags."Why is the money coming this way? Who is this person? What level are they at?" he said. The FBI, he said, "can\'t let someone who\'s receiving ISIS money be out running around. Who knows if we\'re in the middle of it, the beginning of it, the end, and what their plan is?"Elshinawy\'s lawyers didn\'t return messages seeking comment, but they have argued that his social media and other communications  such as his claim that he was an ISIS soldier and was committed to violent jihad  were protected by the First Amendment, were not directed by the Islamic State and were merely aspirational.Under a plea agreement, Elshinawy admitted conspiring with the IS group, but he defended himself at his sentencing hearing, saying, "I am not a terrorist," according to the Baltimore Sun.It\'s not clear how close Elshinawy came to an attack, though FBI officials said they believed the threat of violence was real. Elshinawy\'s lawyers said in a sentencing memorandum that he was provided little to no specific direction, though Elshinawy told authorities he was given multiple options for violence, including a suicide bombing, and images of individuals who were potential targets, court papers say.The Islamic State generally doesn\'t need to fund attacks in the U.S. given the inexpensive nature of the violence it advocates and its reliance on social media to motivate followers. But officials believe jihadists exploited a personal connection: a childhood friend of Elshinawy\'s from Egypt who joined the Islamic State in Syria, communicated with him on social media and encouraged him to pledge allegiance to the group.His technological know-how and skill in covering his electronic tracks  he used encrypted communications applications and proxy servers  likely made Elshinawy a natural conduit, officials said.Elshinawy received nearly $9,000 in money transfers, including through PayPal accounts, and used the funds for phones, a laptop and a virtual private network for communication with militants overseas. The funds, disguised as money for printers, were routed through a web of wire transfers. Much of it came from a United Kingdom-based IT company run by Siful Sujan, an IS computer hacker killed in December 2015 airstrikes in Syria."I think they thought they were going to just have a run-of-the-mill ISIS case, and when they peeled back the onion, they realized that (Elshinawy) was a key node," said Seamus Hughes, deputy director of George Washington University\'s Program on Extremism, who has written about the case.The FBI\'s first interview with Elshinawy came weeks after an attempted rampage at a Prophet Mohammed cartoon contest in Texas and one day after shootings at military facilities in Tennessee.Officials say he deflected questions about the money transfer with answers they knew were untruthful. At one point he pulled out an iPhone to display a Facebook conversation in Arabic. The English translation he provided was clearly improvised, an FBI official said.After several hours, he admitted under pressure to receiving the money from the Islamic State but said he was scamming the group because he never intended to commit violence, officials said. He said that his cleverness should be rewarded and that he should be hired by the FBI to help untangle the IS money network, officials say.The interviews continued over several weeks, and the results from search warrants and subpoenas yielded insights that alarmed officials further.Elshinawy had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group in February 2015 and, in conversations with his friend, pronounced himself ready for jihad and asked for advice in bomb-making, court papers say.He responded to the unrest in Baltimore that followed the death of Freddie Gray by praising violence against police. And, the FBI says, he attempted to recruit a brother in Saudi Arabia to join the Islamic State.Elshinawy has been in custody since his December 2015 arrest.Agents searching his home found a box of articles about IS attacks. His laptop held an image of a severed head next to an IS flag, and he accessed on his phone images of government buildings in Baltimore that officials believe were potential targets."If this turned out to be successful," said Hughes, "it would be a whole different way of looking at ISIS external operations in the U.S."
THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the publics regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the countrys predicament.Robert B. Reichs new book, The Common Good, is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reichs book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.Reich defines the common good as consisting in our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society. What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are  or have been  what makes us a people.Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the whatever-it-takes-to-win politics that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trumps failure as a leader, according to Reich, is not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers  people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called virtue conservatives of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that nonjudgmentalism  has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty. He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust  by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery  generate a similar unraveling.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reichs proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate  about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. Its our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.Reich seems to believe that the common good describes ground rules for a decent society, not the policies and purposes that citizens should pursue within these ground rules. But is it really possible to separate the two? Is the debate over how vigorously to regulate Wall Street about the ground rules of democracy or a policy on which Democrats and Republicans may reasonably disagree? Or consider immigration. Reich argues that the common good is not about securing borders, erecting walls and keeping others out . To the contrary, the common good is about inclusion  joining together to achieve common goals. But inclusion of whom  existing citizens of the country, Dreamers, other immigrants who hope to be admitted? Partisans on all sides of this raging debate invoke competing conceptions of the common good to support their position.As these examples suggest, the nonpartisan, above-the-fray conception of the common good that Reich proposes may be too high-minded to reinvigorate American public discourse in the way he wants. In the face of President Trumps serial violations of democratic norms, it is tempting to appeal to Americans, whatever their party or political persuasion, to reaffirm certain principles that all can share. But such principles, if truly detached from debate about where they lead, are so abstract that they can only serve as hortatory fare for commencement addresses and the Fourth of July. The best hope for reviving the common good is to invigorate moral argument in the messy, contentious domain of democratic politics.
JERUSALEM  In a head-spinning turnaround, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel announced on Monday that he had reached an extraordinary deal with the United Nations refugee agency to resettle thousands of African asylum seekers in Western countries. Within hours Mr. Netanyahu suspended the deal after coming under heavy criticism from his coalition partners.The flip-flop appeared to reflect Mr. Netanyahus fear of losing support from those partners or from his right-wing constituency, who call the asylum seekers infiltrators and want them gone. His opponents on the left described the prime ministers behavior as an embarrassing and cowardly surrender under pressure.Mr. Netanyahu, who is battling for his political future under the cloud of multiple corruption scandals and faces possible charges of bribery, had apparently failed to consult with most of his own conservative Likud Party colleagues or coalition allies before announcing the migrant deal.If the deal with the United Nations refugee agency bought Israel some international good will, diverting attention from Fridays flare-up along the border with Gaza when Israeli forces killed at least 15 Palestinians and wounded many more, the effect was short-lived.The agreement with the United Nations was meant to replace a contentious Israeli plan that had offered the migrants a stark choice: forced deportation to Africa or prison. That plan fell through after Rwanda, the African country meant to receive the deportees, announced that it would accept only those who left Israel voluntarily.In the afternoon, in a televised news conference, Mr. Netanyahu triumphantly announced the new deal, under which the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees committed to persuading countries in the West to take at least 16,250 migrants over five years, while Israel would grant official status as temporary residents to most who remained.Estimates of the population of African asylum seekers in Israel, mostly from Eritrea and Sudan, range from 35,000 to 39,000.But the agreement to let many stay in Israel drew harsh criticism from some of Mr. Netanyahus right-wing coalition allies, who were taken by surprise. Naftali Bennett, the education minister and leader of the far-right Jewish Home party, said the deal would turn Israel into an infiltrators paradise.Mr. Netanyahu backtracked.In a late-night Facebook post he said he was attentive to critics and wanted to explain the sequence of events. Rwanda, he said, had withdrawn from its agreement with Israel under pressure from the New Israel Fund  a nonprofit organization that promotes liberal democracy in Israel and is loathed by the right wing here  and elements in the European Union.He said he was suspending the deal with the United Nations refugee agency pending a meeting on Tuesday morning with the veteran residents of south Tel Aviv, where many of the African migrants are concentrated, and that he would then review the understandings reached with the agency.The European Unions delegation in Israel was incredulous.Guess its just one of those days, the delegation wrote on Twitter. At 20:57 you congratulate #Israel & @refugees on their agreement, at 21:46 you like @IsraelMFA announcement on the deal, at 22:50 the PM suspends it and blames, among others, #EU (where #UNHCR hoped to resettle significant number of refugees).The New Israel Fund accused Mr. Netanyahu of lying, saying the organization, which has offered support for the asylum seekers in Israel, had nothing to do with Rwandas decision to refuse to participate in the Prime Ministers cruel mass deportation plan.It is pathetic, shameful, and a stain on Israel in the global arena that the Prime Minister would blame Israels human rights defenders for his ineptitude and his immoral policies, the New Israel Fund said in a statement.Earlier, at the news conference, Mr. Netanyahu revealed details of the new deal.The agreement states that for every person who leaves, one will stay, he said, noting that the refugee agency would be financing the departure. I think its a good solution, a proper solution.The plan was to be carried out in three phases, with the first 6,000 migrants expected to leave over the next 18 months.William Spindler, a spokesman for the United Nations refugee agency in Geneva, said there was no agreement in place with other countries to take any of them. He said that the agency would need countries to come forward with offers, but that we are confident we will be able to find places for these 16,000 people.Such promises can be hard to keep. The European Union is still struggling to get member countries to honor a 2015 agreement to take migrants from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.Mr. Netanyahu explained to the Israeli public that he had come to the arrangement with the United Nations after it became clear that sending the migrants to Rwanda was no longer an option. We were in a catch, he said, meaning they would all have remained here.In addition, in response to petitions by Israeli human rights advocates, Israels High Court of Justice issued an emergency injunction last month, instructing the state to suspend its plan to begin deporting single adult men on April 1.As part of the new plan, the Israeli government and the United Nations refugee agency said they would encourage a more balanced distribution of the asylum seekers who remain in Israel. That effort would include vocational training, job placement, and help with integrating into new communities.The issue of the African asylum seekers has long roiled Israeli society.From 2005 until 2012 about 60,000 surreptitiously crossed into Israel over the once-porous border with Egypt. Under international conventions, Eritrean and Sudanese asylum seekers could not be sent back to their home countries, where they could face persecution.Anger built up among many longtime residents of south Tel Aviv, who complained that the migrants had brought crime and made their neighborhood unlivable. Other Israelis volunteered to help the migrants. Many passed through a remote detention center in the Negev desert.The government stopped the flow by building a steel barrier along the border and by making life for the migrants in Israel increasingly uncertain and uncomfortable. Few asylum seekers have received refugee status. Government ministers routinely call them infiltrators and economic migrants who threaten Israels future as a Jewish state.At least 20,000 have left Israel, and Mr. Netanyahu said he had made it his mission to deport the rest.But when the Israeli government announced the plane ticket-or-prison policy three months ago, it caused a popular outcry, with many Israelis arguing that forced deportation contradicted Jewish values. Newspapers filled with petitions signed by Israeli doctors, pilots, rabbis, musicians and Holocaust survivors, all opposing the policy.Stickers appeared in pubs, cafes and other establishments saying, This business opposes the expulsion of asylum seekers, and citing biblical verses like Leviticus 19:34: The stranger who resides among you shall be to you as one of your citizens; you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.
JERUSALEM   Israel announced a deal with the U.N. on Monday to resettle African migrants in Western nations, but hours later put the agreement on hold.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had announced the deal on national TV, saying Israel agreed to cancel the planned expulsion of tens of thousands of African migrants. He said the deal with the United Nations called for sending half of them to Western nations and allowing the rest to remain in Israel.Late Monday, Netanyahu said he was "suspending" the deal in order to discuss the arrangement Tuesday with Israeli residents of south Tel Aviv areas with large migrant populations."After meeting with the representatives I will re-examine the agreement again," he said.Under the deal, roughly half of the 35,000 migrants living in Israel would be resettled in the West. But the rest would stay in Israel.The migrant community is concentrated in south Tel Aviv, angering longtime Israeli residents of the working-class area. Israeli hard-liners had criticized the deal for allowing so many Africans to remain.The late-night turnaround threw into limbo the surprise agreement, which had finally offered a solution to an issue that has divided Israel for a decade. The deportation plan had been widely criticized at home and abroad, even by some of Israel\'s closest supporters."It\'s a good agreement," Netanyahu told reporters earlier in the day. "It enables us to solve this problem in a way that serves, protects the interests of the state of Israel and gives a solution to the residents of southern Tel Aviv and other neighborhoods, and also for the people who came into Israel."Most of the African migrants are from war-torn Sudan and Eritrea, the latter having one of the world\'s worst human rights records. The migrants say they are asylum-seekers fleeing danger and persecution, while Israeli leaders have claimed they are merely job seekers.The Africans started arriving in 2005, after neighboring Egypt violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel. Tens of thousands crossed the porous desert border with Egypt before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx.Israel has struggled with what to do with those already in the country, alternating between plans to deport them and offering them menial jobs in hotels and local municipalities.Due to the large migrant presence, poor neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv have become known as "Little Africa." Working-class Jewish residents have complained of rising crime and pressed the government to take action.But the migrants also found wide pockets of support, with many Israelis arguing that the country, founded in the wake of the Holocaust, had a special responsibility to help those in need.Thousands of Africans and their Israeli supporters held a demonstration in February claiming the deportation plan amounted to racism. Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, poets, Holocaust survivors, rabbis and pilots also objected to the planned expulsion.Critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the government\'s deportation plans unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants.Before Monday\'s announcement, the government had remained steadfast, bristling at what it considered cynical comparisons to the plight of Jewish refugees during World War II.Over the years, Israel threatened the migrants with prison, placed them in a now-shuttered desert detention camp and tried to persuade them to leave by offering them money and a one-way ticket to Africa. After those options failed, it announced plans to begin deporting them to an unidentified African country  believed to be Rwanda or Uganda  on April 1.Netanyahu said the plan was scrapped after it became clear that the "third country," which he again did not identify, could not handle the influx."From the moment in the past few weeks that it became clear that the third country as an option doesn\'t exist, we basically entered a trap where all of them would remain," he said.He described Monday\'s compromise as the best available option.In his Facebook post announcing the deal\'s suspension, Netanyahu accused the New Israel Fund, a liberal advocacy group, and "elements" in the European Union of derailing a deal with Rwanda.Migrants who earlier agreed to return to Africa had reported abuses and broken promises after arriving in Rwanda. In some cases, their travel papers were confiscated or they were quickly sent to Uganda. Both Rwanda and Uganda denied having any agreement with Israel.Meir Ben-Shabbat, Netanyahu\'s national security adviser, said the U.N. plan would be carried out in three phases over five years.In all, the United Nations would resettle about 16,250 people, while Israel would absorb the same number. "A committee will be formed in order to identify them and find agreed solutions," Ben-Shabbat said.Shlomo Mor-Yosef, a senior official at Israel\'s Interior Ministry, said migrants would be taken in throughout the European Union as well as in Canada and the United States.Italy and Germany, two countries identified by Netanyahu as likely destinations, both denied having any agreement in place.Canadian officials said they were in touch with Israel about the matter. Mathieu Genest, a spokesman for Canada\'s immigration minister, said his government was reviewing over 1,800 requests by Eritreans to resettle in Canada. He noted that Canada has pledged to resettle a total of 4,000 Eritrean refugees by the end of the year.As part of the framework, Israel said it would rehabilitate and develop affected neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv, while also resettling African migrants elsewhere in the country.The U.N. refugee agency said it signed a framework of common understanding "to promote solutions for thousands of Eritreans and Sudanese living in Israel." The UNHCR said it would work to relocate about 16,000 Sudanese and Eritrean nationals and that others would receive "suitable legal status in Israel."Monim Haroon, a 28-year-old university student in Jerusalem who fled Darfur five years ago, expressed relief after the deal was announced."As asylum seekers we don\'t care where we are going to be as long as it is a safe place, and these countries are willing to protect us and we can live with human dignity," he said.In a joint statement, a group of Israeli rights organizations praised Monday\'s agreement and vowed to monitor it to make sure it was respected."We are extremely happy for the refugees," said Sigal Rozen, of the Hotline for Refugees and Migrants. "We really hope that the Israeli government will stop abusing them and will respect their rights as refugees."Mark Hetfield, president of HIAS, a Jewish nonprofit in the U.S. that protects refugees, praised the deal as "responsible" and "consistent with Jewish values." He said the group would work with Israel and resettlement countries to aid the migrants."The timing of this announcement, during Passover, could not have been more appropriate as these asylum seekers, like our ancestors, all crossed the Sinai in search of freedom," he said.Not everyone was pleased. Cabinet Minister Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home party, said the deal turned Israel into a "paradise for infiltrators." He called for the plan to be brought to the Cabinet for a vote.___Associated Press writers David McHugh in Frankfurt, Colleen Barry in Milan and Rob Gillies in Toronto contributed to this report.
TASHKENT, Uzbekistan  Unraveling a police state is never easy, and just how fraught the process can be has been playing out in a basement cell in Uzbekistan, a rare example of a country seeking to tame a vicious security apparatus at a time when many other nations are doing the opposite.The detention center in Tashkent, the Uzbek capital, is where Bobomurod Abdullaev, a freelance journalist, was taken and, according to his wife and lawyer, tortured after agents of Uzbekistans feared National Security Service grabbed him off the street in September.But it was also where Mr. Abdullaev, who has been charged with conspiracy to overthrow the constitutional regime, was last month allowed to meet with a prominent human rights lawyer the security service had initially barred  and tell him of his mistreatment.Two security officers in charge of the investigation have now been removed from the case and are themselves under investigation for misconduct amid a rolling purge of Uzbekistans once-untouchable security service.The twists and turns in Mr. Abdullaevs case point to what, 18 months after the death of Uzbekistans longtime dictator, Islam Karimov, is the central question hanging over efforts by new leadership to open up one of the worlds most repressive countries: Can a brutal and once all-powerful security apparatus with roots deep in the former Soviet republic be transformed into a law enforcement agency?Mr. Abdullaev, along with many other government critics, is still under arrest. He told his lawyer, Sergei Mayorov, that after his arrest he was beaten repeatedly and then kept naked for six days in a freezing cell without sleep. He said he was given food only on the fifth day of his detention, and even then only after he had collapsed. Officials warned him that unless he confessed his wife and daughter would be raped, his lawyer said.The internet is still censored, albeit less than before, and fear of the security service, known by its Russian-language acronym, S.N.B., remains widespread. It is still considered dangerous even to utter the name of the security service in public.A report on Uzbekistan released last week by Human Rights Watch concluded that while repression had eased, the arrest of Mr. Abdullaev and other journalists, along with the role of the S.N.B. in monitoring, censoring and punishing publications that step out of line, still have a chilling effect on free speech and are standing in the way of dismantling the countrys authoritarian system.But senior officials and even some of Uzbekistans harshest critics insist that the countrys new leader, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev, is serious about bucking a drift toward authoritarian rule around the world  a trend evident in Cambodia, the Philippines, Russia, Turkey and even in once-proudly democratic nations such as Hungary and Poland.Uzbekistans neighbors in Central Asia, all authoritarian with the exception of Kyrgyzstan, the smallest country in the region, show no sign of loosening up. Kazakhstan, ruled by the same leader since independence in 1991, still allows no real opposition, while Tajikistan and Turkmenistan have grown more repressive.In Uzbekistan over the past year, at least 27 jailed high-profile dissidents, some of them held in prison for nearly two decades, have been released and about 18,000 people who were judged disloyal by the S.N.B. under Mr. Karimov have been removed from a blacklist that made it impossible for them to travel or get work.The government has also started to address one of Uzbekistans most egregious and widespread human rights abuses  the dragooning of doctors, nurses, teachers, students and others to work as effective slave laborers during the annual cotton harvest.There has been a massive change for the better, said Jonas Astrup, the chief technical adviser for the Tashkent office of the International Labor Organization, a United Nations body that for years complained about the systematic abuse of involuntary cotton pickers.Sodiq Safoev, a close confidant of the new president, Mr. Mirziyoyev, and vice chairman of Uzbekistans Senate, said the thaw, while opposed by some interests, would continue because there is a consensus in favor of change.The ice is melting in this country, he said.Just getting to his office, however, requires screening by three sets of security guards and getting past groups of S.N.B. officers patrolling the sprawling, sealed-off grounds of the Senate with automatic weapons.Cleaning up the countrys security system, Mr. Safoev said, is one of the main directions of our reform process.This process, he acknowledged, has faced resistance in a country held in a straitjacket for so long by a plethora of arbitrary red lines beyond which nobody was allowed to stray.The biggest red line, he added, is one running through peoples minds.Getting people to shake off their fear and suspicion, however, depends on reining in the S.N.B., which under Mr. Karimov infested the country with informers, filled jails with political prisoners who were routinely tortured, and crushed the faintest flickering of dissent with often brutal force.Katya Balkhibaeva, the jailed journalists wife who was not allowed to see her husband until more than a week after his arrest, said she could not understand how, after so many official speeches about the need for change, her husband, along with herself and their three young children, had been sucked into such a nightmare.How this could happen is a mystery to me, she said.Surat Ikramov, a veteran human rights activist, said the case was part of a big struggle. He praised Mr. Mirziyoyev, who took power immediately after Mr. Karimovs death, for trying to defang Uzbekistans formidable apparatus of repression but said the system left by Mr. Karimov has strong roots.He believes the case against Mr. Abdullaev, who the S.N.B. has accused of being the mystery author of a series of sometimes well-informed but incendiary political tracts written under a pen name, was aimed at showing the new president that he has enemies everywhere and cannot risk easing up on repression.They were a state within a state under Karimov, and obviously they dont want this to change, Mr. Ikramov said.Mr. Safoev, the Senate vice chairman, acknowledged that there had been abuses after Mr. Abdullaevs arrest in September but said these were now being corrected.There will be a free and fair court for him, he said, adding that a new law on the security service and other measures would end the existence of a state within a state without any sort of oversight.On the first day of Mr. Abdullaevs trial in an open court on March 7, the judge asked the journalist to take off his shirt to see whether there were traces of torture  and then accepted a request by the defense team that the proceedings be suspended until doctors could carry out a full medical examination of the defendant.The medical exam, which human rights activists said ignored crucial facts like the dates of Mr. Abdullaevs detention, did not confirm that the journalist had been tortured. But when his trial resumed last week he and other defendants, including a jailed blogger, were allowed to testify at a court session open to representatives from Human Rights Watch and news media organizations that under Mr. Karimov were barred from entering Uzbekistan.In a country where courts for years did no more than rubber-stamp judgments decided in advance by the S.N.B., the judges willingness to address the issue of torture and open the court to observers, human rights activists said, was a clear sign that Uzbekistan was trying to change its ways.Mr. Karimov, who ruled from 1991 until his death in 2016, was unforgiving of dissent, particularly after unrest in the eastern town of Andijon in 2005, which ended with armed S.N.B. officers killing hundreds of unarmed protesters. So deep was this obsession that, according to the former British ambassador in Tashkent, his regime boiled some of its opponents to death. Mr. Karimov even had members of his own family arrested.Shukhrat Ganiev, the director of the Humanitarian Legal Center in the city of Bukhara, recalled that he thought Mr. Karimovs successor Mr. Mirziyoyev, a former Soviet apparatchik, would be just another Karimov.I advised people that we should not expect anything from him, he said. Today, free from surveillance and pleasantly surprised by the new leaderships tone, he conceded: I admit I was wrong.On a visit to Mr. Ganievs city, Bukhara, in February, President Mirziyoyev described wayward members of the security service as mad dogs who needed to be put down.No other country has given so much power to unscrupulous people in uniform, the president said, promising to punish officers responsible for torture.Mr. Ganiev said he was still not sure whether the thaw will change the system at its core or merely reshuffle posts among the elite so as to create a new clan system built around the new president instead of Mr. Karimov.All power still flows from the presidency despite a decision by Mr. Mirziyoyev not to move into the vast colonnaded palace in central Tashkent built for Mr. Karimov, whose memory is celebrated in a recently opened museum on the grounds of the now-empty presidential palace.The hope of activists like Mr. Ganiev, however, is that this concentration of power will allow the new president to bend even the security services to his will.In recent weeks, more than a dozen S.N.B. officers have been arrested and the security agency has been ordered to vacate its headquarters, a feared citadel in the center of Tashkent, and move to less imposing quarters on the outskirts of the capital.This followed the January dismissal of Rustam Inoyatov, who had led the security service for more than 20 years. His deputy, Shukhrat Gulyamov, has also been fired. Mr. Gulyamov was put on trial and sentenced to life in prison for arms trafficking, links to organized crime and other offenses.There seems no doubt that Mirziyoyev is cleaning the ranks, said Steve Swerdlow, a researcher at Human Rights Watch and strong critic of Uzbekistan in the past. This could be just intended to neutralize potential opposition, but there is clearly a purge going on of the S.N.B. and key figures in the prosecutors office and the Interior Ministry.Some of those arrested have been high-profile torturers, he added.In a small but symbolically significant step, the president signed a decree on March 14 changing the S.N.B.s name to the State Security Service and reshaping its mandate to include protecting the human rights and freedoms of Uzbek citizens.Yelena Ulaeava, a veteran human rights activist who under Mr. Karimov was repeatedly jailed, committed to psychiatric clinics and force fed drugs, said the S.N.B. had now stopped harassing her and her family and even let her stage small protests outside the presidents office.She disputes that the use of forced labor in cotton fields has actually stopped, but is so happy with Uzbekistans new direction that she started a petition to get Mr. Mirziyoyev nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.Our country has shifted 180 degrees, she said.All the same, she added, the S.N.B. is still full of veterans who think that beating people is normal and because of this there is still fear.It is not over yet, she said.
