New York City police officers shot and killed a black man who was known to be mentally ill on a Brooklyn street corner on Wednesday afternoon after he pointed what the officers believed was a gun at them, the authorities said. The object, however, turned out to be a metal pipe with a knob on it.The shooting drew a tense, charged crowd of dozens to the streets of Crown Heights. The Police Department had encountered the man before and classified him as emotionally disturbed, and the shooting raised questions about what the officers at the scene knew about him.Five officers  three of them in street clothes, two in uniform  were responding to three 911 calls about a man threatening people with a silver gun near the corner of Montgomery Street and Utica Avenue in Crown Heights, Terence A. Monahan, the chief of department, said at a news conference. A law enforcement official who listened to one of the calls said a woman was frantically reporting that a man was pointing a gun at people.The police found a man who matched descriptions from the 911 callers, Chief Monahan said.The suspect then took a two-handed shooting stance and pointed an object at the approaching officers, Chief Monahan said.Chief Monahan said four of the officers  the three in street clothes and one uniformed officer  fired 10 bullets in all. The man, identified by his father as Saheed Vassell, 34, was pronounced dead after being taken to Kings County Medical Center.In an interview at his home late Wednesday night, Mr. Vassells father, Eric Vassell, said his son had bipolar disorder and had been admitted to the hospital multiple times in recent years, sometimes after encounters with the police. The younger Mr. Vassell, who was born in Jamaica and came to the United States when he was 6, lived with his family in a Crown Heights apartment and had worked as a welder. He also had a 15-year-old son.Mr. Vassells father said he had never seen his son act as if he had a gun.He would just walk around the neighborhood and help people, the father said.Area residents said Mr. Vassell was a familiar figure on the corner and a caring father who begged for money in a nearby subway station and did odd jobs for shopkeepers. He loved to dance and was widely known to be mentally ill. People said he had a penchant for picking things up off the street  cigarette lighters, empty bottles and other curbside flotsam  and playing with them like toys.John Fuller, 59, said that he had known Mr. Vassell for years and that local police officers had, too. He echoed a common refrain: The officers should have known him well enough to not simply shoot him to death. Every cop in this neighborhood knows him, Mr. Fuller said.The police said he had been arrested before and said officers had classified him as an emotionally disturbed person in previous encounters.The police released blurry still images from surveillance videos  though not the videos themselves  showing a man with an outstretched arm and something in his hand. The police said the images showed him pointing an object that appeared to investigators to be a gun at people on the street and then pointing it in the officers direction after they arrived. They also released a picture of what the man turned out to have been holding: a slim, curved silver pipe with a cylindrical knob at the end of it.Witnesses said the police officers appeared to fire almost immediately after they got to the corner around 4:45 p.m. Some of the witnesses said they did not hear the officers say anything to the man before firing, while another witness said she heard the officers and the man exchange some words.The police did not answer questions about whether the officers had said anything before firing.Dozens were still gathered at the scene late Wednesday and tempers flared hours after the shooting. Murder! some bystanders shouted at dozens of police officers behind yellow tape. Other crowd members wept at how this had happened on the 50th anniversary of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.s assassination. Others spoke of wanting to riot. When darkness fell, a group of about 10 protesters arrived carrying Black Lives Matter signs.The killing held echoes of the shooting less than three weeks ago in Sacramento in which the police shot and killed a black man who they believed was pointing a gun at them, but who, it turned out, was actually holding a cellphone.On Wednesday in Brooklyn, Jaccpot Hinds, 40, was walking south on Utica Avenue near Montgomery Street when he saw an unmarked police car pass him and pull across two lanes of traffic near where a man was standing on a street corner. Mr. Hinds said a plainclothes officer got out of the passenger seat of the car and fired at the man several times. The officer appeared to shoot him in the neck, chest and right arm, Mr. Hinds said, and then walked over to the man and prodded his chest with the service weapon.Mr. Hinds said that officer, joined by two other plainclothes officers who had been in the car with him, tried to resuscitate the man.Chief Monahan said the officers who fired had not been wearing body cameras. He said that the plainclothes officers were part of an anti-crime unit and that the uniformed officers belonged to the Strategic Response Group, which is assigned to major events and hot spots of crime. The names and races of the police officers were not released.An employee at a beauty salon on the corner, Angie, 52, said she heard the police fire and then saw the man drop. She said the police then fired several more shots before they ran over to the man and handcuffed him.We hear the first shot, the guy went down and then they started firing again, said Angie, who declined to give her last name.Angie described Mr. Vassell as a quiet man who often sat outside near a barbershop and sometimes worked odd jobs at her beauty salon for a few dollars.He would just walk and bob his head, she said. If we ask him to do our chores, hed come and do it.Rocky Brown, 45, who knew him for years, said he was a friendly man who was mentally ill.Hes harmless, Mr. Brown said. A very willing guy, a very nice guy, a good guy.Betty Weaver, 71, said Mr. Vassell would often greet her when she was on her way to church.Another woman, Nicole Williams, said she had given him $2 earlier on Wednesday afternoon. His last words to her, she said, were Thank you, God.
SAN FRANCISCO   Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.Tech companies have largely avoided the topic of gun control in the United States, but they have previously pushed for progressive stances on other hot-topic issues, ranging from climate change to same-sex marriage and comprehensive immigration reform. At least three major chief executives took up gun control after the shooting.We cant keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it wont happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots, tweeted Twitter Inc and Square Inc CEO Jack Dorsey. Its beyond time to evolve our policies.Joining Dorsey were Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] CEO Dara Khosrowshahi and Box Inc CEO Aaron Levie, who respectively sent tweets on Tuesday saying #EndGunViolence and #NeverAgain, two Twitter hashtags commonly used by proponents of gun control.On behalf of the team at @Uber, sending support to everyone @YouTube and @Google, and gratitude to the heroic first responders, Khosrowshahi tweeted. Another tragedy that should push us again to #EndGunViolenceEmergency calls reporting gunfire in San Bruno, California, at the headquarters of Alphabet Incs YouTube began to pour in early Tuesday afternoon, according to the city of San Bruno. Authorities have not released the identities of the suspected shooter or the victims.The tweets on Thursday could be an indication that Silicon Valley may soon weigh in on the epidemic of mass killings by firearms in the United States.Incredibly sad to see the YouTube shooting today, Levie tweeted. Our thoughts are with our Google friends and their families. #NeverAgainSundar Pichai and Susan Wojcicki, the CEOs of Google and YouTube respectively, also issued statements on Tuesday while avoiding the topic of gun control."There are no words to describe how horrible it was to have an active shooter @YouTube today," Wojcicki said. "Our deepest gratitude to law enforcement & first responders for their rapid response. Our hearts go out to all those injured & impacted today. We will come together to heal as a family."Other tech leaders expressed sympathy for the employees of YouTube on social media on Tuesday without referencing gun control. Those included Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook, Amazon.com Inc CEO Jeff Bezos, Salesforce.com Inc CEO Marc Benioff and Facebook Inc Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg.From everyone at Apple, we send our sympathy and support to the team at YouTube and Google, especially the victims and their families, Cook said in a tweet.(Reporting by Salvador Rodriguez, editing by Peter Henderson and Lisa Shumaker)
SAN FRANCISCO   Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.Tech companies have largely avoided the topic of gun control in the United States, but they have previously pushed for progressive stances on other hot-topic issues, ranging from climate change to same-sex marriage and comprehensive immigration reform. At least three major chief executives took up gun control after the shooting.We cant keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it wont happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots, tweeted Twitter Inc and Square Inc CEO Jack Dorsey. Its beyond time to evolve our policies.Joining Dorsey were Uber Technologies Inc CEO Dara Khosrowshahi and Box Inc CEO Aaron Levie, who respectively sent tweets on Tuesday saying #EndGunViolence and #NeverAgain, two Twitter hashtags commonly used by proponents of gun control.On behalf of the team at @Uber, sending support to everyone @YouTube and @Google, and gratitude to the heroic first responders, Khosrowshahi tweeted. Another tragedy that should push us again to #EndGunViolenceEmergency calls reporting gunfire in San Bruno, California, at the headquarters of Alphabet Incs YouTube began to pour in early Tuesday afternoon, according to the city of San Bruno. Authorities have not released the identities of the suspected shooter or the victims.The tweets on Thursday could be an indication that Silicon Valley may soon weigh in on the epidemic of mass killings by firearms in the United States.Incredibly sad to see the YouTube shooting today, Levie tweeted. Our thoughts are with our Google friends and their families. #NeverAgainSundar Pichai and Susan Wojcicki, the CEOs of Google and YouTube respectively, also issued statements on Tuesday while avoiding the topic of gun control."There are no words to describe how horrible it was to have an active shooter @YouTube today," Wojcicki said. "Our deepest gratitude to law enforcement & first responders for their rapid response. Our hearts go out to all those injured & impacted today. We will come together to heal as a family."Other tech leaders expressed sympathy for the employees of YouTube on social media on Tuesday without referencing gun control. Those included Apple Inc CEO Tim Cook, Amazon.com Inc CEO Jeff Bezos, Salesforce.com Inc CEO Marc Benioff and Facebook Inc Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg.From everyone at Apple, we send our sympathy and support to the team at YouTube and Google, especially the victims and their families, Cook said in a tweet.(Reporting by Salvador Rodriguez, editing by Peter Henderson and Lisa Shumaker)
 Investigators on Wednesday said they believed YouTubes policies had motivated a woman to shoot three people at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., before killing herself. The attacker, identified as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, had been seen at a nearby shooting range before the attack, and a gun registered in her name was found at the scene. Ms. Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and had lived in Southern California, often discussed Persian culture, veganism and animal cruelty; performed music parodies; and gave exercise tutorials on YouTube and on her personal website.The police in Mountain View, Calif., about 30 miles south of San Bruno, said they had found Ms. Aghdam sleeping in a car near a shopping center around 1:40 a.m. on Tuesday. The car was parked a few miles from the headquarters of Google, YouTubes parent company.The officers soon discovered that the vehicle was connected to a person who had been reported missing on March 31 in San Diego County, the Mountain View police said on Wednesday.Ms. Aghdam told Mountain View officers that she was not a danger to herself or to others and that she had traveled to the San Francisco area to look for a job, the police said. She was interviewed for about 20 minutes, the police said.At no point during our roughly 20-minute interaction with her did she mention anything about YouTube, if she was upset with them, or that she had planned to harm herself or others, the Mountain View police said in a statement posted on the departments website. Throughout our entire interaction with her, she was calm and cooperative.After the conversation ended, the officers called Ms. Aghdams family to say she had been located, the police said. The family did not mention anything about YouTube at the time, the police said. But her father and brother called back about an hour later and told the police she had made a series of videos about veganism that she had posted on YouTube.At no point did her father or brother mention anything about potential acts of violence or a possibility of Aghdam lashing out as a result of her issues with her videos, the police said in the statement.Chief Barberini declined to comment on local reports that Ms. Aghdams family had warned the police in Mountain View that she was headed toward YouTubes offices. But he said that it received no information in advance of the shooting.During the attack, Ms. Aghdam fired multiple shots from a Smith & Wesson 9-millimeter, semiautomatic handgun, Ed Barberini, chief of the San Bruno police department, said on Wednesday. The gun, which was registered to her, was recovered at the scene.There is no evidence linking Ms. Aghdam to any of the shooting victims, Chief Barberini said. Investigators were searching two homes in Southern California associated with the suspect.On Tuesday morning, before driving to the YouTube offices, Ms. Aghdam visited a local gun range, the police said.Ms. Aghdam parked her car at a business near YouTube. She entered one of the companys parking garages, and then walked into an outdoor courtyard where employees were eating lunch. The chief said that investigators were still trying to determine what level of security there was in the area leading to the courtyard. Zach Vorhies, a YouTube engineer, said on Tuesday that the dining area was accessible from an adjacent parking structure without an employee badge.At this point in the investigation, it is believed that the suspect was upset at the policies and practices of YouTube. This appears to be the motive for this incident, Mr. Barberini said.The chief said his department had worked with YouTube to develop security measures for the campus, including what to do in the case of an armed attacker.The three shooting victims were taken to Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital. Two women, a 32-year-old who was admitted in serious condition and a 27-year-old who was admitted in fair condition, were released late on Tuesday, a hospital spokesman said.The third shooting victim, a 36-year-old man, had improved from critical to serious condition and remained in the hospital.On Wednesday morning, the area around YouTubes office in San Bruno, a suburban community of 41,000 people that stretches into the hills above Silicon Valley, was quiet. Police officers, security guards, news reporters and a handful of employees milled around outside the building.Police had cordoned off the street in front of the offices, but company security guards were allowing small groups of employees into the building from a lower-level entrance.A few workers in hard hats and florescent yellow vests from a company called Restoration Management Company  a firm that specializes in services cleaning up trauma scenes, according to its website  carried plastic bags of debris out of the building.Like many communities on the peninsula stretching south from San Francisco to San Jose, San Bruno is a mix of office parks and single-family homes. The last time the city received national attention was in 2010, when a natural gas explosion killed eight people and destroyed a neighborhood.YouTube employees on Wednesday appeared to spend no more than 10 minutes inside before exiting the building. A few employees, who asked not to be identified because they had been told not to speak to the news media, said they were picking up items left behind after they fled the building during the attack. Some said they were there to pick up their cars  a few people drove vehicles out of a closed parking garage that police said Ms. Aghdam used to enter the YouTube facility on Tuesday.But in other buildings in the YouTube complex, it appeared to be a regular work day. At a YouTube office across the street from the main headquarters, employees ate lunch in a fenced off courtyard.In Iran, Ms. Aghdam was known as Green Nasim, a social media star with followings on YouTube, on Instagram and elsewhere who was sometimes admired and sometimes mocked.Ms. Aghdam had YouTube pages in Persian, Turkish and English. In several of her videos she stated that she had been born in Iran, in the city of Urmia, near the border with Turkey. She explained in videos that she and her family are members of the Bahai faith, a persecuted minority in majority Muslim Iran.It was perhaps her inability to easily fit a stereotype that drew her to so many in Iran, where she had tens of thousands of followers on social media. Several of her colorful  and sometimes bizarre  videos had gone viral.Life in the United States had not been good, she said in one video posted last week. There they kill you by ax, she said of Iran. Here they kill you with cotton  an Iranian expression meaning to die by something that you do not know is dangerous.In another video, she responded to viewers who had begun to wonder if she was mentally ill: I dont have any special mental or physical disease, but I live on a planet filled with disease, disorders, perversions and injustices.Ms. Aghdam had told her family in recent weeks that she hated YouTube because it was censoring her videos and paying her less. She was angry, her father, Ismail Aghdam, who lives outside Los Angeles in Riverside County, told the Bay Area News Group.When searching for my website in google, at top of link they add an error occurred but there is no error! a website under her name, NasimeSabz.com, said in February 2016. They add it to keep you from my visiting my site.Ms. Aghdams personal website included graphic photos of slaughtered animals and pleas not to wear fur jackets or have sex outside of marriage. More recently, she focused on what she perceived as discrimination by YouTube and Google. Ms. Aghdam had YouTube pages in Persian, Turkish and English.In February 2017, she criticized YouTube in a video on Facebook for restricting one of her workout videos to older audiences. This is what they are doing to vegan activists and many other people who try to promote healthy, humane and smart living  people like me are not good for big business, like for animal business, medicine business and for many other businesses. Thats why they are discriminating and censoring us, she said in the video.By Tuesday night, YouTube, Instagram and Facebook had all taken down her pages and videos. Ed Barberini, San Brunos police chief, said on Wednesday that investigators were aware of Ms. Aghdams criticism of YouTube and Google.We are learning that Ms. Aghdam had a problem with the policies or practices that YouTube had employed, Chief Barberini said in an interview on ABCs Good Morning America. Obviously, she was upset.Active shooting incidents in the United States are increasingly common, but shootings by women are quite rare.A 2014 F.B.I. study of 160 active shooting incidents found that at least six involved a woman. Women were involved in three other incidents from 2014 to 2016, according to the bureau. The bureau defined such incidents as an individual engaging in killing or attempting to kill people in a confined and populated area, and distinguished the events from murders or mass killings.Mass shootings are often regarded as incidents where at least four people are killed.The most recent mass casualty event involving a woman was the 2015 attack in San Bernardino, Calif., when Tashfeen Malik and her husband Syed Rizwan Farook attacked his co-workers during a holiday party. Fourteen people were killed, and many more were wounded.In 2010, a woman who had been fired from her job at a Publix Supermarket in Florida returned to the store with a gun. In another instance the same year, a woman shot at co-workers after she had been suspended from her position at Kraft Foods in Philadelphia. Both women had handguns.Although Ms. Aghdam appeared to have a long-running grudge against YouTube, the police said that it did not appear that she knew any of the three shooting victims.
Casey Welch, the story goes, was a 16-year-old girl shot to death in a Nebraska cornfield by a 14-year-old boy named Bobbie Clearly.Though she does not appear in the play named for her murderer, we come to know her better  through reminiscences, memorials and a startling impersonation  than we ever get to know Bobbie. As the play tracks his life for eight years, from his incarceration in a mental institution to his attempted return to the community, his motive remains obscure and his nature indecipherable.Thats both a strength and a weakness of Bobbie Clearly, which opened on Tuesday at the Roundabout Undergrounds Black Box Theater. How clearly, despite Bobbies surname, can we ever expect to understand the workings of a mind so profoundly troubled? And yet that understanding may be crucial when a play takes on such a difficult subject.Actually, Bobbie Clearly takes on many difficult subjects, in several styles. The playwright, Alex Lubischer, a student at the Yale School of Drama, seems to have packed his first professional New York production with a sampler of his skills, as if it were a rsum. Bobbie Clearly is thus not only a problem play about the possibility of rehabilitation but also a family drama about grief and its aftermath and a social satire about a farming community called Milton, not unlike the real one Mr. Lubischer grew up in.In format, though, Bobbie Clearly is a mockumentary in which the locals spend a lot of time answering questions about Casey and Bobbie from an unseen, unheard PBS reporter. Among those interviewed are Caseys earnest mother, taciturn father and gay brother, Eddie; two of Eddies doofus classmates; Caseys friends Megan and Meghan, who think they are just alike but arent; and Derek, an enthusiastic glad hand who was, at the time of the murder, Bobbies Big Brother.The interview framework  a tired shortcut for the hard job of developing character through action  has the paradoxical effect of distorting character instead. When people rehearse facts they have no other reason to mention, and perform versions of themselves for unseen interlocutors, they come to seem thick and often foolish.The playwrights comic opportunism doesnt help. When Derek, speaking of the documentary, wonders whether it might get nominated for an Oscar like Lord of the Rings, he is plainly being painted as an idiot. And when the survivors band together to produce a series of Miltons Got Talent fund-raising shows that we are roundly invited to mock, the plays more serious concerns are contaminated with a farcical off-taste.These are standard freshman problems, the kind the Underground program, now in its 11th season, is designed to help playwrights learn to solve in the most efficient way possible: in front of a sophisticated audience. Even so, I wish the production, directed by Will Davis, achieved better control of its tone, which seems to wander wherever it wants instead of heading beelike toward its goal.On the other hand, Mr. Davis makes the most of the small Black Box space, configured by the set designer Arnulfo Maldonado as an encompassing corn crib. Mr. Davis also does right by the plays moments of highest tension and emotion, neither pushing them toward unwarranted resolution nor batting them away. He thus keeps us engaged in the unanswerable questions it is a dramatists job to pose. Why does grief work so differently in different lives? Why is life so impossible for some people?Questions are not enough, of course. Plays are also about characters, and most of the ones in Bobbie Clearly are too contradictory for the cast to act convincingly. That it survives the problem is largely thanks to Constance Shulman, recently seen to hilarious effect in Barbecue at the Public Theater and as Yoga Jones on Orange Is the New Black. Here she shines as Darla London, Miltons only police officer and, it appears, only sensible citizen. Though she maintains the flat procedural affect of a just-the-facts public servant, her every utterance is dignified by the struggle to pin down morality in an amoral world.Even if Mr. Lubischers rendition of that world too often seems fraudulent, the struggle seems genuine; he keeps pulling the rabbit of real feeling from the hat of artifice. I dont believe, for instance, that the Bobbie we are shown would act as bizarrely as he does at one of the Miltons Got Talent events, but his doing so forces encounters with Caseys family that are hugely heightened and riveting as a result.Such moments justify the Roundabouts faith in Mr. Lubischer and also this big bite of a play. It takes talent indeed to put a line like That was our mistake, compassion, into a characters mouth  but have it stick in our craws.
FLORENCE, Ala.   A mural depicting President Donald Trump holding a handgun and school children in pools of blood has been painted over after it appeared in an Alabama city.WAAY-TV quotes Florence Mayor Steve Holt in a Tuesday report as saying that the mural was on private property and that its owner told the city they could paint over it.News outlets report the mural was painted sometime Sunday night or Monday morning.The mural was displayed on a wall in an abandoned lot in the city's downtown.
SALISBURY, England   Police in black, protective suits were on Wednesday working in the cordoned-off areas around a pub in this southern city which poisoned double-agent Sergei Skripal had visited, a Reuters photographer at the scene said.Officers were seen carrying in items to the cordon around the Mill pub, the photographer said, although it was not immediately clear whether the expected decontamination of affected areas of the city had begun.(Reporting by Hannah McKay, writing by Alistair Smout and Guy Faulconbridge; editing by Stephen Addison)
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.   Former NFL star Clinton Portis has reached an agreement to repay $190,000 he owes a New Jersey casino.The former running back with the Washington Redskins and Denver Broncos was given $200,000 in credit in 2011 to gamble at the Borgata casino in Atlantic City. But he didn\'t have sufficient funds to cover the debt, and six checks he signed to the casino bounced.Portis retired in 2012 after rushing for just under 10,000 yards and scoring 75 touchdowns between 2002 and 2010.Under a deal reached last week in Florida bankruptcy court, he will pay the Borgata 10 percent of any income he receives above $30,000 through August 2021.During court proceedings, lawyers for Portis said he thought he had more than enough to cover the debt. He anticipated $8 million from his NFL contract, but it ended when he was cut from the Redskins a month later."At that time, in January of 2011, my client was slated to make $8 million in the coming year," Steven Silton, a lawyer for Portis, testified. "He believed that his financial situation was very, very, very solid and that there was no question that he had more than enough financial capability."Portis had difficult contract negotiations that resulted in him being cut by the Redskins, Silton said."He had no reason to believe that as of that time that he wasn\'t going to be playing for the Redskins, or he wasn\'t going to be making the money that he was contractually obligated to make," Silton said.Portis has repaid $30,000 of the $200,000 he was fronted by the casino. The remaining $170,000 balance has grown to $190,000 with interest and attorney fees.He will have to show his tax returns to casino officials each year to verify his income.Portis\' financial difficulties have been well-documented. In the court proceeding, his lawyer said an unnamed financial adviser "absconded with upwards of $8 million dollars" worth of the player\'s money.Portis told Sports Illustrated last June that he contemplated killing one of his financial advisers but was talked out of it by a friend while parked outside his office with a gun.Several of his advisers were barred from working in the financial services industry but were not convicted of a crime.Silton did not return a message seeking comment Wednesday, and the Borgata declined to comment.___
CANTON, Ohio   An Ohio youth baseball league is raffling off an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle and other guns for a fundraiser to reduce registration fees.The East Canton Youth Baseball Association also will raffle off a bolt-action hunting rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun and a handgun during the league's youth picture day on April 29, according to The Repository . It's the fifth year the league has held a gun raffle.The AR-15, a civilian version of a U.S. military rifle, has drawn national attention in recent weeks because it was the same type of gun used in the Parkland, Florida, school shooting that killed 17 people.Youth organizations across the country are holding raffles for the military rifle, including ones in Kansas, Michigan, Pennsylvania, California and Nebraska.A plan to have third-graders sell raffle tickets for the weapon in Missouri to benefit their baseball team has received heavy backlash. The organizer responded in a Facebook post saying they are not forcing any of the boys to sell the rifle.Baseball league president David Spencer said families aren't required to sell raffle tickets. He said winners pick up their weapons at a gun store and are subject to background checks.Spencer said the association expects to generate between $1,500 and $2,000.___Information from: The Repository, http://www.cantonrep.com

PORTLAND, Maine   Evidence is being sought in the unsolved case of a killing that took place 20 years ago.Police in Maine's largest city say 18-year-old Robert Joyal was stabbed to death April 4, 1998, during an altercation in the parking lot of a Denny's restaurant in Portland. He was a student at Gorham High School at the time.Police say they interviewed dozens of witnesses and one man, Seiha Srey, was indicted on a murder charge. Charges against Srey were later dismissed, and no trial was held. He died in a 2007 shooting.Police say they're looking for witnesses to the crime, or anyone who might have information but was reluctant to talk to police at the time of the stabbing.
MUSKEGON HEIGHTS, Mich.   Cellphone video shot by an 11-year-old child that shows two men arguing before one shoots the other at least six times is being used as evidence in the case in western Michigan.MLive.com reports that 22-year-old Dequan Davis was ordered Tuesday to stand trial on assault with intent to murder and gun charges.Authorities say the child was inside a home in Muskegon Heights on Jan. 4 when the confrontation began outside. The child started to video the fracas using a cellphone, but dropped the phone when the shooting started.The victim testified during Davis' preliminary examination that he was shot at least six times.The victim was shot after reportedly intervening in an argument over a drug debt.___Information from: The Muskegon Chronicle, http://www.mlive.com/muskegon
FORT LEE, N.J.   A rapper and reality star says he was robbed at gunpoint in New Jersey in what was "one of the worst, scariest nights of my life."Safaree Samuels says the robbery happened Monday in Fort Lee around 2 a.m. The 36-year-old told WWPR-FM two men ran up and had him face down on the ground with a gun to his head.Police say the suspects stole $183,000 in cash and jewelry.Police Capt. Matthew Hintze says officers tried to stop a SUV near the scene, but the driver fled into New York City.Hintze says the driver lost control and crashed into a concrete divider, and three people ran from the scene.Police have arrested two suspects and charged them with robbery. A search for the third person is ongoing.
SAN BRUNO, Calif.   A woman who had voiced complaints online about YouTube opened fire with a handgun at the tech company\'s headquarters near San Francisco on Tuesday, wounding three people before shooting herself dead, authorities and media said.It was the latest in a string of mass shootings in the United States in recent years. Most recently, the massacre of 17 people at a Florida high school has led to calls for tighter curbs on gun ownership.Police did not identify the suspect or say what might have motivated Tuesday\'s shooting at YouTube, a video-sharing service owned by Alphabet Inc\'s Google which employs nearly 2,000 people at the San Bruno, California offices.The woman approached an outdoor patio and dining courtyard on the campus around lunchtime and began to fire before entering the building, police said.An affiliate of ABC and other local media, citing unnamed sources, identified the woman as Nasim Aghdam.San Bruno police officials could not immediately be reached for comment on the identity of the attacker.YouTube spokeswoman Jessica Mason could not immediately be reached for comment on the identification by media.The website NasimeSabz.com, which media said was linked to the attacker, had several posts about Persian culture and veganism, interspersed with screeds against YouTube.Those complaints included claims the company was not sharing enough revenue with people who create videos for the platform."There is no equal growth opportunity on YouTube, or any other video-sharing site, your channel will grow if they want to," read one posting on the site.A YouTube account in the name of Nasime Sabz was deleted on Tuesday evening.A U.S. government security official told Reuters there was no known connection to terrorism.ABC News, citing unnamed law enforcement sources, said the  suspect was 35 to 40 years old, and lived in Southern California.A YouTube product manager, Todd Sherman, described on Twitter hearing people running, first thinking it was an earthquake before he was told that a person had a gun."At that point every new person I saw was a potential shooter. Someone else said that the person shot out the back doors and then shot themselves," Sherman said in a tweet."I looked down and saw blood drips on the floor and stairs. Peeked around for threats and then we headed downstairs, and out the front," Sherman said.In a recording of a 911 call posted online by the Los Angeles Times, a dispatcher can be heard saying: "Shooter. Another party said they spotted someone with a gun. Suspect came from the back patio ... Again we have a report of a subject with a gun. They heard seven or eight shots being fired."Dozens of emergency vehicles quickly converged on the YouTube campus, and police could be seen on televised aerial video systematically frisking several employees leaving the area with their hands raised.One victim, a 36-year-old man, was listed in critical condition at San Francisco General Hospital. A 32-year-old woman was listed in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman in fair condition. Authorities did not release names of the victims.The three patients taken to San Francisco General Hospital were all awake, Dr. Andre Campbell, a trauma surgeon at the hospital, told a news conference. All were victims of gunshot wounds, Campbell said, but none of them had undergone surgery.A fourth person was taken to a local hospital with an ankle injury from fleeing the scene."It\'s with great sadness that I tell you - based on the latest information - four people were injured in this horrific act of violence," Google Chief Executive Sundar Pichai said in letter to employees posted on Twitter."I know a lot of you are in shock right now. Over the coming days, we will continue to provide support to help everyone in our Google family heal from this unimaginable tragedy."In a separate tweet, Pichai said he and YouTube Chief Executive Susan Wojcicki were "focused on supporting our employees and the @YouTube community through this difficult time together."President Donald Trump said on Twitter that he had been briefed on the shooting."Our thoughts and prayers are with everybody involved," Trump tweeted. "Thank you to our phenomenal law enforcement officers and first responders that are currently on the scene."In response, Twitter Chief Executive Jack Dorsey tweeted: "We cant keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it wont happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots. Its beyond time to evolve our policies."Last month, YouTube announced it would ban content promoting the sale of guns and gun accessories, as well as videos that teach how to make guns.Female mass shooters are rare. A recent Washington Post analysis shows only three of 150 U.S. shootings with more than four victims since 1966 were carried out by women. In 2015, a husband and wife killed 14 people in San Bernardino, California.(Additional reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York, Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago, Mark Hosenball in Washington, D.C.; Andrew Hay in Santa Fe, New Mexico, Alex Dobuzinskis and Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Salvador Rodriguez, Heather Somerville, Noel Randewich, Stephen Nellis and Jeffrey Dastin in San Francisco; Keith Coffman in Denver; Writing by Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Peter Cooney and Clarence Fernandez)
MENIFEE, Calif.   The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):4:30 p.m.YouTube says Nasim Aghdam entered through its parking garage before terrorizing an outdoor courtyard at its San Bruno, California headquarters while firing shots that wounded three people.The Google-owned video site said in a statement Wednesday that Aghdam never got inside a building where more than 1,100 people work before she killed herself on Tuesday.In response to the rampage, YouTube pledged to increase the security at its San Bruno headquarters and other offices worldwide.For now, YouTube employees in San Bruno are being encouraged to take time off or work from home.YouTube also praised San Bruno police for an "exceptional" response after being called for help and hailed "numerous acts of heroism" to employees and police officers that were on the scene.___4 p.m.A next-door neighbor of the YouTube shooter\'s parents says Nasim Aghdam moved with her parents from San Diego to the small city of Menifee southeast of Los Angeles about five years ago.Neighbor John Rundell says she painted her parents\' house after the family moved in, that the entire family is "very, very friendly" and that her father is an electrical contractor.Rundell on Wednesday described the family as "perfect neighbors" and says he had not seen Aghdam in several months, leading him to believe she had moved.Rundell says the father told him after the shooting that she did not like YouTube but did not say whether that was conveyed to police.Authorities have said Aghdam shot and wounded three people at YouTube\'s headquarters and then killed herself.___3:15 p.m.Relatives of the California woman who shot three and wounded three people at YouTube\'s headquarters and then killed herself says they are in shock and can\'t make sense of what happened.The relatives of Nasim Aghdam distributed the statement Wednesday to reporters outside her parents\' Southern California home in the small city of Menifee.The statement says the family expressed "utmost regret" and that Aghdam\'s relatives are praying for the victims and their families.It also called the shooting a "horrific senseless act."Authorities have said that Aghdam was angry about the YouTube\'s policies and practices and did not know the people she shot.___3 p.m.Federal agents have left a Southern California home where the YouTube shooter had lived and one agent loaded a storage tub into a pickup truck before the agents drove away.The agents said nothing to reporters Wednesday as they left the well-kept, two-story home in the small city of Menifee, southeast of Los Angeles. Also searched was a home in the community of 4S Ranch, north of San Diego.Police have said Nasim Aghdam shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters on Tuesday with a handgun and then shot and killed herself.Police in the city of San Bruno near San Francisco where the shooting happened have said they requested the searches.____1:15 p.m.Five South San Francisco police officers have visited at a gun range not far from the YouTube headquarters where a woman shot and wounded 3 people before she killed herself.The officers arrived Wednesday afternoon after two police investigators and one officer from the nearby San Bruno police spent nearly two hours at the Jackson Arms Shooting Range in South San Francisco.Authorities have said Nasim Aghdam visited a gun range before the rampage at YouTube.The Jackson Arms Shooting Range has surveillance cameras inside and outside of the facility and is about 3 miles (5 kilometers) from YouTube\'s headquarters.Authorities have said that Aghdam was angry about the YouTube\'s policies and practices and did not know the people she shot.____12:45 p.m.A San Bruno police officer spent nearly two hours at a gun range not far from the YouTube headquarters where a woman shot and wounded 3 people before she killed herself.The officer arrived late Wednesday morning at the Jackson Arms Shooting Range in the city of South San Francisco after authorities said Nasim Aghdam visited a gun range before the rampage at YouTube.The gun range has surveillance cameras inside and outside of the facility is about 3 miles (5 kilometers) from YouTube\'s headquarters.Reporters saw the police officer arrive in the late morning. He left nearly two hours later without speaking with reporters.Authorities have said that Aghdam was angry about the YouTube\'s policies and practices and did not know the people she shot.___11 a.m.A spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives says agents are searching Southern California homes where the YouTube shooter had lived.Spokeswoman Ginger Colbrun would not confirm the locations but reporters on Wednesday saw agents entering homes in the communities of Menifee and 4S Ranch.Menifee is about 80 miles (128 kilometers) southeast of Los Angeles and 4S Ranch is about 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of San Diego.Police in the city of San Bruno near San Francisco where the shooting happened have said they requested the searches.Police have said Nasim Aghdam shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters on Tuesday with a handgun and then shot and killed herself.___10 a.m.Police in the California city of Mountain View about 30 miles (48 kilometers) from where the YouTube shooting happened say they did not tell San Bruno police about with their interactions with the suspect less than 12 hours before the attack.Mountain View police said in a statement Wednesday that they had no reason to do so because they had no indication from Nasim Aghdam that she could be violent and no information from her father indicating that would be a possibility.The statement says Mountain View officers encountered her at about 1:40 a.m. sleeping in a car and did not mention YouTube while officers spoke with her for 20 minutes.Officers also did not find any indication that she might have a gun and spoke with her father on the phone twice.Authorities say that Nasim Aghdam was angry about the policies and practices of the company and visited a gun range before she drove to the company\'s headquarters in San Bruno, south of San Francisco.Police say she used a handgun to shoot and wound two women and a man and then killed herself.___9:45 p.m.Police officers who talked to YouTube shooter before the attack at the company say her family members gave no warning she might commit violence before the shooting.A Wednesday post on the Mountain View Police Department\'s Facebook page says officers found Nasim Aghdam sleeping in her car in a parking lot.The car\'s license plate matched a missing person\'s report from her family. She told officers she left home because she was having issues with her family and was looking for a job.Police say she was asked a series of questions during a 20-minute interaction and "at no point" mentioned anything about YouTube.Police described her in the post as "calm and cooperative" throughout the interaction.The post says that after police talked with her father, he called back to say that Aghdam had made a series of vegan videos on YouTube and she had become upset because of something the company had done.___9:35 a.m.Two women wounded by a shooter at YouTube headquarters near San Francisco have been released from a hospital.Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital said Wednesday that the third victim, a 36-year-old man, remains hospitalized in serious condition. His condition was upgraded from critical when he was brought in Tuesday.A 32-year-old woman was brought to the hospital in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman was taken there in fair condition on Tuesday.Authorities say that Nasim Aghdam was angry about the policies and practices of the company and visited a gun range before she drove to the company\'s headquarters in San Bruno, south of San Francisco.____9:25 a.m.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini says authorities are still working to determine what security measures the YouTube shooter had to get through so she could enter the company\'s headquarters via a parking garage.He says 39-year-old Nasim Najafi Aghdam had a 9 mm handgun and that authorities "have no indication that she was selecting individuals to fire at."Barberini says the shooter visited a gun range early in the morning before heading to YouTube and that her anger at YouTube is "the motivation we\'ve identified.He says: "Whether that rises to the level of terrorism will be determined over the next few weeks."Police have said that she shot and wounded three people before she killed herself on Tuesday.___9:15 a.m.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini says the YouTube shooter was angry about the policies and practices of the company and had visited a gun range before she drove to the company\'s headquarters near San Francisco.He says 39-year-old Nasim Najafi Aghdam got into the building through a parking garage.Barberini said Wednesday that investigators are in the process of executing search warrants at two properties.Police have said that she shot and wounded three people before she killed herself on Tuesday.___8:35 a.m.A San Bruno police chief says investigators have finished forensic work in the YouTube building where a shooter wounded at least three before killing herself.San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini told KGO-7 News that authorities have not completed a search of the suspect\'s vehicle.He said they have not found a letter or manifesto to explain Tuesday\'s lunchtime shooting.Authorities say Nasim Aghdam believed she was being suppressed by YouTube and told her family members that she "hated" the company before opening fire at the company\'s headquarters south of San Francisco.Barberini also said there is no reason to believe the shooter illegally obtained the semi-automatic pistol used in the shooting.___12:05 a.m.A woman who believed she was being suppressed by YouTube and "hated" the company opened fire at their headquarters, wounding three people before taking her own life.Investigators said they don\'t believe Nasim Aghdam specifically targeted the three victims Tuesday. But a law enforcement official said Aghdam had a longstanding dispute with the company.The official said investigators believe Aghdam used the name Nasime Sabz online. A website in that name decried YouTube\'s policies and said that YouTube was trying to "suppress" content creators.The official spoke to AP on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case publicly.Aghdam\'s father said his daughter was angry YouTube stopped paying for videos she posted on the platform and warned police she might go to the company\'s headquarters.____This version corrects in the 2nd item that two women and one man were shot and injured, not two men and one woman.
LONDON   British police say a 78-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder for allegedly stabbing a burglar who had broken into his home.The Metropolitan Police force says the homeowner called to report a burglary at his south London home early Wednesday. The man said he had found two men inside the house, and struggled with one, who was stabbed in the upper body.Police say the suspected burglar was found collapsed in a road nearby and died later in a hospital.The homeowner, who suffered bruising to his arms, is being questioned at a police station.Police and politicians are under pressure to stem a growth in violent crime in London. There have been almost 50 murders so far this year, many of them stabbings involving young people.
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.   A Virginia prosecutor is asking the court to reopen a perjury case against the chief organizer of a deadly white nationalist rally.In a motion filed Monday, Albemarle County Commonwealth\'s Attorney Robert Tracci asked the court to reverse its decision to dismiss the perjury case against "Unite the Right" organizer Jason Kessler due to insufficient evidence of where the crime happened.The case was thrown out March 20 by Judge Cheryl Higgins.News outlets report the charge stems from Kessler\'s sworn statement that he was assaulted by a Charlottesville man in January 2017. Prosecutors argued video surveillance contradicted Kessler\'s claim. Kessler later pleaded guilty to assaulting the man he accused of assaulting him.The court has until April 10 to decide.

SACRAMENTO, Calif.   The Latest on raids on illegal marijuana houses (all times local):3 p.m.U.S. prosecutors estimate that a Chinese-based crime organization will lose "hundreds of millions of dollars" in drug profits and the money it invested in homes in Northern California after authorities conducted raids.Law enforcement agents have seized roughly 100 houses they say were purchased with money wired by the gang and used to grow massive amounts of marijuana illegally.Authorities said Wednesday that agents seized about 61,000 plants and 440 pounds (200 kilograms) of processed pot, along with 15 guns. They say the weed was destined for Atlanta, Chicago and New York City.The U.S. Department of Justice calls it one of the nation\'s largest-ever residential forfeitures.The crackdown comes as California is months into creating the world\'s largest legal marijuana market amid uncertainty about whether the federal government will try to shut it down.___12:13 p.m.U.S. and local law enforcement agents have seized roughly 100 Northern California houses they say were purchased with money wired by a Chinese-based crime organization and used to grow massive amounts of marijuana illegally.The raids announced Wednesday culminate a monthslong investigation focusing on Chinese nationals who bought homes in seven counties. U.S. authorities say most of the homebuyers were in the country legally and came from as far away as Georgia, Illinois, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania.None of the buyers has been arrested as authorities seized the houses in what the U.S. Department of Justice called one of the nation\'s largest residential forfeiture efforts ever.The crackdown comes as California is months into creating the world\'s largest legal marijuana market amid uncertainty about whether the federal government will try to shut it down.
DENVER   A Colorado man has been charged with first-degree murder in his neighbor\'s slaying. A witness says the two had been arguing over how the victim disciplined his dog.The Denver Post reports that 32-year-old Michael Kourosh Sadeghi was charged Tuesday morning in the March 27 killing of 42-year-old Dustin Schmidt.Vicki Branaghan, who lives with Schmidt, says her German shepherd Bruno had jumped the fence between their yard and Sadeghi\'s yard. Schmidt pulled the dog back over to his yard.She said an argument erupted after Schmidt swatted their dog. She said Sadeghi pulled a gun out and "shot Dustin in the back of the head five times," then "walked back to his house as though nothing happened."Sadeghi is being held without bond. Booking documents do not indicate if he has hired an attorney.___Information from: The Denver Post, http://www.denverpost.com
(Reuters) - An affluent Chicago suburb has banned the possession, sale and manufacture of "assault weapons" and "large-capacity magazines" in response to the massacre at a Florida high school and other recent mass shootings in the United States.Residents of Democratic-leaning Deerfield, located about 25 miles north of Chicago, have until June 13 to remove any firearms and magazines that fall outside the new restrictions or face a fine of between $250 and $1,000 per day, according to the ordinance passed by the town board on Monday night.The ban quickly drew a legal challenge from gun-rights group Guns Save Life, with support from the National Rifle Association, on grounds it violated Americans\' Constitutional rights to own firearms.The Deerfield ordinance said the ban was a direct response to the Feb. 14 killing of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, and the student-led campaign for tighter restrictions on guns inspired by the mass shooting."We hope that our local decision helps spur state and national leaders to take steps to make our communities safer, Deerfield Mayor Harriet Rosenthal said in a statement.The ban follows a similar 2013 measure enacted by the nearby suburb of Highland Park, located on Chicago\'s North Shore, which withstood a challenge that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court.Opponents were quick to take issue with the ban.Every law-abiding villager of Deerfield has the right to protect themselves, their homes, and their loved ones with the firearm that best suits their needs, Chris Cox, head of the NRA\'s lobbying arm, said in a statement.Opponents of the ban said they fear Deerfield will try to outlaw other firearms."First its going to be assault rifles. There will be new bans in the future. Its just a matter of time, Deerfield resident Larry Nordal told the Chicago Tribune. Nordal did not immediately respond to a request for further comment.The ban defines assault weapons as a range of firearms such as semiautomatic rifles like the AR-15, a gun similar to the one used in the Florida massacre. High-capacity magazines are defined as those holding more than 10 rounds.Deerfield High School senior Ariella Kharasch, who supported the legislation, wants more action on local and national levels.This is our generations fight. Were going to keep fighting and this is part of it," Kharasch told the Chicago Tribune. "Change happens gradually step by step.(Reporting by Andrew Hay; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Leslie Adler)

Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching: Another bank takes steps toward gun safety. The next steps in the tariffs tit-for-tat. Investigators are looking into the motive behind the shooting at YouTubes headquarters. What happens after Spotifys direct listing?  Alexis Ohanian of Reddit speaks to Corner Office about online platforms, fatherhood and Metallica.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Britains decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.In the weeks following Britains vote in 2016 for Brexit, fears grew that the post-war economic order was under serious threat. But European stock markets recovered, including Britains. Investors came to see that the European Union was not going to break up, and Britain was not going to erect tall walls around its economy. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to Brexit seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system. Investors took a deep breath and gained some perspective.Movements in the United States stock market suggests the same thing is happening in response to President Trumps trade policies. China on Tuesday evening announced the tariffs it plans in retaliation against those President Trump is threatening. Reacting to Chinas announcement, the S.&P. 500 index plunged early on Wednesday but recovered strongly to close up 1.2 percent.Investors may believe Chinas move will lead to drawn-out negotiations. Here, Brexit is again illustrative. As the back and forth between the European Union and Britain has gone on, investors have gained more clarity and confidence. If talks between the U.S. and China gain steam, the uncertainty now clouding relations between the two countries may gradually clear.But the standoff between the U.S. and China differs in important ways from the Brexit tensions. The U.S., for instance, is in a much stronger position than Britain. China exports far more to the U.S. than the U.S. does to China. Limiting access to the U.S. economy could hurt Chinas growth at a time when it is trying to overhaul important economic sectors. If investors believe that the U.S. can successfully exploit its advantages to make China more friendly to foreign businesses, they may even see the trade skirmish as positive for the global economy.But Brexit also flashes a warning to those expecting a big win for Mr. Trump. One of the reasons that the European Union has presented a united front is that it sees Brexit as a threat to its values and goals. Similarly, China may believe that Mr. Trumps trade attack puts some of its most deeply held aspirations under threat  and will fight back hard.- Peter EavisAfter Citigroup announced plans to limit firearms sales by business customers, the question was which lenders would be the next to make a move on guns. The latest: Amalgamated Bank, the union-owned bank known for its socially minded policies.The firm said on Wednesday that it would adopt guidelines for lenders laid out by Everytown for Gun Safety, an advocacy group backed by Mike Bloomberg.Among those recommendations: Require gun dealers to protect merchandise from burglary and theft and refuse sales to people who appear in distress or intoxicated Require retailers to stop selling high-capacity magazines and bump stocks Require gun makers to commit to developing innovations in firearms that will allow law enforcement to more easily solve gun crimesAmalgamated said that it would not only require all business customers to adhere to those guidelines but added that it wont invest any of its own money in gun manufacturers or distributors.Heres what Amalgamateds C.E.O. Keith Mestrich, said in a news release: Michael J. de la MercedFacebook on Wednesday said the personal information of up to 87 million people, most of them Americans, may have been improperly shared during the 2016 election with Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm connected to President Trump.The new figure sharply increased the companys previous estimate of how many users information was harvested by Cambridge Analytica. The number had been put at more than 50 million users.The sharing of the user data has unleashed a torrent of criticism at Facebook, the worlds largest social network. The companys stock is down sharply since The New York Times and The Observer of London reported on how Cambridge Analytica improperly acquired users data.The company released the revised estimate of affected users in an extended statement on Wednesday about its plans for handling personal data. The company said it will start alerting users on April 9 about whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.In related Facebook news Earlier on Wednesday, lawmakers in Washington had said Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11 about the companys handling of sensitive user data.Beijing moved quickly to escalate its fight with the U.S., responding to the White Houses latest move with $50 billion worth of tariffs on soybeans, cars, chemicals and more. U.S. market futures predictably dropped, as did other markets.Both sides could suffer. Chinese companies are scrambling to react, especially as the U.S. looks to be taking aim at technology (like that central to Made in China 2025). And the squeeze could extend to American companies in unexpected industries, like wine.The big question: Is a full-blown trade war coming? Nathaniel Taplin of Heard on the Street writes, If ongoing negotiations fail and these tariffs become a reality, the long-term impact will likely be far more damaging.And is dragging down the Dow Jones industrial average. The blue-chip index is off nearly 350 points, or 1.4 percent. That slide is worse than the declines of the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq Composite, which are both down less than 1 percent.Boeings 4 percent fall has shaved 87 points off the Dow Wednesday. Boeing is the highest priced stock in the price-weighted index, which means Boeing has an outsized impact on the indexs moves.Boeings shares have served as a proxy for investor concern about a possible trade war with China since the Trump administration announced tariffs on aluminum and steel.Over that period, the stock has fallen 12 percent.The streaming-music companys shares opened at $165.90, but they steadily decline throughout their first day of trading, closing at $149.01.The stock is down 4.1 percent to $142.91 in early trading Wednesday.Because Spotify eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing, there is no I.P.O. price off which to base the performance of its shares. But the companys current shares price remains well above the $132.50 its private shares changed hands at earlier this year.Spotify finished Tuesday valued at $26.5 billion. Does that count as a success? Shira Ovide of Gadfly argues no, since only a tiny fraction of Spotifys shares are available to trade.And will it lead to a wave of direct listings, leaving depressed, workless I.P.O. bankers in its wake? Maybe not, though the Big Board acknowledged signs of more informal interest in direct listings.Sony.Its subsidiary, Sony Music Entertainment, owned 5.7 percent of Spotify ahead of its listing. Sony said it sold 17.2 percent of that stake Tuesday. Sony expects to book a non-operating profit of $986 million this quarter from the increased valuation of the Spotify shares it continues holds and from the share sale.At Tuesdays close, Sonys 5.7 percent stake was worth $1.5 billion.Sony isnt only Asian tech company benefitting from Spotifys smooth debut. Tencent, the Chinese social media company, holds a 7.5 percent stake. That was worth about $2 billion as of Tuesdays close.The video site and its parent company, Alphabet, are still grappling with the shooting at YouTubes headquarters in the Bay Area yesterday. What we know: Police identified the shooter as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and killed herself at the scene. Three people were hurt, one critically.What we dont know: the motive. Ms. Aghdam, who posted to YouTube and other social media, criticized the video sites policies on Facebook in February. But authorities havent highlighted any specific grievance, and said they had yet to find evidence that specific individuals were targeted.What may change: security in Silicon Valley. YouTube, like many other big tech companies, doesnt have visible metal detectors or armed guards. Robert Mueller reportedly told President Trumps lawyers that hes a subject of interest, but not yet an investigation target. A former Skadden lawyer who admitted deceiving Mr. Muellers investigators, Alex van der Zwaan, was sentenced to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000. The Treasury Department and the Office of Management and Budget are fighting over how to implement the tax overhaul, as businesses go to great lengths to lower their tax bills. Senator Elizabeth Warrens suggested method for measuring misconduct at financial institutions probably wouldnt lead to more prosecutions. (White Collar Watch) John Williams is the next president of the New York Fed, despite calls for diversity. (NYT) Articles about Scott Pruitt are now focusing on ethical improprieties, not regulatory rollbacks. (NYT)At issue in WPPs inquiry into its C.E.O., Martin Sorrell, are allegations of misuse of company assets and of personal misconduct, according to the WSJ. Mr. Sorrell has denied any wrongdoing.The investigation comes at a tough time: WPPs revenue is down, and competition from Google and Facebook is up. One of the FTs unnamed sources couldnt see how Mr. Sorrell would survive.In other misconduct news: Morgan Stanley fired Douglas Greenberg, a star financial adviser accused of physical abuse and stalking by multiple women, following an NYT investigation.Forbes profiled All Raise, a group of 36 women trying to double the percentage of women in V.C. partner roles and to increase funding to female founders to 25 percent from 15 percent. It has commitments of $2 million from supporters like Silicon Valley Bank and is in talks with Melinda Gatess investment firm.Diversity, they argue, will help investors spot future successes like Stitch Fix.Itll be a joust, over money and management. CBS has reportedly submitted a takeover bid for its corporate sibling, Viacom  but one below Viacoms market value of $12.5 billion, and without a No. 2 slot at the combined company for the targets C.E.O., Bob Bakish.That isnt going to sit well with either Mr. Bakish or his patron, Shari Redstone. Tara Lachapelle of Gadfly argues that ego shouldnt hold up a deal.The deals flyaround Procter & Gamble is reportedly talking to Pfizer about buying its consumer health business, but far from agreeing on a price. GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser both walked away. (CNBC) The Justice Department is relying on a skewed study of the Time Warner deal, lawyers for AT&T argued in court. (Bloomberg) Elliott Management has purchased a $1 billion stake in various affiliates of Hyundai Motors, another venture into Korean chaebols. (Elliott) The high-end coffee brand La Colombe, reportedly hired Moelis & Company to explore the sale of a stake that could value the company at $1 billion. (Bloomberg) The Chinese digital conglomerate Meituan has bought Mobike, a bike-sharing company, for $2.7 billion. (CNBC)The Japanese conglomerate has reportedly given up day-to-day control over the Fortress Investment Group to help its deal pass the powerful U.S. security watchdog known as Cfius, according to the FT. That could make the investment firm a less useful support for SoftBanks $100 billion Vision Fund.The takeaways: The efforts by SoftBanks Masa Son to court President Trump dont always translate into favorable treatment by the White House, and national security concerns will weigh heavily on foreign investment in the U.S. post-Broadcom.The president has pressed his claim that Amazon is costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money, (It isnt.)Vanity Fair reports that some specific anti-Amazon ideas have been kicked around, including rethinking Amazons contract with the U.S.P.S., canceling its cloud services contract with the Pentagon and encouraging state investigations. (Amazon does not have a contract with the Department of Defense for cloud computing services. The contract for those services has not been awarded to any company including Amazon.)But Bloomberg can find no active discussions about such actions, and Wall Street analysts say investors should ignore the noise, which puts Amazon in good company.More on Amazon and the cloud: Mr. Trump was scheduled to dine last night with Safra Catz of Oracle. Why is that important?The tech flyaround Teslas first-quarter production still fell short of an already lowered target, but shares in the embattled carmaker rose anyway. Investors might want to be wary of Elon Musks promises. Facebook removed over 270 accounts and pages tied to Russias Internet Research Agency, widely regarded as a troll factory. Mark Zuckerberg wont globalize Europes stricter privacy regulations. Tim Wu of Columbia Law School argues that Facebook needs replacing, not fixing. Indias government is eager to collect personal data, but bad at protecting it, an NYT Op-Ed contributor argues. (NYT) Apple has hired John Giannandrea from Google to run its machine learning and A.I. strategy. (NYT) Deutsche Bank formally named John Thain, Mayree Clark and Michele Trogni to its supervisory board. (Deutsche Bank) Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired Hari Moorthy, an engineer at JPMorgan Chase, to build tools to help big companies manage cash. (WSJ) Companies charitable spending is more self-serving than they would have us believe. (NYT) An Indian government crackdown on fake news lasted less than a day. (NYT) The Chinese conglomerate Anbang will receive $9.7 billion from an industry rescue fund. (WSJ) Longfin, a fintech company that went public under small-company rules in December, lost 85 percent of value in six trading days and is now under investigation by the S.E.C. (WSJ) After one of its worst quarters ever, David Einhorns hedge fund Greenlight Capital is sticking to its strategy. (CNBC)Note: While we congratulated Villanova yesterday, we did not congratulate Notre Dame for its win on Sunday, which we heartily do so now.Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
MENIFEE, Calif.   Just hours before she shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters, Nasim Aghdam calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home.During the 20-minute interview with officers early Tuesday, she did not mention being angry with YouTube or having accused the company of suppressing her video posts. She gave no indication she was a threat to herself or others."It was a very normal conversation. There was nothing in her behavior that suggested anything unusual," said Mountain View Police Chief Max Bosel.Later that day, she went to a gun range before walking through a parking garage into a courtyard at YouTube\'s campus south of San Francisco, where she opened fire with a handgun and wounded three people. She then killed herself.The sequence of Aghdam\'s activities emerged Wednesday as police continued gathering information about the attacker and her motives.Agents with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives searched two Southern California homes where Aghdam had lived. Spokeswoman Ginger Colbrun would not confirm the locations but reporters saw agents entering homes in the communities of Menifee, southeast of Los Angeles, and 4S Ranch, north of San Diego.Aghdam was a "really good person" and had no history of mental illness, said a woman named Leila who identified herself as an aunt as she entered the family home in Menifee. She did not give her last name.The shooter\'s family later distributed a statement outside the home saying it was "in absolute shock and can\'t make sense of what has happened.""Although no words can describe our deep pain for this tragedy, our family would like to express their utmost regret, sorrow for what has happened to innocent victims," the statement said.Investigators do not believe Aghdam, who was in her late 30s, targeted anyone in particular, and there is no reason to believe she illegally obtained the semi-automatic 9mm pistol used in the shooting, San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini said.Aghdam walked onto the YouTube property through a parking garage and it\'s not clear whether she encountered any security.Two women wounded in the shooting were released Wednesday from a San Francisco hospital. The third victim, a 36-year-old man, was upgraded from critical to serious condition.The day before the attack, the shooter\'s father, Ismail Aghdam, said he warned police that his daughter was upset with how YouTube handled her videos and might be planning to go to its offices.Nasim Aghdam "hated" YouTube and was angry that the company stopped paying her for videos she posted, Ismail Aghdam told the Bay Area News Group. Her video posts included segments about veganism, animal cruelty and exercise, along with glamor shots of herself.Police in Mountain View said they spoke to Ismail Aghdam twice after contacting the family to report finding his daughter and that he never told them she could become violent or pose a threat to YouTube employees.When officers found Nasim Aghdam, she was in her car near a strip mall in Mountain View, about 25 miles from YouTube and home to the company\'s owner, Silicon Valley giant Google. She told Mountain View police who spoke to her around 2 a.m. Tuesday that she had come to the area to stay with relatives and was looking for a job, police said.They let her go, saying there was no indication she needed to be detained.Later in the day, she went to a gun range not far from the YouTube headquarters. Police visited the range Wednesday.Nasim Aghdam used the name "Nasime Sabz" online, a law enforcement official with knowledge of the investigation told The Associated Press. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to discuss the case.A website in that name decried YouTube\'s policies and said the company was trying to "suppress" content creators."Youtube filtered my channels to keep them from getting views!" one of the messages on the site said. "There is no equal growth opportunity on YOUTUBE or any other video sharing site, your channel will grow if they want to!!!!!"People who post on YouTube can receive money from advertisements that accompany their videos, but the company "de-monetizes" some channels for reasons including inappropriate material or having fewer than 1,000 subscribers.YouTube had no immediate comment about any actions related to Nasim Aghdam\'s videos, spokesman Chris Dale said.The company said in a statement it has encouraged employees to take time off or work from home and will increase security at its headquarters and offices around the world.___Thanawala reported from San Francisco. Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles, Ryan Nakashima in San Bruno, Calif., Janie Har in San Francisco and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report.
COLUMBUS, Ohio   A news photographer accidentally shot by an Ohio sheriff\'s deputy last year disputes the agency\'s assertion in investigative reports that his presence at police scenes in the past was a problem.A grand jury last month declined to indict Clark County Deputy Jacob Shaw for shooting Andy Grimm in September after mistaking the photographer\'s tripod for a rifle.Grimm survived the shooting. He has filed a federal civil rights lawsuit against Shaw and the sheriff\'s department. The suit seeks at least $75,000 in damages.Two Clark County Sheriff\'s Office sergeants and a deputy spoke of concerns about Grimm and his presence at police stops in interviews with investigators obtained by The Associated Press through a records request.A sheriff\'s office major and the sheriff herself also noted concerns they\'d heard over the years about the photographer."Andy, what are you doing? I had my duty weapon out! You can\'t run up on our cars!" Sgt. Robert Trimble told Grimm, according to Trimble\'s interview with state investigators about an incident last spring.Trimble told investigators he parked in a police-only parking lot about 10 p.m. at agency headquarters in Springfield, about 43 miles (69 kilometers) west of Columbus, when he saw an unfamiliar minivan. He was getting out of his car when a figure "quickly darted" in his direction. Trimble said he unholstered his weapon fearing an attack before recognizing Grimm.Grimm and his father, who own KBA News, LLC, a chain of weekly newspapers, say they have covered the sheriff\'s agency and other police departments for years without problems and have received consistent praise. No one at the paper has ever been notified of a negative interaction with police or a situation where officers felt uncomfortable, they told the AP."We have only received positive comments," the Grimms said in a statement. They note their relationship with the Clark County Sheriff\'s Office has been strained since the Sept. 4 shooting and they now have trouble getting information from the agency."Nevertheless, we will continue to cover local events honestly, fairly and truthfully," the Grimms said.Sheriff Deborah Burchett did not immediately return messages seeking comment.According to records reviewed by the AP: Deputy Nick Moody told investigators he wasn\'t comfortable with Grimm\'s approach in January 2017 while conducting a traffic stop. The driver of a van later identified as Grimm slowly "circled his location twice" before stopping, Moody said. Sgt. Ralph Underwood said he warned Grimm after the photographer arrived at a deputy\'s traffic stop about two years ago and took pictures, with the deputy expressing concerns about the incident. Major Andy Reynolds told investigators "other deputies have expressed issues with Grimm," though he couldn\'t identify them, records showed. Burchett told investigators "she was aware that other deputies from the department may have cautioned Grimm in the past on such behavior of poor tactics, but she was not aware of the exact details of the encounters."Prosecutors presented the grand jury with four potential charges, but no indictment was filed, said Jill Del Greco, a spokeswoman for the state Bureau of Criminal Investigation, which handled the case. She wouldn\'t identify the four charges jurors considered.Grimm was driving to photograph a lightning storm on the night of Sept. 4 when he stopped in downtown New Carlisle and began setting up to shoot a traffic stop. Before Grimm could take a photo, Shaw got out of his cruiser and, within a second, fired two shots, hitting Grimm in the chest and grazing his shoulder.Video from Shaw\'s body camera indicates he realized his mistake while rushing to help Grimm, who he knew."Andy, I\'m sorry, brother," Shaw said. "Listen, dude, you pulled that out like a gun out of the back of the Jeep." A minute later, he tells Grimm: "I thought it was a freaking gun, Andy."Grimm is heard trying to explain that he waved at Shaw and flashed his car lights, but also takes responsibility, saying, "it\'s my fault."Grimm underwent surgery at a Dayton hospital and was released the next day.___Andrew Welsh-Huggins can be reached on Twitter at https://twitter.com/awhcolumbus.
A state judge handed a light sentence on Wednesday to a once-decorated detective who had been convicted of perjury, sparing him jail time and accusing prosecutors of hypocrisy in their handling of the case.The former detective, Kevin Desormeau, 34, was convicted at trial earlier this year of lying under oath in a drug case. Justice Michael Aloise sentenced him in State Supreme Court in Queens to a three-year term of probation and fined him $500, saying he had eroded public faith in the police.But the judge saved his harshest words for the prosecution, accusing the Queens district attorneys office of relying on an untruthful witness to win the conviction. This entire case disgusts the court, Justice Aloise told Mr. Desormeau. I will not become complicit in the district attorneys hypocrisy by incarcerating you.Prosecutors had asked that Mr. Desormeau be sentenced to six months in jail for having violated his oath as a police officer.Mr. Desormeau was once regarded as among the citys most effective street cops, leading police officers in Queens in gun arrests and ranking third among officers citywide, his lawyer, John Arlia, said before the sentencing.Arguing against jail time, Mr. Arlia said that Mr. Desormeaus fall from grace was already accomplished. He had lost the career he cherished as a police officer and had been reduced to working as an Uber driver, the lawyer said.Mr. Desormeau, who still faces a separate criminal case in Manhattan, did not speak during the sentencing. Mr. Arlia assured the judge Mr. Desormeau felt remorse and contrition.Mr. Arlia, the defense lawyer, also argued that jail was unnecessary from the perspective of deterrence. The prosecution and conviction of Mr. Desormeau alone was enough to deter other officers who might be willing to lie in order to justify an arrest or make a case stick, Mr. Arlia said.This case screams to every member of service: Dont even think of embellishing or making up facts to support an arrest, Mr. Arlia said.A jury concluded Mr. Desormeau had done just that in 2014, when he claimed to have witnessed a man sell drugs to two women on a street corner in Jamaica, Queens.According to Mr. Desormeau, after observing those two transactions, he and his partner got out of their unmarked car and stopped the man, Roosevelt McCoy, in front of a nearby Jamaican restaurant. Mr. Desormeau testified that he quickly recovered crack cocaine from behind Mr. McCoys waistband.But surveillance videotape from the Jamaican restaurant showed Mr. McCoy shooting pool inside the restaurant when the detective said he was outside dealing drugs. The two detectives can be seen approaching Mr. McCoy inside the restaurant, bringing him outside and then searching him. On the video, they do not appear to find any contraband.The case raised troubling questions about the prevalence of police perjury, particularly because a gun arrest which Mr. Desormeau and his partner made in Manhattan less than three months later became the subject of additional charges, including perjury. That case is pending.The Times examined Mr. Desormeaus career in an article in October. More recently The Times investigated the phenomenon of testilying within the New York Police Department in a series of articles.On Wednesday, Justice Aloise criticized Mr. Desormeau for undermining his fellow officers, but did not address the broader issue of police perjury, other than to suggest that Mr. Desormeaus actions could encourage a tendency to regard police testimony with undue skepticism. It helps feed the false narrative that police officers are not to be trusted and their testimony is not to be believed, Judge Aloise said.Then Judge Aloise accused the prosecution of allowing Mr. McCoy, who was the main witness against Mr. Desormeau, to lie on the witness stand. Mr. Desormeau had said he found a rock of crack cocaine on Mr. McCoy, and testing indicated that the twist bag in which the crack was found contained DNA that matched Mr. McCoys sample.Yet Mr. McCoy testified during Mr. Desormeaus trial that the police had never recovered drugs from him, not during a search on the sidewalk, nor during a strip search at the precinct. That claim, according to Justice Aloise, cast a shadow over the entire prosecution. Calling Mr. McCoy a bum, the judge accused the district attorneys office of relying on a lying witness in order to convict the detective of another lie.This was the most transparently disingenuous testimony this court has ever witnessed, Justice Aloise said.The Queens district attorneys office said in a statement it stood by the prosecution and pointed out both the defense and the jury were made aware of questions about Mr. McCoys credibility.We will not be deterred from pursuing bad cops by the courts ill-advised comments, the statement read. Kevin Desormeau was a New York City police detective. He should be and was held to a higher standard. He violated his oath and framed the complainant.Mr. McCoy had spent much of his adult life in prison for killing two men. After Mr. Desormeau arrested him on the cocaine charges, he spent 51 days in jail. He later received a legal settlement that cost the city $547,501.
NEW YORK   U.S. prosecutors on Wednesday asked a federal judge to sentence a Turkish banker convicted of helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions to about 20 years in prison, in a case that has strained diplomatic ties between the United States and Turkey.Mehmet Hakan Atilla, 47, a former deputy general manager at Turkey\'s state-controlled Halkbank, had been found guilty by a federal jury in Manhattan in January.Lawyers for Atilla did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the sentencing request.Prosecutors said Atilla conspired with Turkish-Iranian gold trader Reza Zarrab and others from 2010 to 2015 in using fraudulent gold and food transactions to help Iran evade sanctions, which targeted the movement of oil proceeds and U.S. bank note and precious metals transactions."At a time when the United States and the community of nations were engaged in the momentous undertaking of depriving the Government of Iran of funding for its malign and deadly activities," including its alleged pursuit of nuclear weapons and support for terrorist groups, "Atilla was a key player in massively undermining those efforts," prosecutors said in a court filing.Atilla is to be sentenced on April 11 by U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in Manhattan.In 2015, the United States and other world powers agreed to lift sanctions on Iran in exchange for Tehran limiting its nuclear program.U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to pull out of the accord, which his predecessor Barack Obama supported, unless European signatories fixed its "terrible flaws" by May 12.In a court filing last week, Atilla\'s lawyers urged leniency, saying the case did not involve "economic crimes" or a "crime of American disloyalty" by their client, a Turkish national, and that "no victims" suffered a financial loss.They also said a lengthy sentence would keep Atilla, who has been detained for a year, more than 5,000 miles (8045 km) away from his wife and only son for too long.Nine defendants have been charged in the case, but seven remain at large.Zarrab pleaded guilty and became the star witness against Atilla, describing in several days of trial testimony a sprawling bribery scheme carried out with the blessing of President Tayyip Erdogan.Erdogan has denounced the case, calling it a politically motivated attack on his government.U.S. prosecutors said Atilla deserves a sentence "comparable" to the roughly 20 years imposed in analogous cases, and in any event longer than 15 years, eight months. They also said federal sentencing guidelines recommended a 105-year term.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Grant McCool)
SALEM, Ore.   Officials in an Oregon county who have tried to restrict commercial marijuana production sued the state in federal court, asserting state laws that made pot legal are pre-empted by federal law that criminalize it.The lawsuit filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court escalated a long-running battle between the state and the Josephine County Board of Commissioners.The panel says pot farms are a nuisance. The county is in a prime marijuana-producing region of southern Oregon.Voters in the state legalized marijuana with a 2014 ballot measure, prompting a "green rush" as pot entrepreneurs set up shop in the fertile, rainy mountainous area.County Commissioner Dan DeYoung has said rural residents, many of them retirees, are fed up with the proliferating farms in areas zoned as rural residential."The good people are leaving and the marijuana people are staying," DeYoung said, according to the Daily Courier newspaper.The commission in December tried to ban commercial pot farming on rural residential lots of five acres or less and to drastically reduce the size of some larger grow sites.But the state Land Use Board of Appeals later put the restrictions on hold, saying the county failed to properly notify land owners.Pete Gendron, a marijuana grower in the county and president of the Oregon SunGrowers\' Guild advocacy group, said the growers have invested large sums to start operations and were shocked when the county tried to restrict them.One grower had a letter from the county dating back a year or more stating that cannabis cultivation was farm use and was allowed, Gendron said."He invested a half-million dollars in the county," Gendron said. "He would not have made those investments if not for those assurances."The lawsuit by the commission contends the state cannot dictate marijuana regulations over county restrictions because marijuana remains illegal under the federal Controlled Substances Act."Any person in any state who possesses, distributes, or manufactures marijuana for medical or recreational purposes, or attempts or conspires to do so, is committing a federal crime," Wally Hicks, a lawyer for the county, wrote in the lawsuit that names state Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum as a defendant, along with the state.Rosenblum\'s spokeswoman Kristina Edmunson said she can\'t comment on pending litigation but noted in an email: "We will defend the state laws of Oregon related to marijuana."The lawsuit calls on a federal court in Medford to declare that two ballot measures in 1998 and 2014 that legalized medical and recreational marijuana, respectively, are pre-empted by federal law.U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who famously declared that "good people don\'t smoke marijuana," recently gave U.S. prosecutors more leeway to pursue federal anti-marijuana laws in states that have legalized pot.___Find complete AP marijuana coverage here: https://apnews.com/tag/LegalMarijuana
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherIt started with a report on Fox News, and ended with calls for United States troops at the border with Mexico.We look at how President Trumps approach to immigration transformed over just 72 hours.On todays episode: Julie Hirschfeld Davis, who covers the White House for The New York Times.Background reading: President Trump said on Tuesday that he planned to deploy the National Guard to the border with Mexico to confront what the White House calls the growing threat posed by illegal immigrants and crime. Three days of presidential tweets contained many false and misleading accusations. Heres a fact-check.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
Good morning. Julia Moskin has a beautiful treatise on beef stew (above) in The Times today, a considered and deeply reported examination of the European style of slowly cooking the dish in a Dutch oven. The meat softens, but never collapses or becomes stringy, she writes. The liquid and the aromatics are fused into the kind of rich, complex sauce that professional chefs used to spend decades trying to achieve.Of course there is a recipe. You ought to make it soon, in your own Dutch oven, your own cocotte. (Julia did try making the dish in an electric pressure cooker, just to see. She knew youd ask about that. Eating the Instant Pot version, she wrote, was rather like wearing a perfect knockoff of an expensive handbag. It was pretty great, in other words. But Julia could tell the difference and so will you.)In other new recipe news, David Tanis has a fine one for spiced lamb shanks with oranges and honey, which you may well wish to cook this weekend, a kind of celebration of spring at long last.But for this evening, midweek and harried, perhaps Molly ONeills great old recipe for chicken Marsala with mushrooms will answer more loudly. Its delicious. (If you have slightly more time, try this recipe for shoemakers chicken, which we learned from the kitchen at Raos in East Harlem.)Or you could forgo dinner entirely save for the heels of what salamis are sitting in the meat drawer in your fridge, and bake this fine old recipe from our archives, which Margaux Laskey brought back to life this week, for Maida Heatters East 62nd Street Lemon Cake.No to all that, to stews and oven bakes and quick sauts and cakes? You can follow our midweekly tradition, and make a no-recipe dinner instead, tonight of those instant ramen kits in the back of the pantry, into which you can slide a single egg per person for egg-drop glory, and cover with chopped fresh mint and cilantro, and drizzle with sesame oil. These punch-ups transform a grim dorm-room mealtime situation into something rather more glamorous and delicious. Thats what were looking for on a Wednesday night.Many thousands more recipes appropriate to midweek cooking are on NYT Cooking. Yes, you will need to sign up for a subscription to access them. But, in return, well give you all sorts of cool features to help you organize them, share them, use them and leave notes and ratings on them. (Send yourself some grocery lists, why dont you!)We will meanwhile stand by to help out if anything goes wrong, either with the recipes or NYT Cooking itself. Just write us: cookingcare@nytimes.com. And well get back to you.Now, nothing to do with food except the passage where he writes about the lyrical inspiration for A Real Nice Clambake, in Carousel, but Todd S. Purdums Something Wonderful, a history of the collaboration of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein, is proving a something wonderful read. No, I havent finished it yet. It was just published yesterday!Did you read David Joys story about gun culture in The Times this week? You ought to: Its a letter from an America some dont know or have forgotten and that is anyway at a crossroads, as all these mass shootings swirl.Finally, and sadly sticking with sad and violent subjects, it was 50 years ago today that Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis. Here is the front page of The Times for April 5, 1968. Reflect on that. Ill be back on Friday.
SAO PAULO   The commander of Brazil\'s army ratcheted up tension on the eve of a Supreme Court decision on whether former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva should be allowed to exhaust his appeals process before being sent to jail for a corruption conviction.General Eduardo Villas Boas wrote on his verified Twitter account on Tuesday evening that the army was "attentive to its institutional missions" and that the military, along with "all good citizens, repudiates impunity and respects the Constitution, social peace and democracy."The commander added that "in Brazil\'s current situation, it is up to the institutions and citizens to ask who is really thinking of the well-being of our country and its future generations and who is only concerned about personal interests."Villas Boas did not elaborate. Calls to the army\'s press office were not answered. Army representatives confirmed to Brazilian newspaper Folha de S.Paulo that the tweets were written by the general.The comments came as thousands of Brazilians rallied in cities around Brazil to both support and decry Lula, who has said he wants to run for the presidency again in October. He leads polls by a wide margin, but may be barred from running after his bribery conviction was upheld on appeal.The words of Villas Boas were splashed across the websites of Brazil\'s major news outlets and drew support on Twitter from active army generals, but others bristled, warning of lessons learned from Brazil\'s 1964-85 military dictatorship."In a democracy, a military commander does not send a message to any power of the Republic," wrote federal lawmaker Chico Alencar on Twitter. "2018 is not 1964!"Lula\'s detractors say he was the ringleader of a sprawling political bribery scheme that saw billions of dollars in kickbacks paid to politicians by the executives they appointed at state-run companies in return for lucrative contracts.Supporters of Lula, who faces six separate graft trials in addition to the one in which he was already convicted, say he was wrongly found guilty by a partial judge who wants to block him from regaining the presidency.Lula was sentenced to more than 11 years in prison in his first trial. He has asked the top court to allow him to remain free until his appeals are exhausted, despite a law allowing judges to imprison those found guilty of a crime once the ruling is upheld on appeal. Lula\'s conviction was upheld in January.Lula denies any wrongdoing and has accused Brazil\'s judiciary of convicting him with scant proof to halt his political comeback. He has vowed that he will run for the presidency, even from a jail cell.Any politician with a conviction upheld on appeal is barred from running for office for eight years in Brazil. It falls to the country\'s top electoral court to make a ruling on whether Lula can run only after he officially registers as a candidate.(Reporting by Brad Brooks; Editing by Brad Haynes and Michael Perry)
FORT WORTH, Texas   Police in Fort Worth, Texas, have released body camera footage and 911 audio following backlash sparked by a bystander video that shows a black man being punched and kneed by officers during an arrest.The police footage made available Tuesday provides a fuller view of the nearly five-minute struggle to subdue the man.In both the bystander video and the police footage of Saturday\'s incident, Fort Worth police officers can be seen holding Forrest Curry, 35, face-down in the street as he repeatedly asks why he\'s being detained. At one point, a white officer kneels on Curry\'s back and punches him while a black officer knees him in the abdomen.Even after Police Chief Joel Fitzgerald said on Monday that the department would review the officers\' response, Dallas-area activist group the Next Generation Action Network led a march Tuesday to a City Council meeting where members denounced the treatment of Curry  the latest in a string of Fort Worth police use-of-force cases that have drawn criticism. The group had posted the 50-second bystander video of the arrest Sunday on Facebook.Assistant Police Chief Charles Ramirez said in a videotaped statement Tuesday that he hoped releasing two of the arresting officers\' body camera videos and the 911 calls would "instill a sense of confidence" in the department\'s administrative review process. The arresting officers have not been identified, pending the internal review.The video "provides insight into the erratic behavior and active resistance" by Curry, Ramirez said.Ramirez told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram that the officer who punched Curry was doing as he was trained, delivering four "distraction strikes" to Curry\'s side and shoulder as well as two knee strikes. One punch, though, appears to touch the back of Curry\'s head. That technique is used only after a suspect fails to follow verbal orders and continues to resist officers, Ramirez said.In the body camera videos, officers can be heard shouting at Curry to put his hands behind his back. The blows begin after Curry doesn\'t comply."Don\'t hit me no more!" Curry says."Why you keep resisting, man? That\'s why I keep having to hit you," one officer responds.There also was apparent confusion over whether Curry was under arrest. One officer told him he was not. But seconds later, another officer said "he is under arrest now."The incident occurred after police were dispatched to meet an ambulance crew on a public-intoxication call at an apartment complex on the city\'s east side. One 911 caller reported seeing several men passed out near the complex. "They\'re going to be dead soon," she said.Emergency medical personnel told police that Curry was on K2, synthetic marijuana, and was "swinging at them" as they attempted to help him. Police said Curry ran from them. While detained, Curry asked what the charges against him were, and an officer said "you hit Medstar, man," referring to the local ambulance personnel.Curry denied hitting anyone. After he had been strapped to a stretcher, one of the emergency medical responders can be heard on the body camera video telling an officer that Curry "didn\'t actually land" a punch.It was not immediately clear whether Curry was on K2 or another substance. His medical evaluation and toxicology report have not been released.Curry\'s attorneys say that he was walking from his mother\'s home on Saturday when he had a seizure and collapsed, and was disoriented and frightened when he regained consciousness. Curry was booked in Tarrant County jail Saturday for resisting officers and evading arrest. He was released on bond Monday.Curry\'s attorney, Jasmine Crockett, told The Associated Press that Curry\'s head was left swollen by the punches. She said he underwent brain scans Tuesday to determine whether he has a concussion, but that the results will not be available until later in the week.Crockett called the allegations that Curry was intoxicated a "distraction.""Anything that happened prior to the incident didn\'t give them license to beat on a person who was in need of medical attention," she said.The incident Saturday is the latest in a series of confrontations that have raised questions about the Fort Worth Police Department\'s use-of-force policies.Two lawsuits related to use of force by city police officers were filed last December.Also that month, a Fort Worth police sergeant was fired for ordering a rookie officer to use a stun gun on a woman who had called for help during a domestic dispute.___
___At the brink: US and China threaten tariffs as fears riseWASHINGTON (AP)  The world's two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there's still time to pull back from the brink. Financial markets trembled Wednesday at the prospect of a U.S.-China trade war after Beijing and Washington proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of each other's products in a battle over the aggressive tactics China employs to develop its high-tech industries.___Facebook scandal affected more users than thought: up to 87MNEW YORK (AP) Facebook says tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought, up to 87 million instead of the 50 million reported before. Facebook says it will restrict the data it allows outsiders to access on its users. Those developments come as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook has a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly.___Police: YouTube shooter was calm when found sleeping in carSAN BRUNO, Calif. (AP)  The woman who shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home. Authorities say Nasim Aghdam did not mention being angry with YouTube and gave no indication she was a threat to anyone. Later that day, she went to a gun range before walking into a courtyard at YouTube's campus south of San Francisco. That's where she fired a handgun several times and then killed herself.___On the Money: Glut of used cars gives buyers more optionsDETROIT (AP)  Bargain prices on 2- and 3-year-old vehicles fueled record sales of used cars, trucks and SUVs last year, a trend that is expected to continue because people can save thousands of dollars over buying new. Used car sales hit 39.2 million vehicles in 2017, more than double the number of new automobiles sold, according to the Edmunds.com auto website. About 4 million leased vehicles will return to the market this year, many of them relatively new with most of the technology that's on new vehicles.___AMC to open Saudi Arabia's first movie theaterNEW YORK (AP)  AMC says it will open Saudi Arabia's first movie theater on April 18. Cinema operators are rushing to build theaters in the Gulf kingdom after the Saudi government in December said it would open the country to commercial movie theaters for the first time in more than 35 years. AMC's first theater will open in Riyadh. It plans to open up to 100 theaters by 2030.___Marijuana not part of North Dakota's corporate farming banBISMARCK, N.D. (AP)  A North Dakota official says the state's Great Depression-era law banning corporate farming won't preclude horticulture operations from growing medical marijuana, provided it's not done on agricultural land. Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem issued the opinion at the request of the state health department. The intent of the corporate farming law is to protect the state's family farming heritage. But Stenehjem says the marijuana question is a tax law matter that doesn't fall under farming law.___CVS Health eyes kidney patients for next expansion into careWOONSOCKET, R.I. (AP)  CVS Health is now planning to treat kidney failure patients as the drugstore operator branches deeper into monitoring and providing care. The company said Wednesday it will offer home dialysis for patients through its Coram business and it is working with another company to develop a new device for that. A spokeswoman declined to name the company or say how much CVS is spending on the venture.___US services firms grew at a slower pace in MarchBALTIMORE (AP)  U.S. services firms expanded at a slower clip in March compared to the prior month, largely because the pace of business activity and new orders fell. The Institute for Supply Management says its services index dropped to 58.8 from 59.5 in February. Any reading above 50 points toward growth. The services sector has been expanding for more than eight years.___Stocks surge as market escapes early plunge on trade fearsNEW YORK (AP)  After being spooked by rising trade tensions between the US and China, stocks rallied Wednesday on hopes the two sides will settle their differences. The Dow Jones industrial average recovered from an early 501 point drop to gain 230. Retailers and household goods makers climbed while tech stocks reversed losses. Big industrials such as Boeing and Deere were lower.___The Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 30.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,644.69. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 230.94 points, or 1 percent, to 24,264.30. The Nasdaq composite rose 100.83 points, or 1.5 percent, to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 19.51 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,531.66.U.S. crude dipped 14 cents to $63.37 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline stayed at $1.98 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas rose 2 cents to $2.72 per 1,000 cubic feet.
An ex-convict was arrested on Tuesday and charged with killing the 3-year-old daughter of his girlfriend in their Far Rockaway apartment, the authorities said.Medics and police officers found the girl, Bella Edwards, unconscious on Monday evening with the man, Mark Jenkins, trying to resuscitate her. Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said the girl was the victim of child abuse, beaten to death by Mr. Jenkins while in his sole care.Mr. Jenkins, 32, was charged with second-degree murder with depraved indifference and assault, and more charges could be added as the investigation continues. He was scheduled to be arraigned Wednesday in criminal court in Queens.This is a terribly disturbing case, Mr. Brown said in a statement announcing the charges. The victim here is an innocent little girl, whose body revealed traumatic abuse injuries.An autopsy revealed that Bella died from blunt force trauma to her abdomen, and the medical examiner ruled her death a homicide. Two law enforcement officials, who had knowledge of the case but were not authorized to speak about it, said the girl had injuries on her lower body that were consistent with physical and sexual abuse.Mr. Jenkins spent five years in state prison after being convicted of attempted murder in the Bronx. He faces a sentence of up 25 years to life in prison if he is convicted again. He could not be reached for comment on Tuesday because he was in custody, and it was not known if he had a lawyer.In a Facebook post, Shamika T. Gonzalez, the girls mother, wrote: Bella, Im so sorry I wasnt there to protect you. This feels like a bad dream I cant wake up from.Mr. Jenkins was not Bellas father, though he did have a 3-month-old son with Ms. Gonzalez. He had been in charge of caring for the children for about eight hours on Monday, while Ms. Gonzalez, 25, and Lailah Boyd, 50, her mother, had gone to work. When they returned at 5 p.m., Mr. Jenkins told Ms. Gonzalez that the girl was taking a nap, the police said.When Ms. Gonzalez went to check on Bella at 5:50 p.m., she found the girl unconscious, the police said. Mr. Jenkins called 911 just after 6 p.m. to summon help at their apartment on Beach 105th Street. An ambulance crew rushed the girl to St. Johns Episcopal Hospital, where she was pronounced dead.Mr. Jenkins, Ms. Gonzalez and Ms. Boyd were taken to the 100th Precinct for questioning on Monday night.While the family had no prior contact with Administration for Childrens Services, the citys child welfare agency, the authorities began to suspect Bella had not died of natural causes after discovering bruises on her ankle, thigh and abdomen area, the law enforcement officials said. Her injuries were at different stages of healing, one of the officials said, indicating some were fresh and others were older.Child welfare workers removed the baby from the home on Monday.Mr. Jenkins had been arrested in 2004 after he fired around 12 shots and hit a 20-year-old man in the back in the Bronx, officials said. Investigators believed he had been called to the scene of a domestic dispute and, on arriving, took out a gun and fired.He was sentenced to 8 years in prison, but was paroled a year early in September 2011. His supervised released ended in 2016.Three other arrests are sealed.The police in the past also responded to two domestic incidents involving Mr. Jenkins and Ms. Gonzalez, though details about the encounters were not immediately available. Neighbors at the building on Tuesday said they had not seen any sign of trouble.A 64-year-old man who lives in the same building said he saw the mother and daughter together a week ago, and the child appeared happy and smiling. The mother had her baby in her arms, everything seemed fine, said the man, who identified himself as W. Thomas. I didnt see anything wrong. If it was, I probably wouldve said something.Another neighbor, Laura Cabrera, 36, a special-education teacher, also said she saw nothing amiss when she ran into Mr. Jenkins and Bella in an elevator in their building on Sunday. They had a nice rapport with one another, Ms. Cabrera said.On Tuesday morning, Ms. Gonzalez said on Facebook that a candlelight vigil and release of balloons would be held on Wednesday evening in front of the building where the family lived in Far Rockaway. Bring pink or red balloons and candles! she wrote.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):9:55 p.m.The Mexican foreign ministry says U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has told Mexico\'s top diplomat that U.S. National Guard troops being deployed to the border "will not carry arms or carry out migration or customs control activities."Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray is in Washington on a visit. A foreign ministry statement issued Wednesday night says Nielsen told Videgaray that the troops will only be providing support for Department of Homeland Security work.It says the deployment will be similar to ones in 2006 under President George Bush and in 2010 with President Barack Obama.Trump signed a proclamation earlier Wednesday ordering the secretary of defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and migrants.___8:30 p.m.Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey says his state welcomes the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border.In a statement Wednesday, Ducey says he looks forward to working closely with federal officials on the issue.President Donald Trump has ordered the Secretary of Defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and people.Ducey says "Washington has ignored this issue for too long and help is needed."The governor says he\'s been in touch with Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen multiple times this week and Arizona will cooperate fully with the Trump administration.___8:15 p.m.President Donald Trump has signed a proclamation directing the National Guard to be deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump says Wednesday in a memorandum to his secretaries of defense and homeland security and to his attorney general that the "situation at the border has now reached a point of crisis."The document orders the Secretary of Defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and people.And it orders the agency heads to submit a report within 30 days outlining what other steps can be taken.Trump says that "lawlessness" at the southern border is "fundamentally incompatible with the safety, security, and sovereignty of the American people." And he says his administration "has no choice but to act."___7:35 p.m.New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez says she appreciates the Trump administration\'s efforts to involve states as the federal government takes steps to better secure the border.Martinez spokesman Mike Lonergan said Wednesday that the Republican governor offers her full support to the New Mexico National Guard as the Trump administration announced it would deploy Guardsmen to the southwest border.The governor\'s office says the U.S. wouldn\'t be in the current situation if Congress would act on immigration reforms that address border security.Martinez often has framed immigration issues as a matter of public safety for New Mexico, and she has been a proponent of close cooperation between local law enforcement and Immigration and Customs Enforcement.She clashed with Trump on his comments about Mexican immigrants during his campaign for president.___6:55 p.m.Mexican senators are urging President Enrique Pena Nieto to temporarily suspend cooperation with the U.S. on immigration and security issues, responding to angry tweets from President Donald Trump about their country.The nonbinding statement was approved unanimously Wednesday. It asks Mexico\'s government to freeze joint efforts "in the fight against transnational organized crime" until Trump acts "with the civility and respect that the people of Mexico deserve."The senators condemn the "baseless and offensive comments about Mexico and Mexicans," reject efforts to militarize the countries\' shared border and ask the U.S. Congress to insist the president deal with Mexico "on the basis of respect and collaboration."Pena Nieto told reporters his government is waiting for clarifications about U.S. intentions to send troops to the border before presenting a "very clear" position on the issue.___6:05 p.m.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott\'s office says he will add more National Guard members to the roughly 100 already deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border in the state.Abbott said in a statement Wednesday that he welcomed the Trump administration\'s announcement that it will "immediately" deploy guardsmen to the southwest border. The Republican governor said the announcement "reinforces Texas\' longstanding commitment to secure our southern border."Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry ordered 1,000 guardsmen to the border in July 2014 during a large spike in crossings by unaccompanied migrant children. State leaders announced months later that they would wind down most of that deployment.Texas also has state troopers stationed at its border to assist the Border Patrol and local law enforcement.___5:45 p.m.Republicans who lead congressional Homeland Security committees are supporting President Donald Trump\'s plan to deploy National Guard troops on the U.S.-Mexico border.Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House homeland panel, calls the move "a positive step toward providing the safety this nation has long demanded" on the border.Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, chairman of the Senate homeland panel, also backs Trump\'s action and says he is working with the administration to fix the "broken" immigration system and close legal loopholes that encourage illegal immigration.Johnson says the president and Congress have a duty to protect American citizens and secure the border.Democratic Sen. Tom Udall of New Mexico denounced the plan as "another pitiful attempt to distract attention from the dangerous chaos" Trump has created.___3:45 p.m.The Trump administration says it is working with governors to "immediately" deploy the National Guard to combat illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said Wednesday that DHS and the Pentagon will be working closely with governors in the affected states.She says that deployment will be done as expeditiously as possible and that Guard troops could begin heading to the border as soon as Wednesday night.Trump announced his plan to send the military to the border during a meeting with Baltic leaders Tuesday.Trump has been frustrated by Congress\' refusal to fund building a wall along the length of the U.S. border as well as an increase in illegal border crossings.___3:30 p.m.President Donald Trump will be signing a proclamation directing the departments of Defense and Homeland Security to work together with governors to deploy the National Guard to the southwest border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen made the announcement at the White House on Wednesday. She says he\'ll sign the proclamation later in the day.Nielsen is also railing against the country\'s current immigration laws and calling on Congress to make changes.She says the current system "rewards bad behavior" and "it\'s time to act."She says details are still being worked out, but National Guard personnel are expected to assist with U.S. Customs and Border Protection\'s mission.Trump announced on Tuesday that he plans to deploy the military to the southern border until his long-promised wall is built.___7:35 a.m.President Donald Trump is promising "strong action today" on immigration.Trump says on Twitter: "Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico & Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way  they want people to pour into our country unchecked....CRIME! We will be taking strong action today."The president did not detail what that action would be. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Trump said Tuesday that wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is erected. The White House later said Trump wanted to mobilize the National Guard.___6:45 a.m.President Donald Trump wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his "big, beautiful wall" is erected.He said during a news conference Tuesday: "Until we can have a wall and proper security, we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military."He has been frustrated by the lack of progress on fulfilling the signature promise of his campaign.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support.The administration appears to be considering a model similar to a 2006 operation deployed by President George W. Bush.
PARIS   Millions of French commuters suffered a second day of travel chaos on Wednesday as striking rail workers locked horns with President Emmanuel Macron\'s government in a dispute over reforming the state-owned SNCF railways.Commuters in and around Paris pushed their way onto the few trains running during the rush-hour while many platforms in the French capital\'s busiest stations lay empty.SNCF said the number of drivers on strike fell slightly on Wednesday, though more signalmen and conductors had walked out than a day earlier. Across the company, including administrative and sales staff, the participation rate dipped.Macron wants to transform the heavily indebted rail company, which loses 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) each year, into a profit-making public service able to withstand foreign competition when its monopoly ends in 2020 in line with European Union rules.Unions reject plans to end rail workers\' special privileges, including job-for-life guarantees and early retirement, and complain the government is paving the way for privatizing the SNCF.The longer the strike grinds on, the more pain it will cause protesters losing out on pay, and unions that help make up for their members\' losses.The government is digging in for a drawn out standoff and Prime Minister Edouard Philippe postponed a weekend trip to Mali in order to be able to deal with strike.Macron, a former investment banker, has set a summer deadline for the overhaul to be completed."I don\'t understand the strike. Some say we want to break up public services and it\'s simply wrong," Julien Denormandie, a junior minister in Macron\'s government, told BFM TV.In taking on the rail unions, Macron is treading where past presidents have either failed or steered clear, determined to cement his image as a fearless and indefatigable modernizer of the French economy.The battle\'s outcome could define Macron\'s presidency, with trade unions, already badly bruised by his success in liberalizing labor regulations last autumn, also needing to score a win.A growing number of French people support the strike, with 44 percent approving it, up 6 percentage points from two weeks ago, according to an Elabe poll for BFM TV.At the same time, a large majority is in favor of the specific measures proposed by the government to reform the rail service.TIME TO TALK DEBTOther protest movements are also simmering, with university students, public workers, garbage collectors and pensioners all angry at Macron\'s social and economic reform agenda.So far, though, they have shown no sign of coalescing into a single, more potent movement, just as France prepares to mark the 50th anniversary of the May 1968 anti-establishment revolt and general strike that transformed the nation by pushing the government to adopt more progressive social policies.On Wednesday, only one in seven high-speed TGV trains were running - slightly more than on Tuesday - and one in five trains on overground commuter lines into Paris, similar to Tuesday\'s levels. The unions plan to strike two days in every five over the next three months."It\'s not our aim to frustrate rail passengers. Our goal is to find a way out of this row, to sit down and negotiate and find real solutions," said Roger Dillenseger of the UNSA-Railways union.The SNCF said the participation rate fell to 30 percent of staff from 34 percent on Tuesday. However, the number of striking conductors and signal-box workers - considered essential for running services - climbed by 8 and 7 percentage points respectively.Before the strike, the government offered small concessions, including delaying the opening of SNCF networks to foreign companies as long as legally possible and dropping plans to push some aspects of the reform through by decree.It has, however, said it will not discuss how much of the SNCF\'s 46 billion euro debt pile the Treasury will assume until a deal is reached on employment benefits, prompting union accusations that it negotiating "with a gun to their heads".Transport Minister Elisabeth Borne faced calls on Wednesday from within Macron\'s ruling Republic on the Move (LREM) party to address the issue earlier."It is important that the government says how, when and under what conditions the SNCF\'s debt will be taken over," Jean-Baptiste Djebarri, parliamentary rapporteur on SNCF reform, told Europe 1 radio.(Additional reporting by Leigh Thomas; Writing by Richard Lough; Editing by David Stamp and Alison Williams)
WASHINGTON  It was the kind of story destined to take a dark turn through the conservative news media and grab President Trumps attention: A vast horde of migrants was making its way through Mexico toward the United States, and no one was stopping them.Mysterious group deploys caravan of illegal aliens headed for U.S. border, warned Frontpage Mag, a site run by David Horowitz, a conservative commentator.The Gateway Pundit, a website that was most recently in the news for spreading conspiracies about the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., suggested the real reason the migrants were trying to enter the United States was to collect social welfare benefits.And as the president often does when immigration is at issue, he saw a reason for Americans to be afraid. Getting more dangerous. Caravans coming, a Twitter post from Mr. Trump read.The story of the caravan followed an arc similar to many events  whether real, embellished or entirely imagined  involving refugees and migrants that have roused intense suspicion and outrage on the right. The coverage tends to play on the fears that hiding among mass groups of immigrants are many criminals, vectors of disease and agents of terror. And often the president, who announced his candidacy by blaming Mexico for sending rapists and drug dealers into the United States, acts as an accelerant to the hysteria.The sensationalization of this story and others like it seems to serve a common purpose for Mr. Trump and other immigration hard-liners: to highlight the twin dangers of freely roving migrants  especially those from Muslim countries  and lax immigration laws that grant them easy entry into Western nations.The narrative on the right this week, for example, mostly omitted that many people in the caravan planned to resettle in Mexico, not the United States. And it ignored how many of those who did intend to come here would probably go through the legal process of requesting asylum at a border checkpoint  something miles of new wall and battalions of additional border patrol would not have stopped.They end up in schools on Long Island, some of which are MS-13! declared Brian Kilmeade on the presidents preferred morning news program, Fox & Friends, referring to the predominantly Central American gang.The coverage became so distorted that it prompted a reporter for Breitbart News who covers border migration, Brandon Darby, to push back. Im seeing a lot of right media cover this as people coming illegally or as illegal aliens. That is incorrect, he wrote on Twitter. They are coming to a port of entry and requesting refugee status. That is legal.In an interview, Mr. Darby said it was regrettable that the relatively routine occurrence of migrant caravans  which organizers rely on as a safety-in-numbers precaution against the violence that can happen along the trek  was being politicized. The caravan isnt something thats a unique event, he said. And I think people are looking at it wrong. If youre upset at the situation, its easier to be mad at the migrant than it is to be mad at the political leaders on both sides who wont change the laws.As tends to be the case in these stories, the humanitarian aspects get glossed over as migrants are collapsed into one maligned category: hostile foreign invaders.In November, Mr. Trump touched off an international furor when he posted a series of videos on Twitter that purported to show the effects of mass Muslim migration in Europe. Initially circulated by a fringe ultranationalist in Britain who has railed against Islam, the videos included titles like Muslim migrant beats up Dutch boy on crutches! Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary! and Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!The assailant in one video the president shared, however, was not a Muslim migrant. And the other two videos depicted four-year-old events with no explanation.These items tend to metastasize irrespective of the facts, but contain powerful visual elements to which Mr. Trump is known to viscerally respond.Last February, Mr. Trump  insinuated that some kind of terror-related episode involving Muslim immigrants had taken place in Sweden. Who would believe this? Sweden, he said at a rally in Florida, leaving Swedes and Americans baffled because nothing out of the ordinary had happened at all. They took in large numbers. Theyre having problems like they never thought possible.Like the caravan story, which apparently came to Mr. Trumps attention as he watched Fox & Friends, the president was referring to something he had seen on cable news. And he later had to clarify that he was referring to a Fox News segment on issues Sweden was having with migrants generally, not any particular event.The conservative National Review later called the piece in question sensationalistic and pointed out that a lack of government data made it virtually impossible to determine whether crime rates in the country were related to immigration.When the president himself has not spread stories about immigration that were either misleading or turned out to be false, his White House aides have. Last year, the White House joined a pile-on by the conservative news media after it called attention to the account of a high school student in Montgomery County, Md., who said she was raped at school by two classmates, one of whom is an undocumented immigrant. The case became a national rallying cry on the right against permissive border policies and so-called sanctuary cities that treat undocumented immigrants more leniently. Fox News broadcast live outside the high school for days.Prosecutors later dropped the charges after they said the evidence did not substantiate the girls claims.The story of the caravan has been similarly exaggerated. And the emotional outpouring from the right has been raw  that was the case on Fox this week when the TV host Tucker Carlson shouted You hate America! at an immigrants rights activist after he defended the people marching through Mexico.The facts of the caravan are not as straightforward as Mr. Trump or many conservative pundits have portrayed them. The story initially gained widespread attention after BuzzFeed News reported last week that more than 1,000 Central American migrants, mostly from Honduras, were making their way north toward the United States border. Yet the BuzzFeed article and other coverage pointed out that many in the group were planning to stay in Mexico.That did not stop Mr. Trump from expressing dismay on Tuesday with a situation where you have thousands of people that decide to just walk into our country, and we dont have any laws that can protect it.The use of disinformation in immigration debates is hardly unique to the United States. Misleading crime statistics, speculation about sinister plots to undermine national sovereignty and Russian propaganda have all played a role in stirring up anti-immigrant sentiment in places like Britain, Germany and Hungary. Some of the more fantastical theories have involved a socialist conspiracy to import left-leaning voters and a scheme by the Hungarian-born Jewish philanthropist George Soros to create a borderless Europe.Anyone watching Fox News this week would have heard about similar forces at work inside the caravan.This was an organized plan and deliberate attack on the sovereignty of the United States by a special interest group, said David Ward, whom the network identified as a former agent for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. They rallied a bunch of foreign nationals to come north into the United States to test our resolve.
WASHINGTON   Education Secretary Betsy DeVos on Wednesday entered a heated national debate on racial disparities in school discipline, meeting with educators as a government watchdog said in a report that African-American students continue to be punished more often than their peers.The study by the Government Accountability Office found that black children account for about 16 percent of students but 39 percent of students suspended from school. A 2016 federal study showed that black students are more than three times more likely to be suspended from school and nearly twice as likely to be expelled than their white peers.A 2014 document issued by the Obama administration told schools to determine if penalties like suspension and expulsion were disproportionately affecting black students. If they didn\'t correct any disparities, they could face federal investigations and possible loss of federal funding.The document also urged educators to move away from harsh penalties in favor of positive behavior interventions such as counseling.DeVos met behind closed doors Wednesday morning with educators who believe that rolling back the Obama rule will further entrench discrimination. Later in the day she heard from opponents who say that softening discipline practices makes schools less safe and prevents effective learning.While there\'s widespread agreement that disparities in discipline based on race and disability are a serious problem, there\'s intense debate over what causes them and how to fix them.Tynisha Jointer, behavioral health specialist for elementary schools in Chicago, said the Obama-era guidance was instrumental in fighting discrimination. She recalled a visit to a public school to help counsel an unruly first-grader. Jointer observed the student, a black boy, acting out during a PE class. But she also noticed that during the first 10 minutes of class, the teacher redirected that student six times, while his white peers who also were misbehaving did not receive the same attention."Black students, especially black boys, are looked at as deviant and defiant while white students are seen as exploring and testing boundaries," Jointer said in an interview.She said she told DeVos that "hands down, positive interventions work best."Olinka Crusoe, who teaches English as a second language in New York City, cited the example of a first-grader at her school who would act out during writing time. She and other teachers spent several months trying various approaches until they figured out that giving him a sheet of paper with bigger lines and a bigger pencil solved the problem."We tried intervention after intervention after intervention until the student was able to do the work, to just sit and learn," Crusoe said before her meeting with DeVos.But Nicole Stewart said she resigned as vice principal at Lincoln High School in San Diego because she believes the Obama policy made her school and others dangerous for students and teachers. Stewart said one student brought a knife to school, but was not expelled because his action was attributed to his disability. Two weeks later, he attacked a student with a knife in front of their peers, she said."Imagine that culture, imagine being a student on that campus, imagine being a teacher and wondering if you are safe, whether they have a gun," Stewart told reporters in a phone call.Max Eden, an education expert at the Manhattan Institute, said when school officials fear repercussions from Washington they refrain from disciplining unruly students and that causes disruption in classrooms."The message is that when the federal government says \'you better get these numbers down,\' they are going to go down and the easiest way to do that is to not punish bad behavior or hide it when you do," Eden said after the meeting.Eden said DeVos did not ask questions or make comments and merely listened.DeVos\' moves on school discipline follow other decisions on students\' civil rights last year. She rescinded guidance telling schools to allow transgender students to use the bathroom of their choice. She also allowed universities to ask for more evidence from women complaining of sexual assault on campus. DeVos said bathroom rules should be decided at the local level and that the Obama practice of investigating sexual assault was unfair to the accused.Education Department officials would not say when any decision could be made on any changes in the 2014 school discipline guidelines.
SAN FRANCISCO   An Iranian-born woman who blogged about surviving in a world filled with "injustice and diseases" opened fire at YouTube\'s California headquarters because she was angry at a site she believed was suppressing her videos, police said on Wednesday.In Persian and English-language online postings, Nasim Najafi Aghdam, 39, had railed against the video-sharing site owned by Alphabet Inc\'s Google before wounding three people and killing herself on Tuesday at its offices in San Bruno, just south of San Francisco.In an English-language video posted to her YouTube account before the channel was deleted on Tuesday, Aghdam said, "I am being discriminated. I am being filtered on YouTube.""We know that she was upset with YouTube ... that\'s the motivation," San Bruno Police Chief Ed Barberini told reporters. "Whether that rises to the level of terrorism hopefully will be determined in the next couple of weeks."The shooting on the corporate campus in California\'s Silicon Valley came days after Aghdam had a dispute with her family that caused her to leave her San Diego home. On Monday, they reported her missing, police said.Early the next day, Mountain View police found Aghdam sleeping in her car a few miles from Alphabet\'s headquarters. She was "calm and cooperative" with the officers she spoke with, made no mention of YouTube and gave no indication she would harm anyone, Mountain View police said.The San Jose Mercury News quoted Aghdam\'s father, Ismail Aghdam, as saying he told police that his daughter might go to YouTube\'s headquarters because she hated the company but Mountain view police disputed that account.Police said officers had twice spoken with the family after finding her. In an initial call, Aghdam\'s father said nothing about his daughter posing a threat but then called back to say she had posted vegan videos to YouTube and was angry about something that had been done to them, police said."At no point did her father or brother mention anything about potential acts of violence," the statement said.Efforts to reach Aghdam\'s relatives by phone were unsuccessful.However, Los Angeles television station KTLA and other media reported on Wednesday that Aghdam\'s family in a statement expressed sorrow over the shooting and support for the victims."Our family is in absolute shock and can\'t make sense of what has happened yesterday," the family said, according to KTLA.Aghdam entered the YouTube parking garage and walked to an open-air plaza, where she opened fire. But she was not able to walk into the building itself, YouTube said in a statement on Wednesday.YouTube is "revisiting this incident in detail" and will increase security at its offices worldwide, the company said.Aghdam did not appear to have targeted particular victims when she opened fire with a legally purchased Smith & Wesson 9mm semiautomatic handgun, the San Bruno police chief said.Aghdam had visited an area gun range that morning, police said.In some online posts before the attack, Aghdam spoke about herself in heroic terms for surviving in a hostile world."I think I am doing a great job," she wrote in Persian on her Instagram account. "I have never fallen in love and have never got married. I have no physical and psychological diseases. But I live on a planet that is full of injustice and diseases."In videos posted on her YouTube channels, which were taken down on Tuesday, Aghdam alternately bemoaned animal cruelty, promoted what appeared to be handmade jewelry and demonstrated exercise techniques. She offered few specifics about what she believed had been suppressed, other than to complain that her workout videos had been flagged as adults-only content.YouTube has long faced complaints about alleged censorship on its site, and says it attempts to balance its mission of fostering free speech while providing an appropriate and lawful environment for users.One of her three victims, a man in his 30s, remained in San Francisco General Hospital in serious condition on Wednesday, the hospital said. Two others were released Tuesday night, it said.(Reporting by Paresh Dave and Heather Somerville; additional reporting by Parisa Hafezi in ANKARA, Gina Cherelus in NEW YORK, Ben Klayman in ANN ARBOR, Michigan, and Alex Dobuzinskis in LOS ANGELES,; Writing by Rich McKay and Scott Malone; Editing by Bill Trott, James Dalgleish and Lisa Shumaker)
JANESVILLE, Wis.  When dozens of high school students from across Wisconsin marched through his hometown, chanting his name and demanding new gun control laws, Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, was not around to hear them, having just wrapped up a trip to the Czech Republic.But Randy Bryce was.Mr. Bryce, for those who dont watch MSNBC, is better known by his Twitter handle, Iron Stache  a nod to his occupation (ironworker) and his thick horseshoe mustache. A Democrat, he has become a liberal media darling of sorts, as he seeks to do the unthinkable: unseat Mr. Ryan in Wisconsins First Congressional District this fall.But Mr. Bryce is not the only candidate hoping to dethrone a congressional king. Another Democrat, a schoolteacher named Cathy Myers, is also running for her partys nomination. She is irked that national Democrats and progressives  including Senator Bernie Sanders, the former presidential candidate  have thrown their weight behind Mr. Bryce.And on the right, Republicans are confronting an embarrassing spectacle: A white nationalist and anti-Semite, Paul Nehlen, who lost to Mr. Ryan by 68 points in the 2016 Republican primary, is running again, this time flaunting his bigotry to gain a national following. His Twitter account was suspended in February after he used it to make racist comments about Meghan Markle, the fiance of Prince Harry.Its a circus, sighed Mark Graul, a seasoned Republican strategist here. You cant make this stuff up.Mr. Ryan, meanwhile, has been coy about his intentions. After passing a landmark tax overhaul that fulfilled a career-long dream, he has not yet announced his candidacy for re-election, saying he will make a decision after consulting with his wife in the spring. That has prompted speculation that he will retire, which his aides have dismissed as nonsense.In another election year, Mr. Bryce and the rest might be little more than a nuisance for Mr. Ryan, who has nearly $10 million in his campaign chest and is one of the most powerful men in Washington. Mr. Nehlen, strategists in both parties agree, is clearly headed for another trouncing.But in an election cycle when Democrats have scored victories in places like Virginia, southwestern Pennsylvania and even deep-red Alabama, some analysts say it would be a mistake for the speaker to coast, especially against Mr. Bryce, who has captured the attention of Washington and Hollywood and had raised $4.75 million by the end of March, according to campaign officials.History shows it is not impossible to knock off a congressional leader. In 1994, when Republicans swept the House during the first midterm election of Bill Clintons presidency, they also swept the Democratic speaker, Thomas S. Foley, out of office.Randy Bryce is a more formidable candidate on the resource side and the notoriety side than any opponent Ryan has faced, said Charles Franklin, director of the Marquette Law School Poll, run out of Milwaukee. And if its a wave election, who knows?At 48, Mr. Ryan has represented this corner of southeastern Wisconsin for nearly two decades. People here still remember him as a fresh-faced young congressman with a compelling personal story. His father died when he was 16, and he saved his Social Security benefits to pay for college. He is viewed as a nice guy and a family man.But Janesville, a blue-collar community that was hit hard when the local General Motors plant shut down in 2009, has never been solid Ryan territory, and some in his hometown say that since he became speaker  and especially since President Trump took the White House  Mr. Ryan has lost his way. He was critical of Mr. Trump during the campaign. He largely holds his tongue now.Im very disappointed in him, Steve Johnson, 69, a former Janesville School District administrator, said while drinking coffee with a friend at Mocha Moment, a local cafe. Mr. Johnson, who says he votes Republican about half of the time, has known the speaker since Mr. Ryan was a student council representative, and has voted for him for years.He always had a good head on his shoulders, a good set of values, Mr. Johnson said. I supported him for all this time, but I wont now, especially since he wont stand up to Trump. Thats a big surprise to me.Others complain that Mr. Ryan no longer holds town-hall-style meetings (his aides say he hosts telephone call-ins where constituents can voice their concerns) and spends more time outside the district than in it.Hes just changed so much from the beginning of his career until now, said Chris Rice, 68, a Democrat who works in health care. I think hes lost his values.But Mr. Ryan retains strong support elsewhere in the district, particularly in rural areas and counties like Waukesha, Walworth and Racine. His Republican backers insist that the speaker will be just fine, especially in the wake of the passage of the landmark tax overhaul, which he has been promoting during carefully controlled visits to businesses here and around the country.Ever since Ive known Paul, tax reform was near and dear to his heart, said Kim Travis, who represents Mr. Ryans district on the executive committee of the Wisconsin Republican Party. So to get that passed is huge. I dont think any of his opponents stand a chance.The most recent Marquette Law School poll found that, statewide, 46 percent of voters approve of Mr. Ryan, while 39 percent disapprove and 15 percent say they have not heard enough about him. And his aides note that the local economy has bounced back. The latest state figures show unemployment in Rock County, which includes Janesville, is at 3.6 percent. It was 13.2 percent in 2009, the year the auto plant closed.Even so, some political observers are seeing cracks in the speakers armor. Stan Milam, a longtime Janesville journalist and former radio host, said that neither Mr. Bryce nor Ms. Myers has what it takes to beat Mr. Ryan this year. But he does see the speaker showing some signs of weakness.Every politician, if they have a lengthy political career, becomes more vulnerable than usual, Mr. Milam said, and I believe thats where Paul Ryan is.Even Democrats concede that capitalizing on that will be an uphill battle. For one thing, they are fighting among themselves. In Washington, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has endorsed Mr. Bryce. But many here see Ms. Myers, who now holds a seat on the Janesville School Board, picking up steam.Her backers view Mr. Bryce as a creation of Hollywood and the national news media, and insist she is the more substantive candidate. They vow a strong grass-roots campaign.No one has been able to answer this for me: Why is Randy Bryce a better candidate to beat Paul Ryan? Ms. Myers asked in an interview. Im talking about his qualifications, not his money.Mr. Bryce, 53, a longtime union activist who has waged three previous unsuccessful bids for local and state office, is pitching himself to voters as a man of the people, a kind of Joe Six-Pack who understands their everyday concerns. An Army veteran and a survivor of testicular cancer, he burst onto the political scene with a video campaign announcement that went viral.In it, he offered to trade places with Mr. Ryan, declaring, You can come work the iron, and Ill go to D.C.The video captured the attention of national Democrats, and some in Hollywood. The liberal comedian Chelsea Handler hosted a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Mr. Bryce, where she was pictured wearing a fake mustache.But he has some baggage, which Ms. Myers and Republicans will undoubtedly try to exploit. He was late repaying a loan to an ex-girlfriend, and for nearly two years he owed $1,257 in back child support, which he paid after launching his campaign.Im looking forward to that coming up; thats why Im running, he said in an interview. Ive busted my rear end for the past 20 years to keep my head above water. Thats proof that I understand what its like to struggle.On the day the students marched last week through Janesville, demanding that Mr. Ryan take strong action on gun control, Mr. Bryce was among hundreds of people who turned up at a rally that was rife with anti-Ryan sentiment. Dressed in jeans, work boots and a paint-splattered, beaten-up brown work jacket, he hung back in the crowd, listening quietly as they shouted Shame on Paul! Shame on Paul!When the speeches were over, he posed for selfies with the students and was mobbed by well-wishers. Among them was Teri Sickels, 59, a former assembly line worker who, like many here, was forced into retirement when the General Motors factory closed down.I love everything you stand for, she gushed.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement agents have seized roughly 100 Northern California houses purchased with money wired to the United States by a Chinese-based crime organization and used to grow massive amounts of marijuana illegally, authorities said Wednesday.The raids culminated a monthslong investigation focusing on dozens of Chinese nationals who bought homes in seven counties. Most of the buyers were in the country legally and were not arrested as authorities investigate if they were indebted to the gang and forced into the work, U.S. Attorney McGregor Scott said.Much of the pot was shipped to Georgia, Illinois, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania through Atlanta, Chicago and New York City, he said. The drug is legal in California but requires permits to grow and can\'t be sent across state lines. It is still banned by the U.S. government.Black-market pot-growing houses have proliferated in the inland California region where authorities carried out the raids, and many of them were traced to Chinese criminal organizations from the San Francisco Bay Area in the mid-2000s, Scott said. The high number of grow houses in the area may be because of low property prices compared with the Bay Area and the state\'s large Chinese population, the prosecutor said.Scott called the recent crackdown "a game-changer" that may have cost the criminal organization "hundreds of millions of dollars" in lost drug profits and the money it spent on the homes."It hits the criminals right where it counts  in the pocketbook," he said.Authorities tracked at least 125 wire transfers totaling $6.3 million from Fujian Province in China, all just below the $50,000 limit imposed by the Chinese government.Officials are trying to learn if the homebuyers are what Scott called "indentured servants"  indebted to the Chinese gang and brought to the United States to buy and tend the grow houses. Many speak only Mandarin Chinese."We\'re treating them as victims" who may have been "forced or coerced" to work in what can be toxic environments, FBI Special Agent in Charge Sean Ragan said.The buyers generally used the same Sacramento real estate agents, borrowed from private lenders instead of traditional banks, and used straw buyers who purchased the properties on behalf of the real owners.The U.S. crackdown comes as California is months into creating the world\'s largest legal marijuana market amid uncertainty about whether the U.S. government will try to shut it down.More than 500 officers, including SWAT teams, fanned out over two days to search and seize 81 houses and two real estate businesses. Another 25 houses were raided previously.They seized more than 61,000 marijuana plants, 200 kilograms (440 pounds) of processed marijuana, at least $100,000 in cash and 15 firearms, including one that had been stolen.The U.S. Department of Justice said it was one of the largest residential forfeiture operations ever. Prosecutors will now ask judges to transfer ownership of the houses to the U.S. government to resell while they track the enterprise back to its roots, Scott said.Most of the suburban houses were valued at $300,000 to $700,000, though some were in rural areas and some in more upscale neighborhoods.U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement that transnational criminal organizations are "a blight on our communities, bringing dangerous drugs to our streets and trying to impose a false sovereignty over our neighborhoods."The Chinese consulate general\'s office in San Francisco did not respond to multiple requests for comment.Illegal grow houses have been a widespread problem in Northern California for at least a dozen years. Sacramento officials have estimated that there might be as many as 1,000 illegal grow houses in California\'s capital city.Authorities previously said the practice of growing marijuana in homes instead of outdoors originated along Canada\'s West Coast and migrated south as border restrictions increased after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.Suburban tract homes get transformed with high intensity lights and irrigation pipes, gutted to add ventilation pipes and air filtration systems to vent the tell-tale smell, and stacked with tables full of marijuana plants that could produce multiple crops each year."It\'s like industrial agriculture," Scott said.

MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   The Mexican government began handing out transit or humanitarian visas to people in a caravan of Central American migrants, and said the procession of 1,000 or so migrants that drew criticism from President Donald Trump had begun to disperse.Some migrants who awoke at the camp Wednesday said they would try their luck at requesting asylum in the United States, others in Mexico.Elmer Zelaya Gomez, 38, from eastern El Salvador, has been sleeping with his wife and three children aged 7, 13 and 14 on the soccer field under blankets as they wait for temporary transit visas from Mexico to continue to the US border. He hopes to request asylum and join relatives in New York."We didn\'t leave our countries just because we wanted to," Zelaya Gomez said. "It\'s for the safety of our children."Like many, he had joined the caravan  which was never expected to be so big, and never planned to go all the way to the border  because there was safety in numbers.Now, the family faces the prospect of travelling solo; the caravan is scheduled to make its last stops this week at a migrants rights symposium in the central city of Puebla, and end in Mexico City."It seems a little complicated, with the robberies, kidnappings, and all of that," Zelaya Gomez said. "It\'s a little scary, to travel without the caravan."Organizer Irineo Mujica said, "We will try to find a better way of doing our caravans" in coming years. "We didn\'t anticipate, or want, a caravan of this size."The caravan is an annual, symbolic event held around Easter each year to raise awareness about the plight of migrants and has never left southern Mexico, though some participants then continue north on their own.Trump\'s strong criticism of the caravan and Mexico\'s supposed permissiveness in allowing it to proceed, have confused and befuddled families here, who deny they are a threat. Many say they never intended on going all the way to the United States after the end of the "Stations of the Cross" caravan. Some are seeking asylum in Mexico itself.Even coordinators of the caravan seemed to misunderstand the debate in the U.S. when Trump\'s endorsed a "nuclear option" for pushing funding for his border wall through Congress. They told worried families Tuesday that the U.S. president had floated the idea of using a nuclear weapon against the caravan of mostly women and children who have fled violence in Central America.The Mexican government said in a statement late Tuesday that its immigration policy "is not subject to pressure," but noted the caravan "began to disperse by decision of the participants."It said 465 migrants had asked for transit visas and 230 had gotten them, and another 168 were likely to get some sort of visa to stay in Mexico.Though the caravan is uncomfortable  the migrants cook meager, donated rations on fires and sleep under the stars  they said risks they have taken should be an indication of how unsustainable their circumstances are back home. Hondurans predominate in this year\'s caravan, but it includes families from Guatemala and El Salvador as well.Sitting on a thin foam pad and trying to corral her sons, 2-year-old Jonathan and 6-year-old Omar, Gabriela Hernandez wondered aloud at what Trump must think of them."I see it as something really sad, because I don\'t understand how a child this age can make things difficult for him," said Hernandez, a 27-year-old who is two months pregnant.She would like to get into the U.S., where she has a cousin in Houston. Crime in Honduras was so bad that she decided to embark on the difficult a journey across several international borders with two young asthmatic sons, the younger of whom is now sick and on antibiotics.Late Tuesday, the first migrants began receiving documents from Mexican immigration authorities. Some give them 20 days to transit the country on their way to the U.S. border with the stated goal of applying for asylum. Others got papers in a first step toward a humanitarian Mexican residency visa for especially vulnerable people or a start to the application process for asylum in Mexico.Mayra Zepeda, 38, of Honduras, said that once she gets documents to cross Mexico, she and her husband will continue their journey toward the border city of Tijuana. She said they hope to find better paying jobs there and aren\'t planning to try to cross into the U.S.The couple left Honduras in December after incumbent President Juan Orlando Hernandez was declared the winner of a contested election. The factory where she made T-shirts for export closed due to the weeks of instability that followed the election, she said.She and her family stopped in the Mexican town of Tapachula at the Guatemala border for three months and she worked in a restaurant. When the caravan came together there they saw it as a good opportunity to make a move with safety in numbers.On Tuesday afternoon, she cooked a cauldron full of sliced squash and eggs over an open fire for the caravan\'s security team, volunteers who keep an eye on things."Honestly, I want to be Mexican," Zepeda said. "We\'re not going to cross. We\'re just going to stay here."
How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Hanna Ingber, editorial director of The Timess Reader Center, discussed the tech shes using.The Reader Center collects story ideas and feedback on our coverage from readers. What have been the most important tech tools for engaging with our audience?We use a variety of tools to listen to our readers and respond to them. We need that variety because readers are talking about our coverage on so many different platforms  our own site, Twitter, Facebook and more. Plus, there are readers contacting us directly by email and phone. We even received a letter in the mail  which I promptly Instagrammed.Twitter can be very useful for quickly knowing how readers are reacting to our coverage, but its also very noisy. The social media dashboard Tweetdeck makes a big difference. I set up columns that help me sort through the high volume of tweets and find the ones that are most important to me. For example, I have a column that shows me every time a tweet mentioning The New York Times is getting a lot of attention.Facebook is also crucial to our work. We can use it to get feedback on our coverage and reach out to our readers, asking them about the news or their communities.One of my colleagues on the Reader Center, Josie Sedgwick, wanted to know what the long winters are like for our readers who live around the Arctic Circle. She put together a series of questions using an in-house tool called Formacist, and then posted that on Facebook, targeting readers who live in countries in that region. She was hoping to hear from maybe a dozen readers; she heard from 700. (And their responses were breathtaking.)Facebook Live enables us to have candid and accessible back-and-forth discussions between our journalists and our audience. A recent thought-provoking example was a Race/NYT chat with hosts John Eligon and Rachel Swarns discussing adoptions that cross racial and ethnic lines.We also use email, and the comments system on our site. Plus, our colleagues send us interesting or useful feedback they spot through our Reader Center Slack group.And then theres text message. My brother-in-law happens to be very good at spotting criticism of our coverage that is bubbling up on Twitter and probably will deserve our attention. On the weekends, when I am less active on Twitter, hes my early warning system.What could be better?Many of our colleagues wish they had a better sense of what our readers are saying about their coverage. There is a lot of feedback to keep up with and sort through. Wed love to have a tool that would enable us to aggregate reader feedback (emails, social media posts, comments and more) in a faster and more systematic way.Youve invested time in coming up with creative ways to use social media. What are some of your favorite uses of social media sites like Twitter, Facebook, Snapchat or Instagram? I appreciate Twitter when reporters bring us along on a journey, telling a story with their tweets. Rukmini Callimachi, our correspondent who covers Islamist extremism, took her followers along as she traveled with an embed into western Mosul, for example, introducing us to villagers and showing us what she saw.When Julie Turkewitz, a national correspondent, traveled with a group of students from Parkland, Fla., to the state capital to demand more gun control, she tweeted scenes from the bus along the way. Her tweets were gripping and immediate, and they gave us a window into a scene we couldnt have otherwise gotten.Twitter is also an indispensable tool for journalists and just about anyone else to be part of a conversation about the news as its unfolding.While journalists are on Twitter, the bulk of our readers are on Facebook. At The Times, we regularly use Facebook to reach our readers and ask them to participate in our coverage.I also prefer Facebook for its sense of community. Facebook groups tend to be closed, so people are writing posts to a segment of people. Perhaps because the posts are not for the wider public, there seems to be a lot less posturing on Facebook than on Twitter.Do you have a personal favorite Facebook group?My guilty pleasure is scrolling through the Maplewood Moms* Facebook group. (I live in a neighboring New Jersey town.) Local parents post questions that are incredibly relevant to my life, like how to get your toddler to brush his teeth. There are discussions on managing a commute and bedtimes, and horror stories of lactation rooms that dont lock.Even though I dont know all of the mothers, or even most of them, I feel a sense of shared values and experiences. We can so easily relate to one another, battling toddler meltdowns and long waits at the pediatricians office. And this leads to an online environment that feels both intimate and supportive.What other tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?I tried the Apple Watch and could barely figure it out. So Ill say my phone (an iPhone 7 with a maroon and purple case).My entire life exists on my phone. For nonwork purposes, I love that I have a camera and video recorder with me wherever I am  crucial for a parent of young children.I do my banking, listen to podcasts, read, and jot down funny things my 4-year-old, Isaac, says. And I wrote out these answers on my phone (in the Notes app) while getting my hair cut.Smartphones now also make for easy house stalking. I love going to a dinner party and then checking out the persons home on Zillow. My husband and I often play a game to guess how much we think the house sold for. (Life in the suburbs is underrated.)In our own home, our kids love using our Amazon Echo. Isaac asks it all sorts of important life questions (like Alexa, do you like bubbles?). He also orders up his favorite songs, then he and his little brother dance around the kitchen.I wish there were a feature on my phone that could make it quickly obvious to others what I am doing on it. I grew up watching my parents read the newspaper over breakfast. I wish that when I was reading the news, my kids could tell. Instead, they just see my head in my phone. That is the major reason I still get the Sunday paper.
My first Division I cross country race began like any other in my life: a writhing sea of legs and elbows; the sound of spikes thudding into dirt; and competitors muttering, Watch it. My limbs felt light, as if they contained the hollow bones of a bird wing.At the top of a hill, nearly a mile and a half into the three-mile race, parents, coaches and teammates yelled and jangled cowbells. Amid the clamor, I saw my dad, who had flown from Oklahoma to North Carolina to watch me race.Take your turtle shell off, he said, in his quiet but fervent way. It was a cheer he had made up when I was 12 years old or so, after the two of us watched box turtles climb an impossibly steep hill. With my dads encouragement, I felt powerful. I moved ahead of girls with slumped shoulders who breathed in gusts.I crossed the finish line triumphant, finishing third on my team and seventh over all. Before my dad returned home, we got ice cream, our post-meet ritual, and dreamed out loud about races to come.Just four months later, before a meet, I left for a routine warm-up. Snowflakes whirled from a low, white winter sky. My feet crunched against packed flurries. When I re-entered the indoor track 20 minutes before my race, the walls turned to pixels. I toppled to the ground. A trainer set my feet on a chair. Cheek pressed to the rough rubber floor, terrified, I watched the dance of the leaders as they switched positions.After testing my heart, pulse and blood pressure, the athletic doctor declared me sound. He explained my symptoms away by saying they were likely an allergic reaction to medication I had taken for a recent bout of bronchitis. I left the appointment and arrived at practice the next day shaken, but ready to run again.In the weeks that followed, however, my symptoms grew stranger. I stammered through nonsensical repetitions of words (sky news, sky news, I, I, I, um, sky news), my legs crumpled from under me without warning, and I lost my memory during episodes, which lasted hours at times.I visited a slew of doctors  a cardiologist, neurologist, ophthalmologist  and went through a battery of tests: an M.R.I., M.R.A., EKG, 24-hour Holter monitor. The tests all came back normal, but nearly every day I lapsed into incoherence. Not wanting to admit to my parents  or, truthfully, to myself  how bad my condition was, I lied to them on the phone. I attended classes, even while symptomatic, and trekked to the track every afternoon to record times, all in an attempt to maintain some semblance of my former life.For months, I tried to ignore my waning health. On the phone with my dad, I lied. Running is going well, Id tell him. We discussed the splits  the times for each segment of a race  Id aim to hit in the 10K later in the season. When talking about running, we existed in a world far from the exam rooms and inconclusive tests.He came to visit in late spring. Without the thousand miles of telephone static between us, I couldnt hide my condition. At a baseball game, my head began to rock back and forth. The field dissolved into color. My dad, who had never seen me during an episode, looked at me as though I were a wounded animal he had no way of saving.From the time I started running competitively in middle school, my dad had been the one to forecast race day weather, calculate my workout splits, and map out courses so he could cheer for me as many times as possible. Long-distance running was our love language. What would we talk about if not about mileage and routes and new success? Would he still love me the same?For the remainder of spring, when my coach ordered me to practice, I slogged through laps on the track until the rust-orange lanes dissipated into a blurry haze. To run again would mean the neurological episodes had been a fluke, some kind of spell I could break. Again and again, I collapsed onto the interior of the field. Eventually, my symptoms pervasive, I made a difficult decision to quit the team, leaving behind a dream and an identity that I had cultivated since I was a young girl.On the walk to my apartment from the track, I called home. I quit, Dad, I said. I held my breath. I hadnt ever quit a race, not for sickness, not for shin splints, and not for an overgrowth of bone that burst through my big toe during my junior year of high school, for which I held off surgery until after the State Meet.He was silent on the other side of the line for a moment. Im glad, bug. Weve got to get you healthy.Illness is a run with no known distance, an unseen finish line. In the seven years since quitting the team, my dad and I have traded workout splits for vitals and race strategies for medication plans. Instead of analyzing course maps, my dad studies the results of my EEG recordings. He sits with me in waiting rooms before big appointments, and once composed math problems for me during a hospital stay as if prescribing a set of intervals.Despite staying twice in the testing ward of the hospital for three days of continuous monitoring, and despite visiting neurologists and other specialists for years, I still remain without a clear diagnosis. My charts, when I leave my neurologists office, describe my condition as Seizure Disorder, Migraine Variant, and Transient Alteration of Awareness.Because my episodes still happen, rupturing my daily life with slurred words and lost memory, I have spent years in fear of running. But last spring, with my dads encouragement, I trained for a marathon. Each day, I texted him splits, told him stories about how I passed the university team, or asked for advice about twinges in my legs.On the last day in April, I lined up with thousands of others at the starting line. Gales of wind pushed rain over the crowd and I took off at the crack of the gun, my legs remembering a hard-earned cadence. At mile three, I heard a familiar voice echoing a phrase that has evolved over the course of illness. Rather than urging me to run faster, as he did when I was a competitive university athlete, my dad now encourages me to remove the shell of fear brought on by my neurological episodes.Early in the race, neither of us could know that I would collapse just before mile 23, where a medical attendant would find me incoherent and where, without an ounce of hesitation, my dad would sprint across the marathon course, explain my symptoms to the professionals, and help me to the car. In that moment, gray sky lifting into light, all I heard was my dad yelling Take your turtle shell off. I accelerated, the strength of my stride unfailing yet.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: Hes been in office 14 months, but President Trump is increasingly falling back on the hard-edge isolationism that fueled his America First campaign.He also said he planned to deploy the National Guard to the border with Mexico, to confront what the White House calls the growing threat of illegal immigration and crime.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, didnt say how many troops would be sent, nor when. Mr. Trump has spoken before about using the military to police the border, only to have his aides walk back the remarks. Immigration rights campaigners said the announcement was a political ploy. Mr. Trump has been criticized by some conservative supporters for signing a trillion-dollar-plus spending measure that didnt fund the border wall he promised. The woman who shot and wounded three people at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., before killing herself on Tuesday has been identified by the police as Nasim Najafi Aghdam.Ms. Aghdam, who was in her late 30s, was active on YouTube, where she had posted videos including music parodies and workouts.She had criticized YouTube for measures that decreased the number of views of her videos, some of which contained what the sites staff said were inappropriate scenes. YouTube had removed all of her channels by Tuesday night. Heres  what else we know about the shooting. A mentally ill man on suicide watch hanged himself. Gang members were allowed to beat other prisoners. Inmates whose cries for medical attention were ignored resorted to setting fires in their cells.These are just some of the details that have emerged during a trial in Mississippi that has provided a rare glimpse into the world of privately operated prisons. The case comes as the number of inmates in private facilities is increasing and as the Trump administration hints that it will expand their use. For the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. today, we look back at the civil rights leader and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.All the issues that he raised toward the end of his life are as contemporary now as they were then, a historian who has written several books about Dr. King said.Heres the Times front page the day after Dr. King was shot, and his obituary. We also spoke to black pastors around the U.S. about their calls for action in a climate that has shifted drastically since the civil rights era. China struck back at the U.S. today with proposed tariffs on American goods including soybeans, cars and chemicals. The move came just hours after the Trump administration detailed $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese products.The news sent U.S. stocks  sharply down this morning. Heres a snapshot of global markets today. Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailers stock.We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms. How do you say Oops in Swedish? The New York Stock Exchange welcomed the Sweden-based company Spotify on its first day of trading by flying a Swiss flag out front.The streaming music service ended the day with a valuation of $26.5 billion. Morgan Stanley has fired a star financial adviser who had been accused by multiple former wives and girlfriends of physical abuse and stalking.The Times reported the accusations against the broker, Douglas Greenberg, last week.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Save your relationship  outsource chores. Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips. Recipe of the day: Try a dinner of Swedish (not Swiss) meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Though not the dominant force in technology that it was in the mid-20th century, IBM continues to employ hundreds of thousands worldwide.This investigative piece shows the ways many of those workers are made to feel unwelcome, or forced out, late in their careers.Once past 55, one former employee said, You have to prepare for losing your job and burning through every cent youve saved just to get to retirement.  [ProPublica/Mother Jones] Kevin McKenna, deputy business editor  The Road Not Taken, a poem widely seen as a celebration of unorthodox choices, has been called the most misread poem in America.This animated video by the magazine that first published the poem in 1915 helps us reconsider what Robert Frost meant about taking the one less traveled by.  [The Atlantic] Jennifer Jett, senior staff editor, Hong Kong Oaxaca on the GowanusOur critic tried out Claro, in Brooklyn, a restaurant that pays tribute to a rich branch of Mexican cuisine with house-ground masa and riveting moles. When its always sweater weatherFor nearly 20 years, Samuel Barsky has been knitting sweaters depicting familiar sights. More recently, he has posted photographs of himself in front of landmarks while wearing matching knitwear. Best of late-night TVSeveral of the comedy hosts discussed President Trumps tweets about Amazon and the Postal Service: This is when I appreciate Twitter: It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office, Seth Meyers said. Quotation of the dayThe one thing that would be dishonorable for us is to bring all this attention to the assassination of Dr. King and not have a resurrection of the efforts and the unfinished business dealing with systemic racism, systemic poverty. The Rev. Dr. William Barber II, a North Carolina pastor whose sermons and outreach efforts often address civil rights. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from the March 28 crossword puzzle:  Like ___, all tears: Hamlet. The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in Shakespeares Hamlet:The story of Niobes tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to earth and killed all of Niobes children. In anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to end her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would feel no more.Even as a rock, however, Niobes tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mothers eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
TEL AVIV, Israel   Halofom Sultan went from being jailed in his native Eritrea for opposing the oppressive government to detention in Israel, where he is seeking asylum after fleeing for his life.So when Israel\'s prime minister announced a deal with the United Nations on Monday to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants, Sultan was hopeful."There was a little light," he said. But hours later, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu backtracked, canceling the deal and casting Sultan\'s future, and those of thousands of others, once again into uncertainty.Netanyahu\'s stunning reversal was just the latest twist in a policy that has careened from detentions to deportations as Israel struggles with how to deal with the migrants. The country\'s 35,000 African migrants have been at the receiving end of those decisions, and the scrapping of the U.N. deal means they must now wait for the next decree by Israel\'s government to know their fate."It feels like a balloon thrown to the ocean that goes to any direction when the wind blows," the 38-year-old Sultan said. "All the time a new law, a new amendment, changes every time. So I have no clear option or plan or clear vision of what will happen next."The migrants, along with much of Israel, watched in disbelief as Netanyahu went from proudly announcing the U.N. deal live on national TV to shelving it hours later.In laying out what he described as "a good agreement" that "enables us to solve this problem," Netanyahu said Israel agreed to cancel the planned expulsion of tens of thousands of African migrants. Instead, he said the deal called for sending half of the migrants to Western nations and allowing the rest to remain in Israel.After an outcry from hard-line members of his coalition and residents of the poor neighborhoods in southern Tel Aviv where many of the Africans live, Netanyahu suspended the agreement. Then, following a meeting Tuesday with Tel Aviv residents, he nixed the deal entirely."After I weighed the pros and cons, I decided to cancel the agreement," Netanyahu said. "We will continue to work determinedly to exhaust all the options at our disposal to remove the infiltrators."The Africans, mainly from war-torn Sudan and dictatorial Eritrea, began arriving in Israel in 2005 through its porous border with Egypt after Egyptian forces violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel. Tens of thousands crossed the desert border, often after enduring dangerous journeys, before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx.Since then, Israel has wrestled with how to cope with those already in the country. Many took up menial jobs in hotels and restaurants, and thousands settled in southern Tel Aviv, where Israeli residents began complaining of rising crime.Hawkish Israeli politicians have labeled them infiltrators, with one calling them "a cancer" threatening the country\'s Jewish character. Israel has gone from detaining them in remote desert prisons to purportedly reaching a deal with a third country, believed to be Rwanda, to have them deported. All the while, Israel has faced legal challenges, with the U.N. deal offering a potential solution to a yearslong saga that has divided the country.Critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the earlier plan to deport the migrants to a third country unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants. Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, Holocaust survivors, rabbis, poets and pilots all appealed to halt the plan.Israel considers the vast majority of the migrants to be job-seekers and says it has no legal obligation to keep them. The Africans say they are asylum-seekers who fled for their lives and face renewed danger if they return.Dror Sadot, spokeswoman for The Hotline for Refugees and Migrants advocacy group, said the fate of the asylum-seekers remains unclear since Netanyahu himself acknowledged that there is no deal with Rwanda and has yet to come up with any alternative policy."Of course we will continue our struggle and consider all our legal options until every last asylum-seeker gets the status they deserve," she said.On Tuesday, migrants milled about southern Tel Aviv, shopping in stores carrying African goods and ducking into shops selling phone cards. Competing posters hanging from balconies carried messages for and against deporting the migrants.Sultan, the Eritrean migrant, said he left his homeland in the Horn of Africa because he was in danger. He had been jailed several times for his opposition to the government and feared his life was at risk if he stayed any longer.He left on a perilous journey, leaving his wife and young children in Eritrea while he sought safety. He hasn\'t seen his family, now in an Ethiopian refugee camp, since he fled in 2010.He has worked in Israeli coffee shops and construction sites to make ends meet. Last year, he was sent to Israel\'s Holot detention facility, where he was held for a year as part of Israel\'s migrant policy. Now unemployed, he spends his time as a community organizer working to better conditions and seek a solution for his fellow migrants.He accused Netanyahu of playing politics and urged Israel to find a solution. "I want to make clear this is a humanitarian case, not a political issue," he said.Following up on a demonstration last month that drew thousands, the migrants responded to Netanyahu\'s announcement Tuesday that he was scrapping the deal by protesting outside his office in Jerusalem and in central Tel Aviv."As an asylum seeker, as a human being, I\'m continuing to fight," said Sultan. "I hope with the help of the Israeli society there will be a solution."
WASHINGTON   Asserting the situation had reached "a point of crisis," President Donald Trump on Wednesday signed a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration."The lawlessness that continues at our southern border is fundamentally incompatible with the safety, security, and sovereignty of the American people," Trump wrote in a memo authorizing the move, adding that his administration had "no choice but to act."The announcement came hours after Trump pledged "strong action today" on immigration and a day after he said he announced he wanted to use the military to secure the southern border until his long-promised, stalled border wall is erected.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said she had been working with governors of the southwest border states to develop agreements on where and how many Guardsmen will be deployed.She suggested some troops could begin arriving as soon as Wednesday night, though other administration officials cautioned that details on troop levels, locations and timing were still being worked out.Trump has been frustrated by slow action on building his "big, beautiful wall" along the Mexican border  the signature promise of his campaign  as well as a recent uptick in illegal border crossings, which had plunged during the early months of his presidency, giving Trump an accomplishment to point to when he had few.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support.Nielsen said the effort would be similar to a 2006 operation in which President George W. Bush deployed troops to help U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel with non-law enforcement duties while additional border agents were hired and trained. President Barack Obama also sent about 1,200 troops in 2010 to beef up efforts against drug smuggling and illegal immigration.Nielsen said her department had developed a list of locations where it would like assistance on things like aerial surveillance and other support, and was discussing with the governors how to facilitate the plans. She declined to say how many personnel would be needed or how much the operation would cost, but she insisted, "It will be as many as is needed to fill the gaps that we have today."One congressional aide said that lawmakers anticipate 300 to 1,200 troops will be deployed and that the cost was expected to be at least $60 million to $120 million a year. The Pentagon would probably need authorization from Congress for any funding beyond a few months, said the aide, who wasn\'t authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.Under the mechanism the administration is looking to use, the Guard would not be mobilized as a federal force. Instead, governors would control the Guard within their states.Governors of the four U.S. states bordering Mexico were largely supportive of the move. The office of California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat who has sparred with Trump on immigration issues, said any federal request would be promptly reviewed to determine how the state could best offer its assistance.The Mexican foreign ministry said Nielsen told Mexico\'s top diplomat that troops deployed to the border "will not carry arms or carry out migration or customs control activities."Senators in Mexico urged President Enrique Pena Nieto to temporarily suspend cooperation with the U.S. on immigration and security issues. In a nonbinding statement approved unanimously Wednesday, the senators asked Mexico\'s government to freeze joint efforts "in the fight against transnational organized crime" until Trump starts acting "with the civility and respect that the people of Mexico deserve."Trump first revealed Tuesday that he\'d been discussing the idea of using the military at the border with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis."We\'re going to be doing things militarily. Until we can have a wall and proper security, we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump said.He spent the first months of his presidency bragging about a dramatic drop in illegal border crossings, which some DHS officials had even dubbed the "Trump effect." Indeed, arrests at the border last April were at the lowest level since DHS was created in 2003, and the 2017 fiscal year saw a 45-year low for Border Patrol arrests.But the numbers have been slowly ticking up since last April and are now on par with many months of the Obama administration. New statistics released Wednesday show about 50,000 arrests of people trying to cross the southwest border last month, a 37 percent increase from the previous month, and a 203 percent increase compared to March 2017. The monthly increase follows typical seasonal fluctuations.Trump\'s new focus on hard-line immigration policies appears aimed, at least in part, in drawing a political contrast with Democrats heading into the midterm elections. He has also been under growing pressure from conservative backers who have accused him of betraying his base for not delivering on the wall, and he was set off by images played on his favorite network, Fox News, of a "caravan" of migrants making their way through Mexico.In Texas, which already has about 100 National Guard members stationed on the border, Republican Gov. Greg Abbott, said the president\'s decision "reinforces Texas\' longstanding commitment to secure our southern border and uphold the Rule of Law."New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, a Republican, said she appreciated the Trump administration\'s efforts to involve states in the effort to better secure the border. Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, also a Republican, tweeted that his state "welcomes the deployment of National Guard to the border. Washington has ignored this issue for too long and help is needed."___Associated Press writers Lolita C. Baldor, Matthew Daly and Robert Burns in Washington and Nomaan Merchant in Houston contributed to this report.
Two warring factions of Democratic lawmakers have agreed to reunite and end seven years of infighting, a significant political realignment that ends an arrangement that had helped give Republicans a foothold of power in Albany.An alliance in the State Senate between Republicans and a renegade of group of Democrats known as the Independent Democratic Conference was formed during Gov. Andrew M. Cuomos first week in office. It had since amounted to one of the oddest political arrangements in the country  and one that had become increasingly untenable in the current political climate.Impassioned activists have called for Democrats to unite against President Trump and to hold up New York as a bastion of liberalism. They have launched primaries against most of the breakaway Democratic lawmakers. And now Mr. Cuomo himself is facing a primary challenge, from the actress Cynthia Nixon, who has made the bipartisan alliance in Albany a focus of her attacks on governors progressive credentials.The Democratic accord, which would dissolve the I.D.C., left the Republicans with a perilous one-vote majority hinging on one last recalcitrant Democrat. It came together Tuesday over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhouse.For the good of the party, this has to stop, Mr. Cuomo said at the closed-door gathering, according to two people who were in the room.Around the table sat Mr. Cuomo; the leaders of New Yorks most powerful labor unions; Joseph Crowley, the top-ranked New York Democrat in the House of Representatives; and the two rival Democratic leaders of the State Senate  Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who leads the main group of Democrats, and Jeffrey D. Klein, who leads the breakaway group  among others.Mr. Cuomo asked Ms. Stewart-Cousins and Mr. Klein to reunite immediately, a faster timeline than had previously been discussed.Mr. Klein and Ms. Stewart-Cousins shook hands, and the room erupted in applause.Under the terms outlined by Mr. Cuomo, Ms. Stewart-Cousins would become the sole Democratic leader, and Mr. Klein would become her deputy.On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo announced the deal at a Manhattan news conference, flanked by the two longtime rival lawmakers.Today what unites us is more important than what divides us, he declared.Skepticism abounds, and many details, including the division of staffing and budget for a unified conference, remain unresolved. The longtime chief deputy under Ms. Stewart-Cousins, Senator Michael N. Gianaris of Queens, who has clashed with Mr. Klein, is expected to remain in the leadership. In the past, Mr. Klein and Mr. Gianaris have also run rival Democratic political operations.Still, the accord represents a watershed for fractious Democratic politics in the state and a political coup for Mr. Cuomo as he faces his most serious primary challenge. For years, Mr. Cuomo had said it was not in his power to arrange a shotgun marriage between Mr. Klein and Ms. Stewart-Cousins, but as a deal came together the governor was very much in the middle of it.In a brief phone interview, Ms. Nixon said Andrew Cuomo cant have it both ways  claiming he was powerless to corral the I.D.C. for years and then taking credit for it disbanding on Wednesday. She accused Mr. Cuomo of working from the old playbook of centrist politics.He is trying hard to evolve, she said, but I think its a little too late.Ms. Nixon noted the accord came less than a week after lawmakers struck a deal on a $168 billion budget, when the states priorities were set. Ms. Stewart-Cousins had been excluded from those discussions.I would have the leader of the Senate Democrats in the room negotiating, she said.Mr. Cuomos team touts his progressive record, which includes approving a minimum-wage increase, paid family leave and some of the tightest gun-control measures in the nation, despite a Republican State Senate.Mr. Cuomo has burnished those credentials since Ms. Nixon emerged on the scene, and on Wednesday he personally called Bill Lipton, the state director of the liberal Working Families Party, to describe the Senate unity agreement, according to three people familiar with the call.Mr. Cuomo is actively seeking the endorsement of the Working Families Party, which has its own ballot line in New York. He has also been calling other leaders across the state on the phone to sell the unity package as key to helping the Democrats win a Senate majority.Asked about Ms. Nixons role in the unity deal, Mr. Cuomo said, It had nothing to do with it.The Manhattan steakhouse meeting was about more than just the State Senate. Jefrey Pollock, a pollster for Mr. Cuomo, gave a presentation about messaging in upcoming races, and the governor emphasized the need for Democratic allies to work together in 2018.Other meeting attendees included Mr. Cuomos top aide, Melissa DeRosa; his campaign chairman, William J. Mulrow; and Christine Quinn, the vice chairwoman of the New York Democratic Party and the former New York City Council speaker.Mr. Klein did not arrive unprepared. The night before, at an Italian restaurant in New York City, Mr. Klein huddled with the members of the I.D.C. and discussed the possibility of rejoining the conference as deputy leader, according to three people familiar with the situation.And when Mr. Cuomo broached the idea on Tuesday at the steakhouse, Mr. Klein quickly accepted.Ms. Stewart-Cousins, in contrast, said she had to bring the proposal back to her caucus, people familiar with the meeting said. When Ms. Stewart-Cousins first arrived at the steakhouse, she was briefly taken aside by Ms. DeRosa and Alison Hirsh, the political director for Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, for what three people said was her only heads up on what Mr. Cuomo was about to propose.Later on Tuesday evening, at a fund-raiser for a Democratic Senate candidate in an upcoming special election, Mr. Cuomo said that we have achieved political clarity in watching Republican rule from Washington, D.C., for the last year.The clarity is this: Everything we are for, they are against. Its that simple, he said. The Democratic Party and the Republican Party are an antithesis, one of the other.The candidates challenging I.D.C. members in primaries said they would continue on, even if the Democratic Party leadership formally opposed them.Jessica Ramos, who is running against Senator Jose R. Peralta of Queens, said she didnt trust the deal. Not for a second. Weve seen this movie before, Ms. Ramos said.Four years ago, Mr. Kleins group promised to ally with the mainline Democrats but ended up not doing so.One state senator in the mainline Democratic group, who requested anonymity to speak candidly about the fragile agreement, noted that they would proceed cautiously because weve been sabotaged before.Lets accept it  but sleep with one eye open, the senator said.The arrangement with the G.O.P. had resulted in numerous perks for I.D.C. members, including larger staffs and offices, and lucrative committee chairmanships that came with extra cash.But on Wednesday, the New York State Comptrollers office said it would reject thousands of dollars in stipends promised to two I.D.C. members  Diane J. Savino of Staten Island and Mr. Peralta  after it was revealed that they were being paid as Senate committee chairpeople, despite not holding those titles. (Both are vice chairs, an unpaid position.)The rival Democratic factions had agreed last November to reunite this month, following two special elections that would bring the total number of Democrats in the 63-member chamber to 32  the bare minimum for a majority.But one of those senators, Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat, has continued to caucus with Republicans.Without Mr. Felder, who recently held up the state budget for concessions on how yeshivas are overseen by the state, the new Democratic coalition would still be one vote short of a majority. In an interview, Mr. Felder reiterated that he has no loyalty to either party, but rather is looking for the best deal for his district, which includes a large population of Orthodox Jews.I dont feel obligated to remain with the Republicans, or obligated to join the Democrats, he said. Im loyal to God, my wife and my constituents, and New Yorkers.He added that he still planned on caucusing with the G.O.P. and said that he had spoken with the Republican majority leader, John J. Flanagan of Long Island, and other Republicans since news of the reunification broke.Asked if he might join the Democrats after the special elections on April 24, he said he would consider it at any point.But, he said, I think its fair to say that I would have to feel a compelling reason to leave.
Today in HistoryToday is Wednesday, April 4, the 94th day of 2018. There are 271 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 4, 1968, civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., 39, was shot and killed while standing on a balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee; his slaying was followed by a wave of rioting (Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Chicago were among cities particularly hard hit). Suspected gunman James Earl Ray later pleaded guilty to assassinating King, then spent the rest of his life claiming he\'d been the victim of a setup.On this date:In 1818, Congress decided the flag of the United States would consist of 13 red and white stripes and 20 stars, with a new star to be added for every new state of the Union.In 1841, President William Henry Harrison succumbed to pneumonia one month after his inaugural, becoming the first U.S. chief executive to die in office.In 1859, "Dixie" was performed publicly for the first time by Bryant\'s Minstrels at Mechanics\' Hall in New York.In 1864, President Abraham Lincoln, in a letter to Kentucky newspaper editor Albert G. Hodges, wrote: "I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me."In 1917, the U.S. Senate voted 82-6 in favor of declaring war against Germany (the House followed suit two days later by a vote of 373-50).In 1933, the Navy airship USS Akron crashed in severe weather off the New Jersey coast with the loss of 73 lives.In 1949, 12 nations, including the United States, signed the North Atlantic Treaty in Washington, D.C.In 1958, Johnny Stompanato, an enforcer for crime boss Mickey Cohen and the boyfriend of actress Lana Turner, was stabbed to death by Turner\'s teenage daughter, Cheryl Crane, who said Stompanato had attacked her mother.In 1975, more than 130 people, most of them children, were killed when a U.S. Air Force transport plane evacuating Vietnamese orphans crash-landed shortly after takeoff from Saigon. Microsoft was founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen in Albuquerque, New Mexico.In 1983, the space shuttle Challenger roared into orbit on its maiden voyage. (It was destroyed in the disaster of January 1986.)In 1988, the Arizona Senate convicted Gov. Evan Mecham (MEE\'-kuhm) of two charges of official misconduct, and removed him from office; Mecham was the first U.S. governor to be impeached and removed from office in nearly six decades.In 1991, Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa., and six other people, including two children, were killed when a helicopter collided with Heinz\'s plane over a schoolyard in Merion, Pennsylvania.Ten years ago: Texas authorities started removing the first of more than 400 girls from a compound built by a polygamist sect. Lisa Montgomery was sentenced to death in Kansas City, Missouri, for killing Bobbie Jo Stinnett (STIN\'-net), a mother-to-be, and cutting the surviving baby from her womb. (Montgomery remains on death row.) Pirates seized the French luxury yacht Le Ponant and its 30 crew members off the coast of Somalia. (The crew was released a week later; six alleged pirates ended up being captured.) Beyonce and Jay-Z were married during a private ceremony in New York.Five years ago: Connecticut Gov. Dannel P. Malloy signed into law sweeping new restrictions on weapons and large capacity ammunition magazines similar to the ones used by the young man who gunned down 20 children and six educators in the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre. At least 72 people were killed in the collapse of an eight-story residential building being constructed illegally near Mumbai, India\'s financial capital. Pulitzer Prize-winning film reviewer Roger Ebert, 70, died in Chicago.One year ago: A chemical attack on an opposition-held town in northern Syria left about 100 people dead; a joint investigation team made up of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and U.N. experts concluded that the Syrian government was responsible. A federal appeals court ruled for the first time that the 1964 Civil Rights Act protected LGBT employees from workplace discrimination; the 8-3 decision by the full 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago concerned the case of an Indiana teacher who charged that she wasn\'t hired full-time because she was a lesbian.Today\'s Birthdays: Former Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., is 86. Recording executive Clive Davis is 86. Author Kitty Kelley is 76. Actor Craig T. Nelson is 74. Actor Walter Charles is 73. Actress Christine Lahti is 68. Country singer Steve Gatlin (The Gatlin Brothers) is 67. Actress Mary-Margaret Humes is 64. Writer-producer David E. Kelley is 62. Actress Constance Shulman is 60. Actor Phil Morris is 59. Actress Lorraine Toussaint is 58. Actor Hugo Weaving is 58. Rock musician Craig Adams (The Cult) is 56. Talk show host/comic Graham Norton is 55. Actor David Cross is 54. Actor Robert Downey Jr. is 53. Actress Nancy McKeon is 52. Actor Barry Pepper is 48. Country singer Clay Davidson is 47. Rock singer Josh Todd (Buckcherry) is 47. Singer Jill Scott is 46. Rock musician Magnus Sveningsson (The Cardigans) is 46. Magician David Blaine is 45. Singer Kelly Price is 45. Rhythm-and-blues singer Andre Dalyrimple (Soul For Real) is 44. Country musician Josh McSwain (Parmalee) is 43. Actor James Roday is 42. Actress Natasha Lyonne is 39. Actor Eric Andre is 35. Actress Amanda Righetti is 35. Actress-singer Jamie Lynn Spears is 27. Actress Daniela Bobadilla is 25. Pop singer Austin Mahone (muh-HOHN\') is 22.Thought for Today: "The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy. The true neighbor will risk his position, his prestige and even his life for the welfare of others."  Martin Luther King Jr. (1929-1968).
NAIROBI/LAGOS   In Kenya, which has a large and fast growing population of internet users, there are no specific laws or regulations to protect the privacy of those individuals.Kenya is not alone in Africa, which as a region has clocked the world\'s fastest growth in internet use over the past decade. Unlike in Europe and the United States, where data-privacy laws provide a level of protection to consumers, many Africans have little or no recourse if a data breach occurs because often legal and regulatory safeguards don\'t exist.Recent revelations about British analytics firm Cambridge Analytica, which Facebook says improperly accessed personal data of about 50 million of the social networks users in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, have also touched the African continent.Cambridge Analytica or its parent company SCL Group worked on the 2013 and 2017 campaigns of Kenyas President Uhuru Kenyatta. The company was also hired to support the failed re-election bid of then-president Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria in 2015, according to Britains Guardian newspaper.A spokesman for the Nigerian president said on Monday that the country\'s government will investigate allegations of improper involvement by Cambridge Analytica in the 2007 and 2015 elections.Kenyas ruling Jubilee party told Reuters that it had hired SCL for branding in the 2017 presidential election but did not elaborate on the precise nature of the work.Cambridge Analytica didn\'t respond to a request for comment. The company has suspended its chief executive pending what it said would be a full, independent investigation.LIMITED PROTECTIONGrowth of internet use in Africa, a continent of 1 billion people, has been fueled by rapidly expanding mobile broadband networks and ever more affordable phones.That presents a major growth opportunity for internet companies such as Facebook, which currently sees some 123 million people across sub-Saharan Africa accessing its social network platform monthly.While some governments on the continent have responded to these rapid changes - rights campaigners welcomed a data-protection law passed by South Africa 2013 - many have not.Privacy advocacy groups say that is leaving a lot of Africans, many of whom are accessing the internet for the first time, with little or no protection.More than half of Africa\'s 54 countries have no data protection or privacy laws, according to London-based rights group Article 19. And, of the 14 countries that do, nine have no regulators to enforce them, the group says.In Kenya, a country of 44 million people with some 8.5 million using Facebook on a monthly basis, specialists say no specific data-protection laws exist. The government has said it is drafting a data protection bill.But even some data-privacy bills that have been introduced in African parliaments have been held up for years.In Nigeria, the African country with the most internet users, a data-protection bill that was introduced in 2010 is still making its way through parliament.The proposed Nigerian legislation, which is being reviewed by the upper house of parliament, would prohibit the processing of data for purposes other than their original intended use and companies could be fined for breaches of personal information.But digital-rights campaigners question whether law enforcement agencies and the judiciary would be equipped to enforce the Nigerian legislation if it was passed.A spokesman for Nigerias communications ministry declined to comment.Data privacy groups say that many African governments have a vested interest in not introducing such laws because they use citizens data for their own ends  whether for political campaigns, as in Kenya, or for suppressing political dissent, as rights groups allege that the government in Tanzania has done since passing a cyber crime law in 2015.A spokesman for the Tanzanian government said that authorities issued new regulations last month that, among other things, prevent the national communications regulator from disclosing personal data of web users.PERSONAL DATAPrivacy advocates say another issue impacting data protection in Africa is that some companies, including Facebook, have introduced stripped-down versions of their own platforms and some other websites for no fee in exchange for users providing some data.From users of its Free Basics service, Facebook collects certain information such as when the service was accessed, what type of device they are using and the mobile operator used, according to the company\'s website. "We may also share such usage information with the providers of third-party services," Facebook said.Privacy advocacy groups say some Free Basics users, who may be getting online for the first time, may have little or no understanding of what information is being collected from them.Facebook, which says its Free Basics service is available in 27 African countries, said users can "choose to delete their information associated with their use of Free Basics, and may do so by contacting us."Though some Africans access the internet via a no-fee service like Facebooks Free Basics, many of those who have the ability to pay for mobile phone data still use the platform more than any other site on the internet, said Nanjira Sambuli, who heads the World Wide Web Foundations office in Kenya. "Facebook is the Internet for many people in Africa," Sambuli said.While specialists say public awareness about the importance of data protection in Africa is far less than in the United States and Europe, there are signs of growing concern.Phumzile van Damme, a South African politician from the opposition Democratic Alliance, has raised concerns about what she termed the "digital dark arts" being used to manipulate voters ahead of the country\'s elections scheduled for next year.Writing on Twitter on March 25, van Damme said she had been studying the lessons of the 2016 U.S. election and reading reports of the involvement of private firms including Cambridge Analytica in "manipulating" voters using their data in recent African elections.She said that she hoped South Africa\'s communications regulator had been doing the same."Regulation always lags behind technological developments," she said.For some, concerns about the amount of personal information Facebook collects are weighed against the access to others that the social network provides."Is it time to say goodbye to Facebook?" asked the headline of a column published last month by The Standard, a Kenyan daily.The columnist wrote that his concern over Facebook holding the power of its users data  from what a user does on the platform to his or her activities on linked apps and other sites - had led him to leave Facebook repeatedly over the last two years.But, he added: "My leaving has however never lasted more than a day."(Reporting by Maggie Fick and Alexis Akwagyiram; Additional reporting by Ed Cropley in Johannesburg, John Ndiso in Nairobi, Fumbuka Ng\'wanakilala in Dar es Salaam; and Eric Auchard and Paul Sandle in London; Writing by Maggie Fick; Editing by Cassell Bryan-Low)

WASHINGTON  A little over a year ago, when news surfaced of a Trump administration memo that proposed mobilizing as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up unauthorized immigrants at the southern border, a White House spokesman quickly denounced the reports as irresponsible.That is 100 percent not true, Sean Spicer, the press secretary at the time, told reporters aboard Air Force One. There is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.At the Pentagon, where officials had greeted the news grimly, there were sighs of relief: Military leaders have long opposed sending National Guard troops to the border.There is a significant opportunity cost, said James G. Stavridis, a retired four-star admiral who commanded United States forces in Europe and Latin America and is now dean of The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, adding that troops sent to the border with Mexico  ostensibly an American ally  would miss important training opportunities for their real primary mission  combat.But the idea that Mr. Spicer called inconceivable a year ago is back in play.On Wednesday, White House officials said that President Trump planned to mobilize the National Guard to the southern border. The announcement came a day after Mr. Trump surprised some of his top advisers by saying that he wanted to send in the military to do what the immigration authorities, in his view, could not: secure the border from what he characterized as a growing threat of unauthorized immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Wednesday that her department and the Defense Department would work with governors to deploy the Guard to assist the Border Patrol. But beyond that, officials had few details about how many troops would go, when they would arrive or in what capacity they would serve.Ms. Nielsen said she hoped the deployment would begin immediately, but administration officials said the formal agreements with governors that would allow the troops to mobilize were still being negotiated.At the Pentagon, several officials privately expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries  the Islamic State, North Korea, Russia, Syria  to contend with. Massing American troops at another countrys border, several current and former Defense Department officials said, would send a message of hostility and raise the chances of provoking an all-out conflict.We are so lucky here in this country when you look at our borders, said Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, a retired veteran of the Iraq war. Weve got the Pacific on one side, the Atlantic on the other and allies to the north and the south. Mexico is not an adversary. Why would you present this offensive barrier to a friendly country?Frustrated that his promised border wall remains a long way from being built, Mr. Trump said he had been discussing deploying the National Guard to the border with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who sat next to him on Tuesday as the president complained about what he called Americas weak immigration laws.Despite the historically low number of apprehensions at the border last year, data released on Wednesday by Customs and Border Protection showed a steady uptick since the beginning of the year. Last month, 37,393 individuals were caught by the Border Patrol, up from 26,662 the month before and 25,978 in January.Defense Department officials say that Mr. Mattis backs the proposal if it mirrors deployments made under Mr. Trumps predecessors, when troops were sent in a support, but not enforcement, role. The active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border. But President Barack Obama sent 1,200 troops in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006 to act in support roles for border authority officials.But military officials worry that Mr. Trump may not be satisfied with the Bush- and Obama-level deployments. Even limited deployments, Pentagon officials said, have come with their share of trouble.In 1997, Esequiel Hernandez Jr., an 18-year-old American student, was killed by a group of  United States Marines on a drug surveillance mission in Redford, Tex., while he was herding goats. Mr. Hernandez was the first American civilian to be killed by active-duty military troops since the Kent State massacre in 1970, and the episode led the Clinton administration to suspend troop patrols near the border.That kind of encounter, or worse, could erupt if Mr. Trump sends a large number of National Guard troops to join the high number of other personnel already guarding the border, Defense Department officials said.Homeland security has more than 16,000 Border Patrol agents on the southwest border, along with 6,500 customs officers at the ports of entry. Customs and Border Protection has several drones flying along the border, as well as 12,000 sensors, nearly 700 miles of fencing and other technology including infrared cameras. Immigration and Customs Enforcement runs several task forces that involve personnel from other agencies, including the Defense Department, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Treasury Department.As Mr. Mattis unveiled the Pentagons National Defense Strategy and Mr. Trump his National Security Strategy in recent months, the two men took different routes. Mr. Mattis stuck to a framework that has accompanied past administrations foreign policy doctrines and talked about the importance of strengthening, not weakening, American alliances with other countries. Mr. Trump, in contrast, peppered his speech with references to building a wall along the border with Mexico.Even if Mr. Mattis tried to steer Mr. Trump toward the limited border deployment used by his predecessors, the president would want it to be visible, said Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagons top financial officer during Mr. Bushs first term. He would want to have troops literally patrolling the border. It wouldnt be enough to have drones.But if Mexico responded by putting troops on its side of the border, Mr. Zakheim said, the situation could deteriorate quickly.All it takes is one mistake, he said. Somebody fires. And then what?
MANCHESTER, N.H.  John Kasich had been here before. This much he pointed out, twice, before anyone had a chance to wonder why he was back.Wow! he called out, stepping into the Red Arrow Diner on Tuesday for an unannounced stop, emitting the kind of surprise that only a politician can summon over three dozen people eating lunch. It was just this crowded the last time.Mr. Kasich sidled up beside the counter, squatting to greet a young customer, Sophia Bauer, whose name he seemed to hear as Sylvia.How old are you? he asked. Five? Are you going to be in first grade? Do you have a dog? Oh, really? Soon, Sophia was being tickled by the two-term Republican governor of Ohio.He led her by the hand toward a booth in the corner, where a television camera was waiting. Isnt that cool? he said. The two peered into the camera together. The governor smiled. Then Sophia was dismissed. All right, Sylvia, he said. Go back to your mom. It was time to talk to CNN again.It is both unclear what Mr. Kasich is doing here, in the first-in-the-nation primary state, and entirely clear what he is doing. He is not not running for president.There would be nothing unusual about this  convening with past supporters and advisers from his 2016 campaign, making the rounds to talk up his record, congratulating the locals on their wisdom, their food, their can-do attitude  but for some inconvenient political context for Mr. Kasich.President Trump intends to run for re-election in 2020, and he has beaten Mr. Kasich before  here (by nearly 20 percentage points), elsewhere, and everywhere but the governors home state during the last round of primaries. In a party that, since then, has broadly pledged itself to Mr. Trump in sickness and in health, the president would almost certainly beat him again if the race were held today.But then, the race is not being held today, and Mr. Kasich is not exactly who he was in 2016, when he finished a semi-surprising second here. He is now one of the few prominent Republicans willing to knock Mr. Trump on health care, climate change, Russia and other issues in front of any television camera that will have him. In doing so he has won a new set of national admirers, though not always those who vote in Republican primaries.I think Im increasingly viewed now as not just a Republican but as something different, kind of a hybrid, he said in a half-hour interview on Tuesday, shuttling between stops in an S.U.V. I have people of all shapes, sizes, philosophies and party preferences that approach me. But what does that mean? I dont know. Im on television, so all the sudden they want to talk to me. Television moves everybody up, right?That remains to be seen, electorally. A University of New Hampshire poll released in February found that 60 percent of the states Republicans would support Mr. Trump again in a primary; 18 percent planned to vote for someone else. Another recent poll was more generous to Mr. Kasich, though it still showed Mr. Trump with a clear edge. And while some prominent Republicans in the state, like former Senator John E. Sununu, remain vocal Kasich defenders, few sitting officeholders have made a point of consistently challenging Mr. Trump.Mr. Kasichs case against Mr. Trump rests as much on tone as substance. The governor, a longtime supporter of free-trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, has been sharply critical of the presidents tilt toward protectionism on trade, saying it runs afoul of the Republican Party he knew. He has also lamented the presidents bid to dismantle DACA, the program aimed at protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation.On this and other issues, though, Mr. Kasich has sought to contrast himself with Mr. Trump most pointedly as a spokesman for national decency. Rarely was he more animated on Tuesday than during a discussion of the presidents Easter morning tweet declaring, NO MORE DACA DEAL. On Easter, the governor said on Tuesday, later adding, Come on, leaders dont do that.Officially, Mr. Kasich says, another run for president is not on his immediate radar, but he is keeping his options open, maintaining the relationships required for any prospective campaign.Regardless of his eventual choice, Mr. Kasich has succeeded, at least, in installing himself permanently in the grand drama of the Trump era, drawing a pack of reporters to New Hampshire in an off-year on the pretext of a question-and-answer session at a college and ensuring that the news media will continue to track his doings once his term expires in January.He enjoys being consequential, said Tom Rath, a senior national adviser to Mr. Kasichs 2016 campaign and a former attorney general of New Hampshire. That alone would be enough to continue this effort, whatever you want to call this effort.Mr. Kasich, 65, has excelled for decades at such relevance retention, to say nothing of reinvention. During a hiatus from politics in the early and mid-2000s, he was the host of a Fox News show, Heartland With John Kasich, broadcast live from Columbus, Ohio  and at times, a fill-in for Bill OReilly  while working as an investment banker for Lehman Brothers.Known to colleagues as prickly and blunt as a nine-term congressman, he now projects a cant-we-all-get-along buoyancy about the ways of the world, calling himself the prince of light and hope in the 2016 primary field and proving to be a prolific purveyor of campaign trail hugs.Since then, Mr. Kasichs perpetual skepticism of the president has contributed to the impression that he was something of a silver medalist in 2016, the last man standing between Mr. Trump and high office. In practice, that was Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mr. Trumps only true threat by the middle of the primary season. Mr. Kasich, who did stay in the race one day longer than Mr. Cruz despite trailing him by about 400 delegates, was such a nonfactor that Mr. Trump did not bother with a nickname for him until late April 2016. It was 1 for 38 Kasich.If the governor ran again, said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trumps one-time campaign manager and a veteran of New Hampshire politics, Hed be 0 for 50 John.Jeanie Forrester, the chairwoman of the New Hampshire Republican Party, reported few rank-and-file voter concerns about their leader in Washington, even as Trump critics like Mr. Kasich and Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, who visited last month, make pilgrimages to the state. Everybody is feeling pretty good, she said.Still, Kasich allies see a way, noting the states wealth of independent voters and observing that far more New Hampshire residents sided against Mr. Trump, who won the primary with 35 percent of the vote, than with him. (Many more, of course, declined to support Mr. Kasich, who received 16 percent.)As the generally popular governor of a longtime bellwether state, Mr. Kasich has distinguished himself from some fellow Republicans on policy, expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and pushing for new gun restrictions after recent mass shootings.At least as central to his political brand, currently, is a contrarian streak that lurches beyond substance. He can speak at times like a sort of Midwestern oracle with a sweet tooth, by turns invoking Aristotle and Aquinas, raising the radio volume for Stairway to Heaven and holding forth on the majesty of dessert.Human reason is imperfect, he said at one point during the interview, borrowing from his recent State of the State address back home.I like Bowie. I love Lady Gaga, he said at another.Friendlys! he cried soon after, when a fellow passenger mentioned that a Friendlys was near. I want to go to Friendlys. (He got to go to Friendlys, chasing his fish-and-chips from the diner with a kind of omnibus sundae known as the Jim Dandy.)A short while later, Mr. Kasich arrived for the stated purpose of the trip: a fireside forum at New England College in Henniker, where a bipartisan crowd of some 150 students and political veterans received him warmly. Hes a positive voice, said Gary Glines, 60, whose wife, a Democrat, had turned his attention to Mr. Kasich before the 2016 primary. She said, You need to listen to this guy. He sounds like you. By the nights end, Mr. Kasich, appearing for over an hour, sounded like a person running for president  or, at least, a person reminding New Hampshire that he is not this president.He lamented the namby-pamby of his fellow politicians. He pledged to do the best I can at doing the best I can. He encouraged the crowd to give an ovation to Dana Bash of CNN.And when the moderator asked if Mr. Kasich believed New Hampshire should keep its place at the head of the political calendar, the governor pandered knowingly. The Iowa caucus, he said gently, should probably still come first, despite that states shortcomings. I spent a year there one week, Mr. Kasich said. Just kidding, Iowa!The joke did not kill, even in this room.
In a city packed with portmanteaus  TriBeCa, NoLIta, NoMad  the slapping of SoHa on the southern section of Harlem in recent years probably was seen by some brokers as a harmless exercise in marketing.But for many residents, business owners and community officials in the neighborhood, which ranges from Central Park North to West 125th Street, and from Morningside Park to Fifth Avenue, the effort has been the equivalent of a dumpster fire, a messy and nose-wrinkling affront.Scrubbing the word Harlem from the map strips an African-American bastion of its identity, critics say, while hastening the gentrification that puts areas out of reach for many. (The nickname may also not chart high on the cleverness scale, as SoHa has been used for various blocks and businesses around nearby Columbia University for years.)At the end of the day, its all Harlem to me, said Kiki Mwaria, a high school math teacher, who in 2007 left a co-op studio in Murray Hill for a two-bedroom, one-bath apartment in a postwar co-op in South Harlem. The unit, in a building that allows buyers in only certain income brackets, like many nearby properties, cost $320,000; similar two-bedrooms there sell for around $450,000 today, according to listings.Despite a growing population that is increasingly diverse, a vibrant black legacy endures in the area, as at Malcolm Shabazz Harlem Market, which specializes in goods from Africa, and where Ms. Mwaria, who was born in Kenya, enjoys shopping for jewelry.South Harlem also stands out for its friendliness, residents add. People say good morning and good evening and check in with each other, Ms. Mwaria said. Theres an awareness of each other that you get in a really lovely way.While South Harlem has always had fans, it was subject to negative attention in the late 20th century, particularly from outsiders, as the neighborhood grappled with crime, poverty and decay. But most peoples memories of those days seem to be receding, if they ever existed at all.I didnt have any preconceived notions of the place, because Im from a different country, said Itai Gurvich, 42, an Israeli who lives in the neighborhood.When Mr. Gurvich was at Columbia in the mid-2000s earning a Ph.D. in operations research, he never set foot in South Harlem. But that was not because he thought it was dangerous, he said, but because he had the impression there was little there in the way of nightlife.After teaching in the Midwest for years, Mr. Gurvich returned to New York in 2016 and rented a one-bedroom condo on the Upper West Side, while considering buying nearby.But the area was expensive. For $1 million, he could get a one-bedroom co-op, he said, but in South Harlem, the same amount would go twice as far. So in January, Mr. Gurvich, an associate professor at the Cornell Tech graduate school, relocated to a two-bedroom, two-bath cond-op there that cost $985,000.And, as it turns out, the lively restaurant-lined Frederick Douglass Boulevard is, he said, more bustling than his former neighborhood on the Upper West Side.Janet Cohlmia, 64, who lived in Manhattan in the 1970s before moving to Wichita, Kan., did have an opinion of Harlem, based on the eras less-than-flattering headlines.To be honest, I felt scared, she said. Still, Ms. Cohlmia snapped up a five-bedroom penthouse condo at Circa Central Park last year. The unit, which she shares with her husband, Dennis, 65, cost $7.2 million.In Kansas, there were only white Republicans pretty much everywhere I went, said Ms. Cohlmia, who is retired from the international food business. Now she is amid an entirely different demographic, which she savors during nights out to see live music or just during short walks to the pharmacy.I knew deep in my soul that everybody is the same, she said. I just needed to walk the walk.For some officials, the arrival of pricey condos is no surprise. Property values have been swinging up since 2001, when President Bill Clinton began leasing an office on the edge of the neighborhood, on West 125th Street, said Brian Benjamin, the state senator who represents the neighborhood.Some investment is welcome, said Mr. Benjamin, a resident of South Harlem and critic of the SoHa brand.You dont want abandoned brownstones and vacant lots and the rest of it, he said. But at the same time, there a character you dont want to lose. And thats the rub.If South Harlem becomes SoHa, he added, where does it stop?Harlem once covered most of Upper Manhattan, by some measures, though enclaves have emerged throughout the decades. East Harlem, for instance, is now considered distinct. So is Hamilton Heights.While South Harlem has much in common with its sister neighborhoods, it possesses an enviable amount of historic stock. Standouts include the Monterey, a reddish Romanesque rental on West 114th Street and Graham Court Apartments, a Beaux-Arts edifice trimmed in limestone on Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, with apartments with fireplaces.Also desirable is a sizable historic district, filled with stoop-fronted brownstones, by Marcus Garvey Park.Prewars dont just have rentals. Some, like the Strathmore, at 1890 Powell Boulevard, have been reinvented as condos, which in its case meant adding stainless-steel appliances and washers and dryers.Co-ops that impose income caps on buyers  otherwise known as H.D.F.C. buildings, for the Housing Development Fund Corporation  are also prevalent. They account for a third of the for-sale inventory, brokers say. In exchange for property-tax breaks, the co-ops agree to the caps, under an ongoing plan to create middle-class housing.But the co-ops, which are credited by many for shoring up the neighborhood, can be resold at a profit. Examples are at 353 West 117th Street, 1878 Powell Boulevard and 67-69 Saint Nicholas Avenue.Contemporary towers are rare, but include 111 Central Park North, a condo, and Circa, a 49-unit version on the site of a former gas station. Of its 38 market-rate units that have been available since sales began in late 2016, 17 have sold.On Mar. 29, 36 co-ops and condos, in new and existing (including H.D.F.C.) buildings, were for sale at an average of $617,000, according to StreetEasy.At the high end was an updated two-bedroom, one-bath condo with stainless-steel appliances and recessed lighting, in Towers on the Park, a 1988 complex, listed at $975,000. The least expensive was a co-op studio in need of a renovation, in a prewar building with an income cap, for $99,999.The market seems to be percolating. In 2016, 175 co-ops and condos sold in the neighborhood for an average price of $836,000, according to StreetEasy, while in 2017, 194 sold at an average of $1.08 million.Changes are less noticeable in the townhouse category, an active one in the area. In 2016, 16 single- and multifamily townhouses sold for an average of $2.68 million, according to StreetEasy, while in 2017, 16 sold, for an average of $2.55 million.As for one-bedroom rentals, whether in walk-up brownstones or large amenity-laden buildings on Douglass Boulevard, most are about $2,500 a month.West African cuisine is dished out at a cluster of restaurants on West 116th Street, including Pikine, which specializes in Senegalese dishes.Classic American fare is also on menus, as at the popular five-year-old Harlem Shake, which offers burgers in a retro-themed space. Layers of history overlap there. Mounted outside is a double-sided liquor sign, missing both of its rs, that seems a relic of a rougher past.Small supermarkets are scattered. But amid cries of gentrification, Whole Foods Market opened last summer in a multi-floored shopping center that also contains a Raymour and Flanigan furniture store and an Olive Garden restaurant.Several subway lines cross the neighborhood.A, B, C and D trains all run under Frederick Douglass Boulevard. Stops among them include West 125th Street, West 116th Street and Cathedral Parkway, though West 125th Street is the most regularly served.The 2 and 3 trains run under Malcolm X Boulevard; both stop at West 125th Street, West 116th Street and Central Park North. And numerous buses run to Midtown.Some schools in the neighborhood have struggled. A zoned and non-charter option is Public School/Intermediate School 149, the Sojourner Truth School, which offers prekindergarten to eighth grade. On state exams in 2017, 13 percent of students there met standards in English, versus 41 percent citywide. On math exams, five percent met standards, versus 38 percent citywide.Another option is Public School/Intermediate School 180, the Hugo Newman College Preparatory School, which also offer prekindergarten to eighth grade. On its state exams, 33 percent of students met standards in English, while 21 percent did in math.A nearby public high school is Central Park East High School, on Madison Avenue, just outside the neighborhood, which enrolls about 500 students. In 2016, average SAT scores there were 419 in reading, 436 in math and 412 in writing, compared with 446, 466 and 440 citywide.The areas churches, which come in all shapes and sizes, attract international interest, with tour buses often parked outside.The First Corinthian Baptist Church, on Powell, is a converted Thomas Lamb-designed theater. The column-fronted Mount Olivet Baptist Church, on Malcolm X, was formerly a synagogue. The Greater Refuge Temple, on Powell, is also worth a look. Tall stripes of bright colors jazz up its unusual facade, like a line of Popsicles.The neighborhood was part of the village of Nieuw Haarlem, founded by Dutch settlers in 1658, and residents with Dutch ancestry continued to be a major presence until at least the 20th century, according the citys Landmarks Preservation Commission. The Ephesus Seventh-day Adventist Church, in an 1887 sandstone building with a tall steeple on Malcolm X Boulevard, was constructed for the Reformed Low Dutch Church of Harlem, a congregation dating to 1660, the report said.
AUGUSTA, Ga.  Bryson DeChambeau, a rising star on the PGA Tour, never imagined he would withdraw from a tournament just to avoid pain.DeChambeau, 24, grew up admiring Tiger Woods, who had brought a football mentality to the sport, his toughness immortalized by his victory at the 2008 United States Open despite a left leg in need of surgery.But after DeChambeau winced through the first round of last months Valspar Championship, he wasnt thinking of the Tiger Woods he had always wanted to become. Instead DeChambeau remembered what Woods had said during a practice round they had played together at Torrey Pines in January, nine months after Woodss fourth lower-back operation since April 2014. He thought about Woodss frank accounts of the pain he had endured, how it had kept him from the game he loves and had compromised his quality of life with his two children.After consulting with his caddie and coach, DeChambeau pulled out of the tournament and didnt touch a club for the next three days. The first time Ive done that in my entire life, he said.Once again  though in a most unexpected way  Woods had served as a model for the next generation of golfers.Now, after a two-year absence, Woods is back at the Masters as one of the early favorites after top-five finishes at his last two tournaments  his best showings since 2013.It was here at Augusta National that he became the sports transformative figure at 21, half his lifetime ago. From that moment in 1997 when he slipped the winners green jacket over his willowy frame after a staggering 12-stroke victory, Woods was the high-performance engine that drove golf forward financially, demographically and, possibly to his eventual detriment, athletically.This week, Woods acknowledged his history of coming back too soon from surgeries.Oh, yeah, definitely, said Woods, who noted the pattern. He had knee surgery in December 2002 and won the first tournament he played less than two months later. He had his first back surgery in 2014 and played two competitive rounds less than two months later. He had two more back operations in the fall of 2015 and, 14 months after the second one, he returned for the event in the Bahamas that he hosts.Were pushing the boundaries of our bodies and minds and, unfortunately, a lot of times we go over the edge and we break down, Woods said. But thank God theres modern science to fix us and put us back together again.[READ MORE: Players to Watch at the Masters]No one can know for sure whether Woods overdid his training, which began when he was 2 years old, but his vulnerability and medical odyssey over the last few years have made a case for restraint, for appreciating the longer potential career arc that differentiates golf from other professional sports like football.After winning 79 tour titles in his first 18 years as a pro, Woods has not had a victory since August 2013. His last major title came in 2008. He has spent much of the last three and a half years struggling to make the cut or recovering from surgery.Woods is still lean, fit and powerful, as measurements of his club-head speed attest, yet the supple 21-year-old Masters champion has given way to a brittle 42-year-old locked in battle with an undefeated opponent: time. Is anybody in here who is in their 40s ever going to feel like they did in their 20s? Woods asked a roomful of reporters last fall, before he began what figures to be a proud champions last stand.Woodss decision last spring to have spinal fusion surgery, which he called a last resort after three less complex operations, seems to have restored him, at least for the moment. I got a second chance on life, Woods said on his website last week. I am a walking miracle.After everything Woods has put his body through, its reasonable to wonder if, in retrospect, he wishes he had done anything differently. But regret is not in Woodss repertoire, as he demonstrated when I addressed that direct question to him. He answered as if he had followed the only path that was clear to him.As an athlete, were always pushing ourselves, he said. The best ones push themselves beyond human limits. And thats what separates them. They go through pain; they go through different things that most people are unwilling to do.He mentioned the toughness of two Hall of Fame athletes, the basketball player Michael Jordan and the hockey player Wayne Gretzky, who told me later that he played in the 1993 Stanley Cup finals with a broken rib that he had never publicly disclosed.I happen to be one of those guys, Woods said. I pushed my body and pushed my mind to accomplish the things that I knew I could, and I was able to do it.Davis Love III, the son of a teaching pro, grew up in the company of elite players. But he did a double take when he glanced out the car window on a ride from the suburban course to the team hotel in downtown Boston during the 1999 Ryder Cup. Jogging on the side of the road toward the city was a 23-year-old Woods, the youngest United States team member by four years.At the hotel, Love said, he asked Woods: Why run? Why not rest?I have to run, he recalled Woods saying. Love persisted: Everybody in Brookline knows youre here. Cant you just run on a treadmill?Woods replied, I can outrun them.In his 20s, Woods obsessively ran about 30 miles a week. His motivation, he said, was to improve his endurance, but he also found the rhythmic footfalls calming. I just find it peaceful, he said in a 2007 interview with Mens Fitness.Woods also lifted heavy weights, an activity players before him had avoided in the belief that big muscles would restrict flexibility and impede their swings. Woods made it his mission to change the perception that golfers were not real athletes.With his collared shirts barely containing his muscles, Woods routinely clobbered courses  and the competition. His athleticism and dominance increased golfs appeal to younger players like Dustin Johnson and Jordan Spieth, who were proficient at multiple sports.Tigers is the last generation that went through high school and got laughed at for playing golf, said Arron Oberholser, a Golf Channel analyst who played for San Jose State against Stanford when Woods was there.The work that Woods put in to make golf look cool and effortless was on display even before he entered high school. The summer before his freshman year, he was at the Navy Golf Course near his Cypress, Calif., home from sunup till sundown. He would hit a bucket of balls for every club in his bag and then play the course.As a freshman, Woods was always the first player on the practice range, which rubbed off on his older teammates, who had been more inclined to dig into a basket of fries than a bucket of range balls.He changed high school golf, said Don Crosby, who coached Woods at Western in Anaheim, Calif. He added, When the other kids saw him out on the range hitting balls, they stopped going to the snack bar.Woods began chiseling his body  and golfs image  soon after he arrived at Stanford. The authors Jeff Benedict and Armen Keteyian, in their new unauthorized biography Tiger Woods, wrote that the freshman Woods obtained his own key to the weight room from the football coach, Bill Walsh, who had guided the 49ers to three Super Bowl titles.The key was his golden ticket, allowing him to lift whenever he wanted. Once Woods turned pro, it wasnt long before he filled out the sweaters that once hung loosely on him.In 2005, Luke List was an amateur playing at the United States Open in Pinehurst, N.C. One morning in the weight room of the hotel where he was staying, List stumbled upon Woods running on a treadmill.He was in there for an hour and a half, and he was doing some pretty impressive lifting, List recalled, adding, I ended up spending longer watching what he was doing than working out.As Woods is well aware, the game can strain bodies all by itself. He has been swinging a club since he was a toddler and competing in tournaments since he was 4 years old.We put a lot of shearing on our spines, a lot of rotation, Woods said of golfers in general. On top of that, we hit hundreds of thousands of shots and so its the cumulative effect. And Ive been playing tournament golf for 38 years, so its a lot of shearing.Brandt Snedeker, an eight-time tour winner, has noticed that after all those years of dedication to the game, Woodss right pinkie is misshapen.Its hooked like its meant to be on a golf club, Snedeker said.On the final nine of the 2013 Barclays, Woods was stalking what could have been his sixth PGA Tour victory of the year when a week of back spasms caught up with him. After hitting a shot from the 13th fairway, he fell to his knees as if struck by lightning.Woods did not withdraw. Somehow he kept going and even birdied two of his last three holes to finish one stroke behind the winner, Adam Scott. Still ailing, Woods completed 12 competitive rounds over the next four weeks.It was a familiar script. He had always played through injuries, sometimes in defiance of medical advice. Two weeks before the 2008 United States Open, a doctor told Woods that the torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee required him to use crutches for a few weeks, stay off his feet for three more weeks and then begin physical therapy.Woods limped and flinched throughout the tournaments four rounds of regulation and the 19 playoff holes he needed to beat Rocco Mediate. Only then did he surrender to the pain, acknowledging that he needed surgery and would take off the rest of the season.You cant question or judge or criticize, Notah Begay III, a longtime friend and college teammate, said of Woods. You just have to let things play themselves out because in most cases he usually ends up doing things that really surprise the world.During his recovery, Woodss longest break from golf at that point, he encountered another kind of sports extremism. He received treatment from Anthony Galea, a Canadian sports medicine specialist who later pleaded guilty to a felony charge of bringing misbranded and unapproved drugs  including human growth hormone, which is banned by most sports organizations as a performance enhancer  into the United States to treat athletes.Woods said Galea had visited him at his Florida home four times to provide platelet-rich plasma therapy  using a patients blood to heal injuries, a process that is not banned  but nothing more.When he returned to the tour in 2009, Woods bounced back with six victories and three runner-up finishes in 17 starts. That October, Forbes named Woods the first athlete to earn $1 billion. He had ushered in an era of skyrocketing purses and television coverage, had won more major golf titles than anyone but Jack Nicklaus and seemed incapable of slowing down.A month later, Woods was in a minor car accident that led to the revelation of marital infidelities, a divorce, four months away from golf and the loss of many endorsement deals.But some things did not change. In 2012, Love was a Ryder Cup captain overseeing a squad led by Woods, then 36. They ran into each other in the hotel early one morning, and Love asked how he was feeling. Woods replied that he had logged 50 miles on a stationary bike. All Love could do was shake his head.Back injuries have limited Woods to 24 starts on the PGA Tour since the end of 2013. In 2014 and 2015, he had three microdiscectomies, which removed damaged parts of a spinal disk that put pressure on the nerve and caused pain. Woods chose the procedure because it seemed to offer the quickest path back to golf.And yet he was still unable to play his favorite tournament, the Masters, the past two years, although he attended the champions dinners. At last years meal, Woods said this week, the pain from merely sitting was excruciating.My back was fried, he said. I was trying everything, whether it was cortisone shots, epidurals, anything to take away the pain so maybe I might be able to withstand a week.Less than two weeks after that Masters, he had lumbar fusion surgery, which involved replacing a disk with a bone graft, causing two vertebrae to grow together and eliminating the motion between them.A month later, Woods was charged with driving under the influence after the police spotted him, apparently asleep, in his car alongside a road near his home in Jupiter, Fla. The police report said that the car had been damaged and that Woods had struggled to stand on one leg and to touch his finger to his nose. Woods pleaded guilty to reckless driving and checked into a clinic to deal with his misuse of prescription drugs. A toxicology report revealed that at the time of his arrest, Woods had five drugs in his system: the painkillers Vicodin and Dilaudid, the anti-anxiety medication Xanax, the sleep aid Ambien, and THC, the active ingredient in marijuana.I completely understood, said Lanny Wadkins, 68, a 21-time tour winner whose career was curtailed by chronic back pain, because at one point, I was like, If this pain doesnt go away, I want a gun.After other procedures failed to provide relief, Wadkins had a six-and-a-half-hour double fusion operation in 1999 at the Texas Back Institute, where Woods had his 90-minute fusion surgery.Then, Woods said, he did not swing a club for nearly six months.Robert Watkins Jr., a spine surgeon in Los Angeles who has not treated Woods, placed the chances of a professional athlete performing at pre-injury levels after a lumbar fusion at roughly 60 percent.Watkins, and other biomechanics experts I interviewed, said the key to the long-term success of fusion surgery is faithfully executing exercises aimed at strengthening, and straightening, the bodys kinetic chain, a system so interconnected that pain in the elbow can lead to back or neck injuries.By stopping the motion at the disk space, the fusion can increase stress at other adjacent disks, which may lead to pain and problems from other disks in the future, Watkins said.Noting that Woods had tied for second at the Valspar Championship, his fourth tour start after returning from the surgery, Watkins said, The fact that he contended for a PGA title 11 months after a lumbar fusion is remarkable.Woods credited his quick return to a stronger core and increased mobility in key areas, achieved through nonweighted activities like swimming.Trying to lengthen my body, he said. I can still get the endurance, I can still get the long burn, I can still feel the lactate building, but its not loading my body like I used to.When he tees off in the Masters on Thursday, Woods will be surrounded by evidence of the changes he wrought in golf since his 1997 win, the first for a person of color and the first of his 14 major victories, including four green jackets.This years 87-man field features players from 23 countries, up from 14 in 1997. For several of this years top participants, Woodss 1997 triumph stoked their interest in the game.A 5-year-old Hideki Matsuyama watched the telecast from Japan and can still remember the excitement in the commentators voices during the Sunday round.A 9-year-old Jason Day watched from Australia and decided right there and then to do everything in his power to become a dominant player.A 7-year-old Rory McIlroy, who was hitting 40-yard drives as a 2-year-old, watched from Belfast, Northern Ireland, and the next morning, he said, all I wanted to do was hit balls and try to be Tiger.But now, what lessons are they taking from him?By 21, McIlroy had turned pro, won his first tournaments on the European and PGA Tours and endured his first injury. He was headed down a similar path as Woods  but not anymore. It is perhaps another testimony to how Woods continues to transform the sport that when McIlroy, a former world No. 1, was told what Woods had said about pushing beyond human limits, he responded, I could never give you that answer. He added, I feel I work hard, but I enjoy the rewards on the other side.Day, 30, a former world No. 1, said he understood how easy it could be to go too far with workouts. It gets very addictive, said Day, who has had back, ankle and thumb injuries. At the British Open last year, Day said, he was in the gym squatting 330 pounds and dead-lifting 350 pounds. I was doing a little too much, he said. Weve kind of backed off since then.On the other end of the spectrum is Phil Mickelson, five years older than Woods and never one to try to bulk up. But he, too, said he had been influenced by Woodss workout regimen. Woods came along and really brought fitness to the forefront in peoples minds, said Mickelson, who began working in 2003 with Sean Cochran, a trainer whose previous clients included the San Diego Padres.The emphasis from the beginning, Mickelson said, was strengthening the stabilizing muscles around the spine and joints. We did it with the idea of elongating my career, said Mickelson, who credits his regimen, which encompasses TRX exercises, medicine balls and balance boards, for his healthy back and avoidance of long-term injuries.Maybe thats a fitness lesson for the younger generation. But if Woods succeeds in this comeback, his travails may become just another part of his legend. At least one 20-something views them that way.Once hailed as the female version of Woods, the L.P.G.A. star Michelle Wie, 28, can almost match Woods injury for injury if not title and title. Just seeing what his club-head speed is right now and everything, she said, seeing how hes hitting the ball and how he was coming back  its truly inspiring and motivating.
Starting at noon on Feb. 23, the town of Arlee, Mont., evacuated. Most of its 600-odd residents drove 70 miles south through Missoula and then into the Bitterroot Valley, a river corridor full of subdivisions, trailers, exclusive private communities and ammunition stores. The crowd filtered into the gymnasium at Hamilton High School, wearing red shirts and pins bearing the faces of the Arlee Warriors basketball team, who that evening would be playing the Manhattan Christian Eagles.Manhattan Christian is a faith-based private school near Bozeman. Arlee is a public school on the Flathead Indian Reservation; about half the town is Salish, descendants of the people forced out of the Bitterroot in the 19th century. Manhattan Christians boys were tall and muscled; most of Arlees players were well under six feet and on the thinner side. Manhattan Christian arrived in a sleek black bus with aerodynamic curvature and tinted windows; Arlee came in a yellow Blue Bird. The Feb. 23 game would be a rematch of the previous years Class C state championship, which the Warriors won. On one wall of the gym, Manhattan Christian had hung a banner reading #unfinished. Arlee had their own banner, but they did not need it. They had Phillip Malatare.Phil is 18 and six feet tall. He claimed to be 167 pounds, but that seemed generous. His normally angular face was especially gaunt that afternoon, a result of a nasty cold. But he had a reputation in the state: for his routine triple-doubles, his no-look passes thrown around his back at a dead sprint, his unguardable pull-up jump shot, the speed and body control that made it all possible. His parents, John and Becky, arrived at 9 a.m. to watch the days earlier games and to stake out seats. The Malatares never sat together at games. It just works better, Becky said. I like to kind of breathe. John wore a red T-shirt adorned with a Salish phrase that translates as Im proud of my warriors.Ten minutes remained before warm-ups. Normally, at this point, the boys would be making fart jokes or talking about video games. Now, though, the Warriors left the locker room and gathered in a hallway. A cameraman lined the players up. They were silent. The light on the camera blinked, and Phil spoke.We, the Arlee Warriors, he said, are dedicating this divisional tournament to all the families that have lost a loved one due to  um  He tripped up, and the cameraman asked for another take.We, the Arlee Warriors, he said, are dedicating this divisional tournament to all the families that have lost a loved one due to the pro  due to the pressures Phil tried again: We, the Arlee Warriors, are dedicating this divisional tournament to all the families that have fallen victim to the loss of a loved one due to the pressures of life.We want you all to know, said Greg Whitesell, one of Phils co-captains, that you will be in our hearts and in our prayers as we step onto the floor to represent our school, community and our reservation.Lane Johnson, the power forward, spoke: As a team, we rely on each other to get through the challenges on the court or in life. Then Isaac Fisher, the 6-foot-9 center, said, To all the youth on the Flathead reservation, we want you to know that we stand together with you.Darshan Bolen, the sixth man and Phils cousin and foster brother, said, Remember, you are the future. Phil wrote that line. Then Will Mesteth, a co-captain and the teams only other senior, closed it: Please help us share this message and join our team as we battle against suicide.Only about half the Warriors could legally drive, and many struggled academically. But as state champions, they were kings on the Flathead reservation. They came into the season hoping to defend their trophy; Phil and Will also wanted a chance to play in college. But by the evening of the Manhattan Christian game, the season had transformed into something else entirely.The videographer turned off his camera, and the Warriors retreated into the locker room. The boys could hear the gym rippling with noise. Then the drumming started.Highway 93 connects Missoula, a booming college town, with Polson, on the south shore of Flathead Lake. Driving north out of Missoula, you pass a few gas stations, then wind through tight timber. A large casino emerges on the left, and then, just north of an overpass for migrating wildlife, the land yawns open to reveal a spectacular landscape. A timbered ridge rises to the east, out of which flows the Jocko River, fat with snowmelt in the spring. The highway curves through ranchland, then briefly splits to accommodate Arlees five-block downtown. Tourists who stop at the charming huckleberry-themed restaurant or the coffee shop and art gallery dont always realize theyre guests of a sovereign nation: the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes. One mile later, Arlee is gone.The town is named for a Salish subchief. In 1871, Arlee, a Nez Perc by birth, acquiesced to the U.S. governments demands that the Bitterroot Salish relocate. This put him at odds with the head Salish chief, Charlo, who stayed in the Bitterroot Valley until 1891, when he marched north under military escort. Embittered, he had called Arlee that renegade Nez Perc. On the reservation, the Salish were forced together with the Pend dOreille, their historical allies, and the Kootenai, a northern tribe with a different language. Government officials assigned them Anglicized names, and in 1909 Congress passed legislation opening the reservation to settlers. Many tribal members sold their allotted land, and Chief Charlo died in 1910; Native youth were forced into a Catholic boarding school, where nuns told the children that the devil was in them. The town of Charlo, 30 miles from Arlee, is now almost entirely white. Arlee is not. The towns most popular gathering places are Wilsons, a grocery store; a community center full of basketball courts; and the gleaming gymnasium that looms over the one-story public high school.Because of its size, Arlee competes in Class C, the division representing Montanas smallest schools, most of them in mining and ranching towns or communities in Indian Country. The states seven reservations  home to members of the Salish, Pend dOreille, Kootenai, Blackfeet, Gros Ventre, Sioux, Crow, Northern Cheyenne, Assiniboine and Chippewa-Cree tribes  share a deep passion for basketball. In 1904, just 13 years after James Naismith invented the game, a team of Native girls at a boarding school near Great Falls competed in a tournament at the Worlds Fair in St. Louis and were proclaimed world champions. In 1936, a team from the Fort Peck Reservation won a state high school championship; its stars, three brothers, went on to anchor a group that beat the Harlem Globetrotters.Indian ball, as it became known, was characterized by full-court-press defense and high-scoring, improvisational fast breaks. The game is predicated on speed and cooperation. Its not very individualized, says Don Wetzel Jr., a Blackfeet Nation descendant who manages the Montana Indian Athletic Hall of Fame. Youre not taught to be like that. To make your people happy is one of the greatest things you can ever do. High school stars from the past remain celebrated today: Names like Jonathan Takes Enemy, Sharon LaForge, Elvis Old Bull, Malia Kipp and Mike Chavez remind people of on-court triumphs and, in many cases, off-court trials.Montanas best-known reservation teams have come from the plains east of the Rocky Mountains: from Lodge Grass, on Crow Nation, and from Browning and Heart Butte, on Blackfeet Nation. But for the past decade, the basketball program in Arlee, which is in the foothills of the Mission Range, has touched the hem of this elite. In 2005, a group of parents, including John and Becky Malatare, started a youth basketball clinic. Between 2009 and 2013, Arlees boys went 88-34; the girls went 105-39 between 2011 and 2016. During that time, both teams secured divisional titles but fell short at the state level. Zanen Pitts, a 32-year-old rancher and Pend dOreille first descendant, took over as the boys coach in 2013. He installed a system that combined the freewheeling speed of Indian ball with defensive strategies borrowed from college programs. There is a structure to our chaos, Pitts says.In 2014, Phil Malatare entered high school. He had dedicated most of his young life to two pursuits: horn hunting  searching for the freshly shed antlers of bull elk  and playing basketball at the community center. His arrival turned the Warriors defense into something terrifying. During his freshman year, the team lost in the state semifinals; during his sophomore year, they reached the championship; last year, they went 25-1, and Phil played nearly every minute of the championship run. Just before the end of the game, someone in the crowd called him a redskin. Then, in the final seconds, he jumped for a rebound that clinched the victory. In his bedroom, he hung news clippings of his victories and defeats, for motivation, along with the cleaned skull of a buffalo he killed.After last year, Phil was the only Class C player named to the ALL-USA Montana Boys Basketball team. This fall, when The Great Falls Tribune previewed the states best high school players, it listed Phil first. Watching Phil on the court, Wetzel got to thinking about Old Bull and Takes Enemy, each of whom he played against. Hes more like Elvis, he says. Elvis was deceptively quick. Phillip is flat-out quick. Don Holst, a former head coach for the University of Montana and a principal of Arlees elementary school, saw it differently. Old Bull was a shooter; Phil, he says, has this innate ability to see things. Pitts earnestly compared him to the N.B.A. star Russell Westbrook. I like Russells pull-up jumper a little better, he once said. Whenever Phil arrived at basketball camps, kids flocked to him. At one game, his father heard a boy scream: Phillip Malatare touched me!John Malatare, a Salish and Cree wildland firefighter, wanted Phil to cash in his ticket to leave the reservation while it was still good. A lot of these colleges in Montana, John says, will give a Native kid one chance. On reservations, basketball stars become symbols of hope, but many have struggled to replicate their high school success in college. Wetzel played at Montana State University at Billings, but he left the team after having a child in his sophomore year. He went on to a career in public education. Not everyone has been so fortunate. In 1991, Sports Illustrateds Gary Smith wrote about the Crow stars Takes Enemy and Old Bull, who both struggled with alcohol. Others have gone to college, only to leave after feeling homesick.Pitts says that in five years as head coach, he has had three college coaches ask if prospects are Native, openly worrying that they might not last in school. Women from Montanas reservations have carried a similar weight. In 1992, Malia Kipp, from Blackfeet Nation, entered the University of Montana, starring with the Lady Grizzlies for all four years. I felt if I didnt succeed, she once said, others wouldnt get the opportunity.According to Pitts and Wetzel, the skepticism Native recruits face is owed to cultural misunderstanding, and the inadequate support systems in place as a result. Those coaches need to do a better job of sustaining em, Pitts says. They need to understand what theyre coaching. That meant recognizing the gravitational pull of home for players from reservations, but also the genuinely distinct sports culture incubated there. Kids who grow up playing Indian ball on the reservation, whether or not they are themselves Native  the Arlee Warriors are Salish, Navajo, Sioux, Pend dOreille and Blackfeet, but also white, black and Filipino  can find the college game as alienating as campus life. For Wetzel, the businesslike nature and slower pace of college ball was challenging. Its conformity, he says. Wetzel thinks schools should recruit multiple reservation players at once, the way the Lady Grizzlies did a decade ago, following Kipps success. I rarely see two Natives on the court at the same time at a college level, Wetzel says. It does bring some magic.Pitts, for his part, just wanted his players to get the opportunities they deserved. That meant a lot was riding on Phil. A good student with a supportive family, he was covered by local newspapers with headlines like unstoppable. Pitts thought he had been touched by God. Sometimes he found himself pleading with him to thrive in college. Youre doing this for every kid in the world, he says, thats ever looked up to a basketball player coming off the rez.On Nov. 15, the evening before the seasons first practice, 13 boys sat anxiously in a small classroom in Arlees gym. It was 5 p.m. and already dark outside, signaling the beginning of western Montanas long winter. Coach Pitts stood at the front of the room in baggy jeans, a baseball cap covering his sandy hair, dried manure on his boots.Were here for a purpose, Pitts said. That purpose is to win a state championship. Im going to chew on you, Im going to break you down, Im going to build you back up. He said he was going to change their lives. This is so much bigger than you. He outlined the rules. Guys who disrespected teachers would not play. Guys whose parents complained about court time would not play. Latecomers would not play. Exceptions would be made only in extreme circumstances: If you want to go hunting, youve got some huge buck figured out, call me.Pitts cued up a highlight reel from last years championship season and left the room. Will Mesteth often watched the tape at night; it made him feel all warm inside. But it just made Phil sad, because his two best friends had graduated, and he wanted another championship. He also wanted, desperately, to make it as a Division 1 college player.When the tape finished, Phil walked to the front of the room in a camouflage hoodie and a backward hat. Everybodys going to be intimidated, he said. And we got to make them intimidated. And that is going to be how its going to be.The first game of the season was on Dec. 8, against a larger school from the Rocky Boys Reservation. A couple of thousand fans filled the gym at a tribal college 40 miles north of Arlee. Wills hair was shining in a double braid courtesy of his mother. Phil was wired even though he had spent the morning deer hunting.Were not nervous, Pitts said.Im nervous, Phil said. His teammates appeared relieved.On the mirror behind Pitts was a flier for a suicide-prevention hotline; all but three of the tags on the bottom had been ripped off. He opened a box, revealing sleek, hooded warm-up shirts. The boys nerves melted away in a chorus of hollering. Pitts choreographed the teams entrance, instructing the boys to fan out onto the floor once Wills grandfather, father and uncles hit the drum and started the honor song. I want everyone to know, he said: The champs are here. The boys fell silent, and Pitts prayed:Before the previous seasons championship game against Manhattan Christian, David Whitesell, Arlees superintendent, spent long hours considering what might follow a loss. In the event, Whitesell was planning to increase counseling both for the community and the team. It was a lot, he said, to place on the shoulders of a bunch of adolescent boys.The cause of his concern was a proliferation of suicides that had swept the Flathead reservation in recent months. It started in the fall of 2016, with a few teenagers. Then in the winter, just before the 2017 divisionals, the Malatares awoke to discover that a close friend had taken her own life  a woman Phil considered to be like an auntie, and an aunt of Wills by blood.Pitts and John Malatare told the boys that when people came to see the Warriors play, they briefly escaped their worries. But the suicides continued; they had become what public-health professionals call a cluster. In April, a former Warrior who quit the team shot himself after attending the funeral of a friend who committed suicide. The former teammate survived, but Pitts was haunted. The adversary is so strong, he said. Its just there.Between November 2016 and November 2017, there were 20 deaths by suicide on the reservation, according to Anna Whiting Sorrell, an official with the tribal health department. Phil said he had known a few people who had died by suicide. Asked to clarify, he said, Twenty or thirty.In 2016, the Centers for Disease Control released a study examining suicide rates among Americans by race and ethnicity. In 2014, the last year for which the researchers compiled data, non-Hispanic Native women between the ages of 15 and 24 committed suicide at a rate of 15.6 deaths per 100,000, or three times the rate of non-Hispanic white women and five times the rate of non-Hispanic black women of the same age. Young Native men had a rate of 38.2 deaths per 100,000 people. Among young people, the suicides often come in clusters, as happened in 2013 and 2014, on Arizonas Gila River Indian Reservation; in 2015, on South Dakotas Pine Ridge Indian Reservation; and last year, on the Flathead reservation. Some there, like Pitts, blamed technology, social media and bullying. Others looked to the boarding schools that removed a generation of children and created a cycle of abuse. Whiting Sorrell had come to think of suicide  along with alcoholism and drug abuse  as a symptom of intergenerational trauma, the inherited grief among indigenous communities resulting from colonization. Whitesell said that the communitys kids needed to learn to survive their past and their present.Part of that, he thought, was getting kids to talk openly about mental health. Upon taking the superintendent job in 2015, Whitesell sent the school staff to prevention training and had them take whats called an adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) quiz, a 10-question test to assess trauma. According to ACEs data the C.D.C. collected in 2010 from more than 53,000 people in 10 states and the District of Columbia, 40.7 percent of participants reported no adverse childhood experiences, while 14.3 percent reported four or more, scores that were linked to increased health and behavioral risks. I scored a seven, Whitesell says. Many kids in Arlee, he says, would most likely register right around there. That trauma can manifest in many ways. Suicide, Whitesell says, was an option. It cant be an option.In the fall, Whitesells son Greg, the Warriors co-captain, got a concussion playing football, his fifth, and had to stay home from school for three weeks. He struggled to eat and felt depressed. That confused him, because he was a star and a state champion. He almost felt as if he had no right to be sad, and that just made it worse. Greg didnt hunt like Phil and Will; off the court, he loved video games and hanging out with his friends. Now Greg started to isolate himself and to sleep a lot. I was tired of being depressed, he says. You just get tired of everything.One night he sent a despairing text to a couple of friends. He was considering climbing out his window to start running when he saw headlights in the driveway. It was two teammates, Lane Schall, a gregarious ranch kid, and Darshan Bolen, Phils cousin and foster brother. Greg told them he didnt want to live anymore.Dar sat with him while Lane went to get Gregs mother, Raelena. She spoke with her son for about 45 minutes, then took Greg to a hospital in Missoula, where Whitesell met them. (He and Raelena are divorced.) Greg spent that night in a bare room with scratches on the wall. I felt like I didnt belong there, he says.The hospital staff determined he wasnt an immediate risk and sent him home. For weeks Raelena woke up every couple of hours to check on her son, and Greg regularly saw a counselor. Then basketball season started. He kept his experience private until he learned that a younger teammate was battling depression, at which point he told the kid he had been through similar struggles. Lane and Dar never talked publicly about that night. But, Greg said later, if they didnt show up, I dont think Id be here now.In December, in a game against a team from Seeley-Swan, Phil racked up 48 points, 16 rebounds and nine assists in 24 minutes of play. Afterward, Adam Hiatt, the head coach from Montana Tech, a college in Butte that competes in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics conference, texted Phil, hoping that he would enroll.But Phil had other ideas. Sometimes he envisioned going to a powerhouse program like Oregon, but the idea of leaving Arlee caused an almost physical discomfort. He had been approached by a Division 1 school in Washington, and a small California school had offered him a full scholarship, but he brushed them off. The path to reconciling his athletic ambitions with his desire to stay close to home ran through Missoula: the college town just 24 miles south of Arlee, home of the Division 1 University of Montana Grizzlies. But the Griz had offered Phil only an invitation to walk on, meaning hed have to try out and pay his own way.Tech, on the other hand, was offering a full scholarship. Phil was the teams No. 1 recruit. Becky liked the idea. But Phil said he needed more time, and sure enough, soon a coach from the Griz reached out again. Theyre dangling that carrot, Becky said.By Jan. 9, the Warriors were 8-0 and had outscored their opponents by an average of more than 40 points per game. That evening they played Mission, a larger high school in St. Ignatius and a rival, just up Highway 93 from Arlee. In the stands, Becky sat next to Hiatt. Hes the best player in the state, the coach said of Phil. John Malatare sat a couple of rows away, calling out traps.Sitting with Hiatt, Becky digressed, as is her habit, talking about her sons dietary preferences  Phil doesnt eat salad; he eats chicken  and how he and John would leave in the middle of the night to hunt buffalo.Thats crazy, Hiatt said.But mostly Becky discussed Will Mesteth and how much Phil loved playing with him. They grew up together, she said. A few minutes later, Will carved his way to the basket. Will, No. 3, Becky said suggestively. There he goes. And then, a few minutes later: No. 3, his grandma is a Malatare. So theyre related. But Wills shot was off. In the stands, his dad, Big Will, yelled, Get him the ball!Wills parents had him when they were in high school, and he was largely raised by his tupye, his great-grandmother. Will got into powwows as a boy, singing and dancing; his grandfather gave him the claw of a black bear for protection, and he kept a collection of more than 20 pairs of Air Jordans. Wills mother, Chasity Haynes, is Salish and Navajo, and now works in the Salish and Kootenai Tribes enrollment department. Big Will  no one calls him Will Sr.  was a Sioux and Salish football star who went to play at the University of Montana but got kicked out before he played a game. Now he was a cop on the tribes drug task force. Big Will desperately wanted his son to complete college. But Wills college prospects depended on the intensity of his defense and the accuracy of his three-pointer.Will struggled early in high school, compiling a string of Fs and skipping class, sometimes to care for his tupye. But a teacher named Jennifer Jilot helped him, and he raised his grades enough to be academically eligible by his junior year. Then he made the all-state team for Class C. He didnt say much, but when he spoke, teammates and opponents alike listened closely. When it came to basketball, Will said, pretty much everyone in the state knows who me and Phillip are. But in Jilots classroom, Will curled up on her couch and hugged a pillow like a child. Jilot was deeply proud of his academic progress. She thought she might cry when he graduated.Arlee beat Mission by 18 points, but in Pittss and the other coaches estimation, it was a lackluster night; the Warriors played selfishly. At the next practice, an assistant named Francis Brown-Lonebear accused the boys of playing Missoula ball. That was about as exciting as watching Flathead Lake freeze. I want to be gone, Brown-Lonebear said. If you dont understand that, you dont understand about Indian ball.John Malatare sat in his friend T.J. Hayness truck, hurtling through the darkness. T.J. wore a wool cap with elk teeth affixed to the brim. A tribal cop who worked with Big Will, he grew up with John. Now each was a foster parent; it was T.J.s wife who committed suicide the previous February, before the state tournament. He was raising nine kids.John and T.J. had heard that buffalo were moving out of Yellowstone National Park, so they had loaded up T.J.s trailer with snowmobiles and rolled south at 2 a.m. In the 1870s, the Salish moved a few calves into the Flathead reservation, building up a herd that was later used to revive the flagging Yellowstone population. Now the Salish are one of six tribes with treaty rights allowing them to hunt Yellowstones bison when they move out of the park.On the ride down, the men rubbed their hands and whistled in anticipation. Sometimes the hunters just stood in line waiting for the bison to cross onto Forest Service land, and sometimes animal rights protesters tailed them. Even so, John would rather hunt buffalo than anything else. The first time I shot one of these, it was a whole different feeling, he said. It was just the respect. He and T.J. talked about their disdain for trophy hunters who sell the hides. Phillip, he sleeps on his, John said. Got to keep the fan on just cause he stays so warm!He considered his sons college prospects. He wanted Phil to get back to the Montana Tech coach. He knew Phil wanted to play for the Griz, but he didnt know what to do. Should he go knock down the coachs door and ask what it would take? He thought of a friend who had played college ball. The coach had given him a hard time. I said, Theyre testing you out, John recalled. Theyre seeing how tough your willpower really is. But his friend quit. John said, Proven point right there. Native kids got one shot.A track star in high school, John always wished he had pursued athletics more seriously; Terry Pitts, Zanens father, a retired coach and former tribal councilman, thought he could have been an Olympian. John met Becky, who was a descendant of European settlers and played basketball against his sisters, at age 22. Becky went on to work for a Missoula hospital, handling accounts, while John was hired by the Forest Service, digging breaks around wildfires. When he started out, We heard a lot of, What are you Indians doing here? he recalled. I had to work extra hard to prove that I could do the job. John became a supervisor, earning a good living, and when Phil was in sixth grade, four of his cousins, including Dar, came to live with the Malatares and their three children. After that the Malatares kept getting calls from the tribe, asking them to foster more kids. They came and came, sometimes for days at a time, sometimes more. Mounds of laundry piled up in the kitchen.When Phil was 6, he told his parents he was going to be a professional athlete. By the time he was a freshman, he said he wanted to be the best basketball player Montana had ever seen. John realized he hadnt considered his own life once his sons career ended. What are we going to do if he doesnt continue and play through college? he asked. I dont know. I dont know if Ive thought that far.Dawn revealed a blue, snowed-in landscape. T.J. and John parked at a pull-off, stepped out of the truck and fired up their snowmobiles. A wolf ran past. The men hopped on the sleds and tore off into the lodgepole. They wound up a long curving track to an overlook from which they could see wide plains and craggy peaks, but no buffalo. They descended into low timber and split up. T.J. wound his way a bit farther, then stopped. A herd of bison moved slowly through the trees, followed by hunters on foot and, behind them, a group of animal rights campaigners documenting the kills. Shots rang out, and the herd split up, some moving toward private property, some back toward the park boundary.An hour or so later, John and T.J. met back at the truck. John hadnt caught the herd. Everyone without sleds killed em, John said.Them protesters must have pushed em all onto that private property, T.J. said.Over dinner that night at a sports bar, they joined a group of Salish hunters, who talked basketball and hunting and foster-parenting. At one point, one of the men tried to imagine life with endless buffalo. Used to be a perfect world, he said.Sure aint now, T.J. said.On the way home the next day, John considered the state championship in Butte, six weeks away. With seven games remaining in the regular season, the Warriors were undefeated. John had already booked his hotel room. Stars are going to have to start falling out of the skies, he said, for us not to be there.By early February, Phil was averaging 23 points, 10 rebounds, seven assists and six steals a game. He needed to decide about Montana Tech, but he didnt have a clear feeling. Then one day he was driving out to one of his horn-hunting spots, hoping to clear his head, when he received a text from a coach at the University of Montana. Phil called the coach right away, and the coach asked if he wanted a spot on the team. Phil pumped his fist and politely said that yes, hed like that very much. In a follow-up call with Phils parents, the Griz offered Phil a preferred walk-on spot, meaning he was guaranteed a place on the team but would have to pay his own way. Phil told the coach he was in. (Rachi Wortham, an assistant coach at the University of Montana, said, We can confirm recruitment, but he declined to comment further.)After the call, John sat down in his leather recliner and exhaled. Becky was still partial to Tech  the school had great academics, and the free ride wouldnt hurt, given that the Malatares still had two more kids to put through high school and college. But Phil had made up his mind. He called Adam Hiatt to relay his decision, but he asked his parents not to share the news widely. He didnt want to disrupt the Warriors playoff run.The season came down to three weekends in late February and early March: the district championship, the divisional championship and state. By this point, Will had rediscovered his shot, and the Warriors played with devastating joy. In the last regular-season game, Phil and Will combined to score 72 points.Pitts called a coach from a Montana college, gushing that Will had a 35-foot shooting range, defense that cant be taught, strong grades. The coach wanted to know about Wills family. Pitts said that Wills father was a cop and that if the coach gave him a chance, his mother would have him there tomorrow. Assuming his most authoritative sales voice, Pitts declared that Will would make it: Id stick my job on the line for him. The coach said hed think about it. Pitts hung up and shook his head.On Tuesday, Feb. 20, just before divisionals, word spread of a suicide: a teenage basketball player from Two Eagle River, a competing team on the Flathead reservation. Pitts was worried. The next week or two, another kid might do it, he said.The divisional tournament was held in Hamilton, in the Bitterroot Valley, the ancestral homeland of the Salish. On the bus ride down before the first game, Pitts asked the players if they wanted to make a statement about the suicide. The boys thought it was a good idea and settled on a video as the way to do it. They decided that Phil would speak first and Will last, but when the camera rolled, Phil got nervous. One player didnt: Greg. His voice was calm and resolute. I was focused on helping these people, he later said. It felt awesome.In the locker room, after the camera turned off, Phil and Will coughed violently. After catching his cold, Phil had gone out to check some cows on a cousins ranch in subzero temperatures earlier in the week. Will, meanwhile, had some as-yet-undiagnosed illness that had caused him to lose 25 pounds since the beginning of the season. In recent weeks, blood had showed up in his urine. He sought medical attention only after his mother, his coach and Pittss wife, Kendra, an emergency medical technician, insisted. If you tell me I cant play, Will recalled telling a doctor, Im going to play.Will and Phil had carried two pillowcases into the locker room. In them were a pair of war bonnets adorned with golden-eagle feathers, which Wills grandfather, who worked at the Salish language school, had made by hand. When the boys put on the bonnets, their teammates stared. Then Wills grandfather hit the drum and started the honor song, and the cousins sprinted onto the floor.The Arlee crowd stood, everyone scrambling for their smartphones to capture the moment. Phils grandparents, Bear and Irma, werent sure about the bonnets; if a feather fell out, they might have had to do a ceremony on the court. But it was different for John. He hadnt always felt that his son had fully embraced Salish culture. Now, seeing Phil in the war bonnet, shaking the opposing coachs hand, he thought his heart might burst through his rib cage.A couple of minutes into the game, Phil sprinted into the locker room, where he threw up. Then he checked back in, and the team ran an isolation play pitting Phil against Manhattan Christians best player, Caleb Bellach, a 6-foot-5 junior and the coachs son. Phil dribbled between his legs three times as he approached Bellach, then feinted a hard crossover to the left but brought the ball back to the right and was gone. Another defender came to meet Phil, but he spun and jumped to his left, rising toward the rim with two hands, then pulled the ball down and scooped it to the right. His body moved one way but the ball went the other. The defender followed his body, and Phil softly laid the ball in.At halftime, Arlee was up 39-30, and Phil threw up again. So did Will. In the third quarter, Manhattan closed the gap. Then, in the span of a minute, Will hit a three-pointer, made a layup, stole the ball and threw an around-the-back pass to Greg for two points, at which point the crowd detonated. Arlee won, 69-60. The announcer, a white man, marveled at the noise. You think this many people lived in Arlee? he chuckled, out of range of the microphone. Nobodys guarding the stores tonight.The next day, the Warriors released their suicide-prevention video on Facebook. As the team warmed up before the divisional finals, Anna Whiting Sorrell, who helped oversee the tribes response to the 2017 suicide cluster, was sitting in the stands. She considered the video in the context of the teenagers who, after the Parkland shooting, advocated gun control. Maybe, she said, its kids saying: enough. She continued: Maybe these kids can. I want them to just be happy and enjoy their lives. They chose to engage. Theyve all been there. They say enough.The team hoped a few thousand people might view their video. But within 24 hours, it had been watched nearly 86,000 times. On Monday, the team, inspired by the reception, skipped practice to make another, this one an elaborate production with alley-oops and war bonnets. As they were finishing, a coach from Two Eagle River arrived in a black suit. He had come from the wake for the boy  his player  who committed suicide the week before divisionals. I just wanted to say thank you, guys, he said in halting breaths. His chest heaved, and he told the Warriors to bring home the trophy.A long silence followed. Then someone asked: Can we hug him?Phil embraced the man, and everyone else followed.Im not scared one bit! Phil screamed. It was halftime of the state semifinal game, and the Warriors were losing by six to Scobey, a fast team from near the Canadian border. In the locker room, Phil coughed rapidly. I like it when were down! he yelled. When we come back and beat their ass, thats going to be better! Then he threw up and took the court.In the third quarter, Pitts unveiled a brutal press. The teams defense was designed to tire the opponent out until, all at once and in a great rush, the boys unleashed. With less than three minutes remaining in the quarter and Arlee losing by four, Pitts hopped up and down on the sideline and screamed. In a moment, the boys were everywhere. The next 60 seconds passed in a blur of steals and turnovers. Greg and Will each hit a long three-pointer, the second giving Arlee its first lead. Then, as Scobey brought the ball up, Greg and Phil smacked the floor. Phil took off in a straight line for the ballhandler, who looked terrified; he ripped the ball away and flew off for a layup. He sprinted back down the court, beckoning to the crowd. The cheers sounded like the inside of a breaking wave.In just over two minutes, Arlee had scored 14 unanswered points. After the game, Pitts teared up, thanking the boys. Then the Warriors watched Manhattan Christian win, setting up one last rematch. A couple of hours earlier, in a hallway of the Butte Civic Center, the father of one of Manhattan Christians players said he just wanted everyone to have fun. Its not life, he said.The following morning, Becky and John Malatare staked out their seats for the final by 11 a.m., nine hours before tipoff. By game time, Senator Steve Daines, whose son previously attended Manhattan Christian, was in the crowd. Shortly before tipoff, Chasity did Wills hair by center court. Phil got an IV of fluids, his third of the week. Then he joined his teammates in a practice gym, where Pitts told the boys to enjoy the moment and prayed to God and the Creator. Then Phil spoke.It was a pretty short year, wasnt it? he said to his teammates in a dry, cracking voice. He turned to Lane Johnson, who would be guarding Bellach: Hound that guy! Then he turned to Isaac. Dunk it. Rip that rim off! Will, Greg, freaking rip that net off! He told them, Dont get down if we go down by two points. Weve been down. All right, boys? Come out, battle for me. Battle for Will. Battle for each other. Lets make that crowd happy.Now the long, slow cadence of Phils voice changed. It got small and rushed, and he started to cry. Normally the team ended these huddles by chanting brothers and family. Now, though, Phil said, Love you on three. He counted  one, two, three  and his team chanted: Love you. Then Big Will and Wills grandfather and uncles hit the drum, and Phil and Will sprinted onto the floor in war bonnets, Greg trailing them in a Navajo headband. On the east side of the Civic Center, the town of Arlee rose as one.Bear and Irma Malatare sat in the second deck. Nearby, David Whitesell held up a smartphone, filming the game. Down below, Becky, sitting near Adam Hiatt, looked on calmly. Chasity sat courtside with her five other kids. She knew Will was risking his health, but rest was not an option: It would kill him. Nearby, Wills tupye sat in a wheelchair, wearing a pin showing her great-grandsons face. John Malatares jaw rotated in small movements, a beaded Warriors medallion around his neck.Manhattan Christian won the opening tipoff, and Bellach hit a three-pointer. Then Phil threw a no-look pass off Isaacs hands, Will missed a three and the game turned ugly. Phil missed his first five shots; Will made only one of four. At the end of the first quarter, Bellach blocked Phils shot, and the game was tied at 10.In the second quarter, Will missed two more three-pointers, and Manhattans boys began to nod their heads. With a few seconds remaining in the first half, Phil dropped the ball to Will about 10 feet behind the three-point line. Will eyeballed the waning clock and fired a wild shot toward the rafters. The ball ripped through the net, the buzzer sounded and Will pumped his fists and screamed. He made two more three-pointers in the third quarter, and the score was 40-36 Arlee going into the fourth. Then Phil took over.He rebounded a missed three-pointer and bullied in for a layup. While nearly lying on the floor, he tossed the ball to Isaac for a basket. When Manhattan closed to within two, Phil drove, scored and was fouled. With a four-point Arlee lead and less than one minute left, Phil whipped the ball to Isaac for another layup. But in the seasons final moments, it was Will who stood at the free-throw line, preparing for two shots to seal the state championship. In the stands, Jennifer Jilot whispered to Will: Just breathe. Twice the ball rolled through the net, and Jilot wept.On Sunday, the Warriors returned to Arlee led by a fire-truck and tribal police escort. Afterward, the team gathered on the bus to listen to an elder. She said that the kids would crash, and that a time would come when they would feel alone. She asked them to forgive themselves. Its temporary, she said. Its like the breeze. It will be gone.The next day most of the boys called in sick to school. The second prevention video was on its way to reaching one million views. Pitts started receiving congratulations from public officials: a call from the governors office and letters from all three members of Montanas congressional delegation. Senator Jon Tester released a video saluting the Warriors efforts alongside Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. The team was arranging to speak with the Tribal Council and younger students at neighboring schools. Pitts called it the Warrior movement.Becky Malatare received a gracious message from Manhattan Christians coach, Jeff Bellach, thanking her for the opportunity to compete against Phil. On Wednesday, Will went to the hospital, where he discovered he had been playing with walking pneumonia and an enormous kidney stone. He elected to delay its removal until after three all-star tournaments. College recruiters had reached out to him following the championship, and he needed one more push to get into school.That night, Big Will went on a difficult call. He arrested one of the players from the previous years championship, a freshman at the University of Montana. The police said the boy had been present at a shooting, and he would later be charged for accountability to attempted deliberate homicide. Big Will apologized to the boys parents before driving him to Missoula.One afternoon that week, Phil got his spotting scope and drove his red Chevy toward one of his horn-hunting spots, a ridge from which gullies descended to a river. He pulled over and fastened his scope to the open passenger window. The snow was still deep up top. He scoped until he found a herd of about 100 elk. Cant hide forever! he said. Ill walk all this even if it dont melt. If I know theyre dropping, Ill go in there. But the herd was mostly dark: cows. He was looking for the big, tawny bulls.As he scanned the hills, Phil thought about this summer. He figured it would be his last as a kid. He planned to be starting for the Griz by the time he was a sophomore. He wondered about the temptations of college. After a big win, am I going to want to go be dumb? he asked, as if it were a question he couldnt possibly answer.He thought about his father and T.J., who could walk these hills for a full day without eating. Phil couldnt do that. He discoursed on the supremacy of brown antlers  which are fresh with blood  to white ones. Whites old, browns new, he said. Put it this way: You rather have a Lamborghini or a Subaru?A Subaru, I said.But if you lived in California?Phil didnt want to live in California. Everyones like Oh, you need to get out of here, he said. Which I believe. But if you love where you live, why not live there? No use movin.Once I asked him about the pressure of making it with the Griz. He said that he was all in, but that if it didnt work out, that would be O.K. Its my life, he said. What did that mean, anyway, to make it? Was it a jersey entombed in glass? Phil couldnt take that with him when he died. He was going to play ball as long as he could, but when it ended, he wanted to be a game warden, like T.J.s father, Tom Haynes, so he could work in the mountains.As chance would have it, Tom drove by just then. Maybe he was out busting someone for illegal firewood cutting. Phil went back to scoping; he had found three bulls bedded down in the snow. He was hoping one would drop its antlers right there. Thats my dream, he said  to see one shed through the lens of his scope. It had never happened. Come on, guy, he said to the elk. Lose your horns. His right eye affixed to the scope, the boy in constant motion was absolutely still. Only his left eyelid fluttered. I wish I could sit here all day, he said. He stared into the wilderness, wondering what would happen.On Sunday, March 11, Arlee hosted a syulm, a dance celebrating warriors returning from a victorious battle, for the team. About 350 people showed up to the community centers basketball court. The gym smelled of turkey, fry bread, spaghetti and meatballs. Irma and Bear Malatare arrived early. Irma was thinking of buying a 15-passenger van so she could take the whole family to Phils college games. She went inside while Bear stood out front in an Arlee Warriors state-championship jacket, long arms dangling at his sides.Bear had been reading a history of the Cree. He normally didnt dwell on the past. He never told Phil about his time at the boarding school, when teachers beat him for speaking his language. We cant constantly sit and cry about what they done to us, he once said. But the book made him think about his grandparents migration from Canada, and his own father, for whom Phil was named, and his time with the nuns; the constant efforts at assimilation and extermination.Were not supposed to be here, he said, his face turning momentarily dark, his immense hands clenching. Then his hands released, and a great smile worked its way across his face. Were still here, he said.He walked inside, where mothers danced around the laughing boys, shoving them playfully down to the court. The world is never so hopeful as when the old honor the young.
