My ancestor was a founder of Smith & Wesson. I believe he would have been horrified by the kinds of guns the company makes today.
Two separate bills design to further help prevent gun violence in Vermont were unanimously approved by the Vermont Legislature on Thursday and Gov. Phil Scott said he will sign them along with another more controversial piece of legislation.
BlackRock’s decision may spark criticism from gun-rights supporters, but it’s hard to see how offering customers more choice is ever a bad idea.
Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.
Police officers responding to reports of a man threatening people with a gun on Wednesday fatally shot a man carrying a metal pipe, mistaking it for a firearm, police said.
A prosecution witness, Paul Le Roux, says he had once sold missile technology to Iran, shipped guns from Indonesia and trafficked methamphetamines out of North Korea.
Friends say Israel Ogunsola was a bubbly young man with a knack for making people laugh.
French and Malian troops killed about 30 Islamist insurgents during a gunbattle in a region near the border with Niger, where Islamic State are known to be active, the French army said on Thursday.
Someone gunned down businessman Derrick Moo Young and his adult son in room 1215 of the Dupont Plaza Hotel in October 1986 during the height of Miami's cocaine wars.
A federal grand jury in central Illinois has indicted three men suspected of bombing a Minnesota mosque on a charge of possessing a machine gun. A fourth man not linked to the bombing was also indicted.
New York police officers on Wednesday shot to death a black man who pointed a metal pipe at them, after responding to emergency callers who said the man was aiming a firearm at pedestrians, a police official said.
The New York State attorney general's office said on Thursday it would investigate the fatal shooting by police of an unarmed black man in Brooklyn after he pointed a metal pipe at officers that they believed was a gun.    
The Latest on the fatal New York City police shooting of a man who was brandishing a metal pipe (all times local):
South Carolina authorities say three teens have died after crashing a stolen car during a police chase.
A Mississippi man shot by a police officer last month has filed a federal lawsuit.
Authorities say an armed 70-year-old man who was shot by a sheriff's deputy in Georgia has died.
A Baton Rouge police officer returned to work Thursday for the first time since his partner's fatal shooting of Alton Sterling, a 37-year-old black man whose death was caught on video and set off widespread protests nearly two years ago.
Police seeking to quell simmering anger over their shooting of a mentally disturbed black man on a New York City street released a montage of security videos Thursday that showed him minutes earlier thrusting a metal object that looked like a gun ...
The political divide in the United States now separates people by how open or closed their minds are.
U.S. diplomats expelled by Russia over the poisoning of a former spy in Britain were seen leaving the U.S. embassy in Moscow on Thursday morning to make their way to the airport, the TASS news agency reported.
A justice on Massachusetts' top court on Thursday ordered the dismissal of 7,690 drug cases because of their link to a former forensic chemist who authorities said for eight years stole drug evidence and worked in a state lab under the influence.
An online story falsely claims Canadians now can be jailed simply for using an incorrect gender pronoun.
Short-term classes on and off campus are meeting the demand for timely courses on social issues.
Russia told Britain at the United Nations Security Council on Thursday that "you're playing with fire and you'll be sorry" over its accusations that Moscow was to blame for poisoning a former Russian spy and his daughter.
The U.S. Justice Department presented evidence on Thursday to show that AT&amp;T, owner of DirecTV, viewed buying Time Warner as a way to make viewers stick with their pay TV service instead of moving to cheaper online providers.
In this film from Justin Benson and Aaron Moorhead, two men return to the cult they escaped.
New photos and video released by the FBI show the behavior of a lone gunman just minutes before he carried out the 2011 Tucson shooting that left six people dead and 13 others injured, including former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords.
Our roundup of the news stories and features about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com.
Albania's opposition on Thursday blocked the country's main highway junctions in an anti-government protest, accusing officials of links to organized crime and of increasing both taxes and poverty.
An employee for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention who was reported missing more than seven weeks ago was found drowned in a river not far from his house, with no sign of foul play, authorities said Thursday.
Searchers looking for three missing children whose family's SUV plunged off a Northern California cliff have found a cellphone that could have belonged to a member of the large brood.
The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):
Sweden's government proposed on Thursday that the state gambling monopoly largely be replaced by a licensing system as it looks to rein in overseas-based online gambling that has surged in recent years.
Emma González and Rose McGowan, ‘Black Panther’ and ‘Billions’ — shaved heads make a statement, intentional or not.
The scheduled prison release of a former member of a violent 1970s radical group who killed two New York City police officers in 1971 has been put on hold by a state court.
Six human rights activists were sentenced to harsh prison terms in Vietnam after being convicted of attempting to overthrow the government by advocating a multiparty democracy.
Michigan lawmakers said Thursday that they will introduce more proposals stemming from the fallout of the Larry Nassar sexual abuse scandal that they say has highlighted failures by his former employer, Michigan State University.
A Russian historian whose exposure of Soviet leader Josef Stalin's crimes angered state officials was cleared of child pornography charges on Thursday after a long campaign by human rights activists to free him.   
U.S. television networks have scrapped two planned series about former President Bill Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky and his 1998 impeachment.
Our guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows happening this weekend and in the week ahead.
Paige has seen blood on her mother’s hands before. But never quite like this.
Mr. Dimon’s annual letters have fed the chatter that he would run for president, but could his views ever find a home in this politically polarized environment?
Active shooter trainings, security cameras and “behavioral threat assessment teams” try to avoid or mitigate office attacks like the one at YouTube.
Impoverished Central American migrants travelling in a "caravan" through Mexico that angered U.S. President Donald Trump said they would stick together for safety even though the group will end its journey in Mexico City rather than at the U.S. bo...
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday sharply rebuked Donald Trump over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, joining with opponents to tell the U.S. leader not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico.
The cast of “Jersey Shore” is back, older but maybe not wiser, in Miami. And two gory Brian De Palma films recently arrived on streaming services.
Forty-three Cambodians arrived in Phnom Penh, Cambodia's capital, on Thursday after being deported from the United States under a law allowing the repatriation of immigrants who have committed felony crimes and have not become U.S. citizens.
Achieving lasting peace requires the removal of roadblocks for ex-combatants who want to leave the war behind.
Authorities on Thursday promised a deeper investigation into the YouTube shooter's past and her anger with the online video website, identified as her motive for attacking the company's headquarters in California.
The party of former President Luiz Inácio Lula remained defiant, saying he will still run in the coming presidential election.
The president’s decision to send National Guard troops to the nation’s southern border is rooted more in xenophobia than in facts.
Two accounts of her health illustrate the challenge Britain faces in maintaining a global coalition around the poisoning while keeping much of its evidence secret.
As part of the settlement, the Police Department agreed to make efforts to expunge information it had gathered on New Jersey communities.
A Brazilian judge on Thursday ordered former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to turn himself in to police within 24 hours to serve a 12-year sentence for a graft conviction, likely ending the presidential front-runner's hopes of returning to p...
After years of poor pay, supply shortages and overcrowded classes, former Oklahoma teacher Chelsea Price decided the best way to pursue the profession she loves was to leave her home state and head south to Texas.
Stephen C. has been taught only math and English at a U.S.-run elementary school for Native American children deep in a gorge off the Grand Canyon. Teachers have left midyear, and he repeatedly faces suspension and arrest for behavior his attorney...
The former Catalan leader is freed on bail, while a court decides whether he can be extradited to Spain on a lesser charge.
Special counsel Robert Mueller's team currently considers President Donald Trump to be a subject &#8212; not a criminal target&#8212; in the wide-ranging investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with Trump associa...
The capital of New Jersey, a postindustrial city mired in bad news for decades, is enjoying a bit of a cultural renaissance.
George Papadopoulos, taken by surprise by FBI agents at an airport last summer, now tweets smiling beach selfies with a hashtag for the Greek resort island of Mykonos.
The donor, a New York restaurateur, has claimed that he arranged campaign donations for Mayor Bill de Blasio in return for help from the city with a lease.
Mr. Williamson’s hiring last month led to outrage on the left, which in turn sparked outrage on the right. Now he is no longer a columnist at The Atlantic.
A collection of views, news and more from the Learning section.
For a moment while sitting next to the Scottish filmmaker Lynne Ramsay, Joaquin Phoenix slips into a low, Liam Neeson register.
Thursday: A backlash against Trump emission rules, institutionalizing the homeless, more rain, and a Frank Gehry-Wolfgang Puck collaboration.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
“Before the Fall: German and Austrian Art of the 1930s,” at the Neue Galerie, chronicles artists’ resistance to — or complicity in — what was happening in their countries.
The Latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter (all times local):
The daughter of a former Russian spy poisoned by a nerve agent said Thursday in her first public comment that she's recovering even as the international furor over the attack intensified, with Russia warning Britain it is "playing with fire."
A 6-year-old boy was stabbed to death in an elevator in a housing project in East New York. Years later, the scene still sends chills through residents.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's order for the National Guard to deploy to the U.S.-Mexico border (all times local):
To the North Koreans gathered beneath a crucifix in an apartment in this northeastern Chinese border region, she is known as "mom." She feeds them, gives them a place to stay and, on occasion, money.
Our guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.
With 29 suits filed, the federal government and California are engaged in “bloody combat” over issues like immigration, the environment and the census.
More than two years after a Rutgers philosophy professor was convicted of raping a mentally disabled man, the central questions of the case remain unresolved.
Every month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April.
At least five agency officials were reassigned or demoted, or requested new jobs after raising concerns about the administrator’s security demands and spending.
We unearthed thousands of internal documents that help explain how the Islamic State stayed in power so long.
