GUN LOVE By Jennifer Clement 247 pp. Hogarth. $25.When a man gives his woman a gun its because he really trusts her, claims Sergeant Bob, the surly vet in Jennifer Clements novel Gun Love. A gun is soon laid on the table when Eli, the kind of man who breaks all the windows in your house, gives a pistol to Margot to hide under the front seat of the 1994 Mercury in which she and her 14-year-old daughter, Pearl, live. Margots main fear is that someone will take her daughter away. The gun is like an umbrella in the rain, she tells Pearl, perhaps the attitude of many women: 80 percent of those gunned down in the United States by intimate partners are women.Gun Love is the American half of a diptych of novels by Clement about gun traffic between the United States and Mexico, the first being Prayers for the Stolen (2013). A longtime resident of Mexico who is now president of PEN International, she is well aware of the statistics: More than 70 percent of the 74,000 firearms confiscated in Mexico between 2009 and 2014 came from the United States, and nearly $276 million was tied up in Mexican contracts with American-based gun manufacturers between 2015 and 2016. Oddly enough, Florida, the location of the trailer court around which much of the action in Gun Love unfolds, leads the nation in both the number of mobile home parks and concealed weapons permits. In our part of Florida things were always being gifted a bullet just for the sake of it, Pearl observes. In the more than 10 years since the passage of Floridas Stand Your Ground law, giving widespread legal immunity to people who use lethal force in self-defense, the number of justifiable homicide cases in the state has nearly tripled. In 2012 the unarmed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was gunned down and his killer later acquitted as a direct consequence of Stand Your Ground.Clements turn to fiction is oddly dreamy for such a topic, as if to suggest the self-delusion of the real-life actors involved. My mother was always full of birthday-candle wishes, comments Pearl, who habitually steals cigarettes in a kind of self-immolation of her own. But the writing is crisp and the images sharp: a field of 63 Barbies buried up to their knees around a trailer; the hatching of conjoined twin alligators still with white pieces of eggshell on the green, scaly back they shared.Trailer parks in fiction often stand as metaphors for the fear of homelessness; to live in a car parked beside one is that much more frightening. It encourages descriptions of surreal coping, such as one in which Margot fingers the dashboard: That was Mozart, she said. Did you like it? The denizens of the trailers, distinguishable by who drinks Coke and who drinks Pepsi, turn sinister as the guns pile up. Sergeant Bob gives his woman a gun to nestle between her breasts. I thought he was going to give me a ring, she says. While Margot and Eli hook up in the Mercurys back seat, guns start to crowd the abandoned trailer where Pearl does her homework. Guns are the focus of another neighbor, Pastor Rex, who runs a Give Your Guns to God campaign that partially supplies a group of traffickers. Did you know there are two bullets for every person in the world? Pearls boyfriend asks (a statistic confirmed by Oxfam in 2012). Toward the end of the book, Pearl names the models she packs in newspaper, a veritable litany that includes semiautomatics, .223-caliber AR-15 rifles and the Bushmaster XM-15. It sounds like worship. Nikolas Cruz, who killed 17 people in a Florida high school in February, found it easier to buy a semiautomatic than a handgun.My mother was a cup of sugar, Pearl says. You could borrow her anytime. Once the bond between mother and daughter comes apart, Pearl is swept into the gun trade. With the souls of animals and the souls of people emanating from the guns all around her, she hears a song of praise: Pearl, Pearl, Pearl in congratulation. Her complicity with the violence seems eerily unconscious, mirroring Americas unnatural inability to admit to the grave consequences of unchecked gun proliferation.
ROCK HILL, S.C.   A South Carolina congressman pulled out his own loaded handgun during a meeting with constituents Friday to make a point that guns are dangerous only in the hands of criminals.Republican U.S. Rep. Ralph Norman placed the .38-caliber gun on a table during the "coffee with constituents" meeting at a Rock Hill restaurant, news outlets reported."I\'m not going to be a Gabby Giffords," Norman said, referring to the former Arizona congresswoman who was shot outside a grocery store during a constituent gathering in 2011.Giffords\' husband, retired NASA astronaut Mark Kelly, said in a statement that Norman is "no Gabby Giffords" and noted that his wife has dedicated her life to ending gun violence."Americans are increasingly faced with a stark choice: leaders like Gabby, who work hard together to find solutions to problems, or extremists like the NRA and Congressman Norman, who rely on intimidation tactics and perpetuating fear," Kelly said.Norman said he\'ll display his gun at future constituent meetings."I\'m tired of these liberals jumping on the guns themselves as if they are the cause of the problem," Norman told The Post and Courier. "Guns are not the problem."School teacher Lori Carter of Charlotte, North Carolina, said she thought the move was contradictory because Norman didn\'t know if someone there had mental health issues."What was to prevent me from leaning across the table to take that gun?" she said.
NEW YORK   The Latest on the fatal New York City police shooting of a man who was brandishing the head of a welding torch (all times local):6:30 p.m.Transcripts of 911 calls to the New York Police Department show callers were frightened that a man was menacing people with a gun but also uncertain whether the object really was a gun.One of the 911 callers Wednesday said, "He\'s pointing a silver thing in a lady\'s face." When the dispatcher asked if it was a gun, the caller said, "I don\'t know if it\'s a gun, ma\'am. It seems like a gun. It\'s silver."Police responding to the calls Wednesday fatally shot Saheed Vassell.Police said the object Vassell was holding turned out to be the head of a welding torch.The department released detailed transcripts of three 911 calls Friday.____8:15 a.m.New York Police Department officials say the metal object that was mistaken for a gun in a fatal shooting by officers turned out to be the head of a welding torch.Saheed Vassell\'s father has told reporters that his son had previously worked as a welder.Hundreds of New Yorkers have rallied in protest of the Wednesday night police shooting.Officers were responding to 911 callers reporting a man pointing a gun at people.Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio (dih BLAH\'-zee-oh) called the shooting a "tragedy" and said Vassell had "a profound mental health problem."
MIAMI   Authorities in Miami say they arrested a man who put a gun in his 8-year-old son's backpack, forgot about it and went to the school to get it.The Miami Herald reported Friday that 57-year-old Ramon Nuiry was charged with possessing a weapon on school grounds, improper exhibition of a weapon and possession of a concealed firearm.The newspaper said Nuiry forgot he put his pistol in the boy's bag as he was taking him to school Thursday morning. He returned to Kendale Elementary, walked into the school and asked to see his son with his backpack.An arrest report says a parent saw when he took the weapon out of the backpack and put it in his waistband. The parent notified school administrators and surveillance video captured the incident.___Information from: The Miami Herald, http://www.herald.com
SAN DIEGO   An employee at a San Diego gun store where a woman bought the pistol used to shoot three people at YouTube headquarters said there was nothing remarkable about the transaction, a newspaper reports.Manny Mendoza, rangemaster at The Gun Range, said that the woman now widely known for posting prolific and bizarre videos on exercise, animal cruelty and veganism was not memorable."It\'s not like she stood out," Mendoza said to the Bay Area News Group. "I wish we could look into someone\'s soul."Nasim Aghdam, an Iranian native in her late 30s, walked through a parking garage into a courtyard at the YouTube campus Tuesday and opened fire, police said. She wounded three people before killing herself.San Bruno Police Commander Geoff Caldwell said Aghdam legally bought the 9mm handgun Jan. 16, and it was registered in her name. She was found with two magazines and the pistol.Authorities and family members say she was angry about the policies and practices of the company.She posted videos under the online name Nasime Sabz, and a website in that name decried YouTube\'s policies, saying the company was trying to "suppress" content creators.Aghdam took the pistol from the store the same day that the world\'s biggest online video website announced stricter requirements for video producers to make money from views of their videos.Her family has expressed shock and sorrow at the shootings, and said they warned law enforcement that she might be headed to YouTube and that she "hated" the company."Right now I\'m thinking, she never hurt one ant. How (could) she shoot the people?" said her father, Ismail Aghdam, said in an interview with Good Morning America that aired Friday.The family showed ABC News the sparsely furnished bedroom where she produced videos in which she exercised, promoted animal rights and explained the vegan diet, often wearing elaborate costumes or carrying a rabbit.Ismail Aghdam reported his daughter missing on Monday.Mountain View police encountered her sleeping in a car around 2 a.m. Tuesday, but had no reason to detain her. They say family members never said she could become violent or post a threat to YouTube employees.San Bruno police say she practiced shooting at a local gun range on Tuesday before driving to YouTube headquarters.Of three people wounded by gunshots, a 36-year-old man initially classified as critically injured remained hospitalized Friday in fair condition.
I cant imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets.JEFFREY FAGAN, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School, on the shooting of a mentally ill Brooklyn man by plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a call of a man brandishing what was thought to be a gun.
He strode up and down a busy Brooklyn street on Wednesday, lunging at passers-by  someone pushing a cart, someone holding a young childs hand  with a curved silver pipe resting on his fingers like the barrel of a gun.Neighbors and police officers knew the man, Saheed Vassell, as the broom handler for a local barbershop, an idiosyncratic fixture on the block who was mentally ill and liked to drink outside. Patrol officers chatted with him and sometimes bought him Jamaican food. They had taken him to the hospital to be treated for mental illness a number of times in recent years.But the plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a smartphone alert for someone waving a silver gun on Wednesday didnt know him at all, the police said. Given nothing more than what 911 callers told a dispatcher  that a black man with a brown jacket and bluejeans was pointing at people with something that looked like a gun  they screeched to a stop at the corner where Mr. Vassell spent most days and, after he crouched and aimed the pipe at them, almost instantly shot and killed him.Police officials argued it hardly mattered which officers answered the call or what training they had. Any officers facing what appeared to be a gun aimed at them would have little choice but to fire, these officials said. Security camera videos from nearby businesses showed Mr. Vassell, 34, just moments before his death, startling people on the street and jabbing the pipe into one mans chest.But the killing may reveal a more pervasive problem: the shortcomings of a neighborhood policing program that Mayor Bill de Blasio has pitched as a cure for excessive police force, but which often plays no role in the hurried encounters that determine whether someone lives or dies.Community policing officers focus on meeting residents and getting to know their concerns. But they are very often not the ones rushing to reports of armed people or stickups in progress. The officers who answer those fast-moving calls  many of them part of specialty units, like the anti-crime officers who responded Wednesday  have little more to go on than a dispatchers relay of a 911 call and what they see in front of them, telescoped into split seconds.Too often, skeptics of the mayors plan say, that means someone who looks dangerous but actually needs help is met with an onrush of officers who know nothing about him. Police officials have not definitively answered questions about whether the responding officers said anything before opening fire. Several witnesses said they did not.He didnt need to be gunned down, said Jay Locke, 48, a co-owner of a health foods store near the shooting. The police know he has a mental disability.The shooting set off demonstrations that converged on Thursday at the corner where Mr. Vassell was shot, with protesters observing a moment of silence before they broke out into cries for justice and one woman shouted, Stop killing our sons! Many people said the police had been too quick to fire and should have been aware of Mr. Vassells mental illness.Saheed came from a good family and they have no right to shoot him down the way how they did it, because Saheed is no gunman, Mr. Vassells mother, Lorna Vassell, shouted at the protest, before repeatedly calling, Justice for Saheed!The police on Thursday released a video showing excerpts from security camera footage of Mr. Vassell raising the pipe, as well as partial transcripts of 911 calls. Protesters took the videos release as an attempt to head off criticism of the shooting as unjustified and racially motivated.Mr. Vassell was black. The police did not name the four officers who fired or give their races, but a plainclothes officer seen in a cellphone video giving Mr. Vassell medical care after firing at him appeared to be white.On Thursday morning, the state attorney generals office announced it was opening an investigation into the shooting, under a 2015 executive order allowing the office to act as a special prosecutor in probing the deaths of unarmed civilians at the hands of the police.Police officers dealt with Mr. Vassell many times over the years, giving him 120 summonses and classifying him as emotionally disturbed after several calls during which they took him to a hospital.Unlike beat officers, who under Mr. de Blasios community policing initiative are given time to mix with residents and learn their problems, the plainclothes officers who responded on Wednesday worked mostly on more urgent calls where familiarity with the locals was not a concern.It really is this hole in the neighborhood policing model, said Jeffrey Fagan, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School. I cant imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets. The point is for them to actually have that kind of intimate knowledge.Mr. de Blasio conceded on Thursday that his community policing plan had limits. Neighborhood policing absolutely means our officers have a much greater knowledge of the community, he said. That doesnt mean they know everyone in the community. That doesnt mean that officer is, right then, available that moment as an immediate emergency is playing out.Neighborhood residents said the police officers who had dealt with Mr. Vassell before would have known he was not a serious threat.Mr. Vassell sank into mental illness and started drinking after a best friend was murdered in front of him around 15 years ago, neighbors said. One friend, Henry E. Christian, said that when Mr. Vassell was drinking he would sometimes act out the killing.He tried to get help, but haltingly, inquiring just last month about health insurance options for people with bipolar disorder outside a UnitedHealthcare office. But while he had taken medication for bipolar disorder in the past, he was not taking any currently, his father, Eric Vassell, said. The mayor said he did not know if the city had connected Mr. Vassell with mental health services.He hoarded artifacts he found on the street and stashed them on the roof of his apartment building: locks, segments of pipe, a boiler casting, fingernail clippers, a razor blade, a bicycle chain and a shoe. Among his possessions there were also soiled latex gloves from his mothers medical job and an envelope addressed to his father.Carlos Simone, 59, a friend, said he had seen Mr. Vassell point things at people and play like they were guns. But his father said Mr. Vassell never touched real guns, and friends said he could be talked down when he was excited.He had a mental issue that was challenging, said Kirk McLeod, 34, who knew Mr. Vassell for six years. And sometimes its just a simple conversation with someone can deter them from doing something stupid. If I saw this in his hand, I would have taken that from him.Dian Burgess, 34, an employee at Diamond Krust, a Jamaican restaurant where Mr. Vassell picked up food for workers at nearby barbershops and hair salons, said one officer was particularly close to Mr. Vassell.Most of the police I saw liked him and had a one-on-one rapport with him, Mr. Burgess said.Mr. Vassell was known as quirky and occasionally erratic, but never violent, friends said. Almost every morning he visited St. Matthew Roman Catholic Church near Utica Avenue and Eastern Parkway, showing up before 7:30 a.m. Mass. He would walk in, cross himself and then pace the aisles of the church, bobbing his head without ever stopping to sit in the pews.He would circle the whole church,  Flora Nuez, a parishioner, 61, said.Parishioners said he was attracted to the three Virgin Mary statues in the north transept of the church. He would clasp his hands before them and give them a kiss.Why he started pretending to point a gun at people on Wednesday was not clear. The first 911 calls came in at 4:40 p.m.: One caller reported that others had said he had a gun, while another told the dispatcher, Hes like popping it as if, like, if hes pulling the trigger. The three plainclothes officers were not assigned to the incident, but saw an alert about it in their car and decided to respond. They asked a dispatcher for more details and reached the scene by 4:42 p.m., the police said.Because the officers were sent to an intersection rather than a street address, they lacked information about previous calls regarding a person with mental illness.Uniformed officers from the Strategic Response Group, which handles major events and hot spots of crime, happened to be in the area and responded to the scene, too.When they arrived at the corner of Montgomery Street and Utica Avenue, the officers saw Mr. Vassell assume a shooting stance, the police said. Four of them  three plainclothes officers and one uniformed officer  rapidly fired a total of 10 shots. Witnesses said they did not hear the officers say anything.The shooting left residents deeply distrustful of the notion that neighborhood policing would protect them from fatal police shootings. Charles Hampton, 55, said he thought it was nothing more than a public relations ploy by the city to prevent civil unrest.Thats just to keep your mind settled, to stop the riots, he said.Mr. Vassells death left a void at Kevs Unique Barber Shop, where he often swept for a few dollars, and on his Crown Heights corner. At the barbershop on Thursday, a friend, Hector Robinson, said, If he hadnt died, he would be here today sweeping.

NEW YORK   Witnesses who called New York City police to report that a man was menacing people with a gun before police killed him were terrified but also uncertain whether the object the man had really was a gun, 911 transcripts released Friday show.One caller Wednesday said, "He\'s pointing a silver thing in a lady\'s face."When the dispatcher asked if it was a gun, the caller said, "I don\'t know if it\'s a gun, ma\'am. It seems like a gun. It\'s silver."Police said the metal object Saheed Vassell was pointing at people was actually the head of a welding torch.Officers responding to the 911 calls fired 10 shots at the 34-year-old Vassell, killing him.The shooting sparked two nights of protests by people who said police should have known Vassell suffered from mental illness.The police department has released surveillance videos and 911 transcripts to back up the department\'s position that the officers who responded to the 911 calls had reason to believe Vassell posed a deadly threat.The video clips show Vassell thrusting an object that looks like a gun into the faces of several people, including a woman holding the hand of a child.In one of the three 911 calls released Friday, the caller says, "He looks like he is crazy, but he\'s pointing something at people that looks like a gun and he\'s like popping it like he\'s pulling the trigger."Another caller says, "Oh my God!" and screams.New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said his office will investigate Vassell\'s death.
(Reuters) - A federal judge on Friday upheld a Massachusetts law banning assault weapons including the AR-15, saying the U.S. Constitution\'s Second Amendment guarantee of Americans\' right to bear firearms does not cover them.U.S. District Judge William Young in Boston ruled that assault weapons and large capacity magazines covered by the 1998 law were most useful in military service and fall outside the scope of the Second Amendment\'s personal right to bear arms."In the absence of federal legislation, Massachusetts is free to ban these weapons and large capacity magazines," Young wrote.He also rejected a challenge to an enforcement notice  Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey issued in 2016 to gun manufacturers and dealers clarifying what under the law is a "copy" of an assault weapon like the Colt AR-15.Healey announced that notice after a gunman killed 49 people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida.Healey welcomed Young\'s ruling. "Strong gun laws save lives, and we will not be intimidated by the gun lobby in our efforts to end the sale of assault weapons and protect our communities and schools," she said in a statement.The decision came amid renewed attention to gun violence and firearms ownership after a gunman killed 17 students and staff  at a Florida high school in February, prompting a surge of gun control activism by teenage students.Young acknowledged that the plaintiffs had cited the semi-automatic AR-15 rifle\'s popularity in arguing the law must be unconstitutional because it would ban a class of firearms Americans had overwhelming chosen for legal purposes."Yet the AR-15\'s present-day popularity is not constitutionally material," Young wrote. "This is because the words of our Constitution are not mutable. They mean the same today as they did 227 years ago when the Second Amendment was adopted."The Gun Owners\' Action League of Massachusetts, which was among the plaintiffs who sued in 2017, said in a statement that it was concerned by the ruling, which sets a "dangerous precedent." It said it would consider its next steps.The U.S. Supreme Court in 2008 held for the first time that the Second Amendment guaranteed an individual\'s right to bear arms, but the ruling applied only to firearms kept in the home for self-defense.The justices have avoided taking another major gun case for eight years. Most recently, in November, the court refused to hear a case challenging Maryland\'s 2013 state ban on assault weapons.(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by James Dalgleish, Toni Reinhold)
Good Friday. Heres what were watching: Investors should get ready to feel a little pain. Is the inflation scare over? Hiring slowed in March. The U.S.-China trade fight is getting hotter. The Treasury Department sanctioned Russian mogul Oleg Deripaska.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.President Trump has supported combative trade policies for years, and in recent months, his administration has begun to pursue them. The actions have weighed on the stock prices of large international corporations, and if implemented, could hurt their bottom lines.But global companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trumps trade policies. Will that now change? With first-quarter earnings imminent, and tensions with China escalating, shareholders may want companies to make specific disclosures. The companies may be tempted to say little. After all, Mr. Trumps trade restrictions have merely been threatened, and may not occur if deals are struck. But in the past, companies have refreshed their outlooks in the face of circumstantial economic and geopolitical events, like the Gulf War. And investors will likely press firms to estimate the impact of a trade war and describe the measures they will take to protect their businesses.Boeing, Apple and General Motors are among the companies that will come under the spotlight. All do considerable sales in China. Apple and G.M. rely on manufacturing facilities in the country. Investors will have plenty of questions. How much might revenue and profits fall in a trade war? What would you do if your supply chains got interrupted? What sort of contingency measures are you readying? What would you do if you became the target of campaigns that aimed to stop Chinese consumers buying your products, like the one last year directed at South Korean products?Executives will no doubt have good arguments for why their businesses wont be hurt much. Chinas airlines will remain reliant on a steady supply of Boeings aircraft for a long time. The facilities in China that make G.M. and Apple products are big employers. And since the proposed tariffs most likely wont be in effect by the time first-quarter earnings are announced, companies will probably be able to get away with some generalities.Still, the prospect of a trade war raises questions about the adequacy of corporate disclosure. Those of G.M., contained in its latest annual report, seem quite detailed. They offer quite specific warnings about the risks of doing business in China, and the company even mentions the possibility of trade agreements falling apart. But financial reports from Boeing and Apple arguably have less on potential problems in China and trade disputes.Boeings annual report did mention tariffs and embargoes as threats. But the report, released in February, also sounded a bullish note on the global economy that now almost sounds like it was from a different era:Will such language remain in Boeings reports?- Peter EavisFor years, investors had a singular focus on the Federal Reserve and its plans to raise rates.Any indication that the Fed could move more aggressively than expected to tighten monetary policies and stocks would pull back.Now the Fed has company in sending jitters through the market: Trade.A one-two punch from the White House and the Fed pushed stocks on Wall Street down Friday. The S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both finished off more than 2 percent.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trumps threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China. Investors took little comfort in statements from the administrations top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants.Comments from Mr. Powell in the early Friday afternoon added to the unease. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell highlighted the strength of the United States economic recovery and gave little indication that the Fed planned to deviate from its gradual path of lifting interest rates.President Trump, in a radio interview that was taped on Thursday and aired on Friday, acknowledged his approach to China could cause a little pain to financial markets but that it would be worth it in the long run.On WABC Radios Bernie & Sid in the Morning show, Mr. Trump said:The president also took to Twitter to defend his approach to trade policy. Mr. Trump, in a tweet, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.Some context here: The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trumps decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of Americas aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.In response to a potential new set of U.S. tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese goods, Beijing said in a briefing on Friday that it would immediately fight back with a major response.More from what a representative for Chinas Ministry of Commerce said:The briefing  amid a Chinese holiday  signals the latest instance of saber-rattling between the U.S. and China on trade. But was Mr. Trumps announcement on Thursday just a bluff? Even his advisers arent sure.The Chinese official said that the two sides cant negotiate under the current conditions. And in an interview with Bloomberg on Friday, Larry Kudlow  who has been national economic adviser for just under a week  said he could not predict when talks would begin. He added:But China has reasons to think it could win a trade war. (Worth noting: U.S. tariffs wouldnt bite until after a two-month comment period.)More companies, like Cargill, are getting jumpy. Some fear the tensions could kill Qualcomms bid for NXP Semiconductor. Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chases international business, is worried, too: He said the hostilities could be the greatest danger to the world economy, but arent at a war level yet. The Economist says that the presidents comments do not suggest he is ready to sue for peace.Meanwhile, the White House hopes to announce a preliminary Nafta deal this month after revising some of its more aggressive demands.Reaction of the day, from Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska:Earlier this year, stocks sold off after the jobs report for January showed a 2.9 percent annual increase in wages, a relatively strong rise. Investors feared that a sustained increase in earnings could prompt consumers to buy more goods and services, pushing up prices in the process. Concerns receded after Februarys report showed a 2.6 percent jump in wages, and Marchs rise of 2.7 percent is not likely to stir up more worries.But as they gauge wage pressures, analysts also pay close attention to the forces that indirectly affect wages. One of those is, of course, the number of additional jobs the economy is creating. Marchs gain of 103,000 jobs was below economists forecasts and about half the monthly average this year. That weakness will no doubt reduce inflation fears still further.The March report contained data that could do even more to quell investors nerves over inflation. While the report revised Februarys gain higher to 326,000 jobs from 313,000, it sharply reduced the January figure to 176,000 from 239,000. The January revision prompted Jim Vogel, of FTN Financial, to write: Peter EavisThe United States added jobs for its 90th straight month in March, an unprecedented run of growth for the economy, but at a much slower pace than in March.The headline numbers  103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. Estimates of Februarys job growth were revised upward, but Januarys figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.The takeaways Wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sectors rebound in the months ahead. Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster February report was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people.Theres a lot to quote from Anthony Scaramuccis meal with Edward Luce of the FT  held at the Hunt and Fish Club, the Midtown Manhattan restaurant that the onetime investor owns, naturally. So well have to limit ourselves to just a few selections: Michael de la MercedProminent among the Russian oligarchs and businesses sanctioned by the Treasury Department on Friday is Oleg Deripaska, the billionaire known for his jet-setting, his consistent presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos  and his ties to Vladimir Putin (and, before a falling out, Paul Manafort).Mr. Deripaska is associated with aluminum producers like EN+ Group, which went public in London late year, and Rusal, as well as the commercial vehicle maker GAZ Group and energy producer EuroSibEnergo. All those companies were also sanctioned for being controlled or owned directly or indirectly by Mr. Deripaska.Heres what the Treasury Department said about the move against the businessman: Michael de la MercedAndrews take: A favorite Wall Street parlor game is whether the JPMorgan Chase C.E.O. would run for president in 2020. Mr. Dimons latest annual letter increased that chatter, touching on immigration and political polarization. He praised some of President Trumps policies (on tougher trade negotiations, on taxes). But his stances on deregulation and on social issues likely mean that he would have to run as an independent  and history hasnt been kind to third-party candidates.Peter Eavis adds: The JPMorgan chief also homed in on regulations of bank liquidity, or access to cash and equivalents. He contended that liquidity requirements are higher now  which he favors  but are also more rigid and could impinge on lending. But the argument is flawed, in part because banks that have less liquidity arent in a position to lend.The investment behemoths plan to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. (And with $6.3 trillion under management, the firms actions carry enormous weight.) The products include: A new exchange-traded fund that focuses on favorable environmental, social and governance (E.S.G.) standards and excludes firearms-related companies. BlackRock will update other E.S.G. funds to exclude them, too. A bond-focused E.T.F. excluding gun-related companies. New strategies available through 401(k) plans that track five major indexes, including the S.&P. 500, but screen out firearms sellers and makers.Walmart, Kroger and Dicks Sporting Goods, all of whom have now set some limits on gun sales, will still count as gun-related.Critics corner: Rob Cox of Breakingviews writes, By getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws  who it hopes will be customers for decades to come  that it has something for them.Heres the DealBook tally of financial firms that have announced concrete moves addressing gun control: Citigroup, Amalgamated, BlackRock. (Have we missed one? Let us know.) President Trumps attacks on Amazon arise from his anger at Jeff Bezos, unnamed people close to the White House say. (WSJ) The president dispensed with a boring speech on tax to denounce immigration. (NYT) E.P.A. officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs after raising concerns about Scott Pruitt, unnamed sources said. Senior White House officials say the agency chiefs fate is uncertain given ethical questions about his housing (he reportedly fell behind on a lease from a lobbyist), staffing and travel expenses. Mick Mulvaney has complained that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau engages in wasteful spending  but gave his hires big raises. (NYT) Mr. Trump denied knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to Stormy Daniels. (WaPo) The administration and California officials are expected to try to settle a fight over car emissions standards. (NYT) At an NYT event, Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, said Mr. Trump was breaking democratic norms. (NYT)If users wanted to opt out of data-driven advertising, they would have to pay, Sheryl Sandberg told NBC in one of many interviews yesterday. (They cant, as yet.) Still, Ms. Sandberg told Bloomberg that some advertisers had cut spending and admitted that the network faced a challenge in reassuring them.The California public pension fund CALSTRS also wants more detail on how Facebook is protecting user data. (Its investment chief has deleted his account.)Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that Facebook would apply tough new E.U. data-protection rules worldwide.But some analysts say that the worst may be over for investors.Elsewhere in Facebook: The company has put on hold a request for hospitals to share anonymized patient data for a research project. It has been accredited by the Media Ratings Council for the first of three rounds of ad impression auditing. Civic groups in Myanmar said Mr. Zuckerberg had exaggerated what Facebook was doing to stop incitement of violence there. Teslas Model 3 impressed Jim Stewart. Will it win over enough other consumers to lift the carmakers fortunes? (NYT) Google promised to increase office security in the wake of the YouTube shooting, and changes may come to other Silicon Valley campuses. (NYT) Didi Chuxing is open for business  and taking on Uber  in Mexico. (Reuters) Delta said that a cyberattack on the company that ran its websites chat function may have compromised thousands of customers credit card data. (WSJ)Cryptocurrency corner: South Korean prosectors detained the heads of Coinnest and another exchange, on accusations of embezzling from customers. Coinbase is going into venture capital. The former C.E.O. of Mt. Gox, the first big failed Bitcoin exchange, is no longer a believer.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has met with a slew of companies during his U.S. tour, including Amazon and the augmented-reality start-up Magic Leap. But the movie business was a focus.Entertainment is the new oil for Saudi Arabia, the head of the kingdoms entertainment authority told the WSJ. (Diversifying away from the old oil is the crown princes stated mission.)AMC Entertainment has announced plans to open the kingdoms first movie theater in over 30 years. The crown prince is hoping for a Disney theme park, too. The Information has more, and says the Saudis are largely following a Chinese playbook. Nine West, the U.S. shoe seller, reportedly could file for bankruptcy protection as soon as today, with a plan to sell its main brand to Authentic Brands Group. (Reuters) Blackstone plans a $2.3 billion bid for the Spanish hotelier Hispania. (Reuters) The investment firm Kimmeridge Energy Management has built an 8.1 percent stake in Carrizo Oil & Gas and wants the driller to consider selling itself, or at least some assets. (WSJ) Domo, a Utah-based business software company, is reportedly preparing to file confidentially for an I.P.O. (Recode) Instacart has raised another $150 million from existing investors like Coatue Management. (Axios) Takeda Pharmaceutical might bid for Shire, its C.E.O., Christophe Weber, told some analysts at a meeting last week. I investors and the media werent invited. (Bloomberg) Steve Jurvetson appears to have founded a new venture capital firm, Future Ventures, after resigning from DFJ after reportedly lying about an unidentified matter. (Recode) Deutsche Banks co-head of investment banking and global head of markets, Garth Ritchie, is reportedly considering leaving. And Matt Zames, formerly JPMorgans chief operating officer, has reportedly been contacted about becoming the German lenders next C.E.O. Skadden named 14 new partners, including in its M.&A., litigation and antitrust practices. (Skadden) WageWorks, a provider of employee-benefits services, replaced its C.E.O., Joseph L. Jackson, C.F.O. and general counsel, and said it needed to restate financial results from the past two years. (WSJ) Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, has been dabbling in the film business and has a credit in Al Pacinos latest movie. (NYT) Target agreed to revise hiring guidelines at its stores, after complaints that it considered old or very minor criminal records in a way that disproportionately affected black and Hispanic applicants. (NYT) I.S.S. and Glass Lewis are recommending that G.E. address accounting issues by firing K.P.M.G., its auditor of 109 years. (WSJ) Solar panels are everywhere, but renewable energy still accounts for barely 12 percent of electricity consumed globally. (NYT) The fashion industry, which employs an overwhelmingly female staff and focuses on female consumers and audiences, reported one of Britains worst gender pay gaps. (NYT) Memories of a long-distant boom have left Japan with a peculiarly potent version of 1980s nostalgia. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
BOSTON   Assault weapons and large-capacity magazines are not protected by the Second Amendment, a federal judge said in a ruling Friday upholding Massachusetts\' ban on the weapons.U.S. District Judge William Young dismissed a lawsuit challenging the 20-year-old ban, saying assault weapons are military firearms that fall beyond the reach of the constitutional right to "bear arms."Regulation of the weapons is a matter of policy, not for the courts, he said."Other states are equally free to leave them unregulated and available to their law-abiding citizens," Young said. "These policy matters are simply not of constitutional moment. Americans are not afraid of bumptious, raucous and robust debate about these matters. We call it democracy."State Attorney General Maura Healey said the ruling "vindicates the right of the people of Massachusetts to protect themselves from these weapons of war.""Strong gun laws save lives, and we will not be intimidated by the gun lobby in our efforts to end the sale of assault weapons and protect our communities and schools," Healey, a Democrat, said in a statement. "Families across the country should take heart in this victory."AR-15 assault-style rifles are under increased scrutiny because of their use in several recent mass shootings, including the February massacre at a Florida high school that left 17 people dead.The Gun Owners Gun Owners\' Action League of Massachusetts and other groups that filed the lawsuit argued that the AR-15 cannot be considered a "military weapon" because it cannot fire in fully automatic mode.But Young dismissed that argument, noting that the semi-automatic AR-15\'s design is based on guns "that were first manufactured for military purposes" and that the AR-15 is "common and well-known in the military.""The AR-15 and its analogs, along with large capacity magazines, are simply not weapons within the original meaning of the individual constitutional right to \'bear arms,\'" Young wrote.Young also upheld Healey\'s 2016 enforcement notice to gun sellers and manufacturers clarifying what constitutes a "copy" or "duplicate" weapon under the state\'s 1998 assault weapon ban, including copies of the Colt AR-15 and the Kalashnikov AK-47.Healey\'s stepped-up enforcement followed the shooting rampage at a nightclub in Orlando, Florida, that killed 49 patrons. She said at the time that gun manufacturers were circumventing Massachusetts\' ban by selling copycat versions of the weapons they claimed complied with the law.The Massachusetts assault weapons ban mirrors the federal ban that expired in 2004. It prohibits the sale of specific and name-brand weapons and explicitly bans copies or duplicates of those weapons.The National Rifle Association panned the ruling and pledged to help the groups fighting the case "in any way possible.""As long as politicians and judicial officials continue to flout the law in order to advance a political agenda, the five million members of the NRA will be here to hold them accountable," the group\'s Institute for Legislative Action said in a statement.Jim Wallace, executive director of the Massachusetts gun owners group, said Young\'s upholding of Healey\'s crackdown on copycat assault weapons gives the attorney general "unbridled authority" to interpret laws as she pleases."Everyone in the state should be really concerned about that," Wallace said. "What if the next attorney general isn\'t a friend on one of your issues?"Wallace said he couldn\'t yet say whether the group will appeal the decision.The U.S. Supreme Court has blocked local governments from banning handguns and ruled that the Second Amendment allows Americans to have guns in their homes for self-defense.But the court last year turned away an appeal from Maryland gun owners who challenged the state\'s ban on assault weapons.___Follow Alanna Durkin Richer at http://twitter.com/aedurkinricher . Read more of her work at http://bit.ly/2hIhzDb .
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: The U.S. is considering tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese products, President Trump said on Thursday, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.It was the latest volley in a back and forth between the worlds two largest economies. Heres how we got to this point. Beijing  is trying to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system. Our correspondent there explains why China is confident it would win a trade war.Washington imposed sanctions on some of Russias richest men and top officials today, punishing President Vladimir Putins inner circle for Russian aggressions.The move is intended to penalize some industrialists who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putins increasingly authoritarian administration. They grow out of an oddly disjointed policy: While President Trump continues to call for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years. At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency were sidelined in the past year after raising concerns about spending and management by the agencys administrator, Scott Pruitt.Among Mr. Pruitts requests, some of which were declined: a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership, a bulletproof security desk, a 20-person protective detail and the use of lights and sirens to speed his motorcades trips through Washington (including to a trendy French restaurant).The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the officials reassignments and their objections were related. We dispute the veracity of the accusations, an agency spokesman said. Senior White House officials say Mr. Pruitts fate is uncertain as he confronts a growing series of ethical questions. In his first public comments about the matter, President Trump said on Thursday that he didnt know about a $130,000 payment to a pornographic film actress who claims to have had a sexual relationship with him.Asked why Michael Cohen, his personal lawyer, had made the payment, Mr. Trump said, Youll have to ask Michael Cohen.Mr. Trumps remarks came after an appearance in West Virginia in which he literally tossed out his boring speech to renew his criticism of U.S. immigration law and to assert that millions voted illegally in the 2016 election. Some of his claims dont add up. It was a presidential corruption scandal that exposed entrenched ties between South Koreas government and huge conglomerates like Samsung.Park Geun-hye, the countrys former president, was sentenced today to 24 years in prison. She and a longtime friend were accused of collecting or demanding large bribes from three big businesses. Almost all of South Koreas presidents have seen their reputations tarnished by corruption scandals involving them, their relatives or their aides. The shooting at YouTube headquarters this week highlighted security risks in the workplace. Many companies are similarly exposed, as an open-door policy pervades corporate America. The U.S. added 103,000 jobs in March, down from Februarys pace but strong enough to extend a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained 4.1 percent. Your briefing writer remembers the 1980s fondly. So does Japan, where mild new prosperity has rekindled nostalgia for the last time the countrys economy truly boomed. U.S. stocks were up on Thursday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Can coffee rev up your workout? Heres how to uninstall Facebook Messenger. Recipe of the day: This weekend, make one-pot meatballs and sauce.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:As police shootings continue to draw headlines, the noted conservative writer and lawyer David French weighs in. He draws on his 2007 deployment in Iraq to ask: Shouldnt police at home exhibit at least as much discipline as soldiers at war?While noting that many police shootings are lawful and justifiable, he writes, many others would be surprising to see in a war zone, much less in the streets of Americas cities.  [National Review] Lynda Richardson, senior staff editor, TravelThe Ides of March may have passed, but this history of Julius Caesar is still a fascinating and relevant read.Plus it contains good advice like two very good friends could make up for a lot of enemies.  [The New York Review of Books] Julie Bloom, deputy national editor The week in good news is backWere happy to report that our column rounding up some of the weeks uplifting and inspiring stories has returned. Quiz time!Did you keep up with this weeks news? Test yourself. Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critic says after watching the horror film A Quiet Place that youll leave elated or Ill eat my words.We also review Chappaquiddick, a retelling of the 1969 car crash involving Ted Kennedy, and break down nine film festivals in New York City this month.Here are 11 TV shows well be talking about, and 11 new books we recommend.The calendar might say April, but winter hasnt fully released its grip on New York. We went in search of spring, starting with the annual Orchid Show in the Bronx.If youre in the city, we also recommend 10 plays, 15 pop, rock and jazz concerts, 22 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids. Save the datePrince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry in less than six weeks. We have answers to everything you ever wanted to know  and some things you didnt. Best of late-night TVFacebook is under investigation in Australia, where, Jimmy Fallon noted, Facebooks stock actually goes down the toilet in a counterclockwise direction. Quotation of the dayI cant imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets. Jeffrey Fagan, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School, on the fatal shooting of a mentally ill Brooklyn man by plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a call of a man brandishing what was thought to be a gun. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
LONDON   London police called an emergency meeting of community leaders on Friday after six stabbings in a matter of hours, as they tried to stem a wave of knife crime that threatens to dominate the city\'s politics ahead of local elections in May.They said they heard first-hand concerns of communities in the meeting, a day after the stabbings, which took place in five separate incidents on Thursday evening."(We) have been absolutely clear that we cannot tackle knife crime alone, we cannot enforce our way out of this and will do all we can to mobilize communities behind us and to help protect London," the Metropolitan Police said in a statement.London\'s murder rate in February and March was higher than New York\'s for the first time in modern history, and more killings this week have taken the total to 50. Most were stabbings.Prime Minister Theresa May - a former interior minister - has attracted criticism over the escalating crime wave, with the  opposition Labour party blaming cuts in police numbers and probation services, which have been part of the Conservative government\'s long-running austerity policies.The Conservatives are set for their worst local election performance in London in decades, according to a YouGov poll in February ahead of the vote on May 3.But the Mayor of London, Labour\'s Sadiq Khan, has also faced calls to do more. The devolved London Assembly has asked him to appear at an urgent meeting next Wednesday to discuss the issue.London police chief Cressida Dick said that the recent rise in knife crime made her angry, but that London remained a safe city."I am not happy about that, it is too much, but it is not this enormous epidemic that people are talking about," Dick told the Evening Standard newspaper.Victims of Thursday\'s stabbings included a 13 year old boy and three 15-year-old boys, two of whom were injured in the same incident. All the boys were in a stable condition, and across all the incidents there were no reported deaths.(Editing by Stephen Addison)
COLUMBIA, S.C.   South Carolina debated seceding from the Union more than 150 years ago ahead of the Civil War. Now, the topic has come up again, amid a national debate over firearms and gun rights.A trio of state House Republicans on Thursday introduced a bill that would allow lawmakers to debate seceding from the U.S. if the federal government confiscates legally purchased firearms in the state.The measure has no real chance of passage this session. The deadline for bills to move from one chamber to the other is April 10.
NEW ROCHELLE  Just before 3 p.m. on a recent Tuesday, a line of cars pulled up in front of New Rochelle High School and waited for its students to pour out into the afternoon sun. There was an old Honda Odyssey and a black Cadillac Escalade. A dingy Toyota Camry idled near a sparkling Audi A5 and a row of short yellow school buses.There was also a newly regular presence parked across the street: a police car.In January, a spate of violence shook the school. Two students were stabbed in the course of nine days and a third was attacked by a group of schoolmates. One of the students was stabbed inside a classroom during a first period Spanish class. Another, Valaree Schwab, 16, was stabbed at Dunkin Donuts near school and died of her injuries.Two months have passed, and while the school appears to have largely settled back into its regular rhythms, a disquieting question still hovers over the community: Are the events of January enough to fundamentally reshape New Rochelle High School  either for better or for worse?This city of about 80,000 people in Westchester County, just north of New York City, is a 30-minute ride on the Metro-North railroad from midtown Manhattan. It has commuting professionals and new immigrants, public housing and million-dollar homes. It also has just one public high school, which means that children from all walks of life go to school together, which is rare in American schools.This is one of the few schools, probably in the country, where the child of a Fortune 500 executive or CEO could be in the same class as a homeless child, said Reginald Richardson, the school principal. You can have a person taking college level English literature, either as an AP or dual enrollment, in the same school as a child who doesnt speak a word of English.Last year, 25 percent of students at New Rochelle High School were black, 25 percent were white and 45 percent were Hispanic. Half of its students were poor. Diverse as the school is, however, it is not always an integrated place.Students say that while some AP classes can be quite mixed, those that students must test into often have large numbers of white pupils. Students are thrown together across racial and economic divides in activities like clubs and sports teams, but white students tend to have lunch in one cafeteria, while another cafeteria is predominantly filled with students of color.Imperfect as it is, many students said they were proud of the schools diversity, and some families move to New Rochelle explicitly for it. But this asset also makes the school fragile in a particular way. If people perceive New Rochelle High to be dangerous, will parents with the means to do so send their children to private school? Will families who are thinking of living there move someplace else instead? The school district and the city have been trying hard to prevent this from happening.After the violence in January, the campus was sealed off during the school day, and students were no longer permitted to come and go. Two police officers are now stationed at the school, and there is an increased police presence along North Avenue, a thoroughfare behind the school. For a couple of days, student bags were searched at random by school security, and a security firm has been hired to audit safety measures at the high school.But Brian Osborne, the district superintendent, said that members of the New Rochelle community did not want to police themselves out of this problem, and were trying to be thoughtful in their response. The district has created a task force on reducing violence in the lives of young people, which will look beyond school to supporting children in other parts of their lives. It might look, for example, at whether mental health counselors are available 24 hours a day for those in crisis.All the kids who were involved, they were reflections of where we as a society are deficient in terms of supporting kids and families, where they get to the point where they feel that this is the only way to either resolve an issue or express themselves, Mr. Richardson, the principal, said.Three students were indicted last week in connection with Ms. Schwabs murder. Prosecutors say she was assaulted on North Avenue by three teenagers who then took her house keys. Ms. Schwab followed them to Dunkin Donuts to get her keys back, and she was stabbed.The next incident took place a week later, when a 15-year-old student appears to have been attacked by a group of young people at a pizzeria. The following day, that victim came to school and stabbed a classmate during first period. He ran out of the school, and the authorities are still looking for him. Police say they dont believe the student who was stabbed in class was involved in the incident at the pizzeria.In the face of intense local media coverage, some of New Rochelles neighbors do not seem comforted by the steps the city has taken.In February, George W. Hewlett High School, in Hewlett, on Long Island, said its students would not participate in a model congress at New Rochelle High School. The safety of our students and staff is our highest priority, and there is too much uncertainty there at this time, Jack Lenson, the interim principal of Hewlett High School, said in a letter. Schools from at least four other districts also declined to participate, so the event was canceled. Hewlett officials did not respond to a request for comment.New Rochelle students made the best of it, Mr. Richardson said. They took a bus down to Washington, D.C., and participated in the March for Our Lives against gun violence that weekend instead.Indeed, many students, teachers and parents say that adults have been more nervous than the children who attend the school.I think the feeling of fear is mostly coming from people who arent here every day, said Ajani Thomas, 16, a junior at New Rochelle High School. The feeling in the hallways is not fear.Maggie Bangsers son Amar Rajani-Bangser was sitting in Spanish class with the student who was stabbed  in fact, right next to him. But she considers the event such an outlier that she said she never thought about pulling her son out of school.As horrible as those events were, they do not in any way represent fully what New Rochelle is, they just dont, Ms. Bangser said.He came home for a couple of hours right after the incident, but he had a math midterm that afternoon, and at a certain point he said, Well, Im ready to go back, Ms. Bangser said.Ananya Pavuluri, 17, a senior, said that she grew up in the north end of New Rochelle, a wealthy part of town, and that in elementary and middle school, she had little interaction with children from low income families. That changed in high school.I tutored a girl who was in 12th grade and didnt know how to add negative numbers, she said. I was so quick to be judgmental. But then I realized that this girl does not have the same advantages in life that I do. If she cant afford the calculator that I can, or the tutors, then she doesnt have the same opportunities.Diversity cant be taught, added Javier Amezcua, 17, another senior at the school. I cant teach you that story.Schooling in the lower grades in New Rochelle is not nearly as diverse as it is in the high school. The city has six elementary schools and two middle schools, which tend to be more homogeneous, and the track for advanced high school classes, like honors and APs, begins in middle schools or even earlier: certain elementary school students with strong academic records can qualify for the districts Kaleidoscope program for exceptional students.While white students at New Rochelle High School had a graduation rate of 92 percent last year, the rate was 79 percent among black students and 71 percent among Latino students. Mr. Richardson said that part of why he came to New Rochelle from a high-poverty school in East New York, Brooklyn, was to try to address those disparate outcomes, and the school has made some progress.Mayor Noam Bramson of New Rochelle said that the city and its schools remain exceptionally safe  the citys crime rate in 2017 was the lowest in 56 years  and that he hoped that the community could take this extraordinarily difficult experience, and from it, choose to come together.If the process of discussion and consultation that is now unfolding results in better practices and better policies and more robust partnerships, then I think New Rochelle can be a model of how a community responds intelligently to tragedy, Mr. Bramson said.I respect that a sense of fear after a shocking event is natural and human, he said. One of the things we try to teach our kids is not to be ruled by our fears.
SAVANNAH, Ga.   Relatives of a Georgia man fatally shot by police in January have called for police to release body camera video of the shooting, saying they\'re confident the footage shows he was unarmed.Officers shot 20-year-old Ricky Boyd outside his Savannah home Jan. 23 while trying to arrest him on a murder warrant. Boyd\'s grandmother and younger siblings witnessed the shooting. Boyd was black. Authorities have not released the names or races of the officers.A Savannah police officer was also wounded by gunshots outside Boyd\'s home and Police Chief Mark Revenew at first said Boyd was armed and had "initiated gunfire toward officers." The day after the shootings, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said Boyd was holding a BB pistol. The bureau has not said who shot the injured officer.More than two months later, Boyd\'s family insists he had no type of gun in his hands when police shot him on the front porch.Mattie Wallace, Boyd\'s grandmother, said she and her younger grandchildren were standing outside the house where more than 10 officers surrounded the front yard when Boyd came out of the door. She said she heard an officer yell: "He\'s got a gun!""And I hollered, \'Don\'t shoot! Don\'t shoot! He doesn\'t have a gun!\'" Wallace said in an interview Thursday. "Then all I heard was shooting."Police said the officers had a warrant to charge Boyd with murder in the slaying of a 24-year-old man found shot two days earlier. Boyd\'s mother, Jameillah Smiley, insists her son didn\'t kill anyone and never confronted police with a weapon.Smiley said investigators agreed to show her body camera video from the shooting. She said the footage showed her son with his "hands out, turning and before you know it, all I saw was him coming and falling to the ground.""I just want my son\'s name to be cleared," Smiley said.Savannah police spokeswoman Bianca Johnson declined to comment on the case Friday. Body camera footage hasn\'t been released because the state investigation of Boyd\'s shooting is still considered open.The Georgia Bureau of Investigation recently sent its findings to local prosecutors, which is common practice following shootings involving police officers in Georgia. Kristin Fulford, spokeswoman for Chatham County District Attorney Meg Heap, said prosecutors are reviewing the case.___This version has been corrected to show that Boyd was shot more than two months ago, not more than three months ago.
MEXICO CITY   Mexican marines accepted responsibility Friday for the deaths of three civilians killed when they drove through a running gun battle between marines and cartel gunmen in the northern border city of Nuevo Laredo in late March.The Navy said it accepted responsibility after a prosecution ballistics expert found evidence that gunfire from a helicopter supporting the marines in a confused series of pre-dawn gun battles killed a female passerby and her two children. One marine was also killed in the gun battles and 12 were wounded. Four gunmen also died.The Navy said in a statement that "this department accepts responsibility for this unintentional act which affected a car carrying civilians who were not connected to the events."It said it would offer reparations and support to the victims\' families. The father and one boy who were travelling in the car were wounded and survived. A girl was not hit by the bullets.Expert Anselmo Apodaca of the attorney general\'s office said investigations concluded the bullets that hit the family\'s car came in through the vehicle\'s roof at a 45-degree angle.Apodaca also said the car "was driving by chance in the line of fire of the shootout."Photos of the scene showed a highway running through scrubby woods, with no apparent firing position offering a 45 degree angle down on the car\'s roof.The car was apparently hit when it passed by a point where two truckloads of gunmen had pulled to the side of the road and opened fire; dead gunmen were found next to those vehicles.In a statement issued one day after the March 25 shootout, the Navy had denied the family was hit by bullets from the helicopter, saying "preliminary investigations by competent authorities indicates the bullets that hit the civilians were from crossfire at ground level and not from the air."The army, and to a lesser extent the marines, have been accused in the past of excessive or indiscriminate use of force, and of trying to cover up those abuses.The acceptance by the Marines marks one of the first times the military has come out and said it was at fault.Mexican military forces have been deployed to fight criminal gangs in the country\'s roughest areas, a law enforcement role which even they acknowledge they do not want and have not been trained.In 2014, the killing by soldiers of 22 suspected criminals at a warehouse became one of the country\'s  biggest rights scandals after a human rights investigation determined that at least 12 and as many as 15 people had been executed after surrendering.No soldier has ever been tried and convicted in that case.The March 24-25 gun battles illustrated the level of drug gang violence in Nuevo Laredo, a city dominated by the Northeast Cartel, an offshoot of the Zetas cartel.Authorities said marines were ambushed three separate times in Nuevo Laredo, across the border from Laredo, Texas.Marines returned fire and killed one gunman in the first attack, but suffered three wounded.Another patrol was sent to help the wounded when it also came under fire; that ambush killed one marine and wounded several others.A third patrol was ambushed just outside the marine base as it responded to the first two attacks. In that shootout, three gunmen were killed.Finally, a helicopter gunship was called in.
BALTIMORE   The conviction of a man arrested by corrupt officers in the Baltimore Police Gun Trace Task Force has been cleared posthumously.The Baltimore Sun reports city prosecutors came across Keith Kelly's case while researching convictions touched by the task force. When they tried to find Kelly, they were told he had died four months earlier.Several members of the task force have been convicted of federal racketeering and found to have stolen from citizens, lied on official paperwork and clocked unworked overtime pay. Kelly's conviction relied on the testimony of three officers who have pleaded guilty in the case.On Wednesday, assistant public defender Deborah Levi told Kelly's mother, Ethel Carter, about the ruling.Carter said she's glad it worked out in her son's favor.___Information from: The Baltimore Sun, http://www.baltimoresun.com
TOPEKA, Kan.   The Kansas Supreme Court on Friday overturned a former Topeka woman\'s convictions for killing her ex-husband and his fiancee in 2002, finding that prosecutors falsely claimed at trial that her former spouse had taken out a protection from abuse order against her.The justices wrote that prosecutors used that false claim and circumstantial evidence to support their case that Dana Chandler was dangerous. Chandler had consistently said she did not fatally shoot the couple, and no physical evidence tied her to the crime, The Topeka Capital-Journal reported .Chandler\'s prosecution "unfortunately illustrates how a desire to win can eclipse the state\'s responsibility to safeguard the fundamental constitutional right to a fair trial owed to any defendant facing criminal prosecution in a Kansas courtroom," the justices concluded.The court wrote that no protection order existed but prosecutors had claimed several times that it did before recently acknowledging they were wrong."But that concession," Supreme Court Justice Dan Biles wrote, "while laudable, was a long time coming  even though we would expect the state never to shield something so obviously indefensible."Attorney Stacey Schlimmer, who represented Chandler before the Supreme Court, said the opinion affirmed the Supreme Court\'s view that lawyers who engage in inappropriate behavior do so at their own peril."It\'s something that\'s more prevalent than people realize," Schlimmer said. "This needs to be a message to our district court judges."Shawnee County District Attorney Mike Kagay must now decide whether to bring Chandler to trial again more than 15 years after the crimes.Chandler, 58, was the focus of the investigation almost immediately after Michael Sisco and Karen Harkness were shot to death at Harkness\' home in Topeka, although she lived in Denver at the time. She wasn\'t arrested until 2011 after a cold case unit set up by then-District Attorney Chad Taylor investigated. She was sentenced to 100 years in prison."I did not murder Mike or Karen," Chandler said at the sentencing hearing. "There was no evidence that I ever owned or possessed a weapon used to commit this crime, nor that there was any evidence that I was at the crime scene."Jodi Litfin, assistant solicitor general for Kansas who took over the case for Shawnee County, conceded that then-Deputy District Attorney Jacqie Spradling falsely introduced evidence at trial. But she argued the mistake wasn\'t malicious and didn\'t justify reversing the convictions.___Information from: The Topeka (Kan.) Capital-Journal, http://www.cjonline.com
ONTARIO, Calif.   The Latest on an explosion inside a Sam\'s Club store in Southern California (all times local):6:45 p.m.Police have identified a man suspected of detonating two explosive devices inside a Sam\'s Club store in Southern California.Police in the city of Ontario identified the suspect Thursday as Hugo Gonzalez of Fontana.They say they believe Gonzalez acted alone when the explosive devices were set off inside the store, which is about 45 miles east of Los Angeles.Officer Eliseo Guerrero said the man led officers on a short chase after he was seen leaving the store. Police say investigators found additional materials "similar to those used in the devices" inside his car.Authorities said Gonzalez was in custody and was being questioned.A motive for the crime remains unknown. Guerrero said the man had no apparent connection to Sam\'s Club.___6 p.m.Police have detained a man for questioning after two explosive devices were detonated inside a Sam\'s Club store in Southern California.Officer Eliseo Guerrero says no one was injured by the Thursday evening blasts in Ontario and there didn\'t appear to be any damage to the building.Guerrero says the man was seen leaving the store and after a short chase he stopped and was being questioned.Investigators are trying to determine a motive for the crime. Guerrero says the man appeared to have no connection to Sam\'s Club.Authorities haven\'t described the type of explosive used. Guerrero says it\'s still being analyzed.A spokesman for Sam\'s Club didn\'t immediately comment on the incident.___4:25 p.m.Authorities say someone set off a small explosive device inside a Sam\'s Club store in Southern California but no one was injured.It happened Thursday afternoon in Ontario.Police and firefighters are at the scene. Authorities say there doesn\'t appear to be any damage to the building.Police haven\'t described the type of explosive used and haven\'t said whether they\'ve identified a suspect.
MOGADISHU   The U.S. military said on Friday it had killed three militants after launching an air strike in Somalia against al Shabaab, a militant Islamist group allied with al Qaeda.The military\'s Africa Command (Africom) said they carried out the strike on April 5 near the town of Jilib, about 230 miles (370 km) southwest of Mogadishu."In coordination with the Federal Government of Somalia, U.S. Forces conducted an air strike against Al-Shabaab militants near Jilib ... killing three terrorists and destroying one  vehicle with a mounted heavy machine gun," it said in a statement.Washington has expanded its operations in the Horn of Africa country after President Donald Trump eased combat rules last year.Since withdrawing from the capital Mogadishu in 2011, al Shabaab lost control of most of Somalia\'s cities and towns. But they retain a strong presence in regions outside the capital.On Friday, one soldier was killed by a militant who attacked a checkpoint in Mogadishu. A car bomb in the same place injured two other soldiers.Al Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack.(Reporting by Abdi Sheikh; Writing by Aaron Maasho; Editing by Richard Balmforth)
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   California\'s first black U.S. senator said Thursday that better training is needed to help police officers recognize biases in response to last month\'s shooting of Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old unarmed black man shot by Sacramento police."There is no question that that was a life that should not have been lost," Kamala Harris said at a town hall meeting in Sacramento. "That is a life that should not have been ended."Harris spoke to a mostly supportive audience of several hundred people nearly three weeks after two officers chased Clark, who was suspected of breaking into cars, into his grandparents\' darkened backyard and opened fire. The officers thought he was carrying a gun but later found he was holding a cellphone.The shooting touched off tense protests in California\'s capital as demonstrators demanded the officers be indicted.Clark\'s grandmother, who was in the audience, was given a standing ovation."My heart breaks for what has happened," Harris said.Harris, who has an Indian mother and Jamaican father, was California\'s first attorney general who wasn\'t a white man and has been mentioned as a potential candidate for president in 2020.Officers must be trained to recognize how their unconscious biases influence decisions about how to enforce the law and the appropriate level of force to use, she said. Everyone carries bias, she said, "but when your bias is coupled with the fact that you carry a gun, it is something that has to be a priority for all of us."Following high-profile police shootings of unarmed civilians around the country, the former attorney general ordered her agency to review its own training on bias and use of force, and she created a statewide program that she said has now trained 2,000 officers to avoid having their biases influence their ability the use the appropriate level of force.But she also resisted calls to lead independent investigations of questionable police shootings, saying local district attorneys can be trusted to fairly investigate.Harris declined to comment on proposals in the state Legislature to change policies on the use of force by police. One would make California the first state to significantly restrict when officers can open fire, changing the standard from using "reasonable force" to "necessary force.""I\'m looking forward to seeing the language," Harris said. "I think they\'re very interesting (proposals). Certainly there\'s work to be done."
Sheila Link, a former college music major and bass player who transformed her life to pursue altogether different passions  firearms and the outdoors  becoming a noted authority on both, died on March 30 at her home in Palm Desert, Calif. She was 94.The cause was pneumonia, her daughter, Teresa Link, said.As a sportswoman, hunter and raconteur, Mrs. Link channeled her enthusiasms into leading gun-safety workshops and arduous survival expeditions along with writing books and magazine articles, including a column in Women & Guns magazine.Sheila Links legacy will be as a direct link between our pioneer foremothers, including Annie Oakley, and modern day American women gun owners, Peggy Tartaro, the magazines executive editor, wrote in an email.Mrs. Link wrote a column, Gear N Gadgets, for Women & Guns from the magazines inception in the early 1990s until 2003.She was also a frequent contributor to Outdoor Life, Field & Stream and Sports Afield magazines; produced a weekly radio program, Call of the Outdoors, which was broadcast for nine years beginning in 1974; and was the author of two books, The Hardy Boys Handbook: Seven Stories of Survival (1980) and Womens Guide to Outdoor Sports (1984).Her writing could be detailed and vivid. Reviewing gear for Women & Guns in 2006, she described a rifle this way: The smooth laminated black stock, with silvery gray and dark-gray striations, complements the brushed stainless bull barrel, trigger guard, lever and sideplates.She was the first woman elected to the Outdoor Writers Association of America and was later its president.In the early 1970s, Mrs. Link was enlisted by the National Rifle Association to be a spokeswoman and consultant with the aim of recruiting more women to join the organization and train them in firearms safety and outdoor survival skills. She was an N.R.A. life member since 1973, although her support for the group became more equivocal in later years, her daughter said.Born in New Jersey, Mrs. Link might have seemed an implausible heir of Annie Oakley, the sharpshooter of the 1890s. But, then again, Oakley also lived in New Jersey.Sheila Jean King was born on July 25, 1923, in Jersey City to the former Marian Hanlon and John McLeod King. Her father was an executive of what became Aramaco, the Middle East oil giant; her mother was executive assistant to the president of the McGraw-Hill publishing house.Her family moved to California before she was 7, and within a few years she was furtively roaming the hills nearby and shooting at small game with a neighbor boys BB gun and .22-caliber rifle  until, that is, her father, who was not keen on hunting, objected. (Her brother, Jack, was murdered in Mountain View, Calif., when he was 14; the case was never solved.)Raised on both coasts, she attended the Straubenmuller Textile High School in Manhattan (now part of the Bayard Rustin Educational Complex) and majored in music at the College of San Mateo in California but did not graduate. She later played with the San Francisco Civic Symphony.She married Frederic Link, whom she had met in high school, where she learned to play the bass. (She was a lifelong member of the musicians union.) Her husband became a high school English and humanities teacher, and he later accompanied her on the drums at local jazz clubs.Mr. Link preferred spectator sports to hunting, however. The excitement of trying to hit a bouncing cottontail was unknown to him, Mrs. Link wrote in 1968.Mr. Link died in 2013. In addition to their daughter, Teresa, Mrs. Link is survived by two sons, David and Gregory; three grandchildren; and one great-grandson. Another son, Christopher, died in 2008.Despite her love of music, it was ultimately overridden by her abiding attachment to the outdoors and her fascination with the power and precision of firearms, nurtured in her youth in California.After she took her youngest son hunting when he was a teenager, Mrs. Link wrote, the pleasure and enjoyment the outdoors has offered us has led to a deeper, more complete appreciation of all nature.In 1973, when she was back in New Jersey, she was featured on an episode of ABCs American Sportsman, which followed her on a bighorn sheep hunt in British Columbia.She also clambered over New Mexico mountaintops in below-zero temperatures in a grueling Survival Leadership Field Exercise sponsored by the N.R.A. and the Colorado-based Wilderness Institute for Survival.Properly understood and used, Mrs. Link avowed in Field & Stream in 1976, the wilderness can provide us with shelter, food and water  all thats needed to survive.Mrs. Link wrote for Women & Guns about a wild boar hunting trip organized at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California in 2010 for wounded servicewomen. On the trip, she met an Air Force nurse who was an avid believer in womens armed self-defense.After a violent assault sent her to the emergency room, she filed suit, then got a concealed-carry permit, Mrs. Link wrote.She recommended that hunters use a steadying tripod device because ethical big game hunters, in order to dispatch an animal as swiftly and painlessly as possible, always try to find some sort of rifle rest before taking a shot.Mrs. Link taught outdoor skills at Brookdale Community College in Lincroft, N.J.; was a deputy conservation officer in that state and gave hunter education classes in California.On one of Mrs. Links many cross-country journeys in the 1960s, Teresa Link recalled, she, her mother and younger brother were sitting alone at a rest stop out West having lunch.A car pulled up and a couple of scary looking men just sat there watching us, Teresa Link said.Her mother, by Ms. Links account, hurriedly packed her children into the car and drove off. The men followed. Suddenly, she stopped the car, pulled over, ordered her daughter to stay inside, grabbed a pistol from the glove compartment, strapped it on and stepped onto the road.She stood there staring them down, her hand on the pistol, for what seemed like ages, Ms. Link said. Then they skidded back onto the road and drove away. She always cited that experience as one of the reasons she was so adamant about the right to bear arms.Ms. Link added: No one else in my family is pro-gun, and in her later years she distanced herself from the N.R.A. because she didnt approve of the swelling number of gun nuts, as opposed to hunters and outdoors people. But she loved shooting, and got a kick out of how many Hollywood actresses came to her classes.
HANOI   Vietnam arrested a former senior police official on Friday on suspicion of involvement in an illegal online gambling ring, the Ministry of Public Security said.Lieutenant General Phan Van Vinh, 62, is accused of "abusing power in performance of official duties", the ministry said in a statement on its website, adding that he would be held for four months pending investigation.Vinh is the second senior police official to be held in less than a month for suspicion of involvement in the gambling ring, amid an extensive crackdown on corruption in the Communist Party-ruled country.Vinh had served as chief of the General Department of Police before he retired in April last year.Last month, authorities arrested a former head of the high-tech crime police department, Nguyen Thanh Hoa, on suspicion of involvement in the gambling ring.According to Vietnam\'s penal code, anyone found guilty of "abusing power in performance of official duties" may be jailed for up to 15 years.(Reporting by Khanh Vu; Editing by Robert Birsel)
The First Purge is actually the fourth Purge. Back in 2013, the original horror hit introduced the idea of an annual event in which all crime was legal for 12 hours in the United States, allowing people an outlet for their anger. The latest installment, which has just released its first full trailer, flashes back to show how the Purge began, with Marisa Tomei as its founder.In a sign of how timely the franchise has become, shes interviewed by CNNs Van Jones, who asks, Is the Purge a political device? Her response: Its a psychological one. Yet the trailer hints at a government conspiracy in which soldiers are sent into poor, African-American neighborhoods posing as nonmilitary citizens to wreak havoc. This leads to the formation of a resistance, which fights the Purge.Although Ethan Hawke and Frank Grillo  who starred in previous Purge films  are seen in the trailer, theyre not expected to appear in the new film. The cast includes Ylan Noel (Insecure) and Lex Scott Davis (from the forthcoming Superfly remake).Whether were ready or not, The First Purge hits theaters on July 4, aptly enough.
PRISTINA   Kosovo authorities said on Friday they had indicted 11 people, including a minister and lawmaker from the ruling party, for allegedly handing out state jobs to people based on their political affiliation.The case is based on wiretaps made in 2011 during an anti-corruption operation by the European Union police and justice mission (EULEX), set up after Kosovo\'s 1998-99 independence war to foster rule of law in the former Serbian province.EU officials say Kosovo\'s government, led by ex-guerrillas, has not done enough to purge ingrained corruption and organized crime, often cited as the main obstacle to foreign investment in the impoverished Balkan nation of 1.8 million people.Almost all of the indictees are members of the ruling Democratic Party of Kosovo (PDK), including Besim Beqaj, the minister for innovation and entrepreneurship, which is in power since 2007.Prosecutors said that defendants could be heard in wiretapped conversations offering party supporters jobs at state-financed agencies, among them the rail network, courts and universities, water, energy and health companies."The indictment has to do with the criminal activities of hiring, sharing official positions based on party affiliations and friendly connections," prosecutors said in a statement.(Reporting by Fatos Bytyci; Editing by Mark Heinrich)

TOKYO   A woman who says she was raped by a U.S. sailor in Japan is demanding Tokyo do more to protect crime victims of U.S. military personnel stationed here.Catherine Fisher met for an hour Friday with foreign and defense ministry officials in the Japanese parliament.Fisher, an Australian and longtime Japan resident, was raped in 2002, and awarded damages by a Japanese civil court. Japanese prosecutors however refused to pursue criminal charges.She tracked the sailor she accused of assaulting her on her own because he had already left for the U.S.Fisher sued Bloke Deans in Wisconsin Circuit Court in 2012 to claim the damages awarded in Japan. She won in 2013, but demanded only $1  to make a point, she says.Deans denied he assaulted Fisher but acknowledged in the U.S. settlement "the evidence may prove otherwise," according to documents provided by his attorney, Alex Flynn. "Mr. Deans has paid that dollar and the matter is now concluded," Flynn said.Fisher is now demanding compensation for the family of a Japanese woman in whose death a former Marine was convicted last year, as well as for other victims.Such crimes by U.S. military personnel have set off anger although their immunity from Japanese prosecution has gradually decreased."You must and you can do something. Everybody else is doing something except for the Japanese government," she said.Takahiro Suzuki, a deputy director at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told Fisher negotiations were underway with the U.S. to win compensation for the family of the murdered Japanese woman.A sticking point has been that, at the time of the murder, Kenneth Shinzato was working as a U.S. military contractor and was no longer a Marine.Fisher demanded the Japanese government give compensation immediately, and not wait for a U.S. decision.She has been a rare proponent and counsel for women in Japan, where rape victims tend to stay silent.Although opinion may be divided about the presence of U.S. troops in Japan under a bilateral treaty, there was no disagreement that murder and rape were wrong, she said."You couldn\'t stop that," she told the officials of the crime. "You have to take responsibility."___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
LONDON   JP Morgan Chase has acknowledged it knew a former Nigerian oil minister convicted of money laundering would benefit when it transferred over $800 million of government funds to a company he controlled, according to a court document seen by Reuters.JP Morgan made the acknowledgement in its legal response to a lawsuit filed by Nigeria over transactions made by the U.S. bank when Royal Dutch Shell and Eni bought offshore oilfield OPL 245 from Malabu Oil and Gas in 2011.The $1.3 billion deal has spawned legal cases spanning several countries and involving Nigerian government officials and senior ENI and Shell executives, a number of whom face trial in Italy on corruption charges next month.Malabu is controlled by Dan Etete, who was Nigeria\'s oil minister at the time of the deal and was convicted of money laundering in France in 2007. He could not be reached for comment.The lawsuit against JP Morgan accuses the bank of negligence over the transfer of funds from a Nigerian government escrow account into which Shell and Eni had deposited money to secure OPL 245. It claims $875 million from the bank.In its written defence, filed in a British court last week,   JP Morgan said Britain\'s Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA), now renamed the National Crime Agency, had approved the transfers to Malabu. It denied negligence.The bank had previously said only that it "considers the allegations made in the claim to be unsubstantiated and without merit".JP Morgan did not provide a comment on the filing. Lawyers representing Nigeria did not respond to requests for comment.It was not immediately clear whether JP Morgan\'s acknowledgement that it knew of Etete\'s links with Malabu will have any impact on the trial starting in Milan in May. Italian prosecutors were not immediately available for comment.Eni\'s chief executive is among those going on trial in Milan on charges of paying bribes to Etete and others, including sums that went to Malabu. Shell and Eni deny wrongdoing in relation to OPL 245.Shell said in April last year that it "always knew" the Nigerian government would compensate Malabu and that Etete was involved. It had previously told Reuters only that payments went to the Nigerian government.DENIAL OF NEGLIGENCEThe lawsuit against JP Morgan said that although it received a request from Nigeria\'s finance ministry to transfer funds to accounts controlled by Malabu, the bank showed gross negligence by not making further checks before allowing the transaction.Denying negligence, JP Morgan said in its response that the transfers were authorised by designated government signatories for the Depository Account -- the then finance minister and the African country\'s accountant general.The bank also said it knew Etete was the beneficiary of Malabu by July 2011, one month before it made the transfers, and that by July 14, 2011, it "was aware of Etete\'s conviction"."It is admitted that the order referred to Etete as Malabu\'s principal. [...] It is admitted that by 15 July 2011 JPMC (JP Morgan Chase) was aware of Etete and of his association with Malabu," it said in the court filing.JP Morgan also denied that it had acted in breach of  Nigeria\'s constitution or owed the government or state any further due diligence."It is denied that \'the utilisation of the Depository Account\' was contrary to the constitution... It is denied that JPMC \'should have been aware\' that this was (allegedly) the case," the filing said.(Additional reporting by Shadia Nasralla, Editing by Timothy Heritage)
MADRID   Spanish and Portuguese authorities announced Friday that they have taken down a criminal network that has been making large profits by smuggling glass eels to Asia.Authorities across the continent have been trying to tackle the smugglers, who take European glass eels to Asian countries, where they are raised into adults and their meat commands high prices for local delicacies.The trading of the European eel has been restricted since 2009 under the rules of the CITES convention for the international trade of endangered wildlife. The European Union has banned all exports outside the bloc and regulated internal sales, although an underground black market in eels has thrived in recent years.In the latest operation against the traffickers, four Chinese citizens, three Spaniards and three Moroccans were arrested in Spain in an operation coordinated by the European Union\'s police body, Europol.Spain\'s Civil Guard said 460 kilograms (1,014 pounds) of glass eels were seized in southern Spain. Their market value, once the eels have grown into adults, was estimated at over 400 million euros ($490 million). One kilogram of baby eels can yield 1.3 tons of adult eels, investigators say.More than 100 tons of juvenile eels evade wildlife traffic controls every year in Europe, according to Andrew Kerr, chairman of the Sustainable Eel Group."That\'s nearly one fourth of the total European eel natural stock," Kerr said Friday. "It\'s the biggest wildlife crime action in Europe, and it\'s hidden from everyone."Friday\'s disclosure showed how the ring exported the baby eels bought in Spain through Portugal and Morocco and how the eels were concealed in suitcases or in cargo containers and sent to Hong Kong, mainland China, South Korea and other Asian countries.Police also seized 364 suitcases possibly used to smuggle the eels, Civil Guard Coronel Jesus Galvez told reporters Friday in Madrid.Because eels can\'t be bred in captivity, the wriggling glass eels or elvers are usually fished and raised to maturity in aquaculture companies in Asia, where pollution, climate change and poaching has diminished stocks of the Japonica Anguilla species.Since the glass eel fishing season began at the end of the fall, Portugal has arrested 28 people and has seized 1 ton of glass eels in 18 raids.Hugo Alexandre Matos, director of the Portuguese authority of food security, ASAE, said several investigations remained opened.Meanwhile, Spain has arrested or identified as suspects 89 people since November, snatching more than 2.3 tons of baby eels. The seized eels have been reintroduced to the wild, Galvez said.The operations come as environmental crimes are on the rise globally and in Europe, said Europol\'s chief for organized crime, Jari Liukku, who compared the benefits from illicit wildlife trading to those of drug, arms or human trafficking."Punishments are low and the conviction rate for environmental crimes is still low," he said.
NEW YORK   New York City has pledged to listen to suggestions by Muslim groups when it drafts new policies for investigating political activity, part of a settlement over police surveillance conducted after the 2001 World Trade Center attack.The agreement, announced on Thursday by both parties after two years of talks, also requires the NYPD to send high-ranking officials to meet with members of the New Jersey-based Muslim groups that brought the suit against the city.As part of the 11-page settlement, the NYPD pledged that it would conduct no investigations motivated by race, religion or ethnicity, in keeping with current regulations.The resolution of this case affirms and enhances the NYPDs commitment to conducting effective investigations to prevent crime and terrorism, Police Commissioner James ONeill said in a statement.The Muslim groups filed suit in U.S. District Court in Newark, New Jersey, nearly six years ago, demanding that the city police stop surveillance of mosques, businesses, college campuses and other gathering spots as part of its anti-terrorism campaign.Farhaj Hassan, the lead plaintiff in the suit, said in a statement that the settlement was "part of a broader effort to hold this country to account for its stated commitment and its obligation to uphold religious liberty and equality.The NYPD, which admitted no wrongdoing under settlement, had  pursued an aggressive surveillance program after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks that sent undercover officers into Muslim neighborhoods, organizations and mosques. Mayor Bill de Blasio ended the program shortly after he took office in 2014.The NYPD agreed to consider any proposed revisions suggested by the plaintiffs to new policy guidance now being drafted.The settlement has not yet been approved by U.S. District Court Judge William Martini, who has presided over the case, the parties said. But attorneys for the plaintiffs said they expected the judge to sign off on it.Under the agreement, the city also will pay the plaintiffs $75,000 in damages and $950,000 for legal fees.(Reporting by Peter Szekely; Editing by Susan Thomas)
PHOENIX   An Arizona transient with a history of mental illness was sentenced on Friday to 29 years in prison for a murderous rage in which he decapitated his wife and their two puppies, then maimed himself, a court official said. Kenneth Dale Wakefield, 46, was sentenced by a Maricopa County Superior Court judge in Phoenix after pleading guilty in February to second-degree murder and two counts of animal cruelty stemming from the rampage, court spokesman Bryan Bouchard said. Wakefield severed his left forearm below the elbow and gouged out one of his eyes after killing his wife and their pets inside the couples Phoenix apartment on the morning of July 25, 2015, authorities have said.Wakefield told investigators he was trying "to get the evil out" of his wife, 49-year-old Trina Heisch, when he attacked her, and had smoked marijuana and the designer drug Spice about an hour beforehand, according to court documents. Wakefields attorney could not be reached for comment following the sentencing, and the prosecutor\'s office had no immediate comment.Local media reported that Wakefield delivered a teary-eyed apology to his wifes family during the sentencing hearing. "I just wanted to say Im sorry," he told the court, according to an account posted on the Arizona Republics website. "I cant change it. I suffer also. She was my best friend." Police alerted to the blood-splattered crime scene by a neighbor who was checking on the couple found Heischs headless body and her two pets slain inside a bedroom closet and discovered several bloody knives in the apartment. Authorities said the couple met in a mental institution and that both had an extensive history of psychiatric illness and violence. They described Wakefield as a drifter.He was arrested in 2003 for attempting to kill a family member, and Heisch was arrested in March 2015 for assault after attempting to stab her husband, police said.(Reporting and writing by David Schwartz in Phoenix; Editing by Steve Gorman and James Dalgleish)
SWEDEN, N.Y.   A woman used a "large-bladed kitchen knife" to sever the head of her 7-year-old son 10 days after she was released from a hospital mental health unit, authorities said Friday.Monroe County Sheriff\'s deputies arrested 36-year-old Hanane Mouhib after Abraham Cardenas was found dead Thursday night in the family\'s home in the town of Sweden, about 15 miles (24 kilometers) west of Rochester in rural New York. She was charged with second-degree murder."There\'s absolutely no explanation for us," Sheriff Todd Baxter said at a news conference Friday. "The word \'evil\' comes to mind."According to public records, Mouhib is a licensed nurse practitioner who had worked at a Rochester psychiatric center.Baxter said the sheriff\'s office received three 911 calls from the home in quick succession around 8:20 p.m. Thursday, one of them reporting a suicidal woman with a knife. When deputies arrived, they had to use pepper spray and a stun gun to subdue Mouhib, who refused to drop the knife, Baxter said.Court papers say Mouhib used the knife to stab the boy in the upper back then cut his neck, severing his head.Mouhib\'s husband, mother-in-law and a 10-year-old boy were in the house with her, Baxter said. He said they hadn\'t seen any warning signs and were taken by surprise at the slaying.Mouhib had recently called the sheriff\'s office seeking assistance with mental health problems, Baxter said. Deputies arranged for her to be taken to a hospital psychiatric unit March 5 and again March 8, when she was admitted to Rochester General Hospital until March 26, he said.Mouhib is being held in the county jail without bail. She had not been assigned a public defender at midday Friday. Monroe County District Attorney Sandra Doorley said a preliminary hearing is scheduled for April 11 but she plans to present the case to a grand jury before that.Abraham Cardenas was a first-grader at Barclay Elementary School in the Brockport district."This is a very shocking situation for us," District Superintendent Lesli Myers said. She called Abraham "an engaged learner" who "lit up a room any time he entered it." She said grief counselors would be at the school when students return from spring break Monday.___Information from: WHEC-TV, http://www.10nbc.com
A roundup of some of the most popular but completely untrue headlines of the week. None of these stories is legit, even though they were shared widely on social media. The Associated Press checked these out; here are the real facts:___NOT REAL: Breaking: Trey Gowdy Breaks His Silence After 2 Of His Investigators Are Found Tortured And KilledTHE FACTS: An online story that claimed two deputies on their way to deliver a search warrant at the Clinton Presidential Library were killed in Arkansas is "100 percent false." That\'s according to Amanda Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C. The incorrect story on the americacomefirst site alleged the deputies were investigators for Gowdy and that as a result of their deaths, he was holed up in his office with protection from the U.S. Marshals Service. The piece attributed a false statement to Gowdy, alleging he said a mole on one of his congressional committees leaked the deputies\' travel plans.___NOT REAL: Obama Appeal Denied: Judge Orders Him To Pay Back $400 MillionTHE FACTS: Online stories have falsely claimed that federal courts have ordered former President Barack Obama to pay $400 million in restitution to the United States for money supposedly lost in a transaction with "hard-liners" in Iran. One version from the conservativenation site takes it a step further, alleging the U.S. Supreme Court has denied Obama\'s appeal. It calls the fictitious lower court the West Texas Federal Probate Court and gives a name for a supposed judge there who is not on the federal bench.___NOT REAL:  Canadians Could Be Jailed or Fined for Using Incorrect Gender PronounsTHE FACTS: No, Canadians can\'t be jailed just for calling someone "he" or "she" when the person uses another pronoun to refer to themselves. An article posted to The Daily Signal website said a law enacted last year would lead to hate crime charges against people who used an incorrect pronoun to describe a transgender person. The bill added gender identity and gender expression as areas that can be grounds for discrimination under Canada\'s Human Rights Act. It also amended the country\'s criminal code to add protections for transgender people against hate speech. But Canadian legal and free speech experts say just using an incorrect pronoun isn\'t enough to qualify as criminal hate speech.___This is part of The Associated Press\' ongoing effort to fact-check misinformation that is shared widely online, including work with Facebook to identify and reduce the circulation of false stories on the platform.___Find all AP Fact Checks here: https://www.apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck___
ATLANTA   Authorities have partially solved the mysterious disappearance of a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention employee with the discovery of his body. But they may never know how he drowned in a river not far from his home.Fishermen found Timothy Cunningham\'s body on Tuesday partially submerged in water and mud on the west bank of the Chattahoochee River in Atlanta, fire-rescue department spokesman Sgt. Cortez Stafford said at a news conference.Fulton County Chief Medical Examiner Jan Gorniak determined the cause of death as drowning, but said she couldn\'t provide additional information because she was still awaiting toxicology reports."Since the investigation is ongoing, we do not have ... whether it was an accident, a suicide, or anything other than that" Cunningham drowned, Gorniak said at the news conference Thursday.Maj. Michael O\'Connor of the Atlanta Police Department\'s Major Crimes Section said Thursday that investigators had spoken to everyone of importance and that barring any new information, "this case will likely close fairly soon."Cunningham, 35, was an epidemiologist at the Atlanta-based federal agency. He disappeared Feb. 12. His family reported him missing on Feb. 16 after going to his home and finding his belongings and vehicle there.His family released a statement Thursday evening thanking investigators and rescue workers, news outlets reported."We appreciate all the time, attention and professionalism you have contributed as we searched for our beloved son and brother, Timothy Cunningham," the statement said. "We sincerely thank all of you for the support and kindness you have shown our family during this difficult time."Rescue crews had to use boats and special equipment to reach Cunningham\'s body after it was found Tuesday because it was in difficult terrain in a "remote area not easily accessible," Stafford said. He noted the body was found in an area authorities had searched in February without finding anything. The site was not far from Cunningham\'s house, O\'Connor said.Gorniak said the decomposing body was positively identified using dental records.Police previously had said they had no evidence of foul play but couldn\'t rule it out. The civilian group Crime Stoppers offered a reward of up to $15,000 for information pointing to any criminal activity.CDC officials also said previously that reports Cunningham had been passed over for a promotion were incorrect. In a statement, the CDC said Cunningham received an "exceptional proficiency promotion" July 1 to the position of commander, an early promotion reflecting his excellence as an employee.
(Reuters) - Three children missing for more than a week were likely inside the vehicle their mother drove off a California cliff and their bodies probably washed into the Pacific Ocean, police said on Thursday.Interviews with relatives and friends suggest all six of the family\'s children were inside the sports utility vehicle when it plunged off a coastal cliff on March 26, in what is thought to have been an intentional crash, Mendocino County Sheriff\'s Office said in a statement.The bodies of driver Jennifer Hart, 38, Sarah Hart, 38, a married white couple, and three of their African-American adopted children were recovered after the crash.Police have searched for the missing children along a coastal highway in the hope they might still be alive, but investigators believe it is increasingly likely they were swept into the ocean after their GMC Yukon fell 100 feet (30 meters) onto seashore rocks.The crash occurred three days after child welfare services opened an investigation into allegations of potential abuse or neglect of the children at their home in Woodland, Washington."Mendocino County Sheriff\'s Office investigators believe the missing children were inside the vehicle at the time of incident," the statement said. "Information obtained through interviews with family and friends indicated it was rare for the family to be apart, especially while traveling."This testimony, together with the other children\'s bodies being recovered outside of the vehicle "supports the possibility that the missing children were swept away from the crash scene by the Pacific Ocean," police said.The sheriff\'s office did not immediately respond to a request for further comment.County Sheriff Tom Allman on Wednesday said he considered the crash a crime, based on evidence that Hart stopped the family SUV about 70 feet from the cliff at a scenic viewpoint some 180 miles (290 kms) north of San Francisco, before deliberately driving it over the edge.Police have yet to ascertain whether a struggle took place between Hart and her partner or whether all the children were alive at the time of the incident, Allman told HLN on Wednesday.The missing children include 15-year-old Devonte Hart, who gained notoriety in 2014 after being photographed hugging a white police officer at a protest after the fatal police shooting of a young black teenager in Ferguson, Missouri.(Reporting by Andrew Hay; Editing by Bernadette Baum and James Dalgleish)
Six new paperbacks to check out this week.SPACEMAN OF BOHEMIA, by Jaroslav Kalfar. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) A Czech astronaut is shot into space to investigate a mysterious cloud, and leaves behind a trove of earthly baggage. As our reviewer, Hari Kunzru, put it: But for all the strangeness of outer space, it is the writing about his home village, the place to which he longs to return and perhaps never can, that beats strongest in this wry, melancholy book.LOCKING UP OUR OWN: Crime and Punishment in Black America, by James Forman Jr. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $16.) Forman offers a masterly account of how black elected officials grappled with the drug crises and violence of the 1970s. The book, one of the Book Reviews 10 best of 2017, argues that prison reform requires a new understanding of justice, one that emphasizes accountability instead of vengeance.ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE, by Elizabeth Strout. (Random House, $17.) Nine linked stories complement Strouts earlier novel My Name Is Lucy Barton, and follow a cast of interconnected characters who negotiate their desires and pain, and move past traumas. Our reviewer, Andrea Barrett, praised the book, which she described as thick with details and even more profound in its rendering of the ways we save, or fail to save, one another.THE GIVERS: Wealth, Power, and Philanthropy in a New Gilded Age, by David Callahan. (Vintage, $17.) A new crop of billionaires is quietly shaping society through their philanthropic ventures  including school choice, climate change and even marriage rights  with little oversight. Callahan knows the field, and can explain the preferences of tech billionaires versus Wall Street donors, for example. He sheds light on these donors goals, their choices and how theyre different from their forebears.THE KINGDOM, by Emmanuel Carrre. Translated by John Lambert. (Picador, $17.) Carrre takes on the subject of early Christians in the religions founding days, imagining Paul and Luke after Christs death. Along the way, he weaves in reflections on his own faith: Driven by despair more than 20 years ago, he became a devout Christian, praying and undertaking a rigorous study of the Bible, until the fervor faded a few years later.HOURGLASS: Time, Memory, Marriage, by Dani Shapiro. (Anchor, $15.) In this midlife appraisal, Shapiro explores the subtle transformations of her life, examining her hopes and exposing the fissures in her marriage, along with her belief that the relationship will prevail. Looking back on the origins of her relationship, Shapiro enters an eloquent dialogue with her earlier, younger selves.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Sacramento has agreed to reform its policing practices and pay a black man $550,000 after an officer threw him to the ground over a jaywalking allegation last year and repeatedly punched him in the face, his lawyers said Friday.The settlement in a U.S. civil rights lawsuit comes as the Police Department in California\'s capital city has faced intense scrutiny and a series of protests after two officers fatally shot Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old unarmed black man, in his grandmother\'s backyard last month.Police Chief Daniel Hahn, who took over the department after Nandi Cain\'s beating was captured on video a year ago, has promised to review the department\'s use-of-force policies following Clark\'s death.The city agreed to update those policies as part of Cain\'s settlement, said his attorney, John Burris.Mayor Darrell Steinberg\'s office would not confirm whether Sacramento agreed to changing use-of-force policies for officers or other the details of the settlement until both sides have signed it. Police deferred comment to the city."Our city is fully committed to transparency and changing training, protocols and procedures to make sure these unacceptable incidents don\'t occur," the mayor said in a statement Friday.Cain, whose lawyers say he has signed the deal and plan to send it to the city soon, alleged that he was targeted because of his race when an officer pulled over and accused him of jaywalking on a residential street. Cain said Officer Anthony Figueroa threw him down when he argued.Video of the confrontation filmed by a bystander was widely viewed online and generated outrage across the U.S.That video and footage from a police cruiser dashboard camera show Cain complaining that Figueroa was stopping him "for nothing" and saying, "If you were a real man, you would take your gun away and fight me like a real man."Cain suffered a broken nose and a concussion, said Burris, who has contested allegations that Cain was jaywalking. The settlement is aimed at preventing similar incidents in the future, the attorney said."If there\'s a commitment to it, which certainly there seems to be with this present command staff, I think it can have a very positive impact in reducing the negative contact between the community and the police," he said.In the settlement, Sacramento agreed not to assign Figueroa to the neighborhood where the beating occurred through at least 2019, Burris said.The city also agreed to compare police reports and body camera footage for accuracy, as well as track jaywalking citations and post that information publicly for three years, Cain\'s attorneys said.Collecting data will ensure police are complying and help shed light on problematic trends, Burris said.The city said it would implement implicit bias and cultural immersion training, Cain\'s attorneys said.Cain\'s lawsuit also alleged he was abused in jail. He settled that part of the suit with Sacramento County, which runs the jails, for $40,000 last fall, according to the written agreement the county provided to The Associated Press. The county did not admit liability.___Associated Press writer Jonathan Cooper contributed to this story.
HANOI, Vietnam   Six human rights activists were sentenced to harsh prison terms in Vietnam after being convicted of attempting to overthrow the government by advocating a multiparty democracy.Prominent human rights lawyer Nguyen Van Dai received the most severe penalty of 15 years in prison and five years of house arrest at the one-day trial Thursday, said his lawyer Nguyen Van Mieng. The others received sentences from seven to 12 years.They were charged with affiliating with a group called Brotherhood for Democracy, whose purpose was to change the leadership of the Communist Party and build a multiparty system."The sentences are too harsh to the defendants," Mieng said. "They fought for human rights, they fought for the rights of multi-party system ... which are recognized achievements of mankind, but the court sees it as serious (threat) to the regime."Five of the defendants including Dai maintained they were innocent because what they did was right, Mieng said. One defendant confessed to the crime and got the most lenient sentence, he added."The purpose of the group is to change the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam, build a multi-party system," the official Vietnam News Agency quoted the verdict as saying. "The defendants\' act is not fight for democracy, but acts that aim at overthrowing the people\'s administration.""The defendants\' act is especially serious because it directly impacts the survival of the people\'s administration," it said.Prosecutors identified Dai as the mastermind of the group who recruited members and sought financing from foreign organizations and individuals, which totaled more than $80,000, VNA reported earlier.Dai and four others had previously been jailed for violating national security laws, and Dai\'s license to practice law was revoked.State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said the United States was deeply troubled by the harsh sentences under a "vague charge" and called for the release of all "prisoners of conscience" immediately."Individuals have the right to the fundamental freedoms of expression, association, and peaceful assembly, both online and offline," she said in a statement. "The United States is deeply concerned by the Vietnamese government\'s efforts to restrict these rights, through a disturbing trend of increased arrests, convictions, and harsh sentences of peaceful activists."Speaking to reporters at a regular briefing Thursday, Vietnamese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Le Thi Thu Hang said there are no "prisoners of conscience" in Vietnam and no one has been arrested for freedom of expression."In Vietnam, like other countries in the world, all acts that violate the laws are seriously dealt with in accordance with law," she said.Amnesty International says 97 people are serving jail sentences for violating national security laws in Vietnam, while Human Rights Watch counts 119.
PLANTATION, Fla.   A student gravely wounded while saving his classmates\' lives by blocking a door during the Florida school massacre said Friday that the county sheriff and school superintendent failed the victims by not arresting the shooter before the attack and by allowing him to attend the school.An attorney for 15-year-old Anthony Borges read a statement from him during a news conference criticizing Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel and Superintendent Robert Runcie for the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland that killed 14 students and three staff members.Borges was shot five times, suffering wounds to the lungs, abdomen and legs. He was released from a Fort Lauderdale hospital Wednesday morning, the last of the 17 wounded to go home.Borges, too weak to talk, sat silently in a wheelchair with his right leg propped up. His statement specifically attacked the Promise program, a school district and sheriff office initiative that allows students who commit minor crimes on campus to avoid arrest if they complete rehabilitation. Runcie has said shooting suspect Nikolas Cruz, a former Stoneman Douglas student, was never in the program, but Borges and his attorney, Alex Arreaza, said school and sheriff\'s officials knew Cruz was dangerous.Deputies received at least a dozen calls about Cruz, 19, over the years and he spent two years in a school for children with emotional and disciplinary problems before being allowed to transfer to Stoneman Douglas. Last year, records show, he was forced to leave after incidents  other students said he abused an ex-girlfriend and fought her new boyfriend. Weeks before the shooting, both the FBI and the sheriff\'s office received calls saying Cruz could become a school shooter but took no action.Runcie and Israel "failed us students, teachers and parents alike on so many levels," Arreaza read for Borges, who sat next to his father, Roger. "I want all of us to move forward to end the environment that allowed people like Nikolas Cruz to fall through the cracks. You knew he was a problem years ago and you did nothing. He should have never been in school with us."Arreaza said the family supports the efforts by Stoneman Douglas students David Hogg, Emma Gonzalez and others to end gun violence but may not always agree with their methods. Borges is a U.S. citizen born to Venezuelan immigrants.Arreaza said that although Borges\' father, a maintenance worker, appreciates that people consider his son a hero for protecting classmates, he believes such talk detracts from the serious message that action must be taken to stop school shootings."He doesn\'t want there to be anymore bubblegum hero stuff," Arreaza said.Anthony Borges visited Stoneman Douglas for the first time since the shooting Thursday but said in his statement that he is scared to return, fearing there could be more violence.More than $830,000 has been raised for him in online donations, but Arreaza said his medical bills will likely exceed $1.5 million. The family plans to file a lawsuit soon against Cruz, the estate of his late mother and a family that housed him before the shooting. Under state law, the family can\'t sue the school district and sheriff\'s office until a six-month waiting period expires in August.The sheriff\'s office and school district did not return after-hours calls and emails Friday seeking comment.
SAN FRANCISCO/WASHINGTON   Facebook Inc backed for the first time on Friday proposed legislation requiring social media sites to disclose the identities of buyers of online political campaign ads and introduced a new verification process for people buying "issue" ads, which have been used to sow discord online.The change in stance, announced in a Facebook post by Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, comes a few days before he is scheduled to answer questions in congressional hearings about how the company handles its users\' data.The steps are designed to deter the kind of election meddling and online information warfare that U.S. authorities have accused Russia of pursuing, Zuckerberg said. Moscow has denied the allegations."Election interference is a problem that\'s bigger than any one platform, and that\'s why we support the Honest Ads Act," Zuckerberg wrote in his post.That legislation, introduced last October but not yet passed, is aimed at countering concerns about foreign nationals using social media to influence American politics, which is part of the investigation into possible Russian meddling during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.Zuckerberg said that he also wanted to shed more light on "issue ads," or ads that discuss a political subject such as gun laws or racism but do not directly relate to an election or a candidacy, and would require every such advertiser to confirm their identity and location."Any advertiser who doesn\'t pass will be prohibited from running political or issue ads," Zuckerberg wrote.Facebook disclosed in September that Russians under fake names had used the social network to try to influence U.S. voters in the months before and after the 2016 election, writing about inflammatory subjects, setting up events and buying ads.In February, U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies with interfering in the election by sowing discord on social media.The requirement to verify the identity of such ad buyers was important to counter activity by organizations such as Russia\'s Internet Research Agency, a so-called online "troll farm," said Democratic Senator Mark Warner, a sponsor of the Honest Ads Act."Most of the paid ads the Internet Research Agency ran on Facebook prior to the 2016 election didn\'t mention Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump - but they did mention divisive political issues like guns, LGBT rights, immigration, and racial issues," Warner said in a statement.UPHILL FIGHTThe Honest Ads Act would expand existing election law covering television and radio outlets to apply to paid internet and digital advertisements on platforms like Facebook, Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc\'s Google.Google declined comment. Twitter could not immediately be reached for comment.Facebook had previously stopped short of backing the legislation, saying it wanted to work with lawmakers further and announcing attempts at self-regulation.The bill\'s sponsors said they welcomed Facebook\'s support. They have faced an uphill fight so far because Republicans, who are generally sceptical of political ad regulations, have majorities in the House and Senate.The Senate legislation has one Republican sponsor, Senator John McCain.Zuckerberg is scheduled to appear on Tuesday before a joint hearing of two U.S. Senate committees, and on Wednesday before a U.S. House committee.Under the Honest Ads Act, digital platforms with at least 50 million monthly views would need to maintain a public file of all electioneering communications purchased by anyone spending more than $500.The legislation would also require online platforms to make "all reasonable efforts" to ensure that foreign nationals and entities are not buying political ads to influence the U.S. electorate.Facebook will also require verification of people who manage Facebook pages with large followings, Zuckerberg wrote.(Reporting by David Ingram in San Francisco and Dustin Volz in Washington; Editing by Bill Rigby)
SAO PAULO   A federal judge ordered the arrest of former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, giving him until Friday afternoon to turn himself into authorities. Being forced to begin serving a corruption conviction while he appeals it increases the chances that da Silva, who leads presidential preference polls, will not be able to run in October's elections. Here is a look at how his jailing could impact Brazil's political landscape.THE ELECTORAL COURTEven if judge Sergio Moro had not issued an arrest warrant for da Silva, he could still be ineligible to run for office under the country's Clean Slate Law, which bars candidates who have had a criminal conviction upheld. However, the Superior Electoral Tribunal, Brazil's electoral court, makes final decisions on candidacies in August. Da Silva's leftist Workers' Party has said it will register him as its candidate even if he is jailed. The party could also swap in a Plan B candidate up until mid-September.OTHER CANDIDATESRunning second to da Silva in the polls is Congressman Jair Bolsonaro, a former army captain who has been compared to President Donald Trump. Bolsonaro defends Brazil's military dictatorship, has been fined for making sexist and racist comments, and is a staunch supporter of loosening Brazil's gun laws. If da Silva is out of the race, many of his supporters would likely go to more left-leaning candidates like Marina Silva or Guilherme Boulos. Still, many analysts believe Bolsonaro's overall chances could improve if da Silva is barred from the election, though others think his divisiveness could encourage the coalescing around a different candidate.DA SILVA'S PLANOn Thursday, da Silva held an emergency meeting with other leaders of the Workers' Party. The group, which included former President Dilma Rousseff, party president Gleisi Hoffmann and former Sao Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad, came up with three main tactics to back da Silva: a permanent camp-out by supporters in front of his home in a Sao Paulo suburb, mobilization of a national campaign and continued pressure on the Supreme Federal Tribunal.CAMPAIGN FROM JAIL?Even if he is jailed, da Silva will have the right to campaign after being registered as an official candidate in August. He has already been traveling Brazil in a pre-candidate campaign tour. In many places he has been welcomed warmly, but not all. Two of the buses in his caravan were shot at during a recent leg of his trip that took him to the southern state of Parana. Da Silva was not in either vehicle, which were carrying journalists and guests. No one was hurt, but the incident underlined the divisive mood in the country.POLARIZED NATIONProtesters for and against da Silva took to the streets in several cities before and during the Supreme Federal Tribunal's deliberations. October's general elections and the lead-up to them won't be any different. Tensions are high and political opinions are more divided than ever, adding to frictions among Brazilians.
It might be best for all parties concerned if Al, Earn and Darius go back to just getting high on the couch. Lately, whenever theyve ventured out of their living room, disaster has followed.What unfolds for Darius in this weeks extended episode is far more grim than the heartbreaks and headaches his friends have encountered recently. He embarks on one of his typically impulsive jaunts and ends up held captive in a Southern gothic nightmare.The episode opens at a hardware store, where Darius asks the clerk for dehydrated mango, ginger or jicama to snack on. Hes packing up a U-Haul truck, cranking up some Stevie Wonder and hitting the road. A quirk fest seems imminent. Its been a while since weve seen Darius indulge his eccentric side and, frankly, some whimsical moments are overdue this season.From the moment he pulls up to a decaying, secluded mansion, though, its clear that whimsy is off the table. We get the classic Dont go in there! setup, including an eerie voice croaking out of the security gate call-box, a large front door opening on its own and a dimly-lit, uninviting foyer. Then, Theodore Perkins emerges from the shadows and Darius shouldve fled the scene on sight.The creepy figure who goes by Teddy is an unapologetic spoof of pale, post-surgery Michael Jackson (judging by the voice, that seems to be Donald Glover beneath the unsettling prosthetic makeup and blue contact lenses).Teddy explains that hes the caretaker for his invalid brother, former piano virtuoso Benny Hope. Darius is there to pick up a free piano with multicolored keys that was listed online, but he was unaware of the instruments famous connection.Intrigued, Darius peruses framed photos of dark-skinned Benny smiling alongside jazz and soul legends. To further solidify the Jackson parallels, Teddy says his brother developed a rare skin condition and can longer go out in the sunlight.By now, Darius has concluded that Benny and Teddy are one and the same. But since hes not one to shy away from waving his own freak flag, Darius is not entirely put off by this falsetto-voiced oddball.Over the course of the 41-minute episode, there are warning signs galore. A significant number of viewers might have left immediately at the sight of Teddy sticking his hand into the liquid center of a soft-boiled ostrich egg. Still more would have sought the exit when he revealed that his butler intercom was, in fact, just a tape recorder to remind him of things like Finish that hat for Dionne Warwick and Wash your hands  immediately.I really, really want this piano, man, Darius explains to Al over the phone. You willing to die for it? Al asks, trying to reason with him. He sounds like a serial killer.The visit becomes about more than just the instrument. Darius is a man of principle: If I leave, Ill regret it. And I have a two-regret life limit pact, he tells Al, pacing. Somebody gotta take me out if I go over two.He re-enters the house after taking his breather on the patio and finds Teddy standing in a makeshift gift shop dedicated to all things Benny. The collection of T-shirts, tumblers and key chains is just a teaser to the main attraction. I really think youll like what I have in store, Teddy says, opening a pair of creaky double doors.My father used to say Great things come from great pain, he says, gesturing to a mannequin wearing a suit. Teddy has placed his stern taskmaster (and tormentor) on a literal pedestal and explains this room will be dedicated to Great Fathers. Here, writer Donald Glover pulls no punches in calling out famous dads whose goal-oriented parenting methods have raised eyebrows over the years. Joe Jackson is on the list, along with the fathers of Tiger Woods and Serena Williams, and even the father that drops off Emilio Estevez in The Breakfast Club. This twisted memorial is still not enough to dissuade Darius from his mission, and on he goes.Regrets or no regrets, when he finally gets his hands on the piano and notices a drop of blood on one of the keys, you know its time he got out of there quickly, even if it is empty-handed. But as the tension builds, Darius wheels the piano into an elevator.Teddy instructed him to meet him in the lobby, but when the camera pans over the button marked B, its clear Darius is doomed to land in the basement. Fine, destiny, he sighs, walking into the dark space filled with creaking pipes and a roaring furnace.Earlier, Darius deduced that Benny made up Teddy to make up for the fact that he made himself look like a ghoul. The logic seemed sound, especially since there was no sign of another man in the house. When a masked figure in a wheelchair wearing a red smoking jacket like Teddys wordlessly wheels himself over to Darius, its reasonable to assume it is Teddy, and his games are getting increasingly warped. Using a chalkboard, the figure warns Darius that both their lives are in danger and tells him to find a gun in the attic.Fed up at long last, Darius rolls his eyes and goes to leave with his piano, only to find his truck is now blocked in by a car. This is no longer just a creepy recluse toying with an unsuspecting guest.The basement-dweller was right about the gun in the attic, only Teddys now pointing it at Darius on the second floor. He turns away from obsessively watching home movies of his childhood trauma to explain his deranged plan. Teddys going to frame Darius as a homicidal home invader, making him take the fall for Bennys death. This is full-on Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? madness and we still dont even have hard proof that there truly is a Benny. Until we do. And then, the whole macabre affair ends in abrupt tragedy.Moments before the fraternal murder-suicide, Darius tried to soothe his deeply damaged captor. Not all great things come from great pain. Sometimes, its love, he said. But it was too little, too late. Ultimately, all he could do was bear witness to the dysfunctional brothers bloody end.In the final scene, a Stevie track plays  this time, fittingly forlorn  as Darius watches the police wheel out one body-bag, then another and lastly, the prized piano.If it wasnt clear before this week, by now it should be crystal: Atlanta isnt here to give you the kind of sitcom you might want. Donald Glover is here to deliver the kind of genre-defying vignettes he wants. The writers love to reference Get Out. This week, when Teddy takes a surprise snapshot of Darius, he jumps and says, Im not a big photo person, calling to mind the movie scene in which a camera flash causes Lakeith Stanfields sunken place character to freak out. Darius lock screen image proved divisive when we first saw it in February. Malcolm X, M.L.K. and Allen Iverson shooting dice while the Obamas, Oprah and others look on? Thats just the kind of defiant art youd expect to appeal to a guy who altered his new Southern Made stars-and-bars trucker hat to read U Mad. There was no shortage of celebrity shade this episode: I find it never quite grew out of its adolescence, Teddy said of rap. I wouldnt say that, Darius replied. We got Jay-Z. Hes like 65. Theres nothing shady here, though: It truly is jarring what you can find if you take Darius suggestion and type Sammy Sosa hat into a search engine.
LONDON  Last year, Israeli police officers raided a Bedouin village in the Negev desert called Umm al-Hiran. The Israeli authorities said that during the raid a villager had purposely run over an Israeli officer, killing him. They called it a terrorist attack. The villager died at the scene. Silent police helicopter footage seemed to show his car accelerating into the officer.Forensic Architecture uncovered a different story.You may recall Forensic Architecture from headlines a few years back. It investigated the killing of two Palestinian teenagers in the West Bank. Local and international media crews were on hand when the teenagers were killed. Security cameras recorded the shootings. At first, Israels minister of defense said the teenagers had been throwing Molotov cocktails at Israeli soldiers, despite security footage showing otherwise. The minister said the footage had been doctored.Forensic Architecture combed through the videos and social media posts. Using architectural rendering software, it pieced together a computer model of the site and tracked the trajectory of the bullets. That pinpointed the soldier who fired them and the weapon he used. Comparing acoustic signatures, Forensic Architecture then matched the fatal shots to the distinct sounds of live ammunition, contradicting the militarys claim that only rubber bullets had been fired. All this contributed to Israeli officials reversing themselves, and charging the soldier with manslaughter.A survey of Forensic Architectures work is now on view at  the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, through May 6. A collaborative of designers, filmmakers, coders, archaeologists, psychologists and others, based at Goldsmiths, University of London, Forensic Architecture acts more or less like a detective agency. It partners with groups like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. Its funders include the European Research Council. And its investigations are whodunits. Eyal Weizman, an Israeli-British architect, is the groups founder and resident Columbo.Instead of creating a house or skyscraper, the group scours for evidence of lies, crimes and human rights violations  combining the spatial and engineering skills of architects, the data-gathering prowess of librarians, the doggedness of investigative journalists and the storytelling finesse of screenwriters. Its reports have annoyed Germanys Christian Democratic Union party, frustrated Bashar al-Assad, Syrias president, provoked an attack from Vladimir V. Putins Russia Today news service, and infuriated officials in Israel.Mr. Weizman has an especially long history of run-ins there. Born in Haifa, educated at the Architectural Association in London, he was just starting out as an architect in Tel Aviv when he began to study the legacy of town planning in the occupied territories. What he saw suggested to him architectures complicity in human rights violations. In 2002, with a colleague, Rafi Segal, he was hired to organize a show of new Israeli architecture. Mr. Weizman and Mr. Segal presented settlements in the occupied territories. Appalled, the Israel Association of United Architects canceled the exhibition and withdrew the catalog. The incident brought Mr. Weizman attention.And it made him think.His timing could hardly seem better, with technology rapidly democratizing the instruments of forensic research and the purview of young architects widening. He begins his recent book, Forensic Architecture, recalling the  libel trial in London of the Holocaust denier and historian David Irving, nearly two decades ago. Mr. Irvings shameful case relied on a tidbit of architectural evidence: he made much of fuzzy satellite imagery showing a demolished crematory at Auschwitz. Survivors had said they recalled poison cyanide gas canisters dropped through a hole in the crematorys roof, but Mr. Irving said there was no hole in the satellite photos. No hole, no Holocaust, became the deniers catchphrase.Mr. Irving lost his trial. But Mr. Weizman cites the case as a cautionary tale. The tools of forensic analysis can easily be perverted. Wielded especially by governments and other powers in defense of violence and crime, they need to be challenged by equally sophisticated means. Architecture and forensics may be disparate disciplines but brought together they could produce a new, different mode of practice, Mr. Weizman realized. They could help reverse the forensic gaze back onto state agencies that usually monopolize it.Adopting a phrase coined by the photographer Allan Sekula, Mr. Weizman terms the practice counter forensics.I stopped by the groups office in southeast London the other day. A dozen or so researchers were staring into computer screens, Nick Masterton among them. He was tinkering with a timeline and 3D computer model of the Grenfell Tower fire that killed 71 people in London last year. Mr. Masterton and the rest of the Grenfell team have spent the last several months knitting together thousands of open-source photographs, videos and reams of metadata related to the fire.Mr. Masterton told me hes using some of the techniques he learned in architecture school when so-called parametric design was the rage. Forensic Architecture relies on computer programs and digital animation software that model exotic building shapes to reconstitute bombed-out ruins, identify debris patterns from drone strikes and document tragedies like the fire. And of course Mr. Masterton scours the Web for images.It has become a clich that smartphones and social media today flood the world with pictures that change public debates around power, policing, violence and race. For Mr. Weizman, the image flotsam, as he calls it, can be as confounding as it can be useful and it needs to be assembled. It requires construction and composition  thus, architecture, in his words. The resulting architectural image complex functions like a lens, letting people see the scene of a crime as a set of relations between images in time and space.Christina Varvia is now Forensic Architectures research coordinator. What we do is in the tradition of paper architecture, she told me, when I asked how her work relates to what she did as an architect. Except we expect results. As architects, were also trained to bring different people together to produce a design. But instead, we synthesize evidence.Since 2011, when Mr. Weizman founded the agency, its work has expanded beyond Israel and the Palestinian territories to Mexico, Guatemala, Afghanistan and Europe. Its investigation into whether a German undercover agent lied about witnessing the murder of a man of Turkish descent at an internet cafe is one of the most intriguing and mysterious cases at the Institute of Contemporary Arts.One of the most heartbreaking involves Saydnaya, the infamous prison outside Damascus.Since the start of Syrias civil war, thousands have disappeared inside that countrys detention centers. At Saydnaya, prisoners are kept in darkness, tortured and beaten if they speak. No outsiders are allowed access. There are no recent photographs of the inside.Working with Amnesty International, Forensic Architecture interviewed five former Saydnaya detainees in Istanbul. The researchers asked the prisoners to describe the building. Trauma unhinges memory, but architecture can provide an anchor. No detail was considered too trivial. Based on remembered smells of grease and blood, and sounds like an idling truck engine delivering new prisoners or the approaching thud of guards beating inmates, cell by cell, Forensic Architecture constructed a computer model of Saydnaya.When a state commits a crime, Mr. Weizman explained, it cordons off an area, which is the privilege of the state. That site becomes a work of architecture, defined by the cordon. A prison by definition is architecture. You can try to break through the state cordon via leaks, media images, satellite photographs. And when theyre not available, memory is a way around the cordon. In any case, the cordoned area is our building site.At Umm al-Hiran, the Bedouin village that was raided, the building site became the dusty hill where the car struck the police officer. The supposed terrorist in that case was a farmer named Yaqub Musa Abu al-Qian. The Israeli policeman he ran over was named Erez Levi.Collaborating with ActiveStills, an Israeli-based photographic collective, Forensic Architecture used photogrammetry and collected, time stamped and synchronized every available image and video of the raid, producing a corresponding soundtrack. The soundtrack, when played alongside the thermal-imaging videos, revealed the pops of three gunshots where heat flashes emerged from a policemans weapon that had been overlooked in the silent helicopter footage. The weapon was fired at Mr. Abu al-Qians car just before it accelerated down a hill and into Mr. Levi.Not long after that discovery, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz published a leaked autopsy report revealing that Mr. Abu al-Qian had suffered two bullet wounds, one in his right knee, the leg controlling the gas pedal. The wound raised an alternative explanation for why Mr. Abu al-Qian, who had been moving slowly, with his lights on, suddenly accelerated, as if losing control of his vehicle.The police continued to insist he was a terrorist, but more than a month after the raid Israels security service and Ministry of Justice changed the story and attributed the incident to a police blunder.That still left unexplained the second bullet, which villagers testified to seeing an Israeli officer fire at point-blank range into Mr. Abu al-Qian after his car had stopped.So Forensic Architecture continued its investigation.With volunteers, it reenacted the event at Umm al-Hiran, using the same model car, confirming that the scenario in which a wounded Mr. Abu al-Qian lost control and sped down the hill matched the video evidence. It also turned out that the doors of a Land Cruiser lock automatically when the vehicle reaches 20 kilometers an hour, as Mr. Abu al-Qians car did before swerving to a standstill at the bottom of the hill.In helicopter footage, the drivers side door can be seen to open when the police surround the stopped vehicle, implying Mr. Abu al-Qian willingly opened it. A single gunshot then pierces the soundtrack.That second bullet lodged beneath Mr. Abu al-Qians heart. The leaked autopsy report said he bled to death from this wound, while medical aid was withheld.An investigation by the justice ministry into the event recently concluded, without any apparent indictments. The case awaits a final verdict by the state attorney.
DURBAN, South Africa   Former South African president Jacob Zuma sat in the dock of a packed courtroom on Friday to face corruption charges and emerged defiant, telling supporters that the case against him was politically motivated.Zuma, 75, appeared relaxed during the brief hearing at which his case was adjourned until June 8. While a lengthy court battle is expected, the spectacle of Zuma appearing before a judge less than two months after his resignation was a victory for opposition figures and activists who have fought for years to call him to account.Sixteen charges of fraud, racketeering and money laundering were recently reinstated after being thrown out nearly a decade ago. They relate to an arms deal in the 1990s, when Zuma was deputy president. The case fueled the public anger that finally forced Zuma from power in February, though other scandals hurt him and the ruling African National Congress party that eventually instructed him to resign.At the hearing, Judge Themba Sishi said Zuma was free "on warning." He could face several years in prison.State prosecutor Billy Downer suggested that Zuma\'s trial start on Nov. 12, though a lawyer for Zuma said the defense would not agree to any trial date for now. In the meantime, the defense is expected to challenge a decision by the National Prosecuting Authority to reinstate the charges against the former president.Outside the courthouse, Zuma sang and swayed on a stage before a large group of supporters, many sporting regalia of the ANC party.He told the crowd that he was the victim of a political vendetta and that he has campaigned for the economic rights of South Africa\'s black majority since the end of apartheid in 1994. The message resonates among many people who resent the fact that much of the economy remains in the hands of the white minority despite the advent of democracy."When a person is being accused of a crime, that doesn\'t mean that they\'ve been found guilty. That person still has their rights just like anybody else," Zuma said.The court hearing occurred in the coastal city of Durban in Zuma\'s home province of KwaZulu-Natal province, a stronghold of his support."Hands off Zuma," his backers chanted.Also in the dock was a representative of Thales, a French defense company accused of paying bribes to Zuma in the arms deal.Zuma\'s financial adviser at the time, Schabir Shaik, was convicted of corruption in the case in 2005 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He was released after two years on medical parole.Zuma was replaced as president by his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, who has promised a robust campaign against corruption and seeks to rebuild a ruling party whose moral stature has diminished since taking power at the end of apartheid.In another scandal linked to Zuma, South African authorities seek to arrest members of the Gupta business family, which allegedly used its connections to Zuma to influence Cabinet appointments and win state contracts.Also, South Africa\'s top court ruled in 2016 that Zuma violated the constitution following an investigation of multi-million-dollar upgrades to his private home using state funds. He paid back some of the money.___
DURBAN, South Africa   Former South African president Jacob Zuma appeared in court on Friday to face corruption charges relating to a $2.5 billion arms deal, later telling a crowd he would be proven innocent in the long-running case that resurfaced after his fall from power.Zuma\'s transition from "Mr. President" to "Accused Number One" in less than two months is a significant setback for the 75-year-old, whose nine years in office were marked by economic stagnation and credit downgrades.He faces 16 charges including fraud, racketeering and money laundering.In a procedural appearance that lasted less than 15 minutes, state prosecutors and Zuma\'s lawyers asked the Durban High Court to adjourn the case until June 8 so both sides could prepare submissions. Judge Themba Sishi approved the request.A potential trial would take several more months to prepare.Zuma later made a rousing speech from a podium outside the Durban court, telling thousands of supporters that his opponents were telling lies and the judiciary and politicians believed that he did not have rights.He said he was hated for championing policies to improve the lives of the country\'s black majority."It amazes me when people treat me as if I\'ve given up. They want me to be treated as a prisoner," Zuma told the cheering crowd, flanked by family members and religious leaders who offered blessings before he spoke."I can\'t believe all the lies that are said about me. I am innocent until proven guilty," he added, speaking in Zulu in his home KwaZulu-Natal province.Zuma denies any wrongdoing and is challenging the decision to prosecute the case, a dramatic development on a continent where political leaders are rarely held to account for their actions before the law.The speed with which prosecutors have booked his day in court is a sign of the loss of control Zuma has suffered since his successor, Cyril Ramaphosa, became head of the ruling African National Congress (ANC) in December.Zuma, who has never lost the ability to rouse a crowd with traditional song and dance, still retains some popular support, especially in his Zulu heartland.He led the crowd on Friday in a rendition of "Umshini wami," a song made popular by the ANC\'s armed wing during South Africa\'s decades-long struggle against apartheid and which translates as "Bring my machine gun".Heavily-armed police in riot gear looked on."HANDS OFF ZUMA"Marchers, many clad in the distinctive gold, green and black of the ANC, carried placards reading "Hands off Zuma" and "Champion of Radical Economic Transformation".They said they would come out in force for Zuma\'s next court appearance in June and that the former president was the target of a politically motivated witchhunt."Zuma has opened our eyes as black people that the problem is not the government of ANC but the systems in place that prevent black people from benefiting from the economy," said Mondli Mthembu, 32, a laboratory analyst who travelled over 150 km (93 miles) to support Zuma.Bishop Ndlela, of the United Methodist Church, said religious leaders attended Friday\'s rally to show Zuma that he was not alone.Zuma, forced to resign by the ANC last month, was at the centre of a 1990s deal to buy billions of dollars of European military hardware to upgrade South Africa\'s post-apartheid armed forces.But the deal was mired in scandal and controversy from the start, with many inside and outside the ANC questioning the spending given the massive social problems, from health to education, Nelson Mandela\'s party had to address after coming to power in 1994.The affair has cast a shadow over South African politics ever since.Zuma was deputy president at the time. Schabir Shaikh, his former financial adviser, was found guilty and jailed in 2005 for trying to solicit bribes for Zuma from a subsidiary of French arms company Thales.The company is facing charges in the same case.Charges against Zuma were filed but then set aside by the National Prosecuting Authority shortly before he successfully ran for president in 2009. After his election, his opponents fought a lengthy legal battle to have the charges reinstated, finally succeeding in 2016. Zuma countered with his own legal challenges.(Reporting by Nqobile Dludla; Additional reporting by Joe Brock, Alexander Winning, Ed Cropley and Vuyani Ndaba; Writing by Joe Brock, Editing by William Maclean)
SALT LAKE CITY   They were teenagers in love, bonding after overcoming personal struggles and dreaming of a family and future together. When they vanished days after Christmas, friends and family combed Utah\'s west desert for months in search of answers.What police eventually discovered was more unspeakable than anyone had imagined: The teens\' bound and stabbed bodies were 100 feet (31 meters) down an abandoned mine shaft."We had every scenario run through our heads, but for the events that truly took place, words can\'t even describe it," said Amanda Hunt, after learning the fates of her 17-year-old niece, Brelynne "Breezy" Otteson, and 18-year-old Riley Powell.A man enraged that his girlfriend had welcomed her friends into their home bound, beat and stabbed Powell to death as Otteson watched in horror before he cut her throat, prosecutors said this week."It\'s as bad as anything I\'ve ever seen," said Utah County Sheriff\'s Sgt. Spencer Cannon. "They just seem like decent kids ... they never did anything to deserve this."Otteson, an outspoken teenager with side-swept hair and bright hazel eyes, had been wrestling for years with her mother\'s death in a car crash. But she found something special in Powell, her aunt said. Over Thanksgiving the teen was telling her family she might be pregnant."She struggled with that affection, she struggled with feeling that people loved her, and the same with Riley," Hunt said. "I think they both wanted to be loved."Powell had his own challenges. He\'d been sent to a boys\' home after bringing a gun to his high school, though Hunt said he only intended to take it rabbit hunting. He changed schools, graduated and found work as a plumber.The couple was living with Powell\'s father in Eureka, a former silver mining town with a wind-swept main street surrounded by sandy-colored hills pockmarked with hundreds of abandoned mine shafts about 75 miles (120 kilometers) south of Salt Lake City.Sturdily built with glasses and a goatee, Powell often played basketball or went riding off-road growing up. At one point, Hunt said he\'d briefly dated a woman named Morgan Henderson.The two remained friends, and made plans to meet at her house and smoke marijuana at around midnight on Dec. 30, police say, after Powell and Otteson wrapped up Christmas celebrations with her family.Investigators pieced together a scenario of what happened next, according to court documents and statements Henderson gave to authorities:The couple met Henderson, 34, at a home she was sharing with a 41-year-old boyfriend named Jarrod Baum near Eureka. He\'d been in and out of jail since robbing a Burger King at age 15, said Cannon, who booked him into jail back then.He had warned Henderson against having male friends over, and when he arrived home and found the teenagers there he exploded, she said. He tied them up, duct-taped their mouths and threw them in the back of Powell\'s Jeep. He told Henderson to get in.They drove a few miles outside town and stopped in front of a mine shaft wide enough to swallow a car and nearly 2,000 feet (609 meters) deep.Baum pulled the teenagers out of the Jeep and led them to the abandoned mine, at one point congratulating them on her pregnancy. While Otteson had hoped have a baby, investigators later found she wasn\'t pregnant. It\'s not clear why Baum mentioned it.He made her kneel and watch as he beat and stabbed Riley Powell to death, police said, before Baum sliced her throat and tossed her down the mine after him.The bodies stayed there for months as family and friends combed the desert, descending into several of the abandoned mines around Eureka. Searchers even stood over the pit known as the Tintic Standard Mine No. 2, but didn\'t go down because it was too deep for their team, Hunt said.Henderson, meanwhile, told police she hadn\'t seen the couple. A break came March 25, when Henderson was pulled over with weapons in her car and arrested. She eventually told police the story of what happened and led them to the bodies.Baum is facing aggravated murder, kidnapping and other charges that could bring the death penalty, while Henderson is charged with obstruction of justice. No attorneys were available to comment for Baum or Henderson, and there were no working publicly listed phone numbers for them.At a hearing Tuesday, Baum turned and locked eyes with the teens\' heartbroken families."He just looked empty," Hunt said. "Soulless."

The playwright Lynn Nottages work takes her far from the brownstone in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, where she grew up, and to which she returned in 1997. Sweat, which won a Pulitzer Prize for drama in 2017, involved months of immersion among the embattled factory workers of Reading, Pa. Her new play, Mlimas Tale, which will open at the Public Theater on April 15, follows the path of an ivory tusk from the savanna, where the title elephant is killed by poachers, through various traders to a high-end store in China. The trail of the tusk is very long and circuitous, Ms. Nottage, 53, said. She lives with her husband, Tony Gerber, 54, a documentary filmmaker, and their son, Melkamu, who is 9. Ruby Aiyo Gerber, their daughter, is a 20-year-old student at Brown University.RISE AND CHAT I get up around 7:30. Usually my husband is the first person up. And my son is the last. I start the day chatting with my husband. When I get up hes usually responding to email and launched into whats happened. We talk about what we want for breakfast, and usually on Sundays hell cook pancakes and make eggs. Well eat breakfast, and if Im in rehearsals Ill rush off.GIVE, THEN TAKE I have a ritual that I do at the end of the rehearsal process, on the evening of our first preview, which is essentially handing the play over to the actors and excusing myself from the process, and really allowing it to grow with them. And the very last day of the production I come and take it back. Its very cathartic. It allows me a way to separate and to say, Ive spent all these years researching and writing and developing this, and I have to let it go and let someone else be the caretaker of my words for a period of time. But I always say, Im coming back for them when were finished.EXILED Ill go and see the performances when were in previews. Once it opens I return to my life. Its always a little difficult because the rehearsal process is so intense and youre forging bonds and making new friends and going very deep and intimate very quickly, and then youre asked to remove yourself, while they continue to have that bond. You feel as though youve been exiled to an island.R & R Sunday I try to rest. Monday is technically our day off, but its not a day off for my life, so its filled with all the things that I cant do when Im in rehearsal or previews, so its almost more busy. If I have more time, I try to catch up on some reading and research for some things Im working on. And then my son has a full day with play dates and basketball. And then perhaps seeing friends in the evening, or I just go home and be with my family. Because I dont get to see them when were doing the show, so that time becomes more precious.HOME-COOKED MEAL Well have dinner together at home. One of us will cook, and my guess is that because Ive been working all day, my husband will cook it.FASHION VICTIM After dinner weve been watching Planet Earth, so well watch an hour of that, and my son will go to bed. And my husband and I will watch an episode of some television show. Weve been watching The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story, which is incredibly dark and giving us nightmares.CLEANSING THE MIND I go to bed at 10:30 or 11. At night I really try and purge the things that have been causing me issues or concerns during the day, and I tend to pick them up first thing in the morning. I teach full time, so its really important for me to go to bed in a relaxed state. I used to feel I had to be working constantly. I had to find ways to relax my mind. I hadnt been a huge television watcher, but it requires very little of me. Its extremely passive, but still engages me in storytelling. So I can still be engaged, but in a passive way.
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK   The six-month closure of the Philippine tourism island of Boracay for a revamp after the country\'s president branded it a "cesspool" reflects the growing pressures on beach resorts across Southeast Asia as visitor numbers surge.(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2uThVRw)Tourism experts say the region\'s infrastructure is buckling under record visitor numbers, especially as more Chinese holiday abroad, and expect more drastic measures to come.Airports have become chaotic, hotels are being thrown up hastily with little regard for safety and sanitation, tropical beaches are strewn with garbage and coral reefs are dying.Thailand already has plans to shut its famous Maya Bay in the Phi Phi islands for four months this summer, while an environmental group is calling for urgent government action to tackle a "crisis" on the Indonesian tourist island of Bali."Many out-of-control destinations across Asia will need clean-ups," said Brian King, associate dean of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at Hong Kong Polytechnic University. "These may come from government, or industry or from NGO-driven community action. The danger is that little happens until the crisis point is reached."He added: "Boracay is not the first and won\'t be the last closure."Airlines have already started to cut back flights to Boracay, which had 2 million visitors last year, with the largest foreign contingents coming from China and South Korea, ahead of its closure on April 26. [nL4N1RI1ZZ]The Philippines, which had record visitor numbers last year after three years of double-digit growth, estimates the Boracay closure could reduce full-year GDP by 0.1 percent. [nL4N1RI1ZZ]It is also planning to inspect the beach resort of Puerto Galera, on the island of Mindoro, and is already looking at the resorts of El Nido and Coron, in Palawan province, where an influx of tourism and rapid development has put infrastructure under strain.But rival tourist hotspots around the region are not all rubbing their hands at the prospect of the extra revenue from the redirected tourist traffic.Kanokkittika Kritwutikon, the head of the Tourism Authority of Thailand\'s Phuket office, said the island was at "stretching point", particularly its airport, which has undergone a number of upgrades in recent years to try to cope with overcapacity."Our policy is to try to spread tourism around" from Phuket to "secondary destinations that are less well-known," said Kanokkittika. "Apart from guests arriving by plane to Phuket we also have boats coming in, including cruises, so you can imagine how many tourists come through Phuket."The shutdown of Maya Bay in an attempt to salvage the area\'s coral reefs - which have been damaged by crowds of tourists and warmer temperatures - follows the closure of 10 popular Thai diving sites in 2016 after a National Parks survey found bleaching on up to 80 percent of some reefs.Pattaya, south of Bangkok, serves as another cautionary tale.An influx of western tourists from as far back as the 1960s, when American soldiers came on leave from the Vietnam war, and a construction boom in the 1990s transformed it from a picturesque fishing village to a town known for its seedy nightlife and high crime rate.Thailand\'s tourism ministry expects 37.55 million tourists this year, up from a record 35 million in 2017, of which 9.8 million were from China.SHUTDOWNS "TOO LATE"Benjamin Cassim, a tourism lecturer at Temasek Polytechnic School of Business in Singapore, said the closures of Boracay and Maya Beach could become "test cases" and will be closely monitored by other countries with popular beach resorts.A non-profit group in Indonesia has been calling on the government to tackle what it calls an "environmental crisis" in Bali, the country\'s most popular tourist island, which saw more than 5.5 million visitors last year.Indonesian authorities have long faced criticism for allowing unplanned developments that have swallowed up rice fields with golf courses and villas on Bali. Its beaches are regularly strewn with plastic washed up from the ocean during certain months of the year.Nonetheless, President Joko Widodo has been trying to promote creation of10"newBalis" in other parts of the scenic Indonesian archipelago."Environmental conditions in Bali are now increasingly degraded," said I Made Juli Untung Pratama of WALHI, the Indonesian Forum for Environment."The culprit is the construction of massive tourism accommodation, without a proper regard to Bali\'s environment. The massive development of tourism accommodation has caused the environmental crisis in Bali."Shutdowns such as the one on Boracay are not a new phenomenon. Back in 2004, Malaysian authorities shut all hotels on the island of Sipadan, known for having some of the best scuba diving in the world, to help protect its eco-system and subsequently restricted tourist numbers to the island.But some say these extreme actions often come too late, and a more sustainable solution is needed across the region."Proactive environmental protection is a far more effective approach than reactive environmental protection," said Matt Gebbie, an analyst from Horwath HTL Indonesia, a tourism consultancy."You can\'t revive coral reefs and eroded beaches and degraded forests in six months," Gebbie said. "Proactive protection is essential for the long term sustainability of resort destinations."(Reporting by John Geddie and Dewey Sim in SINGAPORE; Neil Jerome Morales and Martin Petty in MANILA; Amy Sawitta Lefevre in BANGKOK; and Cindy Silviana and Tabita Diela in JAKARTA; editing by Philip McClellan)
SAO BERNARDO DO CAMPO, Brazil   Brazil\'s former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva defied a judge\'s order to turn himself in to police on Friday and start serving a 12-year prison sentence for bribery that would likely end his hopes of regaining the presidency.Lula remained holed up inside the headquarters of a steelworkers union in metropolitan Sao Paulo, surrounded by hundreds of fervent supporters, creating a standoff expected to stretch into the weekend.Talks between Lula\'s aides and federal police to arrange his surrender were ongoing on Friday evening, according to two people familiar with the matter. One of the sources, who requested anonymity, said he would not be taken into custody before Saturday.Workers Party leader Gleisi Hoffmann said Lula would take part in a Saturday morning mass at the union headquarters to commemorate the birthday of his late wife Marisa. Hoffmann denied reports that he was negotiating his surrender.Federal police in Sao Paulo declined to say if they would attempt to forcibly take the former president into custody, a move that could trigger intense clashes with his supporters.Lula\'s legal team filed a late Friday petition with the Supreme Court to quash the prison order, after losing a last-minute plea to an appeals court. The lawyers argued they had not exhausted procedural appeals and painted the case as an effort to remove Lula from the presidential race he is leading.Hundreds of supporters, including workers, students and land rights activists, filled the street outside the union headquarters, cheering defiant speeches calling the case a political witch hunt. A banner hung from the building showed Lula\'s smiling face on an electronic voting machine."We are here to show that the workers will resist this attack against democracy," said union leader Jorge Nazareno.Lula himself had not addressed the crowd nearly 24 hours after arriving at the building, but briefly appeared at a window to wave.The same steelworkers union in Sao Paulo\'s industrial suburbs where 72-year-old Lula sought refuge served as the launch pad for his political career nearly four decades ago, when he led nationwide strikes that helped to end Brazil\'s 1964-85 military government.Lula\'s everyman style and unvarnished speeches electrified masses long governed by the elite and eventually won him two terms as president, from 2003 to 2011, when he oversaw robust economic growth and falling inequality amid a commodities boom.He left office with sky-high approval of 83 percent and was called "the most popular politician on Earth" by former U.S. President Barack Obama.Lula\'s downfall has been as stunning as the unprecedented corruption probes that have convulsed Brazil for the last four years, jailing dozens of politicians and business leaders long considered above the law.THE FALLFederal Judge Sergio Moro, who has handled the bulk of cases in Brazil\'s biggest-ever graft investigation and issued Lula\'s prison order, wrote that he should not be handcuffed and would have a special cell in Curitiba, where he stood trial.Lula was convicted last year for taking bribes from an engineering firm in return for help landing contracts with state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA.Brazil\'s Supreme Court on Thursday rejected Lula\'s plea to remain free until he exhausts all his appeals, clearing the way for his imprisonment.The ruling likely ends his political career and blows October\'s election wide open, leaving Brazil\'s left without an obvious candidate to regain power following the unpopular current president, Michel Temer.Under Brazilian electoral law, a candidate is forbidden from running for office for eight years after being found guilty of a crime. Rare exceptions have been made in the past, and the final decision would be made by the top electoral court if and when Lula officially files to be a candidate.With Lula out the race, the chances would increase of a market-friendly candidate winning the election, according to analysts and political foes.But Cassio Goncalves, a labor safety specialist at the union headquarters, said he and fellow members of the Workers Party had not considered alternatives in the presidential race."We have no other plan," he said. "Plan A, B and C is Lula, because he is innocent. He will be our president."(Reporting by Gram Slattery and Tatiana Ramil in Sao Bernardo do Campo; Additional reporting by Ricardo Brito and Lisandra Paraguassu in Brasilia, Eduardo Simoes in Sao Paulo; Writing and additional reporting by Brad Brooks; Editing by Brad Haynes, David Gregorio, Rosalba O\'Brien and Tom Brown)
LOS ANGELES   A U.S. Air Force officer who served on the presidential security detail faces a possible court-martial in Texas for encouraging service members to send him photos of their genitals from locations around the world and rewarding contributions with commemorative T-shirts, patches and coins.Second Lt. Travis Burch was charged earlier this month at Goodfellow Air Force Base in San Angelo, Texas, with conduct unbecoming an officer and gentleman.Burch created a fraternal club of sorts that grew to 84 people, including 58 active military and 10 former members among the civilians, according to an investigation file obtained by The Associated Press. Most members were enlisted men in the Air Force, though the group also included a U.S. Marine and one current and one former U.S. Navy sailor.Burch used the military alphabet to create the code name "Whiskey Delta Tango" for the group known to users by a more vulgar term,  according to a summary of the investigation.It started in 2012 and "was comprised of members who when going someplace deemed \'cool\' or coming up with a \'funny\' idea would take a picture of their penis with something related to the location or object in the picture," the investigation said.Defense lawyer Jeremiah J. Sullivan III said no crime was committed and the case was built around what was done privately in a "jovial, joking spirit" among consenting adults."The Air Force has spent well over a year investigating this case all over the globe," Sullivan said. "This was a completely private group that is now embarrassed by Air Force investigators. They\'re now being publicly shamed for lawfully and voluntarily sharing their penis pictures. It\'s a private matter."The partly censored investigation document said Burch told someone not identified that he took his final suggestive selfie at the vice president\'s residence while assigned to the security detail.Sullivan confirmed Burch was part of the presidential security detail while stationed at Joint Base Andrews from 2014 to 2016, but said no such photo was shot at the house then occupied by Vice President Joe Biden."There were never photos taken at the White House or the vice president\'s house," he said. "We know that for a fact."Burch was enlisted during most of the time he collected and shared images so voluminous they had to be stored on an external hard drive.In a conversation with a friend, Burch said there was nothing illegal about the club among enlisted personnel, but he had to either go into "hibernation" or pass the torch to someone once he entered officer training school, according to the investigation report.The investigation, however, said he didn\'t stop after being commissioned as an officer in March 2016 at the end of his assignment to Joint Base Andrews in Maryland.Two months after his commissioning, he texted an airman in Belgium and said he was going through "withdrawal" and asked the man to send a racy video.One of the charges alleges Burch threatened to share a photo of one member touching Burch\'s penis if the man didn\'t send more images.Sullivan rejected that charge and said all the photos were taken consensually and no one was threatened.Investigators found the hard drive hidden in a hollowed-out book in Burch\'s quarters. They also found coins and other prizes featuring the symbol of a rooster that were awarded for completing a series of different poses and other acts.The Air Force acknowledged the misconduct charges after being contacted, but declined to comment further. Burch faces a hearing to determine if he should be tried by court-martial for any of three counts, including an allegation that he solicited service members to commit indecent conduct that brought discredit to the armed forces.It was not immediately clear what penalty he could face.Military commanders have broad disciplinary discretion and evaluate whether misconduct behind closed doors interferes with control of a unit and could lead to breakdown in obedience, said attorney Dwight Stirling, former chief prosecutor of the California National Guard."In this case the commander must view this behavior as seriously undermining the good order of his unit and wants to throw the book at the defendant," Stirling said. "It really suggests that the commander is trying to send a message not just about one case, but the culture of the unit."Sullivan said an administrative hearing would be more appropriate.Last year, the Navy disciplined two pilots who used the contrail behind their fighter jet to draw a penis in the sky over rural Washington. That incident became widely publicized after photos were posted on social media.___This story has been clarified that name of base is Joint Base Andrews.
LONDON   Following are five big themes likely to dominate the thinking of investors and traders in the coming week, and the Reuters stories related to them.1/THE POWER OF EARNINGSThe earnings season that kicks off in earnest next week will be the first to reflect President Donald Trump\'s tax cuts, and pundits have been falling over themselves to up their forecasts. Earnings growth is tipped to be the highest in seven years - Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S sees Q1 at 18.4 percent (back in January forecasts were for 12.2 percent), helping cushion markets from ongoing trade tensions. Credit Suisse reckon a third of Q1 earnings growth will be down to the tax cuts. And already three- quarters of S&P500 firms to report Q1 have beaten forecasts (around 64 percent is the norm per quarter).Next week seven SPX firms report, including BlackRock, JP Morgan, Citigroup and Wells Fargo, while over 60 reports are due the following week.The downside to all this? If earnings hopes are propping up stocks, the scope for disappointment is high. And sharp negative surprises could turn the recent market volatility into a rout.High stakes, high expectations as U.S. earnings season heats up(GRAPHIC: Big first quarter seen for Corporate America https://reut.rs/2q8lxdE)2/INFLATION - MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING?A scary U.S. inflation print in February sent shares sliding and raised fears of four, rather than three, interest rate rises in 2018. Since then though, inflation has failed to spook markets the same way; worries about trade and Big Tech regulation have instead come to the fore. Next week, with U.S. CPI data due, markets may find themselves back thinking about price rises and wondering if those February fears were justified.There is no sign yet of those fears resurfacing. Latest jobs data showed the United States created the fewest jobs in six months, even if higher wage gains signalled tight labour markets. Bond markets\' inflation expectations gauge --  10-year inflation breakeven rates -- extended a recent drop.CPI next week is expected to be up 0.2 percent, the same as its as-consensus rise in February. That could soothe volatile stocks -- if earnings hold up and trade tensions abate.U.S. jobs gains slowest in six months, wage growth picks upU.S. TIPS breakeven rates extend fall as payrolls disappoint(GRAPHIC: U.S. inflation https://reut.rs/2qc8gQG)3/AFTER YOU!Next week\'s March trade data from China will probably show the economy extending its impressive run-up in exports: it\'s too early to see any impact from the tit-for-tat tariff salvos the Trump administration and Beijing have been firing off in recent days. China\'s Feb exports rose 44.5 percent versus year-ago levels -- well above the forecast 13.6 percent gain -- and another strong print may evoke fresh ire from Trump.Global stocks have been volatile but on the whole, seem to believe all this is just noise. Discerning equity investors with shares in Chinese tech giants Baidu, Tencent or Alibaba also know the Sino-U.S. trade balance vastly overstates China\'s direct stake in those exports, which include components from Taiwan, Korea and elsewhere in Asia. Which means that U.S. tariffs on Chinese telecoms and electronics are negative for Asia as a whole.In a worst-case scenario, trade wars may affect Japanese markets more than China if they boost the safe-haven yen and depress the Nikkei.- BREAKINGVIEWS-China brings a gun to its U.S. trade gunfight - China Feb exports surge most in 3 years as global trade war fears build(GRAPHIC: Emerging Asia\'s trade with China and the United States https://reut.rs/2IxkyKO)4/MIND THE GAP, TURKEYAfter another week in which the Turkish lira plumbed record lows against the dollar <TRY=>, investors are awaiting current account data to see just how big a hole the economy is in.January\'s current account deficit was $7.096 billion, worse than forecast, highlighting how dependent Turkey is on foreign capital. Higher interest rates could help fix that by luring overseas flows and reducing inflation, which is in the double digits. But there are fears President Tayyip Erdogan -- a self-declared "enemy" of interest rates -- is escalating his campaign for lower borrowing costs.The lira has already fallen 6 percent to the dollar this year and a bigger current account gap than expected could tip it lower still. The central bank has little firepower to support it. Its next rate-setting meeting on April 25 could become even more crucial after next week.Turkish Jan current account deficit $7.096 billionTurkish lira touches record low on interest rate concernTurkey\'s economic troubles in five charts(GRAPHIC: Turkish current account gap and lira https://reut.rs/2GGti52)5/NOT SO STERLINGIt has been a testing week for sterling bulls and next week promises to be no better. Positioning data indicates that net long sterling bets are near the highest in more than three years; forecasters predict more gains for the currency which is up 4.3 percent this year and is tipped by a recent Reuters poll to rise to $1.44 in the next 12 months (it\'s currently at $1.41). But risks may be growing.Heavy snow - brought by the "Beast from the East" cold weather bout - and weak consumer demand weighed on services in March, with the IHS Markit/CIPS services Purchasing Managers\' Index (PMI) tumbling to 51.7 from February\'s reading of 54.5.Next week will offer industrial output and manufacturing data for February, all key inputs for the Bank of England. Though market expectations for a May rate hike are nearly a done deal, further weakness in data or any escalation in the trade war rhetoric could cause some unwinding in sterling bets.UK economy sags under weight of snow in March - IHS MarkitSterling forecasts at post-Brexit high on BoE, negotiation hopes(GRAPHIC: Sterling positions and GBP https://reut.rs/2uPo1Cx)(Reporting by Megan Davies and Lewis Krauskopf in New York; Vidya Ranganathan in Singapore; Claire Milhench and Saikat Chatterjee in London; Compiled by Sujata Rao; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
When Maolra Seoighe entered a Dublin courtroom to be tried for murder, his name was recorded as Myles Joyce.The change was a translation from his native Irish, or Gaelic, into English  a language Mr. Joyce did not speak. So he couldnt understand the words of the defense lawyer, the judge or the jury members who decided he was guilty in November 1882, and he was hanged the next month.But evidence soon emerged suggesting that Mr. Joyce was innocent, just as he had been saying in Irish all along. Now, 136 years after his death, he has been officially pardoned.Maolra Seoighe was wrongly convicted of murder and was hanged for a crime that he did not commit, Irelands president, Michael D. Higgins, said on Wednesday. He called the trial a miscarriage of justice and pointed to a history of systemic discrimination and linguistic differences, issues that are still relevant in Ireland today.In a country of nearly five million people, only around 70,000 still speak Irish on a daily basis outside of the education system, according to census data. It is taught in schools, but it is in danger of becoming a learned language  like Latin  rather than a living one, said Sen  Cuirrein, who served as the countrys Irish language commissioner until, frustrated that the language was not being prioritized, he announced his resignation in 2013.Mr.  Cuirrein wrote a book about Mr. Joyce that was published in 2016. Its called agir, meaning injustice, and its in Irish. Irish is my first language, he said. The language is actually a character in the story, in one sense.(While many of Mr.  Cuirreins compatriots cant easily read his book, a documentary based on it was released this week. It has subtitles.)Mr.  Cuirrein said interest in Mr. Joyces case has been growing in recent years. In 2012, he and President Higgins marked the 130th anniversary of the execution at a wreath-laying ceremony in Galway. Niamh Mary Howlin, a lecturer at University College Dublins Sutherland School of Law, was commissioned by the government to do a report on the case. She approved of the presidents decision to pardon Mr. Joyce this week.This is only the second time a posthumous pardon has ever been granted, so the pardon itself has great historical and legal significance, she said. The case of Myles Joyce has been infamous for generations.Mr. Joyce was from a tight-knit community, and he was related to the five people who were killed in August 1882. In total, 10 men were arrested in connection with the murders, two of whom testified against the others. Five pleaded guilty and were sentenced to prison. The remaining three, including Mr. Joyce, were tried, convicted and hanged.The victims  a married couple, Bridget and John Joyce; two of their children, Margaret and Michael; and Johns mother, Margaret  were found in their home in Maamtrasna, a remote community at the border of Mayo and Galway counties. Reports from the time  some of which included cruel descriptions of the Irish-speaking residents of that rural area  suggested that a firearm and some bludgeoning were involved.Mr. Joyce and two others convicted of participation in the murder were hanged on a cold December morning in Galway. The New York Times reported that Mr. Joyce protested his innocence so persistently that he appeared to have prolonged his own execution:A doctor who examined the bodies said Mr. Joyce struggled for minutes as the rope strangled him to death.Ireland was not yet independent from Britain  that would not happen until 1921  and the murders took place at a time of simmering conflicts over land rights and independence.That made people wonder whether the murders were connected to the unrest, ultimately raising the profile of the case, Mr.  Cuirrein said. Instead of being tried in nearby Galway, Mr. Joyce was taken all the way across the island, to Dublin, for his trial. English was the language of the court.Professional Irish translators would have been easier to find in Galway, but in Dublin, a police officer was called upon to serve as a translator, Dr. Howlins research showed. But he mostly translated Irish into English and not the other way around, effectively leaving Mr. Joyce in the dark. The trial was also compromised by intense media interest, procedural problems, a lack of input from key witnesses and testimonial inconsistencies.The other two men convicted alongside him swore that he was innocent, and the approvers who had given evidence against him retracted their statements following his death, Dr. Howlin said in her paper. Two years after the trial, The Times reported that one informer said he had been asked to lie by a crown solicitor. Mr.  Cuirrein also found that a lord lieutenant of Ireland, Earl John Spencer, seemed to have been involved in bribing witnesses.It sounds like fiction because of the twists and turns, Mr.  Cuirrein said. But unfortunately it was true, and innocent people were condemned to death.
KASBA BONLI, India   Rakesh Kumar has a post-graduate degree but works as a house painter in the small town of Kasba Bonli in northwestern India.The 31-year-old, the only one of eight siblings to attend university, said his attempts to get a salaried job had failed, and he blamed the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not creating employment opportunities as it had promised."I voted for Modi last time," said Kumar, wearing a pink shirt and wrinkled, brown trousers that had droplets of paint on it. "He had promised jobs, and I was sure I would get something. I won\'t vote for him again."Modi\'s failure to create tens of millions of jobs for the country\'s youth - a promise which helped him secure the largest mandate in three decades in 2014 - would be the biggest threat to his bid for another term in a general election due by May, 2019, many political analysts say.That seems the case in Kasba Bonli, a market town in Rajasthan state on the edge of sprawling wheat fields, which voted overwhelmingly for Modi\'s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at assembly elections in 2013 and the general election in 2014."My two sons are educated but unemployed," said Hanuman Prasad Meena, a farmers\' leader in the town. "Many farmers voted in Modi\'s name earlier, but he has no support here now."When Reuters visited the town in late 2013 (for link to this report, click https://reut.rs/2ElCpSt), all the talk was about Modi and how his promised business-friendly reforms would boost growth and provide jobs. But it doesn\'t seem to have quite worked.The unemployment rate in India, nearly two-thirds of whose 1.3 billion people are under 35 years old, hit its highest level in 16 months in March at 6.23 percent, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), an independent think-tank.The difficulty in getting a reasonable job is so great that more than 25 million people applied for less than 90,000 positions recently advertised by the state-run railways.Ram Vilas Paswan, a minister in Modi\'s cabinet, said the jobs data was worrying and that the government was working to address it. He also deflected some of the blame onto provincial authorities."People expectonlyNarendra Modi to give them jobs; they have forgotten that even state governments have some role to play in creating jobs," Paswan said in an interview (for link to this report, click https://reut.rs/2J75jJF)."Still, the central government is worried about it. In elections, even small issues can become a factor. The government is aware of it," he said.Nevertheless, Modi is still the most popular politician in the country and at the moment it seems unlikely that he will be dislodged. Nearly nine out of 10 Indians held a favorable opinion of Modi and more than two-thirds were satisfied with the direction he was taking the country, according to a Pew survey  in November.The BJP or its partners rule 21 out of 29 Indian states, up from just seven in 2014. The once-mighty Congress party is in opposition in New Delhi and controls only three states.CONGRESS GAINING GROUND?Before the Modi wave, handouts for farmers by Congress helped turn once-deprived Kasba Bonli into a thriving retail center, with shops there selling everything from glittery bangles to satellite dishes.But as some farmers prospered, they wanted their children to move away from agriculture. Modi\'s election pledge to create around 20 million jobs annually appealed to them, helping send a BJP lawmaker from the area to the Rajasthan assembly for only the second time since 1991.But Congress could now make a comeback, townspeople said.Sachin Pilot, a former federal minister and the chief of the Congress party in Rajasthan, said BJP erred by raising expectations "even when they knew certain things were not possible". He added his party won\'t make "false promises" but would develop the "best possible opportunity to create jobs".Hanumat Dixit, a local BJP leader in Rajasthan, acknowledged the party could suffer in the coming election because of the lack of jobs, but added Modi needed more time to deliver on his promises.Modi\'s government has quoted an independent study to say that around 7 million formal jobs were created in the fiscal year to March 31. That compares with an accumulated shortage of around 80 million jobs, according to CMIE, on top of near one million youth entering the market every month."This is a macroeconomic problem, the economy needs to revive," CMIE Chief Executive Mahesh Vyas said. "What the government can do is may be expand fiscally and create conditions for the private sector to invest aggressively so that employment is generated."He said the bigger issue was that a lot of young people stopped looking for jobs after Modi\'s shock move to ban high-value currency notes in late 2016 badly hurt India\'s cash-heavy economy. The move, widely known as demonetization, also disrupted agricultural activity.The economy, which has also suffered from the bumpy roll-out of a unified tax, recovered in the October-December quarter to grow at 7.2 percent, still below the peak of more than 9 percent clocked between 2005 and 2008.Vyas said labor participation - the number of people  either employed or actively looking for work - fell to 41-42 percent of the labor pool after demonetization from around 47 percent before."This is very, very stressful in the sense that people stopped getting jobs and looking for jobs," Vyas said. "They will get anxious, they will get angry. The first thing they will do is they will demand jobs from the political system."Over the past three years, India has been hit by several protests by caste groups demanding that jobs be reserved for them (for link to this report, click https://reut.rs/2HeUkgS).Back in Kasba Bonli, groups of young men loiter around the market during the day or sit on parked motorcycles. Still, there was no unrest or spike in crime, two local police officials said.Bablu Saini, 21, recently set up a tea-stall outside his father\'s mobile phone-repair shop. He has not studied beyond high school and stopped looking for jobs after a few attempts."I have many friends who have returned from the cities jobless," said Saini, in between serving tea to customers."There are no vacancies anywhere. No point waiting for jobs."(Additional reporting by Mayank Bhardwaj in NEW DELHI; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
KASBA BONLI, India   Rakesh Kumar has a post-graduate degree but works as a house painter in the small town of Kasba Bonli in northwestern India.The 31-year-old, the only one of eight siblings to attend university, said his attempts to get a salaried job had failed, and he blamed the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not creating employment opportunities as it had promised."I voted for Modi last time," said Kumar, wearing a pink shirt and wrinkled, brown trousers that had droplets of paint on it. "He had promised jobs, and I was sure I would get something. I won\'t vote for him again."Modi\'s failure to create tens of millions of jobs for the country\'s youth - a promise which helped him secure the largest mandate in three decades in 2014 - would be the biggest threat to his bid for another term in a general election due by May, 2019, many political analysts say.That seems the case in Kasba Bonli, a market town in Rajasthan state on the edge of sprawling wheat fields, which voted overwhelmingly for Modi\'s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at assembly elections in 2013 and the general election in 2014."My two sons are educated but unemployed," said Hanuman Prasad Meena, a farmers\' leader in the town. "Many farmers voted in Modi\'s name earlier, but he has no support here now."When Reuters visited the town in late 2013 https://in.reuters.com/article/election-polls-rural-congress-bjp/biting-the-hand-that-feeds-small-towns-favour-bjp-idINDEE9AA00620131111, all the talk was about Modi and how his promised business-friendly reforms would boost growth and provide jobs. But it doesn\'t seem to have quite worked.The unemployment rate in India, nearly two-thirds of whose 1.3 billion people are under 35 years old, hit its highest level in 16 months in March at 6.23 percent, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), an independent think-tank.The difficulty in getting a reasonable job is so great that more than 25 million people applied for less than 90,000 positions recently advertised by the state-run railways.Ram Vilas Paswan, a minister in Modi\'s cabinet, said the jobs data was worrying and that the government was working to address it. He also deflected some of the blame onto provincial authorities."People expectonlyNarendra Modi to give them jobs; they have forgotten that even state governments have some role to play in creating jobs," Paswan said in an interview https://in.reuters.com/article/india-politics/modi-ally-paswan-says-bjp-suffers-from-perception-it-is-anti-muslim-idINKBN1H60R2."Still, the central government is worried about it. In elections, even small issues can become a factor. The government is aware of it," he said.Nevertheless, Modi is still the most popular politician in the country and at the moment it seems unlikely that he will be dislodged. Nearly nine out of 10 Indians held a favourable opinion of Modi and more than two-thirds were satisfied with the direction he was taking the country, according to a Pew survey  in November.The BJP or its partners rule 21 out of 29 Indian states, up from just seven in 2014. The once-mighty Congress party is in opposition in New Delhi and controls only three states.CONGRESS GAINING GROUND?Before the Modi wave, handouts for farmers by Congress helped turn once-deprived Kasba Bonli into a thriving retail centre, with shops there selling everything from glittery bangles to satellite dishes.But as some farmers prospered, they wanted their children to move away from agriculture. Modi\'s election pledge to create around 20 million jobs annually appealed to them, helping send a BJP lawmaker from the area to the Rajasthan assembly for only the second time since 1991.But Congress could now make a comeback, townspeople said.Sachin Pilot, a former federal minister and the chief of the Congress party in Rajasthan, said BJP erred by raising expectations "even when they knew certain things were not possible". He added his party won\'t make "false promises" but would develop the "best possible opportunity to create jobs".Hanumat Dixit, a local BJP leader in Rajasthan, acknowledged the party could suffer in the coming election because of the lack of jobs, but added Modi needed more time to deliver on his promises.Modi\'s government has quoted an independent study to say that around 7 million formal jobs were created in the fiscal year to March 31. That compares with an accumulated shortage of around 80 million jobs, according to CMIE, on top of near one million youth entering the market every month."This is a macroeconomic problem, the economy needs to revive," CMIE Chief Executive Mahesh Vyas said. "What the government can do is may be expand fiscally and create conditions for the private sector to invest aggressively so that employment is generated."He said the bigger issue was that a lot of young people stopped looking for jobs after Modi\'s shock move to ban high-value currency notes in late 2016 badly hurt India\'s cash-heavy economy. The move, widely known as demonetisation, also disrupted agricultural activity.The economy, which has also suffered from the bumpy roll-out of a unified tax, recovered in the October-December quarter to grow at 7.2 percent, still below the peak of more than 9 percent clocked between 2005 and 2008.Vyas said labour participation - the number of people  either employed or actively looking for work - fell to 41-42 percent of the labour pool after demonetisation from around 47 percent before."This is very, very stressful in the sense that people stopped getting jobs and looking for jobs," Vyas said. "They will get anxious, they will get angry. The first thing they will do is they will demand jobs from the political system."Over the past three years, India has been hit by several protests by caste groups demanding that jobs be reserved for them https://in.reuters.com/article/gujarat-protest-modi-patel/three-killed-in-gujarat-as-modi-urges-calm-idINKCN0QV0IZ20150826.Back in Kasba Bonli, groups of young men loiter around the market during the day or sit on parked motorcycles. Still, there was no unrest or spike in crime, two local police officials said.Bablu Saini, 21, recently set up a tea-stall outside his father\'s mobile phone-repair shop. He has not studied beyond high school and stopped looking for jobs after a few attempts."I have many friends who have returned from the cities jobless," said Saini, in between serving tea to customers."There are no vacancies anywhere. No point waiting for jobs."(Additional reporting by Mayank Bhardwaj in NEW DELHI; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
MOSCOW  The Trump administration on Friday announced new sanctions against a list of Russian business tycoons, government officials and corporations, part of the continuing political and economic fallout from the nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter in England last month.The roster includes some of the most powerful people and entities in Russia, with ties to President Vladimir V. Putin and his government. Many of them are suspected of corruption sanctioned by the Kremlin.Britain has said that Moscow was likely behind the poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal and Yulia Skripal, and has persuaded its allies on both sides of the Atlantic. Russia denies any connection to the attack.Here are some of the biggest names on the new sanctions list, and where their money came from.Mr. Bogdanov, 66, is the director general and co-owner of Surgutneftegas, the fourth-biggest oil producer in Russia, which has an unusually opaque ownership structure, even by Russian standards. On paper, Mr. Bogdanov, an associate of Mr. Putins since the days when the president was a local official in St. Petersburg, owns just 0.37 percent of the company, with a majority of its shares controlled by a web of noncommercial partnerships.Surgutneftegas keeps cash reserves of about $38.5 billion, more than any other Russian company. Why it would stockpile so much money is a mystery that has fueled speculation that Mr. Bogdanov has helped hide money for Mr. Putin.Those rumors have never been substantiated, but efforts to probe the companys ownership and finances have sometimes proved perilous. Bill Browder, an American-born London-based financier who used to work in Moscow but now faces arrest if he returns, first came under attack from the Russian authorities for tax fraud and other alleged crimes after he started digging into the oil companys affairs in the early 2000s.One of the most secretive Russian tycoons, Mr. Bogdanov avoids flaunting his wealth. He is known as the hermit of Siberia because, unlike many Russian billionaires, he does not live in Moscow, but has stayed close to his Siberian oil fields.Mr. Deripaska controls Basic Element, which in turn owns more than 100 Russian and international companies. He laid the foundation of his empire in the aluminum wars of the 1990s, a vicious struggle for control of natural resources in which he emerged triumphant, becoming the undisputed king of aluminum production in Russia.Mr. Deripaska, 50, married Polina Yumasheva, whose father, Valentin Yumashev, worked for former President Boris N. Yeltsin and married Mr. Yeltsins daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko. Mr. Yumashev and Mr. Putin were both top aides to Mr. Yeltsin in the late 1990s.Later, Mr. Deripaska employed Paul Manafort, the political consultant who later became director of President Trumps 2016 campaign. Mr. Manafort has since offered to testify in an investigation into Russias role in the election. Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Manafort have since feuded, tangling over money that each accuses the other of owing.Mr. Deripaska was at the center of a recent video investigation, put together by Aleksei A. Navalny, an anti-corruption campaigner and a vociferous opponent of President Putin. The investigation found that Mr. Deripaska organized an outing on his luxury yacht, attended by Sergei Prikhodko, deputy prime minister of Russia and a Kremlin foreign policy adviser, and female escorts.Mr. Kerimov, 52, is both the owner of Polyus, Russias biggest gold mining company, and a member of the Federation Council, the upper chamber of Russian parliament. He has been under investigation in France for tax fraud and money laundering, suspected of buying several villas in Cap dAntibes through shell companies.He was one of the main donors to the construction of Moscows cathedral mosque, which was opened by President Putin and Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan in 2015. He is a native of Derbent, Dagestan, an ancient walled town in the North Caucasus, on the border with Azerbaijan.Mr. Rotenberg, 44, is the son of Arkady R. Rotenberg, Putins former judo partner, and their familys business fortunes have gone hand-in-hand with Putins political career. Igor Rotenberg is a junior partner in one of the countrys largest construction companies, controlled by his father and his uncle.The familys company was awarded lavish contracts to build pipelines for Gazprom, the state-controlled energy giant, and a bridge to Crimea, the Ukrainian Black Sea peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014. Igor Rotenberg owns 50 percent of a company that collects tolls from Russian truckers, who protested in vain in 2015 over what they denounced as extortionate fees.His cousin, Roman Rotenberg, is vice president of the Russian hockey federation.Mr. Shamalov, 36, became a high-ranking executive and large shareholder of Sibur, a gas processing and petrochemical company, shortly before he married Katerina Tikhonova, who is widely believed to be Mr. Putins daughter.In 2014, a year after their marriage, the state-owned Gazprombank lent Mr. Shamalov $1 billion, which he used to buy a much larger stake in the company, 17 percent, from Gennady Timchenko, a businessman and member of Putins inner circle. Around the time Mr. Shamalov was reported to have separated from Ms. Tikhonova, he sold roughly the same portion of the companys shares.Mr. Shamalovs father, Nikolai, was a former member of the Ozero dacha compound near St. Petersburg, together with Mr. Putin.Mr. Skoch, 52, is a member of the Russian parliament whose father, Vladimir, is a part owner of a steel company and a shareholder in the investment conglomerate run by Alisher B. Usmanov, a close associate of Mr. Putins, who controls one of Russias largest phone companies.Numerous media reports have linked Mr. Skoch to organized crime  specifically to the syndicate known as the Solntsevo gang.Mr. Vekselberg, 60, who is close to the Kremlin, is the founder and principal owner of Renova Group, a large investment conglomerate with an array of assets around the world, including metals production, energy, telecommunications and banking companies, and a number of Russian airports.Like many of Russias oligarchs, he capitalized on the fire sale of state-owned assets in the 1990s. But unlike some who are known primarily for crony capitalism and corrupt deals, Mr. Vekselberg is seen as a serious businessman.Forbes Magazine estimates his worth at $14.6 billion, making him one of Russias ten wealthiest people, and the richest on the sanctions list.In 2013, he opened the Faberge Museum in St. Petersburg in a lavishly restored former mansion, to display a collection of famed Faberge Imperial Easter eggs he bought from the Forbes family in 2004.
If you follow Andrew Cuomo on Twitter, then you know that during the past week he has been active to the point of presidential in his self-congratulatory social-media output.Over the course of two days he announced how proud he was to enact a law that would prevent domestic abusers from owning guns; how grateful others were that he had forced hospitals to keep rape kits for 20 years and not 30 days; how schools in the state would now be required to provide free menstrual products in bathrooms for girls in sixth through 12th grades; how the building code was being amended to mandate diaper-changing tables in mens rooms.He was also behind a new initiative, If You Can See It You Can Be It  a day of mentoring and career learning activities for girls from lower-income communities. And he was reminding everyone that exactly two years ago he signed Americas strongest Paid Family Leave program into law.Inserted into Google Translate, any of these communications could be spit out to read: Who needs Cynthia Nixon? Im practically female! Last month Ms. Nixon, the actress and longtime public-education activist mounted a bid to challenge the governor in a Democratic primary, and he has been affirming his feminist credentials ever since, seemingly ready to come up with cures for the more disagreeable symptoms of hormonal imbalance if provoked.Mr. Cuomos persona is built on one of the more whipsawed adaptations of gendered politics in American government  as eager as he seems to be to assume the role of the guy who has made his way through the womens studies canon, he is more committed still to proving that he is the emasculator in chief. For several years now, his preferred target for that exercise has been New York Citys mayor, Bill de Blasio. Despite the aura of insincerity that some feel surrounds the governor generally, his distaste for the mayor seems entirely genuine.The embattled relationship is now playing out most dramatically over the issues surrounding the New York City Housing Authority, the largest public housing system in the country. In recent weeks, Mr. Cuomo has been touring some of the citys developments  where he has hardly been a regular presence  like a father coming home from a very long business trip to complain that the house is a mess and the children are unruly and to wonder what Mother has been doing all this time. The governor was showing up, as he put it at one moment on his tour, to expose the problems of the citys public housing complexes, as if no one had previously taken notice.He called the system a disgrace; blamed decrepit conditions for fostering criminal behaviors; called out the mold, the roaches, the failing boilers and resulting heating problems; and blaming the mayor, essentially, for failing to adequately tend to things even though Mr. de Blasio has spent hundreds of millions of dollars repairing cracked roofs and working to reduce crime in the most violent complexes. Still, the citys housing authority faces close to $25 billion in capital costs at a moment when the federal government has proposed eliminating public housings capital fund entirely and cutting the operating fund nearly by half.The housing authority faces a moral crisis as well in a lead-paint scandal involving falsified inspection reports and the failure on the mayors part to fire the authoritys chairwoman, Shola Olatoye. Beyond that, just this week a report from the city comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, found that 70 percent of the playgrounds managed by the housing authority were rundown or actually dangerous.The governor has positioned himself as a savior, declaring a state of emergency in the public housing system a few days ago, committing an additional $250 million in state resources to remediating some of the most urgent mechanical problems and public-health threats, and demanding an independent monitor to oversee the repairs. He is happy to assert his dominance and pick up the check.On Wednesday afternoon, I paid a visit to Rose Fernandez, who grew up in the Amsterdam Houses on the West Side of Manhattan and has spent 33 years in the Carver Houses in East Harlem, to gauge how the governors move was playing out. Ms. Fernandez is a tenants rights activist for the group Community Voices Heard. The main thing I want to tell you about is my health, she began. Im depressed. I dont know if youve seen those A.S.P.C.A. commercials, but I feel like one of those animals, suffering in a cage.She has sued the housing authority twice, once over a broken sink that left her doing dishes in the tub for three months and a second time over a busted ceiling that revealed black mold. She has been dealing with the mold for three years despite her protestations, she told me, and it leaves her with headaches, nausea, vision issues and constant agitation. Her 30-year-old son, who lives with her, is similarly afflicted, she maintains.Aside from being depressed, Im just angry, Ms. Fernandez said. Like many residents of public housing, she complained that elevators are always shutting down and garbage chutes are taped up and the citys maintenance people never come when they say they are going to come.She is thankful for the governors attention and said that like many other residents she knows, she lays far more blame at the mayors door than the governors. She and other advocates are fighting for the mayor to include $2 billion for repairs in the next budget and $1 billion a year after that. It is not clear where that money would come from. But they will rally and wait and see.

Theres a line near the start of the new musical The Lucky Ones thats a deliberate hedge  an explanation of the rules of the show that also leaves those rules a little murky.This is a true story, Shaun Bengson tells the audience from the stage of the Connelly Theater in the East Village. Even the parts that never happened.And with those words, Mr. Bengson and his wife, Abigail  the other half of the folk-rock duo the Bengsons, the indie-theater darlings who created the show for Ars Nova  attempt to draw a cloak of privacy around themselves and the people they love.Ms. Bengson, 35, has a tale to tell about the autumn she was 15, when her family shattered and the seemingly safe Eden she grew up in was lost forever. Yet she is terrified of compounding anyones anguish.So The Lucky Ones is wounded autobiography veiled in fiction. Set in crunchy small-town New England (a part of Vermont that happens to be in Maine), its a follow-up to Hundred Days, a musical memoir of the Bengsons beginnings as a couple that was a hit last fall at New York Theater Workshop. Like Hundred Days, The Lucky Ones is directed by Anne Kauffman and has a book co-written by the playwright Sarah Gancher, who is the Bengsons neighbor across the hall in Ridgewood, Queens.In the new show, an extended family runs a school together, raising their children  Abigail, her sisters and their cousins  in a kind of hippie idyll. Then, in one cataclysmic season, it all falls apart, beginning with a killing that might have been prevented if only the parents hadnt been so committed to a you-choose-your-feelings worldview that they dismissed the signs of mental illness in one of the kids.Its possible that we have all been raised in a way that hurt us, Abigail says in the show. And maybe hurt us so badly that we will hurt other people.Like Abigail, the character she plays in The Lucky Ones, Ms. Bengson grew up in an extended hippie family that revolved around a school. In reality, though, the person in her clan who killed someone was not a blood relative but rather a person she had been raised to consider an older sibling  someone she loved and admired, who wrote strange and beautiful music, who claimed to hear voices and did as they instructed.This is the person, no longer institutionalized, whose life Ms. Bengson is most fearful of harming with The Lucky Ones, an ensemble piece in which a cascade of events results in the dissolution of her family, including her parents marriage.A large-scale show with a chorus, its intended as the second part of a trilogy that will continue with a musical about Mr. Bengsons early life. Critical reception of The Lucky Ones has been mixed, with Jesse Green of The New York Times calling it a gawky, powerful work in progress, while Sandy MacDonald, in Time Out New York, found it harrowing.Ms. Bengson is sure of her right to tell such a story onstage because it is a fundamental trauma of her past, overlapping though it does with other peoples pain and struggles. Yet the acceptability of drawing bystanders into ones own art is one of the great ethical debates in any kind of autobiography. Thats true even when you change names and details, and create what Mr. Bengson called the novel-myth version of the story.Is it possible to tell the truth kindly? Ms. Bengson said. I dont know. But its what Im trying to do.One of my sisters, she said, Dont let your fear get in the way of the truth of this, Ms. Bengson added. I know that in taking this on, I cant be meek, I cant glaze over, I cant allow fear or denial to be the story of our family, because that was toxic, too.Ars Nova, which also co-produced Sundown, Yellow Moon, a Rachel Bonds play with music by the Bengsons, has an estimable record with nontraditional musicals that includes birthing Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812. It was the company that matched Ms. Gancher with the Bengsons several years ago.To whatever degree The Lucky Ones is fictionalized, she finds it really lovely to be working on a true story.I spend so much of my life making up characters or brainstorming situations or coming up with scenarios, Ms. Gancher said. The beauty part of this is that any question that I can think of to ask, theres an answer to, and the answer is always weirder and more interesting and more surprising and sort of brighter than anything that I could make up.And she has a deep affection for the Bengsons.Theyre people with a lot of pain and a lot of damage, she said, but also a lot of strength and a lot of magic.They are also so intertwined, personally and professionally, that they share a bio in the program for The Lucky Ones.Is that gross? Ms. Bengson asked recently, in the tone of someone checking to make sure she doesnt have lipstick on her teeth. I recognize its a little codependent.Mr. Bengson, 34, cracked up at this, seated beside her in the apartment in Alphabet City where they stayed through early previews, to be close to the theater.Ms. Bengson says that she and her husband are both profoundly introverted, but you wouldnt know it from talking with them. He seems gentle, diffident but steely underneath, while theres a sparkle to her, and a healthy dash of punk spicing her earth-mother serenity. Louie, their blond-ringleted toddler, is a year and a half old, and Ms. Bengson throws up her hands at the challenge of not swearing in front of him.Hes going to be a pirate by 5, she said, and her husband laughed again. But I cant stop. So, youre welcome, Louie.The Bengsons married 10 years ago, three weeks after their first date. Four years ago, shortly after they got the commission from Ars Nova that would result in The Lucky Ones, Ms. Bengson had a miscarriage  an event that rocked us very deeply, she said, and set us on this path of wanting to write about family and trauma.Part of that was an awareness, new to Mr. Bengson, of what a fragile thing a family can be. Part of it was a wish to examine how to go about making a family  thoughtfully, unconventionally, as their own parents did  even while aware of the unintended harm that parents can cause children in the process.At least at the start, they also nursed the nave wish to repair what had been broken in Ms. Bengsons adolescence  to Parent Trap the family, as Mr. Bengson put it.Sometimes there are wounds so deep that they never all the way heal, he said. And I really hoped that wasnt so.Some people in the family Ms. Bengson grew up in dont talk to one another anymore, but for the musical the Bengsons interviewed all of them  including the older sibling, so-called, who committed the crime. Those interviews became part of the piece. Primarily for ethical reasons, Ms. Bengson said, they did not contact relatives of the person who was killed.In her own family, opinion about the existence of the show is divided  some of those depicted vehemently in favor, some opposed. Some have come to see it. The Bengsons nightmare scenario is to have family drama break out in the audience, where they would have to witness it from the stage.A few performances deeper into previews, after they had moved back home to Queens, Ms. Bengson sat at their blond-wood kitchen table, a plastic bag of old cassette tapes in front of her.Some of those tapes, she said, have been to prison and back  cassettes on which her budding-songwriter self set down in music the fraught emotions she couldnt speak. Her older sibling, so-called, would respond with feedback on her craftsmanship that helped to shape her as an artist.Id be like, Hey, its Friday, talking about nothing, and then Id sing this heavy piece of music, talking about everything, she said, and she realized thats not so different from what shes doing with the show itself. Im like, here I am, sending tapes to them, 20 years later.By them, she means her family.A half-hour into an emotionally delicate interview, there was a soft knock on the front door: Ms. Gancher, bringing over some eggs in the shell.Thank you, Ms. Bengson said from the kitchen. Ill eat those eggs. I love you so much!I love you, too, Ms. Gancher said, and exited.A while later, this cameo struck Ms. Bengson as curious. I wonder if she really wanted to give me eggs, or if she just wanted to make sure I was O.K.Either way, the closest Ms. Bengson has felt to how she did before her family cracked apart is with the artistic family behind The Lucky Ones, a show that allows her to spend time again in her childhood Eden, if only in her imagination.But she thinks of Eden now as a place you have to outgrow, accepting the complexity of life and the presence of darkness  without fixating on the darkness.The task, I think, of storytelling, she said, is the reintegration of the dark and the light  going back and saying, Yes, this darkness is here and its true. And, There was light on us once, and there will be again.
Updated, 8:19 a.m.Good drizzly morning to you. And happy Friday.Its spring, and were anticipating flings  of mucky water.If you make it through the morning without a little sidewalk splatter, we salute you. A mix of snow and rain could pelt the pavement for the next few hours.The rain will continue until the afternoon and picks up again tomorrow when it could be mixed with a little snow.The snow probably wont amount to much on the ground, and snowfall totals vary throughout the city, even within the space of a few blocks. During a snowstorm last month, for example, Central Park got 8.2 inches, nearby Gramercy Park saw 10 inches, and Port Richmond on Staten Island was buried under 13.8 inches.Which made us wonder, where do those measurements come from?The short answer: rulers and Twitter.Snowfall totals are sent to the National Weather Service by hundreds of spotters across the city. Some are trained meteorologists, and others are amateur weather geeks. But most are regular folks who file reports online or post them on social media.They literally go out and stick a ruler in the snow, said Carlie Buccola, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service.Technically, its a little more complicated than that. Before a snowstorm, spotters place a white board faceup on the ground. As the last flakes fall, they insert a ruler, measure and then wipe the board clean for future measurements.Spotters can also track rainfall amounts, barometric pressure and tree and property damage, which are used to verify the National Weather Services weather advisories.All of this made us think: If a snowflake falls in Brooklyn, and no one is there to measure it, does it leave a record?Not according to the National Weather Service.People call in and ask why their city or town is not on the snowfall list, Ms. Buccola said. Its likely because nobody there sent in a report.You can represent the microclimate of your block this weekend by submitting your own freelance storm report to the weather service. You can also train as a spotter this spring or join a network of observers.We dont have any formal schooling, but heres our report: Umbrellas up, its soggy till Sunday.Heres what else is happening: The neighborhood knew the man who was shot to death in Brooklyn on Wednesday. But the police officers who shot him did not. [New York Times] As Democrats are trying to ride their recent wave of victories, New Jersey is becoming a key battleground in the race for House control. [New York Times] A crime lord stepped out of the shadows to testify in a Manhattan federal court about the myriad illegal schemes hes committed over his 20-year career. [New York Times] Now what does the future hold for these recently reunited Democrats? [New York Times] A ride in this Brooklyn elevator today may seem quiet and serene, but thats a far cry from the grisly incident that took place inside it almost four years ago. [New York Times] A guard at the jail in Lower Manhattan that houses some of the citys most notorious criminals has been arrested and charged with taking more than $45,000 in bribes. [New York Times] The City Council speaker is following tradition and decorating his office from a city museum, on loan, of course. [New York Times] The last of three lawsuits over surveillance of Muslims by the New York Police Department has been settled. [New York Times] Amsale Aberra, the fashion designer who transformed the American wedding dress, died at 64. [New  York Times] Sixteen cars were vandalized overnight in the Kew Gardens section of Queens. The police are investigating. [Queens Tribune] Remember chatter about that light rail connecting Brooklyn and Queens? Will that ever happen? [BKLYNER] Todays Metropolitan Diary: Blast From the Past For a global look at whats happening, see Your Morning Briefing. Pick up a free Dunkin Donuts cold brew at participating locations. 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Well-known podcasters record their shows at NYC Podfest at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side. Various times through Sunday. [Prices vary] Theater performances from seven Scandinavian playwrights, part of the Festival of New Scandinavian Theater, at Theatre Row in Midtown Manhttan. 6 p.m. and though Sunday. [Free] Sideshow performers from around the United States perform at the Congress of Curious Peoples at Coney Island USA in Brooklyn. 7 p.m. and through April 15. [$10] High school robotics teams from around the world compete at the FIRST NYC Robotics competition at the Armory Track and Field Center in Washington Heights. Beginning at 7:45 a.m. and through Sunday [Free] Yankees host Orioles, 7:05 p.m. (YES). Watch The New York Times Close Up, featuring The Timess Vivian Wang, Nikita Stewart and other guests. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. on CUNY-TV. Alternate-side parking remains suspended through Saturday. Weekend travel hassles: Check subway disruptions and a list of street closings.Saturday  Films from Latin America are screened at the Havana Film Festival. Various locations and prices. Through April 17. A scavenger hunt, a campfire conversation and an 1860s-style ballgame at Opening Weekend in Prospect Park. 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. [Free] Children can see large-scale Lego statues and build their own creations at Brick Fest Live at the New York Hall of Science in Flushing Meadows Corona Park, Queens. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. [$16] Chow down at a barbecue competition at the Historic Richmond Town in Staten Island. Noon. [$15] The opening reception for the exhibition NYC Trash! Past, Present & Future Sculpture Garden at the City Reliquary in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Noon. [$7] Yankees host Orioles, 1:05 p.m. (YES). Mets at Nationals, 1:05 p.m. (MAS2). Rangers at Flyers, 3 p.m. (NBC). Islanders at Red Wings, 7 p.m. (FSDT). Devils at Capitals, 7 p.m. (MSG+). Knicks host Bucks, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Bulls, 8 p.m. (YES).Sunday  German films are screened at the Kino 2018 festival at the Landmark at 57 West in Midtown Manhattan. Various times and through April 12. [$15] Join a walking tour of the Heather Garden and the former Billings Estate in Fort Tryon Park in Inwood. 1 p.m. [Free] Children can track and identify salamanders at High Rock Park in Staten Island. 2 p.m. [Free] An annual gathering in remembrance of the Holocaust, at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in Battery Park City, Manhattan. 2 p.m. [Free] Yankees host Orioles, 1:05 p.m. (YES). Mets at Nationals, 8:08 p.m. (SNY). For more events, see The New York Timess Arts & Entertainment guide.Cheers to all the honest men and bonie lasses  its National Tartan Day.On April 6, we celebrate the contributions made by Scottish-Americans to the United States and commemorate Scottish Independence, proclaimed in 1320 in the signing of the Declaration of Arbroath.(Tartan is the plaid pattern that often appears on kilts.)The main event  the Tartan Day Parade  kicks off tomorrow at Sixth Avenue and 44th Street at 2 p.m. Its grown from two bagpipe bands and about 100 people in 1999 to thousands of revelers today.But if marching through snow in a kilt is not your thing, here are few other ways to celebrate the Scots. Listen to bagpipe music and a reading of the Declaration of Arbroath in Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan. Today at 12:30 p.m. [Free] Learn how to trace your Scottish heritage at the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society in Midtown Manhattan. Today at 2:30 p.m. [Free] Join tea and a book talk with Sarah Fraser, the author of The Last Highlander, at 3 West Club in Midtown Manhattan. Today at 4 p.m. [$55] A performance of Flight, by the Scottish company Vox Motus, and a favorite at the Edinburgh International Festival, at the McKittrick Hotel in Chelsea. Times vary and performances run through April 21. [$45]New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you dont get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.
