Revelations that digital consultants to the Trump campaign misused the data of millions of Facebook users set off a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. This is how The Times covered it.
Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, will appear before multiple congressional committees next week. It is part of the company’s efforts to be more open about its work.
It’s time to stop using technology and the internet as though you were shopping at a supermarket.
Facebook Inc said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more tha...
Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm's misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday...
The Latest on Facebook's privacy scandal (all times local):
In Kenya, which has a large and fast growing population of internet users, there are no specific laws or regulations to protect the privacy of those individuals.
Facebook isn't just a company. It's a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.
Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.
Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that he agreed "in spirit" with a strict new European Union law on data privacy but stopped short of committing to it as the standard for the social network across the world. 
Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that he agreed "in spirit" with a strict new European Union law on data privacy but stopped short of committing to it as the standard for the social network across the world. 
Britain’s decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.

The chief executive of 23andMe on paternity testing, A-Rod and Facebook.
The Massachusetts Senate has approved legislation regulating short-term rentals like those made through online platforms like Airbnb.
He’s gotten great reviews as the comic center of Tom Stoppard’s “Travesties.” So why is he worried about his lines, his future and the little finger on his left hand?
