Facebook's No. 2 executive says the company should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.
Anyone who's been wondering if their private Facebook data might have been swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal will soon get their first clues.
A filmmaker reveals how an actor from Winnipeg was the voice of HAL 9000. Also in this week’s newsletter: readers’ thoughts about Facebook.
What time is the royal wedding? Can you attend? How much will it cost? What name will be on Meghan Markle's driver's license? And dozens of your other really important royal wedding questions answered.
Tara Westover talks about her memoir, “Educated;” Mark Weinberg discusses “Movie Nights With the Reagans.”
Facebook has confirmed that the data of 2.7 million EU citizens were among those improperly used by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, the EU executive said on Friday.
Facebook's Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer will answer questions from British lawmakers on the social media giant's recent data scandal on April 26, a parliamentary  committee said on Friday.
Indonesian government said Friday it is investigating Facebook over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.
The European Union said Friday that Facebook has told it that up to 2.7 million people in the 28-nation bloc may have been victim of improper data sharing involving political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica.
Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump's campaign played any role in providing it...
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to face Congress on Tuesday, and No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg is on a media blitz as the company tries to contain swirling concerns about how it protects the data of its 2.2 billion members.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week, while an EU official plans to speak with Facebook's No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, over the company's data practices.
Indonesia's communication ministry said it has asked Facebook Inc to confirm whether personal data from any of its citizens was shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and is coordinating with police in case any laws were breached....
A civil rights group and some consumer groups said on Friday they would file a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) alleging that Facebook Inc's use of facial recognition techniques threaten users' privacy.
The Latest on Facebook's privacy scandal (all times local):

Despite the wall-to-wall Facebook news of the past few weeks, lots of important things are happening in the tech world that don’t involve the company.
As Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, prepares to testify before Congress, the company also said it supported the proposed Honest Ads Act.
The U.S. Justice Department said on Friday it might formally enter a lawsuit accusing Harvard University of discriminating against Asian-American applicants as the agency probes its admissions policies for potential civil rights violations.
The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a speech on the economic outlook that did not address the economic risks of rising trade tensions.
