Urban gun violence is driven by a very small group of people. To keep them from shooting — and being shot — cities are focusing on those most at risk.
The political calculus shifted after Dr. King was gunned down in Memphis, and prompted the passage of the 1968 Gun Control Act.
Prosecutors say no charges will be filed against a county sheriff who accidentally left a loaded service weapon in a Michigan school gym locker room.
London police investigated more murders than their New York counterparts did over the last two months, statistics show, as the British capital's mayor vowed to fight a "violent scourge" on the streets.
The Second Amendment is just 27 words long, but it is at the heart of contentious debates on gun control. Why is the Supreme Court reluctant to clarify it?
It was one week after the fatal shootings at a Parkland, Florida, high school, and Republican Sen. Marco Rubio was looking to show solidarity with an angry crowd of parents and students in his home state. He told them &#8212; and a national televi...
A Phoenix woman shocked her teenage son with a stun gun to wake him for church services on Easter, authorities said.
When more Americans have died from guns just since 1970 than in all the wars in our history, it’s time to try a new approach.
A Florida law prohibiting local governments from enacting their own gun regulations is invalid and unconstitutional, according to elected officials from 10 cities suing the state's governor in the aftermath of a mass shooting that left 17 people d...
A teenager charged with planning a shooting at his former high school never carried out the crime and should be granted bail, his lawyer argued before a state Supreme Court panel on Tuesday.
A former U.S. Army sniper and two other ex-American soldiers agreed to become contract killers for an international crime boss who wanted to settle a score with a real estate agent in the Philippines he thought had cheated him on a land deal, a pr...
A woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself was furious with the company because it had stopped paying her for videos she posted on the platform, her father said late Tuesday.
Police are investigating accidental shootings in Detroit and Houston that were livestreamed on social media and that left a teenager dead and a man on life support.
Police say a shooting in a crowded mall parking lot in Florida has left two people dead.
Four people were injured in an attack by a woman at the YouTube headquarters on Tuesday, the police in San Bruno, Calif., said.
Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn had his first major encounter with officers as a kid who witnessed a murder in a tough part of California's capital city.
Ohio Gov. John Kasich said Tuesday that he doesn't know if he will run for president again but that in the meantime he's "trying to be a voice that brings about stability and objectivity in our country."
A special court in The Hague is set to examine violence against ethnic Albanians by their former liberators — if anyone dares to testify.
Police are investigating after a woman apparently shot and wounded her 5-year-old daughter at a party in suburban Chicago.
A North Carolina sheriff is criticizing county officials who are calling for training for all law enforcement officers after the release of a video that captured a white police officer punching and choking a black pedestrian.
App Store Official Charts for the week ending April 1, 2018:
The Latest on a proposal to change when police can use deadly force (all times local):
Spying on your spouse's phone in Saudi Arabia now carries a hefty fine and up to a year in prison, under a new law that aims to "protect morals of individuals and society and protect privacy".
“NYPD Blue” is finally streaming. Or maybe you feel like an ’80s movie?
A Times reporter who has covered law enforcement under five attorneys general finds that each brings a personal conviction about what fairness and justice mean.
Prosecutors plan to seek the death penalty for one of the suspects in the slaying of a transgender teenager whose eyes were gouged out and her body set on fire in southwest Missouri, court records show.
Thailand has made one of its largest crystal methamphetamine busts, seizing 700 million baht ($22.42 million) worth of the drug, police said on Tuesday, as the United Nations warned Southeast Asia was being flooded with illegal drugs from the "Gol...
A Vermont man accused by his family of killing his millionaire grandfather and possibly his mother in an attempt to collect inheritance money offered few clues in court regarding the deaths or his possible role in them.
Bernice King stared with purpose at the video of her father, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., concentrating on the tired look in his eyes as he spoke to reporters in the days before he was gunned down at a motel in Memphis, Tennessee.
Weeks after a North Carolina police beating became public, new footage is revealing what was said in the aftermath of the black pedestrian being punched and choked by the white officer.
Video shown Monday that was taken by a dashboard camera inside a sheriff's vehicle shows it hitting a protester and driving away &#8212; the latest flashpoint following the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man in Sacramento.
Audible.com best-sellers for week ending March 30:
Attorneys for a neo-Nazi website publisher and a Montana woman asked a judge Tuesday to decide whether the white nationalist had a First Amendment right to unleash a "troll storm" of anti-Semitic messages and threats against the Jewish woman's fam...
An Indonesian soldier was shot dead and two separatist rebels killed in clashes with security forces near the giant Grasberg copper mine in Papua operated by Freeport McMoRan Inc, an Indonesian military spokesman said on Tuesday.
Reflections on his work. Reports of tensions in neighborhoods. Statements from President Johnson and Senator Kennedy. And two publicly submitted obituaries. 
Officials were investigating the motivation behind a woman’s attack at the suburban California headquarters.
Bosnia's top court has scrapped court fines issued to rape victims and other survivors of the Bosnian 1990s war after they had reparation claims rejected, in a decision praised by rights lawyers and a victims association on Tuesday.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates drew praise Tuesday at a U.N. conference for offering $1 billion in aid for Yemen, where their air campaign against Houthi rebels has killed thousands of civilians and their crippling blockade has hindered...
“I mean, he might as well declare it National Bankrupt Casino Awareness Month,” Jimmy Kimmel said.
Fifty years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., American perceptions of progress toward racial equality remain largely divided along racial lines, a recent AP-NORC poll shows . The majority of African-Americans surveyed saw little ...
Fifty years after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., American perceptions of progress toward racial equality remain largely divided along racial lines, a recent AP-NORC poll shows . The majority of African-Americans surveyed saw little ...
Several lawmakers and the family of a 22-year-old unarmed black man who was fatally shot by police proposed Tuesday that California become the first state to significantly restrict when officers can open fire.
A Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced Tuesday to 30 days in prison in the first punishment handed down in the special counsel's Russia investigation. He was also ordere...
Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each c...
The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):
In his last years, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King was grappling with many issues: workers’ rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty. We inherited them all.
Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each c...
Rebecca Dallet, a liberal Milwaukee judge, easily defeated conservative Michael Screnock on Tuesday in the race for Wisconsin Supreme Court, fueling optimism among Democrats for more victories in the fall midterms.
Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trum...
Legislation introduced last month to better hold financial executives accountable for misconduct probably won’t result in a wave of prosecutions.
His moniker was "DARKKING22," and authorities say he offered a cornucopia of illicit drugs through the click of a mouse.
We owe it to Dr. King to commemorate the man in full: a radical, ecumenical, antiwar, pro-immigrant and scholarly champion of the poor.
Lauren Slater’s new book chronicles the history of mood-regulating drugs, weaving in her own lifelong struggle to get well and stay well.
A developer of planned communities is joining with General Electric to build a smart city near Boston with driverless cars and heated sidewalks.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The movement faced discord, persistent support for segregation, and, ultimately, fatal violence of people who opposed civil rights. 
Israel's defense minister said Tuesday that the military will not change its tough response to Hamas-led mass protests near Gaza's border with Israel, warning that those who approach the border are putting their lives at risk.
The White House said Tuesday night that President Trump plans to deploy the National Guard to confront what it called a growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.
Tuesday: Scrubbing the trains, wet weather, and spring cleaning advice.
The former lawyer, Alex van der Zwaan, had admitted lying to investigators about his communications with a Trump campaign aide and a Ukrainian with ties to Russian intelligence.
In an abrupt and startling reversal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu nixed his own deal Tuesday with the United Nations to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants in Israel and other Western nations, caving in to nationalist criti...
The Latest on the Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):
Every month, Netflix Australia adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April.
As China’s Xi Jinping consolidates power, owners of Hong Kong bookstores trafficking in banned books find themselves playing a very dangerous game.
