Officers shot a man holding an object in his hand after responding to 911 calls about a man threatening people with a gun. It was a metal pipe with a knob.
Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.
Several Silicon Valley leaders called for increased gun control on Tuesday afternoon after a woman at the headquarters of YouTube shot and wounded three people before taking her own life.
Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who the police said shot three people at YouTube’s headquarters before killing herself, had accused the company of censoring her videos.
Years after committing a senseless murder, a young man returns to his Nebraska hometown. That’s when the real trial begins.
A mural depicting President Donald Trump holding a handgun and school children in pools of blood has been painted over after it appeared in an Alabama city.
Police in black, protective suits were on Wednesday working in the cordoned-off areas around a pub in this southern city which poisoned double-agent Sergei Skripal had visited, a Reuters photographer at the scene said.
Former NFL star Clinton Portis has reached an agreement to repay $190,000 he owes a New Jersey casino.
An Ohio youth baseball league is raffling off an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle and other guns for a fundraiser to reduce registration fees.
A reader says the “inaction by Congress to protect us is a national tragedy.”
Evidence is being sought in the unsolved case of a killing that took place 20 years ago.
Cellphone video shot by an 11-year-old child that shows two men arguing before one shoots the other at least six times is being used as evidence in the case in western Michigan.
A rapper and reality star says he was robbed at gunpoint in New Jersey in what was "one of the worst, scariest nights of my life."
A woman who had voiced complaints online about YouTube opened fire with a handgun at the tech company's headquarters near San Francisco on Tuesday, wounding three people before shooting herself dead, authorities and media said.
The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):
British police say a 78-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder for allegedly stabbing a burglar who had broken into his home.
A Virginia prosecutor is asking the court to reopen a perjury case against the chief organizer of a deadly white nationalist rally.
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
The Latest on raids on illegal marijuana houses (all times local):
A Colorado man has been charged with first-degree murder in his neighbor's slaying. A witness says the two had been arguing over how the victim disciplined his dog.
An affluent Chicago suburb has banned the possession, sale and manufacture of "assault weapons" and "large-capacity magazines" in response to the massacre at a Florida high school and other recent mass shootings in the United States.
U.S. law enforcement agencies seized over 100 homes in the Sacramento, California-area this week in what the U.S. Justice Department on Wednesday said was part of a sweeping crackdown on a criminal marijuana growing operation funded by China-based...
Britain’s decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.
Just hours before she shot and wounded three people at YouTube headquarters, Nasim Aghdam calmly told police who found her sleeping in her car that she was having family problems and had left her home.
A news photographer accidentally shot by an Ohio sheriff's deputy last year disputes the agency's assertion in investigative reports that his presence at police scenes in the past was a problem.
Justice Michael Aloise criticized the officer, Kevin Desormeau, for undermining faith in the police, but saved his harshest words for prosecutors.
U.S. prosecutors on Wednesday asked a federal judge to sentence a Turkish banker convicted of helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions to about 20 years in prison, in a case that has strained diplomatic ties between the United States and Turkey.
Officials in an Oregon county who have tried to restrict commercial marijuana production sued the state in federal court, asserting state laws that made pot legal are pre-empted by federal law that criminalize it.
It started with a report on Fox News, and ended with calls for troops at the border with Mexico. We look at how President Trump’s approach to immigration transformed over 72 hours.
Julia Moskin does a deep dive into a classic, and emerges with a recipe worth making soon.
The commander of Brazil's army ratcheted up tension on the eve of a Supreme Court decision on whether former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva should be allowed to exhaust his appeals process before being sent to jail for a corruption conviction...
Police in Fort Worth, Texas, have released body camera footage and 911 audio following backlash sparked by a bystander video that shows a black man being punched and kneed by officers during an arrest.

Officials said the girl, who lived with her mother and the boyfriend in Far Rockaway, had injuries on her lower body consistent with physical and sexual abuse.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
Millions of French commuters suffered a second day of travel chaos on Wednesday as striking rail workers locked horns with President Emmanuel Macron's government in a dispute over reforming the state-owned SNCF railways.
The coverage tends to play on the fears that hiding among mass groups of immigrants are criminals, vectors of disease and terrorists.
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos on Wednesday entered a heated national debate on racial disparities in school discipline, meeting with educators as a government watchdog said in a report that African-American students continue to be punished more ...
An Iranian-born woman who blogged about surviving in a world filled with "injustice and diseases" opened fire at YouTube's California headquarters because she was angry at a site she believed was suppressing her videos, police said on Wednesday.
The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, still projects power, but back home in Wisconsin, he is facing political challengers from both the right and the left.
Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement agents have seized roughly 100 Northern California houses purchased with money wired to the United States by a Chinese-based crime organization and used to grow massive amounts of marijuana illegally, ...
People awaiting deportation are being forced to work for little or no pay. We have a name for that.
The Mexican government began handing out transit or humanitarian visas to people in a caravan of Central American migrants, and said the procession of 1,000 or so migrants that drew criticism from President Donald Trump had begun to disperse.
Hanna Ingber, editorial director of The Times Reader Center, provided a how-to on using social media to converse with readers on topics from race to the weather.
Long-distance running was our love language. What would we talk about if not about mileage and routes?
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Halofom Sultan went from being jailed in his native Eritrea for opposing the oppressive government to detention in Israel, where he is seeking asylum after fleeing for his life.
Asserting the situation had reached "a point of crisis," President Donald Trump on Wednesday signed a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration.
A handshake marked the end of a longstanding and controversial split by a breakaway group of Democrats that had given Republicans a foothold of power in Albany.
Today in History
In Kenya, which has a large and fast growing population of internet users, there are no specific laws or regulations to protect the privacy of those individuals.
With homelessness rising throughout New York state, a coalition is calling on the legislature to expand tenant laws and other protections.
Pentagon officials have expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries to contend with.
On the itinerary for the Ohio governor and 2016 presidential hopeful: a diner visit, a Q. and A. at a college and criticism of President Trump amid speculation about a 2020 run.
Brokers like to call it SoHa, but some residents of the southern section of Harlem say that is only hastening the area’s gentrification.
Younger players who watched Woods push the limits, and endure years of pain, marvel at his latest comeback and aim for a balance between golf and life.
On Montana’s Flathead Indian Reservation, basketball is about much more than winning.
