MANILA   The Philippines will start building a marine base next month on its northernmost uninhabited island, near Taiwan, to boost defence arrangements and discourage poachers from its fishing grounds, a military spokesman said on Thursday.The two nations\' coast guard ships have confronted each other in the rich fishing waters where their exclusive economic zones overlap, and the neighbours nearly cut ties in 2013, after a Philippine vessel fired on a Taiwanese fishing boat, killing a fisherman."We need to have a presence there," said Lieutenant-Colonel Isagani Nato, spokesman of the Northern Luzon Command of the Philippines, adding that building work on Mavulis island would start next month."It\'s still uninhabited, that is why we are going to put up a facility to guard our maritime domain, and against poaching during the fishing period."Nato said a small marine unit would be stationed on the island, also known as Y\'Ami, about 80 kilometres (50 miles) distant from Taiwan, to increase the military presence and improve information gathering.He did not give details of the size of the unit, but added that the structures on the island would also afford shelter to  fishermen.The base will help monitor ships passing through the Balintang Channel, an international trade route in the northern Philippines used by vessels crossing from the busy waterway of the South China Sea to the Pacific Ocean.Taiwan and the Philippines also have overlapping claims in the South China Sea, along with Brunei, China, Malaysia and Vietnam.More than 20 years ago, Philippine defence officials said Taiwan had proposed to lease the uninhabited island as a gunnery range for its military, promising to donate a secondhand fighter as part of the deal.Nothing came of the agreement as Manila recognises Beijing\'s one-China policy, although it has a de facto embassy in Taipei, where thousands of Filipinos work in homes and factories.(Reporting by Manuel Mogato; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
BEIJING   Chinese state media will be getting more propaganda now that the Communist Party has announced it will be in direct control of broadcasters and the regulators of everything from movies and TV to books and radio programs.The move is part of a push by President Xi Jinping  emboldened by the removal of term limits on his time in office  to tighten party supervision over broad swaths of Chinese public life as he pushes for what he calls "unity in thought" among officials and citizens.Analysts say having direct oversight of the media will help the party hammer home its message domestically and also work to improve its image internationally."It\'s one vast effort to get everybody thinking together," said David Zweig, director of the Center on China\'s Transnational Relations at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.Under the plan announced Wednesday, China Radio International, China National Radio and China Central Television, along with its international broadcast arm, China Global Television Network, will be merged into a new body with a name that translates to "Voice of China."The government\'s regulator of the press and print publications, radio, film and television will cease to exist and its responsibilities and resources will be transferred to the party\'s Central Propaganda Department, along with control over the film industry, including the import and export of movies.The new body\'s chief responsibilities include "implementing the party\'s propaganda guidelines and policies," the official Xinhua News Agency said.The Communist Party newspaper Global Times quoted government expert Feng Yue of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences as saying the move will "concentrate the resources and authority to improve China\'s influence overseas and promote China\'s international image."While Chinese media consumers have grown increasingly apolitical with an ever-expanding range of options, from foreign television shows to video games and online shopping, Xi has been steadily increasing the role of the party in the lives of many through new or newly invigorated branch committees in schools, offices and factories.That could leave ordinary Chinese with "little choice" but to become active consumers of propaganda, Zweig said.Writing on the website of the China Media Project at the University of Hong Kong, editor David Bandurski said the change gave the Propaganda Department  which formerly provided broad overall guidance of the media message  direct control over output."And that is largely the point that comes through here  the tighter, more centralized control of media and ideology," Bandurski said.As its name suggests, the new media monolith appears modeled on outlets such as the U.S.\'s Voice of America or Russia\'s Russia Today, now known simply as RT.Xi has repeatedly stressed the role of state media as the party\'s "throat and tongue"  the equivalent of "mouthpiece"  especially since a 2016 visit to Xinhua and other major outlets during which he further reinforced the message by saying such outlets must "take the \'party\' as their surname."At the same time, China has faced opposition to its moves to consolidate territorial claims in the South China Sea and rapid economic expansion overseas, as embodied by Xi\'s signature trillion-dollar Belt and Road infrastructure initiative to tie China to Southeast Asia, Europe and Africa through roads, railways, ports and power plants.China has spent vast sums to boost its overseas media presence in recent years, with CCTV opening broadcast centers in Washington and Nairobi, Kenya, and the English-language China Daily newspaper paying to have itself included as an insert in esteemed American papers such as the Washington Post.Yet those efforts face an uphill battle in competing with well-established global media outlets such as CNN and the BBC, while much of the reporting on China smacks of party propaganda in contrast to reports about the country by foreign media outlets.Cao Peixin, a professor at the Television School under Beijing\'s Communication University of China that has long trained much of the country\'s on-air talent, said the reorganization fits the trend toward greater efficiency and media convergence, but would also help present a more unified political message.Integrating the various departments may not be easy, however, Cao said."If the system cannot be established in a modern, efficient and very flexible way, it will be very difficult for many organizations to work in step," he said.

President Trump put China squarely in his cross hairs on Thursday, imposing tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese goods to combat the rising threat from a nation that the White House has called an economic enemy.The measures are Mr. Trumps strongest trade action yet against a country that he says is responsible for thousands of lost American jobs and billions in lost revenues. Financial markets plunged on fears of a potential trade war between the worlds two largest economies, with the Standard & Poors 500-stock index dropping by 2.5 percent.The White House said it was taking action in retaliation for Chinas use of pressure and intimidation to obtain American technology and trade secrets. The measures include a significant change in Mr. Trumps looming steel and aluminum tariffs that would aim them primarily at China.After Mr. Trump announced the moves, Chinas Ministry of Commerce said that it was proposing tariffs of its own on 128 products from the United States, like nuts, wine and pork, that it valued at about $3 billion. China urged the Trump administration to resolve differences through dialogue to avoid damage to the broader picture of Chinese-U.S. cooperation.The presidents actions fulfill his frequent campaign pledge to demand fairer trade deals with nations around the globe and to retaliate against trading partners if the United States does not secure better agreements.We have one particular problem, the president said before signing an order that will impose tariffs on hundreds of Chinese products, from shoes and clothing to consumer electronics. We have a tremendous intellectual property theft situation going on.The sanctions reflect a shift in relations between the two economic giants, which for years engaged in highly structured dialogues to try to reach agreement on economic and security issues. But the White House now views those dialogues  and the agreements they produced  as largely hollow promises by the Chinese.Rather than trying to draw China into the rules-based international economic order  a policy that dates back to Richard M. Nixon and Henry A. Kissinger  the United States now regards China as a strategic competitor, bent on eroding American security and prosperity.The White House  along with many in the business community  believes the United States needs to strike back against Chinas exploitation of its intellectual property, even if many question whether tariffs are the best tactic.We repeatedly aired our concerns about China, said Peter Navarro, director of the White House National Trade Council and a key architect of the measures. What the United States is doing is strategically defending itself from Chinas economic aggression.Mr. Trump said that he respected Chinas president, Xi Jinping, and that China had been helpful in pressuring North Korea over its nuclear and missile programs. But the president declared that the United States would no longer tolerate running a trade deficit of nearly $400 billion with China, its second-largest trading partner, after the European Union.On Thursday, the United States trade representative issued a lengthy report outlining a pattern of predatory behavior by the Chinese, including forcing American companies to transfer valuable technology and trade secrets, and systematic data theft by China through hacking of American computer systems.In addition to the tariffs, the Treasury Department will restrict Chinese investment in American technology firms  a practice that officials said China uses to nurture its own national champions in cutting-edge industries like artificial intelligence and autonomous vehicles.The administrations increasing focus on punishing China was evident in its decision to exempt allies like the European Union, South Korea, Brazil, Canada and Mexico from what were supposed to be worldwide tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. The levies, which go into effect on Friday, will largely hit China.Fears of a trans-Pacific trade war reverberated through the worlds markets, with the stock prices for major exporters like Boeing and Caterpillar plunging more than 5 percent.The Chinese Embassy in the United States issued a blunt statement, saying that China does not want a trade war with anyone. But China is not afraid of and will not recoil from a trade war. China is confident and capable of facing any challenge. If a trade war were initiated by the U.S., China would fight to the end to defend its own legitimate interests with all necessary measures.Under the proposed Chinese countermeasures, American-produced fresh fruit, nuts, wine, seamless steel pipes and other goods would be hit by 15 percent tariffs, while another group of goods, including pork, would attract 25 percent tariffs.China would also take legal action within the framework of the World Trade Organization, the Chinese Commerce Ministry said.Inside the White House, there was little of the rancorous debate that erupted before Mr. Trump announced the steel and aluminum tariffs earlier this month. The president has steadily winnowed free-trade advocates from the ranks of his cabinet, and these measures are unlikely to draw the wall of opposition from Republicans that the metal tariffs did.Mr. Trumps announcement brought some clarity to a process that the White House has largely conducted in secret, since the president announced an investigation of Chinas trade practices last summer. But more will be revealed when the administration publishes the list of Chinese goods it will target for tariffs within the next 15 days.We learned something today, but theres still tremendous uncertainty about whats going to happen, said Chad P. Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. So in a sense, we didnt learn much.Administration officials said they were tailoring the list to minimize price increases for consumers, who buy large quantities of goods from China, and were focusing in part on strategic industries China is attempting to build up with state support. But Mr. Bown noted that the presidents target for tariffs  $60 billion  represents more than 10 percent of Americas annual imports from China.Eventually they will feed into higher consumer prices, he said.The United States trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, told the Senate Finance Committee that tariffs should be levied on Chinese products from all the advanced industries it has vowed to build up as part of its Made in China 2025 plan. Those include electric vehicles, high-tech shipping and aerospace technology. He called them the ones I care about.But Mr. Lighthizer and his colleague, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, faced a barrage of questions and criticism from lawmakers, several of whom worried about Chinese retaliation.A state like Iowa stands to lose, particularly if China targets soybean exports, said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa. Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, said, Were in a dire fix.Mr. Lighthizer acknowledged those concerns. Every time we take a trade action, agriculture is in the cross hairs, he said. Its something were very sympathetic to.Mr. Trumps announcement was welcomed by a leading Democratic trade hawk in the Senate, Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who said the tariffs were a first step toward a comprehensive response to China that should also include increased screening of foreign investment in the United States to ensure it does not hurt American jobs.I applaud the presidents aggressiveness in targeting tariffs on a country that is clearly cheating, Mr. Brown said.Mr. Trumps move comes at a time when he has enlisted Mr. Xi to help pressure North Korea over its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. Last year, Mr. Trump said he had decided not to designate China as a currency manipulator, in part because China was cooperating in the pressure campaign. His explicit linkage of trade and security raises questions about whether the tensions from these tariffs will spill over into the North Korea issue.The end objective of this is to get China to modify its unfair trade practices, Everett Eissenstat, the deputy director of the National Economic Council, said in a telephone call with reporters.
SHANGHAI   U.S. President Donald Trump often tweets from his iPhone about pressuring China to address its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States. But a closer look at the Apple smartphone reveals how the headline figure is distorted.The big trade imbalance - at the heart of a potential trade war, with Trump expected to impose tariffs on Chinese imports this week - exists in large part because of electrical goods and tech, the biggest U.S. import item from China.Apple Inc\'s iPhone, however, illustrates how a big portion of that imbalance is due to imports of American-branded products - many of which use global suppliers for parts but are put together in China and shipped around the world.Take a look at the iPhone X. IHS Markit estimates its components cost a total of $370.25. Of that, $110 goes to Samsung Electronics in South Korea for supplying displays. Another $44.45 goes to Japan\'s Toshiba Corp and South Korea\'s SK Hynix for memory chips.(GRAPHIC: Manufacturing the iPhone X - http://tmsnrt.rs/2FXbo9C)Other suppliers from Taiwan, the United States and Europe also take their portion, while assembly, done by contract manufacturers in China like Foxconn, represents only an estimated 3 to 6 percent of the manufacturing cost.Current trade statistics, however, count most of the manufacturing cost in China\'s export numbers, which has prompted global bodies like the World Trade Organization to consider alternative calculations that include where value is added.The impact on export data of just the iPhone could be major.Apple shipped 61 million iPhones to the United States last year, data from researchers Counterpoint and IHS Markit show, spending $258 on average to make each iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.(GRAPHIC: U.S. imports from China - http://tmsnrt.rs/2FMsz1Q)Using a rough calculation, that implies the iPhone 7 series added $15.7 billion to the U.S. trade deficit with China last year, about 4.4 percent of the total. That\'s also about 22 percent of the $70 billion in cell phones and household goods the U.S. imported from China."With an iPhone, where China is just the final assembler, most of the value (contributed by China) is just the labour rather than the components themselves," said John Wu, an economic analyst with a U.S.-based think tank, the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation.Louis Kuijs, head of Asia economics research at Oxford Economics, notes that U.S. companies\' using global supply chains to manufacture products in China means other economies would be caught in the crossfire of a trade war."That is an important reason why U.S.-China trade friction will cause \'collateral damage,\' especially in other Asian economies," he said, adding that in value added terms, the U.S. trade deficit with China was only $239 billion last year, 36 percent lower than the headline number.For its part, Apple has responded to Trump\'s concerns with a pledge to bring some suppliers to the United States. It said in January it planned to pay $55 billion to U.S. suppliers this year.DESIGNED IN CALIFORNIAOver the last decade, Apple shipped 373 million iPhones, worth $101 billion by manufacturing value, in the United States, according to researcher StrategyAnalytics.The iPhone\'s contribution to U.S. trade deficits is almost certain to have grown sharply alongside higher retail prices and shipments.But the manufacturing value does not include the intellectual property value Apple adds through engineering and design work done in its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., as well as margins taken by distributors.The iPhone X has a manufacturing cost of about $400, an $800 wholesale cost, and a $1,200 retail unsubsidised cost, according to analysts.Siri, Apple\'s "digital assistant," reflects the challenge of knowing exactly where the value of an iPhone comes from - even if it\'s put together in China. If users ask Siri where she is from, the response is: "Like it says on the box... I was designed by Apple in California."The closely intertwined manufacturing ecosystem has led to warnings that a trade war would be painful for all sides.Forty-five U.S. trade associations representing some of the largest U.S. companies urged the president on Sunday not to impose tariffs on China, warning it would be "particularly harmful" to the U.S. economy and consumers.Retailers and shoemakers, including Wal-Mart Inc and Nike Inc, also sounded the alarm on Monday over concerns the plans would result in higher consumer prices.A 10 percent tariff levied on Chinese electronics imports would slow the growth of U.S. output by $163 billion over the next 10 years, and a 25 percent tariff would slow output by $332 billion, according to the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation.Kuijs wrote that both sides would likely show restraint. All-out economic war, he added, "would cause major economic damage globally."(Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Additional reporting by Cate Cadell in BEIJING and Stephen Nellis in SAN FRANCISCO; Editing by Miyoung Kim and Gerry Doyle)
Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.______A few months ago, my wife and I were in an Uber in Melbourne talking to a driver from India who had a Ph.D in literature. He wrote essays for Indian media outlets but mostly drove, he said, in part because he had a hard time finding a teaching or writing job in Australia.Ever since, Ive wondered how many more Uber drivers were like him  foreign, skilled but stuck in the gig or service economy.I thought of this again last week, as I reported a story about Ola, the Indian ride-sharing company that just started offering service in Perth and Sydney. Ola has not explicitly marketed itself to drivers or riders of Indian origin, but the company does expect that the awareness of its brand among Indians will help  and that idea prompted me to do some more digging.The Indian community in Australia doesnt get much attention from local media or politics, but its a large group: About 1.9 percent of Australias population of 24 million was born in India, according to 2016 census data; many more are the children of Indian immigrants.Sheba Nandkeolyar, the national chairwoman of the Australia India Business Council and the founder of a multicultural marketing company in Sydney, said the Indian diaspora has been growing in leaps and bounds all over Australia, with a wide range of workplace experiences.Theres one segment of the Indian diaspora who are migrating and coming in to good jobs  those are in IT, finance, or science and STEM roles, she said. But there is also a group which is finding it hard to break through, especially in more general professions.A 2016 study from Juliet Pietsch, a professor of politics and international relations at Australian National University, found that many Asian immigrants struggle to gain professional work and pay in Australia. Even those who are highly qualified and English-fluent permanent residents or Australian citizens tend to earn less than immigrants from Europe.Many of Indias high-achieving immigrants simply give up and start businesses of their own, said Ms. Nandkeolyar. Others join the sharing economy.The Uber driver we met in Melbourne didnt seem to mind his fate. He said his children were both receiving university degrees in engineering and he figured theyd face fewer barriers.But will they?My own research on this issue has shown evidence of structural discrimination in the work force, Professor Pietsch told me.Skin color, accent, even just a name hinting at a nonwhite background can be an obstacle to professional advancement and political inclusion  thats according to a growing body of research about race and immigration in Australia, Canada and the United States.But what Id like to know is: How is this experience lived out day to day?Australia often holds itself up as a model of multiculturalism and skilled immigration, but tensions are growing. The country is once again in the middle of a major debate about immigration and population growth.Im interested in getting beyond the politics, into peoples lives  to find out more about the hurdles, challenges and successes that come with Australias ambitious effort to forge a more diverse and international nation.Where is integration working, where is it failing? What do you see in your daily life that you think helps or hurts the creation of a new Australia?Well be exploring this issue in a variety of ways, but were always eager for more input. So if youve had an experience related to this issue, or have a tip for a story about inclusion or exclusion in multicultural Australian life, email nytaustralia@nytimes.com.Oh, and one more thing: If youre looking for more about Nippers, after my newsletter last week, heres our roundup of reader contributions in this weeks Australia Diary.Thank you for all the Nippers support!Now for the weeks stories, and a recommendation that might make you hungry.______In his first statements since it was revealed that a political data firm obtained the data of 50 million Facebook users, Mark Zuckerberg said that if the site cant protect information, then we dont deserve to serve you.A whole lot of people have come to that exact same conclusion  they are leaving Facebook in droves. But it may not be as easy as it looks.And if youre late to this whole Facebook mess, heres the story that got it started.______Its a little weird the way that augmented reality places 3D objects right in front of you. But I did it anyway.Heres how you can do it too (with your phone).______For Fun Where Do Birds Flock Together? Australians Are Mailing In Feathers to Help Find Out: Kate Brandis has enlisted the public to help her track elusive waterfowl as wetlands disappear. Introducing a Major New Voice in Comedy (Who Also Attacks Comedy): The Australian stand-up Hannah Gadsby examines a culture that excuses abuse and takes on comedys pieties.  Mesmerizing Thai Boat Noodles in a Melbourne Parking Garage: Soi 38 is a colorful nook of a restaurant churning out classic Thai street food. The Nippers Way of Life: Young and old share their junior lifesaving experiences, from early morning swims to deepwater board races  and for one nipper, a bit of misery.Australia and the World China Refuses Entry to Australian Critic of Communist Party: The brief detention of a Chinese-born Australian signals that China is paying close attention to the intensifying debate about its influence in Australian politics. Cambodias Ruler Dared Australians to Burn His Effigy, So They Did: Protesters say the visit by the strongman Hun Sen ignores his attacks on free speech and his attempts to influence diaspora communities. Minneapolis Officer Charged With Murder in Australian Womans Death: The shooting in July of Justine Damond by Officer Mohamed Noor renewed questions about police conduct.News Daphne the Missing Duck May Be Finding Her Way Home: A beloved member of a swimming club who disappeared off the Western Australia coast has been found at sea.  James Packer, Australian Billionaire, Resigns From Casino Company: Mr. Packer, one of Australias richest men, recently found himself embroiled in a corruption scandal involving Israels prime minister. Devastating Australia Bush Fire Destroys Scores of Homes: Hundreds of residents were evacuated as fires in southern New South Wales spread to a town of 1,600 people. Australian Official Calls for Emergency Visas for White South African Farmers: South Africa responded angrily to comments by Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton, who said white South African farmers deserved protection in a civilized country. ______ What the West Doesnt Get About Xi Jinping Kevin Rudd asks: Why would China commit to a liberal world order that doesnt reflect its own political values? Can Australia Regulate Intra-Office Sex? Waleed Aly explores whether a sexual relationship between a minister and a staff member should become a firing offense. Bigger Is Not Better for Ocean Conservation: Luiz A. Rocha explains how to protect the worlds oceans.______ And We RecommendWeve been watching Ugly Delicious on Netflix lately, which is chef David Changs new show exploring foods that are often taken for granted, from pizza to dumplings and tacos.In addition to the fresh approach  which includes swearing and hokey graphics, making it the antithesis of Chefs Table, another Netflix foodie hit  its a really interesting examination of Asian-American culture, and what parts of that culture are so rarely represented on television.The show gets props from me for pushing the identity conversation further, and for allowing a little messiness into the culinary doc genre.
BEIJING   The Chinese government vowed Thursday to take "all necessary measures" to defend the country\'s interests if President Donald Trump targets it for allegedly stealing American technology or pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over."China will not sit idly to see its legitimate rights damaged and must take all necessary measures to resolutely defend its legitimate rights," the Commerce Ministry in Beijing said in a statement on its website.The Trump administration is expected later Thursday to impose trade sanctions on China, perhaps including restrictions on Chinese investment and tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese products.Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters that Beijing hoped the U.S. would "refrain from taking actions that are detrimental to both sides."Dozens of industry groups sent a letter last weekend to Trump warning that "the imposition of sweeping tariffs would trigger a chain reaction of negative consequences for the U.S. economy, provoking retaliation; stifling U.S. agriculture, goods, and services exports; and raising costs for businesses and consumers."U.S. business groups mostly agree that something needs to be done about China\'s aggressive push in technology  but they worry that China will retaliate by targeting U.S. exports of aircraft, soybeans and other products and start a tit-for-tat trade war of escalating sanctions between the world\'s two biggest economies.The announcement will mark the end of a seven-month U.S. investigation into the hardball tactics China has used to challenge U.S. supremacy in technology, including dispatching hackers to steal commercial secrets and demanding that U.S. companies hand over trade secrets in exchange for access to the Chinese market. The administration argues that years of negotiations with China have failed to produce results.On Tuesday, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang appealed to Washington to "act rationally" and avoid disrupting trade over steel, technology and other disputes. He promised Beijing will "open even wider" to imports and investment."No one will emerge a winner from a trade war," said Li, the No. 2 Chinese leader, at an annual news conference held during the meeting of China\'s ceremonial legislature.The move against China comes just as the United States prepares to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum  sanctions that are meant to hit China for flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum but will likely fall hardest on U.S. allies like South Korea and Brazil because they ship more of the metals to the United States.Trump campaigned on promises to bring down America\'s massive trade deficit  $566 billion last year  by rewriting trade agreements and cracking down on what he called abusive commercial practices by U.S. trading partners.
GENEVA   China is preparing a range of responses to planned U.S. tariffs and will stand up to protectionism, but still hopes for dialogue, Beijing\'s ambassador to the World Trade Organization (WTO) said on Thursday.Zhang Xiangchen said China was considering a WTO complaint against the package of tariffs that President Donald Trump was expected to announce later on Thursday."This is a legitimate right for China to do that. But I would not exclude other options because, if the flood approaches, you have to bank up to keep it out," he told Reuters.Zhang spoke before a senior White House official said Trump would sign a memorandum later on Thursday to potentially slap tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports over forced transfer of intellectual property.The announcement is the first in a string of U.S. trade restrictions to be aimed squarely at China.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said on Wednesday the tariffs would target China\'s high-technology sector and could also include restrictions on Chinese investments in the United States.Trump\'s protectionist trade policies have already caused a global outcry this year.In January, he slapped steep import tariffs on solar panels and washing machines and this month worldwide steel and aluminium tariffs have followed, justified by a claim to "national security" under a Cold War-era law.The European Union, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Brazil and South Korea won exemptions from the steel and aluminium tariffs,  Canada and Mexico, Lighthizer said on Thursday.Asked about the exemptions, Zhang said that "appeasement of protectionism" would not work. "If you surrender to protectionism, you will lose your credibility."The United States hopes that the national security claim will make the steel and aluminium tariffs immune to a challenge, but Zhang said they failed to pass the WTO test of being "essential" for national security."No one has seen the essential national security rationale behind the U.S. measures," he said. "Even the senior officials of the United States fail to hide the real reasons."\'A FLAVOUR OF TRADE WAR\'Thursday\'s tariffs, under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, would be even more difficult to defend, Zhang said, because in a previous ruling Washington promised to deploy them only with authorisation from the WTO."The U.S. commitment is still there. But it seems that today they would like to ignore it. This issue can be brought back to the WTO and it will be challenged again."China and other WTO members might also retaliate against the solar tariffs with their own tariffs on U.S. goods, Zhang said."My colleagues in the capital have been preparing those options and this response. We still cherish the multilateral trading system very much, although theres a flavour of trade war in the air."Asked about a possible U.S. WTO complaint about currency manipulation, Zhang said China had been prepared for such an argument since Trump mentioned it during his election campaign.China is already under U.S. pressure at the WTO for its industrial overcapacity and its cyber security law.Asked if China would invoke national security to avoid a WTO dispute over cyber security, Zhang said China would exercise self-restraint.As well as deploying tariffs, the United States has undermined the WTO\'s ability to cope with disputes by vetoing the appointment of new appeals judges."If the United States has the intention to paralyse the system no one can stop this," he said, adding that China would keep trying to persuade Trump to unblock the system, although some in Geneva were talking about a plan B for the dispute settlement mechanism.Zhang said he hoped for good relations with new U.S. ambassador Dennis Shea, who he said had promised to discuss the issue, and he did not want to consider a scenario of the WTO without the United States.(Reporting by Tom Miles; Editing by John Stonestreet)
GENEVA   China is preparing a range of responses to planned U.S. tariffs and will stand up to protectionism, but still hopes for dialogue, Beijing\'s ambassador to the World Trade Organization (WTO) said on Thursday.Zhang Xiangchen said China was considering a WTO complaint against the package of tariffs that President Donald Trump was expected to announce later on Thursday."This is a legitimate right for China to do that. But I would not exclude other options because, if the flood approaches, you have to bank up to keep it out," he told Reuters.Zhang spoke before a senior White House official said Trump would sign a memorandum later on Thursday to potentially slap tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports over forced transfer of intellectual property.The announcement is the first in a string of U.S. trade restrictions to be aimed squarely at China.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said on Wednesday the tariffs would target China\'s high-technology sector and could also include restrictions on Chinese investments in the United States.Trump\'s protectionist trade policies have already caused a global outcry this year.In January, he slapped steep import tariffs on solar panels and washing machines and this month worldwide steel and aluminum tariffs have followed, justified by a claim to "national security" under a Cold War-era law.The European Union, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Brazil and South Korea won exemptions from the steel and aluminum tariffs,  Canada and Mexico, Lighthizer said on Thursday.Asked about the exemptions, Zhang said that "appeasement of protectionism" would not work. "If you surrender to protectionism, you will lose your credibility."The United States hopes that the national security claim will make the steel and aluminum tariffs immune to a challenge, but Zhang said they failed to pass the WTO test of being "essential" for national security."No one has seen the essential national security rationale behind the U.S. measures," he said. "Even the senior officials of the United States fail to hide the real reasons."\'A FLAVOR OF TRADE WAR\'Thursday\'s tariffs, under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, would be even more difficult to defend, Zhang said, because in a previous ruling Washington promised to deploy them only with authorization from the WTO."The U.S. commitment is still there. But it seems that today they would like to ignore it. This issue can be brought back to the WTO and it will be challenged again."China and other WTO members might also retaliate against the solar tariffs with their own tariffs on U.S. goods, Zhang said."My colleagues in the capital have been preparing those options and this response. We still cherish the multilateral trading system very much, although theres a flavor of trade war in the air."Asked about a possible U.S. WTO complaint about currency manipulation, Zhang said China had been prepared for such an argument since Trump mentioned it during his election campaign.China is already under U.S. pressure at the WTO for its industrial overcapacity and its cyber security law.Asked if China would invoke national security to avoid a WTO dispute over cyber security, Zhang said China would exercise self-restraint.As well as deploying tariffs, the United States has undermined the WTO\'s ability to cope with disputes by vetoing the appointment of new appeals judges."If the United States has the intention to paralyze the system no one can stop this," he said, adding that China would keep trying to persuade Trump to unblock the system, although some in Geneva were talking about a plan B for the dispute settlement mechanism.Zhang said he hoped for good relations with new U.S. ambassador Dennis Shea, who he said had promised to discuss the issue, and he did not want to consider a scenario of the WTO without the United States.(Reporting by Tom Miles; Editing by John Stonestreet)
(Reuters) - City Football Group, which owns Premier League leaders Manchester City, is looking to add to its stable of soccer clubs and is especially keen on acquisitions in China, according to its chief commercial officer, Tom Glick.Manchester City is one of several clubs owned by the group, a holding company in which Abu Dhabi United Group owns an 87 percent stake with the remaining 13 percent held by the China Media Capital consortium.In addition to Manchester City, the group owns MLS franchise New York City, Australian side Melbourne City, Uruguay\'s Club Atletico Torque, a joint majority stake in Spanish club Girona and a minority stake in Japan\'s Yokohama F. Marinos."I think it\'s very likely we\'ll do some more (acquisitions) and we\'re looking at a number of places across the globe," Glick told CNBC in an interview aired on Thursday."There are a number of very interesting markets and healthy leagues with great upsides so we\'re looking at a number of places, including places in Asia."While praising the game\'s potential for growth in Japan, South Korea and India, Glick said the health of football in China, along with the government\'s backing for the game, made it an especially attractive destination for investors.Chinese President Xi Jinping, an avid soccer fan, has launched an ambitious drive to improve Chinese football from the ground up and spoken of his desire for the country to qualify for another World Cup, host the tournament and eventually win it.China has invested heavily in the sport in recent years, boosting its domestic league by signing a number of high-profile, international players and coaches."There\'s a huge push and an ambition from the government," Glick added."The league is already a very healthy league with good attendances, good television viewership, so I think it\'s a really exciting time right now for China and that\'s one of the markets that we\'re there on the ground, investing."(Reporting by Simon Jennings in Bengaluru; Editing by Toby Davis)
NEWPORT, Ore.   The 700-pound sea lion blinked in the sun, sniffed the sea air and then lazily shifted to the edge of the truck bed and plopped onto the beach below.Freed from the cage that carried him to the ocean, the massive marine mammal shuffled into the surf, looked left, looked right and then started swimming north as a collective groan went up from wildlife officials who watched from the shore.After two days spent trapping and relocating the animal designated #U253, he was headed back to where he started  an Oregon river 130 miles (209 kilometers) from the Pacific Ocean that has become an all-you-can-eat fish buffet for hungry sea lions."I think he\'s saying, \'Ah, crap! I\'ve got to swim all the way back?\'" said Bryan Wright, an Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife scientist.It\'s a frustrating dance between California sea lions and Oregon wildlife managers that\'s become all too familiar in recent months. The state is trying to evict dozens of the federally protected animals from an inland river where they feast on salmon and steelhead that are listed under the Endangered Species Act.The bizarre survival war has intensified recently as the sea lion population rebounds and fish populations decline in the Pacific Northwest.The sea lions breed each summer off Southern California and northern Mexico, then the males cruise up the Pacific Coast to forage. Hunted for their thick fur, the mammals\' numbers dropped dramatically but have rebounded from 30,000 in the late 1960s to about 300,000 today due to the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act.With their numbers growing, the dog-faced pinnipeds are venturing ever farther inland on the watery highways of the Columbia River and its tributaries in Oregon and Washington  and their appetite is having disastrous consequences, scientists say.In Oregon, the sea lions are intercepting protected fish on their way to spawning grounds above Willamette Falls, a horseshoe-shaped waterfall about 25 miles (40 kilometers) south of Portland. Last winter, a record-low 512 wild winter steelhead completed the journey, said Shaun Clements, the state wildlife agency\'s senior policy adviser.Less than 30 years ago, that number was more than 15,000, according to state numbers."We\'re estimating that there\'s a 90 percent probability that one of the populations in the Willamette River could go extinct if sea lion predation continues unchecked," he said. "Of all the adults that are returning to the falls here, a quarter of them are getting eaten."Clements estimates the sea lions also are eating about 9 percent of the spring chinook salmon, a species prized by Native American tribes still allowed to fish for them.Oregon wildlife managers say sea lions are beginning to move into even smaller tributaries where they had never been seen before and where some of the healthiest stocks of the threatened fish exist. The mammals also have been spotted in small rivers in Washington state that are home to fragile fish populations.California sea lions are not listed under the Endangered Species Act, but killing them requires special authorization under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, which was changed to address the issue of fish predation.Biologists this spring started trapping the sea lions in the Willamette River and releasing them at the coast. They also have applied with the federal government to kill the worst offenders to protect the fish runs.Native tribes, which have fished for salmon and steelhead for generations, support limited sea lion kills because of the cultural value of the fish, said Doug Hatch, a senior fisheries scientist with the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission."You\'re pitting this protected population that has been fully recovered against these Endangered Species Act-listed fish," Hatch said. "We think it\'s an easy choice."If U.S. officials grant the request, the trap-and-kill program would expand a similar and highly controversial effort on another major Pacific Northwest river. Oregon and Washington wildlife managers are allowed to kill up to 93 sea lions trapped each year at Bonneville Dam on the Columbia River under certain conditions.In the past decade, the agency has removed 190 sea lions there. Of those, 168 were euthanized, seven died in accidents during trapping and 15 were placed in captivity, according to state data.The Humane Society of the United States sued over the trap-and-kill program and may sue again if it\'s allowed on the Willamette River, said Sharon Young, the organization\'s field director for marine wildlife.The animals are not the only problem facing wild winter steelhead and chinook salmon, she said.Hydroelectric dams that block rivers, agricultural runoff, damage to spawning grounds and competition with hatchery-bred fish have all hurt the native species, Young said. And new sea lions will take the place of those that are killed, she added."It\'s easier to say, \'If I kill that sea lion, at least I keep him from eating that fish.\' But if you don\'t deal with the cause of the problem, you\'re not going to help the fish," she said. "It\'s like a treadmill of death. You kill one, and another one will come."While Oregon awaits word on the sea lions\' fate, wildlife managers are trapping them and hauling them to the ocean, which can sometimes seem futile.Five days after his 2 -hour drive to the Oregon coast, #U253 was back at Willamette Falls, hungry for more fish.___Follow Gillian Flaccus on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/gflaccus .
WASHINGTON   The Latest on U.S.-China trade (all times local):11:15 p.m.President Donald Trump is exempting some of the nation\'s closest allies from tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.The White House announced late Thursday that Canada, Mexico and Australia will not be subject to the tariffs. Neither will Argentina, Brazil, South Korea and the member countries of the European Union.The White House says the exemptions will last until May 1, 2018, pending ongoing discussions.The tariffs on non-exempted countries are set to take effect at 12:01 a.m. Friday.The White House says any country not currently benefiting from the exemption is welcome to discuss being added to the list "based on a shared commitment to addressing global excess steel and aluminum capacity and production."__1:30 p.m.President Donald Trump\'s announcement that he\'s moving to impose steel tariffs of up to $60 billion worth of Chinese imports is rattling financial markets and touching off a fresh economic debate.The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says "imposing taxes on American consumers and job creators in the form of new tariffs" is not the way to achieve fairness in the U.S. trade relationship with China.But some labor unions are applauding the move. The United Steelworkers union says Trump is taking a "balanced approach" by pushing the tariffs, investment restrictions on China and a case with the World Trade Organization.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell sharply on the news that Trump was planning to confront China but regained some of its earlier losses in afternoon trading.___1:01 p.m.President Donald Trump has taken the first step in imposing tariffs on nearly $50 billion worth of Chinese imports.The order signed Thursday is aimed at punishing Beijing for stealing American technology and pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over. Trump says the U.S. and China have "the largest (trade) deficit of any country in the history of our world" and blames that deficit for lost American jobs.He says the move will make the U.S. a "much stronger, much richer nation."___12:15 p.m.The Trump administration is readying restrictions on Chinese investment and tariffs on nearly $50 billion worth of Chinese imports to punish Beijing for stealing American technology and pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over.China is already warning that it will take "all necessary measures" to defend itself, raising the prospect of a trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies.The White House says President Donald Trump will direct the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to publish a list of proposed tariffs for public comment within 15 days. USTR has already identified potential targets: 1,300 product lines worth about $48 billion. The president is also asking Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to come up with a list of restrictions on Chinese investment.____11:08 a.m.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer is spelling out which countries will get an early reprieve from the imposition of tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.Lighthizer is testifying before the Senate Finance Committee. Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon asked him which countries will be exempted from the looming tariffs, "as of tomorrow." Lighthizer said President Donald Trump has decided to "pause" the tariffs for countries that are engaged in trade negotiations with the United States.Lighthizer says Canada and Mexico are on that list. He also specifically named Europe, Australia, Argentina and Brazil.The president is planning to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum  sanctions that are meant to hit China for flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum.____10:35 a.m.Lawmakers are calling on the Trump administration to provide more clarity on which countries will be exempted from looming tariffs on steel and aluminum.Sen. Orrin Hatch, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, says he\'s disappointed in the decision to impose global tariffs on a problem caused by China.He says the tariffs are slated to take effect in less than a day, but there has been no clarity on country exemptions, and the process companies use to request tariff relief is "prolonged and unnecessarily cumbersome."Sen. Ron Wyden, the committee\'s ranking Democrat, says the president came into office promising better trade deals, but what mostly has been delivered is "chaos."The lawmakers are speaking as U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer testifies before the committee.____12:45 a.m.Farmers, electronics retailers and other U.S. businesses are bracing for a backlash as President Donald Trump targets China for stealing American technology or pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over.The administration is expected to impose trade sanctions on China later Thursday. The penalties could restriction Chinese investment and affect billions of dollars\' worth of Chinese products. Trump is set to sign a memorandum on the issue.The U.S. has conducted a seven-month investigation into the tactics China has used to challenge American supremacy in technology.The administration argues that years of negotiations with China have failed to produce results.
BANGKOK   Global stock markets fell Thursday as investors braced for trade conflict between economic heavyweights U.S. and China. Beijing said it was prepared to defend its interests as the administration of President Donald Trump prepared to announce tariffs on imports from China.KEEPING SCORE: Britain\'s FTSE 100 dropped 0.8 percent to 6,986 ahead of a Bank of England monetary policy statement, in which it was expected to keep rates on hold. Germany\'s DAX lost 1.1 percent to 12,172 and the CAC 40 in France shed 1.1 percent to 5,181. Futures for the S&P 500 lost 0.6 percent and Dow futures gave up 0.7 percent, pointing to a downbeat start in Wall Street.CHINA TRADE: China\'s Commerce Ministry said it would take "all necessary measures" to defend China\'s interests if Trump targets China for allegedly stealing American technology or pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over. The Trump administration was expected to impose trade sanctions on China, perhaps including restrictions on Chinese investment and tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese products. A Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters Thursday that Beijing hoped the U.S. would "refrain from taking actions that are detrimental to both sides."FED RATE HIKE: The Fed, headed by its new chairman, Jerome Powell, said the U.S. economy and the job market continued to improve over the last two months and it still expects to raise interest rates three times this year. It said it might raise rates three more times next year instead of two.THE DAY IN ASIA: Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng dropped 1.1 percent to 31,071.05 and the Shanghai Composite index lost 0.5 percent to 3,263.48. Japan\'s Nikkei 225 index gained 1.0 percent to 21,591.99 while the Kospi in South Korea added 0.4 percent to 2,496.02. Australia\'s S&P ASX 200 fell 0.2 percent to 5,937.20. Shares were mixed in Southeast Asia.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude shed 7 cents to $65.10 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It gained $1.63, or 2.6 percent, on Wednesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 15 cents to $69.32 per barrel.CURRENCIES: The dollar fell to 105.68 yen from 106.05 yen. The euro fell to $1.2318 from $1.2340.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump lit a slow-burning fuse on Thursday to launch long-promised anti-China tariffs, but his actions appeared to be more of a warning shot than the start of a full-blown trade war with Beijing.A presidential memorandum signed by Trump will target up to $60 billion in Chinese goods with tariffs over what his administration says is misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property, but only after a 30-day consultation period that starts once a list is published.Trump gave the Treasury Department 60 days to develop investment restrictions aimed at preventing Chinese-controlled companies and funds from acquiring U.S. firms with sensitive technologies.The waiting periods will give industry lobbyists and U.S. lawmakers a chance to water down a proposed target list that runs to 1,300 products, many in technology sectors.It also will create space for potential negotiations for Beijing to address Trump\'s allegations on intellectual property and delay the start of immediate retaliation against U.S. products from aircraft to soybeans."I view them as a friend" Trump said of the Chinese as he started his announcement. "We have spoken to China and we are in the middle of negotiations."\'FIGHT TO THE END\'But his actions provoked a belligerent response from China\'s embassy in Washington, which vowed Beijing would "fight to the end" in any trade war with the United States."We will retaliate. If people want to play tough, we will play tough with them and see who will last longer," Chinese ambassador Cui Tiankai said in a video posted to the embassy\'s Facebook page.Stocks fell sharply on Trump\'s announcement, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling nearly 3 percent. Major industrials that could become targets of Chinese trade retaliation slumped further, with aircraft maker Boeing down 5.2 percent and earthmoving equipment maker Caterpillar falling 5.7 percent.In addition to punitive tariffs, Trump\'s memo also directed U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to challenge  China\'s technology licensing programs at the World Trade Organization. The WTO has repeatedly drawn the ire of the administration but it could provide a resolution that avoids a trade war.The steps are based on the results of USTR\'s eight-month investigation of suspected misappropriation of American technology by China.U.S. officials say that probe, undertaken through Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, has found that China engages in unfair trade practices by forcing American investors to turn over key technologies to Chinese firms.Trump, who earlier this month announced steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports to the United States, also wants the Chinese to take action that would lower the $375 billion goods trade deficit that the United States is running with China.White House officials told a briefing ahead of the trade announcement that the administration was eyeing tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods. They said the figure was based on a calculation of the impact on the profits of U.S. companies that had been forced to hand over intellectual property as the price of doing business in China.There was no explanation of the difference between that figure and Trump\'s $60 billion."Many of these areas are those where China has sought to acquire advantage through the unfair acquisition and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies," said Everett Eissenstat, deputy director of the National Economic Council.In addition, Trump will also direct the U.S. Treasury to propose measures that could restrict Chinese investments in the United States, Eissenstat said.China has threatened to target U.S. exports of agricultural commodities, in particular the $14 billion in exports of soybeans.Reaction from U.S. industry groups sought to strike a balance, applauding the president for tackling the persistent drain of U.S. technology to Chinese competitors, but urging negotiations instead of tariffs."American business wants to see solutions to these problems, not just sanctions such as unilateral tariffs that may do more harm than good," said John Frisbie, president of the US-China Business Council.Despite threats of retaliation, China has been keen to portray itself as a defender of globalization, a message that was reinforced in a call between President Xi Jinping and French President Emmanuel Macron.That said, there is a risk of a mounting cycle of retaliation. U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer warned on Wednesday that Washington would take "counter measures" if Beijing targeted U.S. agriculture.The biggest risk to world trade over the longer term may not be a tit-for-tat trade war, but the breakdown of global supply chains that feed companies such as U.S. auto giant General Motors Co and Apple Inc."Tensions are likely to escalate further, even without a full-scale trade war. This could disrupt global supply chains and damage investor sentiment," said Dario Perkins, head of global macroeconomics research at TS Lombard, a London-based economic consultancy.Trump\'s steel and aluminum tariffs, which are tied to Section 232 of the 1962 Trade Expansion Act, go into effect on Friday. Canada and Mexico have been given initial exemptions from the 25 percent steel and 10 percent aluminum tariffs.Lighthizer told U.S. lawmakers on Thursday that the European Union, along with Argentina, Australia, Brazil and South Korea, would also be exempted.(This version of the story corrects consultation period for tariffs to 30 days from 60 days, paragraph 2)(Additional reporting by Steve Holland, David Chance, David Lawder, David Brunnstrom and Susan Heavey; Writing by David Lawder; Editing by Doina Chiacu, Paul Simao and Grant McCool)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Australia dodges U.S. tariffs, prominent septuagenarians trade schoolyard taunts, and the great Pacific garbage patch may now be the size of Mongolia. Heres what you need to know:  Australia and South Korea made the list of American allies that will be spared, for now, from steep U.S. tariffs on aluminum and steel that go into effect today. Above, a steel mill in Wollongong, south of Sydney.The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, also said Argentina, Brazil and the European Union would join Canada and Mexico as exempt, at least temporarily.Those countries accounted for more than half of the total volume of steel sold to the U.S. in 2017, so the exemptions could undercut the tariffs impact on domestic steel mills._____ Banishing any possible doubt about the focus of his sweeping tariffs, President Trump announced plans to impose about $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports and to exact other penalties from an economic enemy.Some 1,300 lines of goods to be affected are to be named within 15 days.Mr. Lighthizer, the trade representative, said he was pushing to target products from the advanced industries in Beijings Made in China 2025 plan, including electric vehicles, high-tech shipping and aerospace technology.Our Beijing correspondent looks at the challenges Chinas president, Xi Jinping, must now confront.President Trumps national security adviser is out. H. R. McMaster, will be replaced by John R. Bolton, a hard-line former U.S. ambassador._____ Before the massacre. Using exclusively obtained surveillance footage, we pieced together the last days of Stephen Paddock, the gunman who rained lethal fire on a music festival in Las Vegas last October, killing scores.He plays video poker, laughs with hotel staff  and hauls bag after bag of weapons into his suite._____ The most important thing is that we fix this system. Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, gave an unexpected interview to two of our reporters about the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Not everyone was impressed by Mr. Zuckerbergs statements, days after we broke the story that data from over 50 million profiles had been secretly scraped. He avoided the big issue, an analyst said, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy.On The Daily podcast, one of the reporters who interviewed Mr. Zuckerberg described how it went. (Facebooks outreach was so sudden, they had to ask him to hold the line while they read his just-posted public statement.)_____ Septuagenarian schoolyard taunts.Joe Biden started it. T he former vice president  who may be considering a 2020 challenge for the presidency  said that if he were younger (hes 75), he would beat the hell out of President Trump for disrespecting women.Mr. Trump, 71, countered that Mr. Biden would go down fast and hard if the two brawled.Separately, Mr. Trumps lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation resigned after concluding that his advice was being ignored._____ The Australia newsletter.This weeks edition asks: Where is integration working in the country, and where is it failing? (A big inspiration for the piece was an Uber driver who turned out to hold a Ph.D. in literature.)And many of you connected with the reflection on Nippers in our last newsletter. Here are some of your responses on why you love  or hate  the lifesaving surf program for kids. Make happy those who are near and those who are far will come: Peggy and Andrew Cherng spent 45 years building Panda Express into a restaurant empire with more than $3 billion in sales last year. Tencent Holdings, Asias most valuable company, lost more than $26 billion of market capitalization after it warned that it would be reducing spending on content and technology to pursue sustained growth. Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by business customers, making it the first Wall Street bank to take a stance in the divisive U.S. gun control debate.  Time magazine, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money are up for sale. U.S. stocks were weaker. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The great Pacific garbage patch contains at least 79,000 tons of material spread over 1.6 million square kilometers, according to a new study. Thats about the size of Mongolia or Iran, and as much as 16 times larger than past estimates. [Science News] The Queensland police confirmed that two Americans died in a helicopter crash off the Great Barrier Reef on Wednesday. [The New York Times] A Perth department store  was accused of racial profiling after staff members called security on an Indigenous teenager shopping with his father. [ABC] Dead to me. The immigration minister Peter Dutton denounced the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and The Guardian after they criticized his plan to fast-track visas for white South African farmers. [The Guardian] The ashes of Stephen Hawking, the renowned cosmologist, will be interred next to the grave of Sir Isaac Newton at Westminster Abbey. [The New York Times] Honey Popcorn, a K-pop group made up of Japanese adult video actresses, released its debut mini-album, Bibidi Babidi Boo. (Watch the video.) The backlash in South Korea has been intense. [Yonhap]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: End the week with the perfect snack: chips and creamy queso. Considering a green funeral? Heres what you need to know. Encourage great hotel service by following these tips. The Juneau, a long-lost Navy cruiser blasted apart by a Japanese torpedo in World War II, was discovered off the coast of the Solomon Islands by a team funded by the Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Paul Allen. Among the hundreds of dead were five brothers from one Iowa family. In praise of Grandma. As the Overlooked project started, we asked readers to suggest women they felt deserved, but didnt get, obituaries in The Times. Here are the stories you told us about your grandmothers and great-grandmothers. And a team of scientists spend time in the streets of Tokyo and the shark-filled waters of Asia in The Rising Sea, a thriller by Clive Cussler and Graham Brown thats No. 1 on our hardcover fiction and combined print and e-book fiction lists.Its a shortcut used the world over  and even beyond, having been uttered at least once during a space mission.On this day in 1839, The Boston Morning Post published O.K. for the first known time, using the abbreviation next to the words all correct. (Its not written okay, The Times stylebook says.)There have been many theories about its origin, but the most likely is that O.K. was  an abbreviation for the deliberately misspelled orl korrect (all correct), and the expression gained prominence in the mid-19th century.Allen Walker Read, a longtime English professor at Columbia University, debunked some theories in the 1960s, including that the term had come from Andrew Jacksons poor spelling, a Native American word or an Army biscuit.Today, O.K. is an Americanism adopted by virtually every language, and one of the first words spoken on the moon, the Times obituary of Mr. Read noted in 2002.The professor didnt appreciate having O.K. overshadow the hundreds of other etymologies he divined, it continued. He also tracked early uses of Dixie, Podunk and the almighty dollar.In the 1920s, Mr. Read hitchhiked through western Iowa hunting down the word blizzard.A man called Lightnin Ellis had first used the word for a snowstorm in 1870, he learned. Within 10 years, it had spread throughout the Midwest._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
LONDON  In recent history as narrated by President Trump, the United States has been fleeced and humiliated by savvier nations unrestrained by nave notions like global trading rules. Predatory powers have exploited American weakness to steal factory jobs, sowing despair.The primary villain in this narrative is China, the country that Mr. Trump has placed at the center of the combative trade policy he is advancing. Steep tariffs on steel and aluminum set to take effect this week are portrayed as targeting China, even as they mostly hit other powers. In a broadening of the battle to electronics and clothing, the Trump administration is readying at least $50 billion worth of tariffs and penalties on imported Chinese goods.If these demonstrations of muscle are intended to strengthen the American position in grappling with China, trade experts increasingly fret that Mr. Trumps policies are doing the opposite: They potentially diminish the place of the United States in the world by alienating allies, undermining the potential for collective action among countries nursing shared grievances with China.Its going to be far more effective if they go together, said Meredith Crowley, an expert on international trade at the University of Cambridge in England. The fact that the United States is doing all of this alone, it does seem to be weakening the U.S. position.Chinas staggering economic development has indeed been propelled by trading practices that exploit gaps in international rules or breach them outright. The Communist Party government still subsidizes key industries, lavishes credit on state-owned companies and imposes barriers against foreign competitors.In many major economies, steel makers are contending with a glut of low-cost product, much of it made in China. Western businesses must acquiesce to Beijings wishes, sharing cutting-edge technology as a condition of entry to the Chinese marketplace. Frequently, the incoming technology is folded into Chinese goods that land on world markets, forcing innovators to compete against their own creations.These problems are real and persistent. None are easily solved, despite the political appeal of vows to get tough with China.China is an inextricable part of the global supply chain, producing the piece parts of cars, gadgets, bluejeans and practically anything else made by human hands. Its products  and, increasingly, its investment  are crucial components in every economy.Given this, no single country has the power to force China to reform its ways, the thinking goes. China can get around tariffs in one nation by sending its wares elsewhere. It can buy its way into markets by wielding its largess, building infrastructure and proffering loans.Most experts assume that the only way to make progress in pressuring China to play fair is through collective action. Major economies must join forces, taking cases at the World Trade Organization and harmonizing their policies.There are some grave concerns on China, who are massively subsidizing state-owned companies, the European Union trade minister, Cecilia Malmstrom, said in January, on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. And there, yes, we could work with the U.S.Yet Mr. Trump is pursuing the opposite course.In one of his first acts as president, he renounced American participation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade bloc forged by the Obama administration in part as a counter to Chinas rise. The pact included prohibitions on state subsidies, in what was supposed to be a template that could eventually influence Chinas commercial realities.Mr. Trump has also attacked the World Trade Organization  the linchpin of the global trading system and the ultimate venue for collective action  even suggesting that he might revoke American participation. In a formal statement to a congressional committee on Wednesday, a top White House trade official called the W.T.O. wholly inadequate to deal with Chinas version of a state-dominated economy that rejects market principles.Mr. Trump has, at least for now, exempted Canada and Mexico from the bite of his tariffs on steel and aluminum. But that is conditional on their satisfying his demands for sweetened terms in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.Others  Argentina, Australia, Brazil, the European Union and South Korea  have won a temporary reprieve. But they did so only after intense lobbying. Stalwart allies were reduced to effectively begging to be spared from an American offensive. It does not make for fertile conditions for coalition building.It takes everybodys eye off the real issue, said Chad P. Bown, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. Now, no one is talking about Chinas overcapacity on steel. When youre hitting the Europeans and the Japanese and the South Koreans on steel, how easy is it going to be for those countries to cooperate with you on forced technology transfers?You would need all of these countries to agree on these issues, which requires a tremendous amount of cooperation and trust, he added. And theres such a dearth of that now.Most fundamentally, Mr. Trumps decision to cite a supposed threat to American national security as justification for the steel and aluminum tariffs has prompted allies to question the reliability of their friendship with the United States.China produces only about 2 percent of the steel used in the United States, while Canada is the largest supplier. The national security justification for tariffs rests on the idea that metal is a building block of defense, and that Americas access is so imperiled that it must protect domestic suppliers.Given that the United States already produces some two-thirds of the steel it uses, most economists dismiss that argument as absurd. In advancing it, they say, Mr. Trump risks dealing a real national security blow to the United States by threatening the durability of its alliances.Japan and Germany  two major steel producers  are home to American military bases. The vast majority of the European Unions members belong to NATO. South Korea, another major source of steel, is key to the talks that Mr. Trump has said he intends to hold with North Korea to resolve the nuclear crisis.It strikes me as not helpful to put these tariffs on metals against some of our most important military allies, said Ms. Crowley, the Cambridge trade expert. Trump is saying, We cant rely on you to provide high-grade steel in the event of a war. That is a very bizarre thing to say to an ally when you have military facilities in their countries. People there might wonder: What does the average American think of my country if their president is saying we cant rely upon them?
WASHINGTON   Primed for economic combat, President Donald Trump set in motion tariffs on as much as $60 billion in Chinese imports to the U.S. on Thursday and accused the Chinese of high-tech thievery, picking a fight that could push the global heavyweights into a trade war.China threatened retaliation, and Wall Street cringed, recording one of the biggest drops of Trump\'s presidency. But he declared the U.S. would emerge "much stronger, much richer."It was the boldest example to date of Trump\'s "America first" agenda, the culmination of his longstanding view that weak U.S. trade policies and enforcement have hollowed out the nation\'s workforce and ballooned the federal deficit. Two weeks ago, with fanfare, he announced major penalty tariffs on steel and aluminum imports that he said threatened national security.However, even as Trump was talking tough at the White House, his administration moved to soften the sting of the metal tariffs, telling Congress on Thursday that the European Union, Australia, South Korea and other nations would join Canada and Mexico in gaining an initial exemption. And that raised questions about whether his actions will match his rhetoric.China responded early Friday by announcing a list of U.S. goods, including pork, apples and steel pipe, it said may be hit with higher import duties.The Commerce Ministry said the higher U.S. tariffs "seriously undermine" the global trading system. The ministry urged the U.S. "to resolve the concerns of the Chinese side as soon as possible," and appealed for dialogue "to avoid damage to overall Chinese-U.S. cooperation."At home, investors on Wall Street showed their rising concern about retaliation and business-stifling cost increases for companies and consumers. The Dow Jones industrials plunged 724 points.Trump himself, joined by supportive business executives, complained bitterly about the nation\'s trade deficit and accused China of stealing America\'s prized technology."Any way you look at it, it is the largest deficit of any country in the history of our world. It\'s out of control," Trump said of the U.S-China imbalance. The U.S. reported a $375 billion deficit with China last year, which Trump has blamed for the loss of American jobs and closing of plants.The president said the tariffs could cover "about $60 billion" in trade with China, but senior White House officials said the U.S. Trade Representative had identified 1,300 product lines worth about $50 billion as potential targets.That list will include aerospace, information and communication technology, and machinery, according to a USTR fact sheet. But further details were scant.The order signed by Trump directed the trade representative to publish a list of proposed tariffs for public comment within 15 days. Trump also asked Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to come up with a list of restrictions on Chinese investment and said the administration was preparing a case before the World Trade Organization.Despite Trump\'s confident words, business groups and Republican lawmakers are worried his tariffs could undercut actions they have welcomed in his first year."The vast majority of our members are very concerned that these trade actions will at a minimum undermine the strong business confidence that has been created by the tax and regulatory process," said Josh Bolten, president and CEO of the Business Roundtable. "And if it\'s taken to an extreme, it will reverse that progress."Dozens of industry groups sent a letter last weekend to Trump warning that "the imposition of sweeping tariffs would trigger a chain reaction of negative consequences for the U.S. economy, provoking retaliation, stifling U.S. agriculture, goods, and services exports, and raising costs for businesses and consumers."Kansas Sen. Pat Roberts, Republican chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, suggested lawmakers may need to consider what he called a "Trump Tariff Payment" to compensate farmers if their crops face retaliation.But some labor unions and Democrats said Trump was justified in delivering a swift blow to China after years of a lax response from the U.S."Chinese cheating has cost American jobs and I applaud the administration for standing firm in its commitment to crack down on China\'s continued violations," said Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio.Thursday\'s announcement marked the end of a seven-month investigation into the hardball tactics China has used to challenge U.S. supremacy in technology, including, the U.S. says, dispatching hackers to steal commercial secrets and demanding that U.S. companies hand over trade secrets in exchange for access to the Chinese market.Business groups mostly agree that something needs to be done about China\'s aggressive push in technology, but they worry that China will retaliate by targeting U.S. exports of aircraft, soybeans and other products and start a tit-for-tat trade war of escalating sanctions between the world\'s two biggest economies."China has been trying to cool things down for weeks. They have offered concessions," said Mary Lovely, a Syracuse University economist and senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "I fear they will take a hard line now that their efforts have been rebuffed. ... China cannot appear subservient to the U.S."The move against China comes just as the United States prepares to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum  sanctions that are meant to hit China for flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum.Trump campaigned on promises to bring down America\'s massive trade deficit  $566 billion last year  by rewriting trade agreements and cracking down on what he called abusive practices by U.S. trading partners. The president said Thursday, "It\'s probably one of the reasons I was elected, maybe one of the main reasons."But he has been slow to turn rhetoric to action. In January, he did impose tariffs on imported solar panels and washing machines. Then he unveiled the steel and aluminum tariffs, saying reliance on imported metals jeopardizes U.S. national security.To target China, Trump dusted off a Cold War weapon for trade disputes: Section 301 of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, which lets the president unilaterally impose tariffs. It was meant for a world in which large swaths of global commerce were not covered by trade agreements. With the arrival in 1995 of the World Trade Organization, Section 301 fell largely into disuse.Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping enjoyed an amiable summit nearly a year ago at Trump\'s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. But America\'s longstanding complaints continued to simmer.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang this week urged Washington to act "rationally" and promised to open China up to more foreign products and investment.___AP writers Kevin Freking and Matthew Pennington contributed.___
TOKYO   The rumblings of a global trade war sent shivers through stock and currency markets on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump announced long-promised tariffs on Chinese goods and China retaliated with a pledge to fight to the end any such war.Trump signed a presidential memorandum on Thursday that could impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of imports from China, although the measures have a 30-day consultation period.Investors fear that the U.S. measures could escalate into a trade war, with potentially dire consequences for the global economy.Beijing urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from the brink"."China doesn\'t hope to be in a trade war, but is not afraid of engaging in one," the Chinese commerce ministry said in a statement.On Friday, China unveiled plans to impose tariffs on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports in retaliation against U.S. tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum products.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 2.1 percent as stocks across the region dropped.Shanghai shares were down 3.2 percent."The economic impact on both China and the U.S. will be determined by what form the tariffs end up taking. The effects are likely to be felt more strongly in the U.S. and will increase both consumer and producer prices," wrote Hannah Anderson, global market strategist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management."The equity market will bear the brunt of the market reaction. Most impacted will be the U.S., Korea, and Taiwan as companies domiciled in these markets make up a significant portion of the global production chain of Chinese exports."Australian stocks lost 2.0 percent and Japan\'s Nikkei dropped 3.5 percent. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng was down nearly 3.0 percent, Taiwan shares slid 1.7 percent and South Korea\'s KOSPI retreated 2.2 percent."A possible trade war between the United States and China is especially serious for the South Korean economy as it could directly or indirectly affect the country\'s trade with them as well," said Seo Sang-young, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities.Setting the downbeat tone in Asia, the Dow on Thursday shed 2.9 percent, the S&P 500 dropped 2.5 percent and the Nasdaq fell 2.4 percent.As equities took a beating, the yen, often sought in times of market turmoil, rallied against the dollar.The greenback fell roughly 0.5 percent to as low as 104.635 yen <JPY=>, its weakest since November 2016. The dollar was down more than 1 percent on the week."In the longer run, protectionist policies touted by the United States could be watered down, in turn limiting the negative effect on trade and the global economy," said Masafumi Yamamoto, chief forex strategist at Mizuho Securities in Tokyo, referring to the U.S. decision to exempt some countries from steel and aluminum tariffs."But until the United States makes such concessions, global stocks will be under pressure and the yen will appreciate, especially if China decides to confront the U.S. measures."The euro was 0.3 percent higher at $1.2336 <EUR=>.The dollar index against a basket of six major currencies slipped 0.3 percent to 89.605. It has lost roughly 0.7 percent this week, weighed down by a steady decline in U.S. Treasury yields.Yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury <US10YT=RR> fell 7.5 basis points overnight as bond prices rose on jitters gripping the broader financial markets.The yield fell further on Friday to 2.792 percent, its lowest in six weeks.The 10-year Japanese government bond (JGB) yield dipped to a four-month trough of 0.025 percent <JP10YTN=JBTC>.In commodities, oil prices recouped overnight losses after Saudi Arabia said that OPEC and Russian-led production curbs introduced in 2017 will need to be extended into 2019. [O/R]U.S. crude futures <CLc1> were up 1 percent at $64.92 per barrel after losing 1.3 percent on Thursday and Brent gained 0.85 percent to $69.50 per barrel <LCOc1>.Other commodities did not fare as well amid the trade war fears, with copper on the London Metal Exchange <CMCU3> extending a big overnight drop and falling to a three-month low of $6,640.00 per ton.Iron ore futures on China\'s Dalian Commodity Exchange <DCIOcv1> fell 0.5 percent.(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Additional reporting by Dahee Kim in Seoul; Editing by Eric Meijer and Richard Borsuk)
NEW YORK   Shares of U.S. steel and aluminium companies were hammered on Thursday as the United States said it would exempt more countries from a tariff on metals imports that has been promoted as invigorating industry.The S&P 1500 steel index tumbled 7.4 percent, its biggest single-day percentage decline since September 2011.Shares of U.S. Steel Corp dropped 11 percent while shares of Nucor Corp, the lone steel stock in the S&P 500, dropped 6.5 percent.The steel index fell to its lowest point since Feb. 9 and is now down 9.2 percent since Feb. 28, the day before U.S. President Donald Trump announced plans to impose 25 percent tariff on steel imports and 10 percent on aluminium imports. The duties are set to start on Friday.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told a Senate committee hearing that Trump had chosen to "pause" the imposition of metals tariffs for Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico South Korea and "Europe"."The exemptions are a path for further competitively priced steel supply, which could help to normalize U.S. pricing relative to global levels," said Philip Gibbs, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets. "There\'s a growing recognition by the market that current (spot) pricing is unsustainable."Shares of U.S. aluminium companies also dropped, with Alcoa Corp shares down 6.3 percent and Century Aluminum Co dropping 17.8 percent.The stocks fell on a rough day for the overall market, with the broad S&P 500 closing down 2.5 percent amid concerns of a growing trade dispute between the United States and China.Trump signed a presidential memorandum on Thursday that could impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of imports from China.Steel shares "are taking an extra hit because the market is getting beat down by the broader attack by the administration on China which may be impacting the global synchronized growth thesis," Gibbs said.Shares of Commercial Metals Co were the biggest percentage decliners in the steel index, dropping 12.3 percent, after the company\'s fiscal second-quarter results missed analyst estimates.(Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf; editing by Grant McCool)
HONG KONG  A brewing trade war between China and the United States sent markets reeling across Asia on Friday, following a sell-off on Wall Street overnight.Investors drove stocks into red territory from Shanghai and Hong Kong to Tokyo and Seoul as they digested news that the Trump administration would impose stiff tariffs on Chinese goods. Markets fell further as Beijing announced retaliatory tariffs on more than 100 items, including American pork and wine.By the close of trading on Friday, shares had fallen 3.4 percent in Shanghai and 4 percent in Shenzhen. In Tokyo, major exporters like Toyota and Sony helped to lead a 4.5 percent drop in the market. South Korean stocks fell 3.1 percent.This can turn ugly on a global scale very quickly, Robert Carnell, chief economist for the Dutch financial services group ING Asia, wrote in a note to clients.Europe looked poised for a similar sell-off, with futures flashing red for major markets.Markets were following the lead of stocks in the United States, which fell for a second straight day on Thursday, as President Trump announced $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports.After wobbling throughout the day, the Standard & Poors 500-stock index turned decisively lower in the last hour of trading, closing down by 2.5 percent. That put the index into negative territory for the year.The trade measures against China were the latest demonstration of Mr. Trumps America First agenda, and they were announced a day before tariffs on global steel and aluminum imports were expected to take effect.The potential ripples of the trade actions have unsettled investors.Tensions escalated on Friday as Beijing responded to Washington with its own tariffs and a warning to avoid damage to the broader picture of Chinese-U.S. cooperation. The Ministry of Commerce announced plans to slap tariffs on 128 products that would collectively be worth $3 billion in imports from the United States, including a 15 percent tariff on steel pipes, wine and fresh fruit, and a 25 percent tariff on pork.The war of words spilled over into Chinas state-controlled media, as the Global Times newspaper warned in an editorial that Chinese citizens would likely start campaigns to boycott American cars and other products.Some American businesses in China also voiced concern. Our members do not want to see a trade war, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai. The stakes are too high and there would be no winner, Mr. Jarrett said.But he added that American businesses in China wanted fairer treatment and improved market access in China. The Chinese government has the ability to deliver against that reasonable expectation.In the United States, shares of large exporters, whose fortunes could be harmed by a trade war, were hit especially hard on Thursday and looked ready to bear the brunt of more selling on Friday. Shares of Boeing, one of the countrys largest exporters, and Caterpillar, which counts China as an important market, both fell by more than 5 percent.Shares of large technology companies, which had already been reeling in anticipation of tougher government oversight, also took a hit. Facebook, which has been contending with a crisis over data privacy, slumped by more than 2 percent. Alphabet, Googles parent company, dropped by more than 3.7 percent.Amid the dip in stocks, money flowed to government bonds as investors sought safety, briefly driving yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note below 2.8 percent. Yields move in the opposite direction of bond prices. Commodities heavily geared toward global growth also fell. The price of West Texas intermediate crude oil, the American benchmark, slipped 1.2 percent. Copper, an important industrial metal, dropped 0.9 percent.Thursdays decline is the latest in a series of jolts to stock markets in the past two months.After more than a year of calm, in which stock markets glided to one record high after another, a wave of volatility is suddenly cresting. There have been many causes of the turbulence this month and last. Investors initially were fearful that the economy was getting too strong, and that rising wages might cause inflation, which would push the Federal Reserve to hike interest rates faster than investors previously had expected. Those concerns have partly faded as recent economic data showed that inflation remained in check.More recently, market anxiety has shifted toward worries about geopolitics.A growing public backlash against technology companies has increased the chances that lawmakers and regulators in the United States and elsewhere will intensify their scrutiny of them. Shares of those companies have helped propel markets to record highs, and their recent declines have led markets lower.Now, the prospect of a trade war between China and the United States, the two largest economies, has added to the gloomy sentiment. Among the concerns is that protectionism poses a risk to the health of the world economy. On Thursday, for example, the Bank of England warned that the erection of international trade barriers could have a significant negative impact on global growth.Stock markets around the world have reflected the worries. A leading European index, the Stoxx 600, fell more than 1.5 percent on Thursday. In Germany, whose economy is dependent on exporting products all over the world, the DAX index dropped 1.7 percent.
WASHINGTON   The European Union, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea, Canada and Mexico will get initial exemptions from looming steel and aluminum tariffs from the Trump administration. President Donald Trump authorized the exemptions late Thursday night.Trump is planning to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum  trade penalties aimed at China for flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told the Senate Finance Committee that the exempted countries are involved in various stages of trade talks with the U.S., and that Trump decided "to pause" the tariffs for them.The U.S. is in consultations with Canada and Mexico in an effort to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement.Trump moved on a separate trade front earlier Thursday, paving the way for tariffs on China as punishment for what he said is the theft of American technology. He told reporters that the threat of the steel and aluminum tariffs was already having an impact."Many countries are calling to negotiate better trade deals because they don\'t want to have to pay the steel and aluminum tariffs," Trump said.Lighthizer identified the countries initially exempted from the steel and aluminum tariffs in response to a question from Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., who said lawmakers wanted more consultation from the administration on trade."There are countries with whom we\'re negotiating, and then the question becomes the obvious one that you think, as a matter of business, how does this work?" Lighthizer said. "So what he has decided to do is to pause the imposition of the tariffs with respect to those countries."Before Lighthizer\'s congressional testimony, Germany\'s economy minister, Peter Altmaier, said he had found officials in Washington "open to our arguments" during a recent visit with the EU trade commissioner, Cecilia Malmstrom.Altmaier told Germany\'s parliament "it is a question of fundamental significance: whether we all stand for open and fair world markets in the future."Trump campaigned on promises to bring down America\'s trade deficit, which stood at $566 billion last year, by rewriting trade agreements and cracking down on what he called abusive commercial practices by U.S. trading partners. But Trump was slow to turn rhetoric to action. In January, he imposed tariffs on imported solar panels and washing machines. Then he announced the steel and aluminum tariffs, saying reliance on imported metals jeopardizes U.S. national security.Lighthizer said the nation\'s trade deficit indicates that the global rules on trade sometimes make it hard for U.S. companies to export.The administration "is seeking to build a better, fairer system of global markets that will lead to higher living standards for all Americans," Lighthizer said.GOP Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the committee chairman, said he was "deeply disappointed in the decision to impose global tariffs to address a problem caused by China."Meanwhile, Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, said he was troubled to hear that South Korea would be initially exempted from the steel and aluminum tariffs."I was not expecting that," Brown said. "Korea has unfairly dumped steel and other products in our country."___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.
BEIJING   Senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi will visit South Africa this week in the first foreign visit by a top official since China's government reshuffle, the foreign ministry said on Thursday, offering details on a new role for the veteran envoy.Yang was China's top diplomat when he was State Councillor and is now a member of the ruling Communist Party's 25-member Politburo. He will visit on Friday and Saturday as a special representative of President Xi Jinping, ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a daily news briefing.Yang, a fluent English speaker and former Chinese ambassador to the United States, currently has only a party and not government position.There has been speculation in diplomatic circles about what he will do following the reshuffle, though the foreign ministry has said he will continue to play an important diplomatic role.Yang will meet South African government and political party leaders to discuss plans for a summit later this year between China and African countries, as well as bilateral ties, Hua added.Yang was appointed to the Politburo, the second-largest of the party's three elite ruling bodies, in October after a party congress.Yang, 67, remains secretary general of the Foreign Affairs Leading Group chaired by Xi, which is a top party body that directs and coordinates Chinese diplomacy, although the body is due to be re-named and the party has not said who will be on it.The party is ultimately responsible for all government decisions and it is where real power lies.Yang's successor as state councilor, Wang Yi, is not a Politburo member but is on the Central Committee, the largest of the party's decision-making bodies and a rung below the Politburo.Wang's new position was announced on Tuesday as part of a broader government reshuffle. Wang also remains foreign minister.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
___Trade worries send stock market plungingNEW YORK (AP)  Stocks plunged, driving the Dow Jones industrial average down more than 700 points, as investors feared that trade tensions will spike between the U.S. and China. The Trump administration announced trade sanctions against China, and Beijing has said it will defend itself. Industrial and technology companies, which depend heavily on foreign trade, took some of the worst losses. Boeing, Caterpillar and Microsoft all fell. Banks were also sharply lower as bond yields fell.___Trump signs order punishing China on tradeWASHINGTON (AP)  President Donald Trump has taken the first step in imposing tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese imports. The order signed Thursday is aimed at punishing Beijing for stealing American technology and pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over. Trump says the U.S. and China have "the largest deficit of any country in the history of our world" and blames that deficit for lost American jobs. He says the move will make the U.S. a "much stronger, much richer nation."___Trump to \'pause\' looming metal tariffs for some countriesWASHINGTON (AP)  The European Union, Australia, Argentina, Brazil and South Korea are among the nations that will get an initial exemption from looming steel and aluminum tariffs from the Trump administration. That\'s the word from U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer. President Donald Trump is planning to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum. Those trade penalties are aimed at China for flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum.___House committee calls for Facebook\'s Zuckerberg to testifyWASHINGTON (AP)  The leaders of a key House committee say Facebook officials failed to answers questions about a privacy scandal involving a Trump-connected data-mining company, and they want CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify before the panel. Reps. Greg Walden of Oregon and Frank Pallone of New Jersey say the "latest revelations regarding Facebook\'s use and security of user data raise many serious consumer protection concerns."___House OKs compromise $1.3 trillion budget bill, Senate nextWASHINGTON (AP)  The House easily approved a bipartisan $1.3 trillion spending bill Thursday that pours huge sums into Pentagon programs and domestic initiatives ranging from building roads to combatting the nation\'s opioid abuse crisis, but left Congress in stalemate over shielding young Dreamer immigrants from deportation and curbing surging health insurance premiums.___US, AT&T fire opening salvos as govt seeks to block mergerWASHINGTON (AP)  The U.S. and AT&T fire opening salvos in federal court as the Justice Department seeks to block the telephone giant\'s proposed takeover of Time Warner. The government has sued to block the $85 billion deal, saying it would hurt completion and consumers would have to pay more for their favorite shows.___Citigroup puts restrictions on gun salesNEW YORK (AP)  Citigroup put new restrictions on firearm sales by its business customers, the company said Thursday, making it the first bank to announce changes to its policies in the wake of the school shooting in Florida. Citigroup will require its clients and business customers not to sell a firearm to anyone who hasn\'t passed a background check or anyone under the age of 21. They also will not allow its customers to sell what are known as bump stocks and high-capacity magazines.___Toys R Us founder dies days after chain\'s announced shutdownNEW YORK (AP)  Charles P. Lazarus, the World War II veteran who founded Toys R Us, has died at age 94, a week after the iconic chain he started six decades ago announced it will shut down its stores across the U.S. Toys R Us confirmed Lazarus\' death in a statement Thursday.___Israeli firm says it can turn garbage into bio-based plasticKIBBUTZ ZEELIM, Israel (AP)  Israeli startup UBQ says its innovative method of converting garbage into bio-based plastics, five years in the making, will revolutionize waste management and help make landfills obsolete. UBQ says its material can be used as an additive to conventional plastics, and that 10 to 15 percent is enough to make the plastic carbon-neutral. But skeptics have questioned whether the technology works as advertised and is commercially viable.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index skidded 68.24 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,643.69. The Dow Jones industrial average sank 724.42 points, or 2.9 percent, to 23,957.89. The Nasdaq composite gave up 178.61 points, or 2.4 percent, to 7,166.68. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks lost 35.43 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,543.87.Benchmark U.S. crude oil shed 87 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $64.30 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 56 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $68.91 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline remained at $2.01 a gallon. Heating oil lost 1 cent to $1.99 a gallon. Natural gas lost 3 cents to $2.62 per 1,000 cubic feet.
HONG KONG   Asian stock markets slumped Friday after Beijing responded to the Trump administration\'s tariff hikes by saying it may order higher import duties on a range of U.S. goods, ratcheting up fears of a trade war.Stocks plunged Thursday on Wall Street after U.S. President Donald Trump imposed sanctions on goods and investment from China. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 700 points as investors feared that trade tensions between the world\'s largest economies would escalate.The planned sanctions include tariffs on $48 billion worth of Chinese imports as well as restrictions on Chinese investments. Trump said he was taking those steps in response to theft of American technology.The U.S. Trade Representative identified 1,300 product lines as potential targets, including aerospace, information and communication technology, and machinery. A more complete list is due soon, to be followed by a 30-day comment period.The Chinese government said it will defend itself, and investors are worried that trade tensions will wreak havoc on the world economy.On Thursday they fled stocks and bought bonds, which sent bond prices higher and yields lower. With interest rates falling, banks took some of the worst losses. Technology and industrial companies, basic materials makers and health care companies also fell sharply.The fear rippled into Asia, where shares tumbled in early trading. By late morning in Japan, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index was down 3.5 percent at 20,827.92. South Korea\'s Kospi tumbled 2.3 percent to 2,438.03. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng lost 3.2 percent to 30,090.32 and the Shanghai Composite in mainland China sank 2.7 percent to 3,169.19. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 skidded 1.9 percent to 5,824.50.In response to President Donald Trump\'s tariff hike on steel and aluminum, China unveiled a list of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe that it may hit with higher import duties.The Commerce Ministry in Beijing urged Washington to negotiate a settlement, saying tariffs undermine the global trading system."Markets are looking immensely fragile today. Strap in as a tit-for-tat tariff tiff is about to start," Stephen Innes, head of Asian trading at OANDA, said in a commentary.On Thursday, markets sank. The S&P 500 index skidded 2.5 percent to 2,643.69. The Dow Jones industrial average sank 2.9 percent to 23,957.89. The Nasdaq composite gave up 2.4 percent to 7,166.68.Investors also sold some of the market\'s biggest recent winners. Among technology companies, Microsoft fell $2.69, or 2.9 percent, to $89.79 and Alphabet, Google\'s parent company, fell $40.85, or 3.7 percent, to $1,053.15. Online retailer Amazon slid $36.94, or 2.3 percent, to $1,544.92.The reaction to the moves in Washington and Beijing was somewhat muted, with Asian markets regaining some lost ground after early sell-offs.Peter Donisanu, an investment strategy analyst for the Wells Fargo Investment Institute, said the risk of a damaging trade war is still low because the Trump administration is targeting specific goods that aren\'t central to China\'s economy. That could change if it puts tariffs on products like electronics or appliances imported from China."If the Trump administration really wanted to hurt China and start a trade war, then they would go after those larger sectors," he said.Earlier this month the Trump administration ordered tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, and stocks dropped as investors worried about the possibility of tougher restrictions on international trade and smaller profits for corporations.Their fears eased when the administration said some countries will be exempt from the tariffs. That continued Thursday, after U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said the tariffs won\'t apply to the European Union, Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Australia.The jitters over trade tensions sent investors toward traditional "safe havens" like the Japanese yen, which strengthened against the U.S. dollar.The dollar fell to 104.87 yen from 105.28 yen in late trading Thursday. The euro rose to $1.2337 from $1.2302.Oil futures rallied. Benchmark U.S. crude rose 95 cents to $65.27 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract shed 87 cents, or 1.3 percent, to close at $64.30 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 92 cents to $69.30 a barrel in London.___AP Markets Writer Marley Jay contributed to this report.
FRANKFURT   BMW will not mass produce electric cars until 2020 because its current technology is not profitable enough to scale up for volume production, the chief executive said on Thursday.Munich-based BMW unveiled its first battery electric car in 2013, and has been working on different generations of battery, software and electric motor technology since then.The i8 Roadster model, due to hit showrooms in May, is equipped with what BMW calls its fourth-generation electric drive technology. Advances in battery raw materials and chemistry has increased its range by 40 percent over the previous version, BMW said.BMW is working to make electric car technology more modular and scaleable to make mass production commercially viable."We wanted to wait for the fifth generation to be much more cost competitive," Chief Executive Harald Krueger told analysts in Munich. "We do not want to scale up with the fourth generation."The cost advantage between BMW\'s fourth and fifth generation electric vehicle technology was a "two digit number" in percent terms, Krueger said. He did not offer precise figures."If you want to win the race, you must be the most cost competitive in the segment, otherwise you cannot scale up the volume," he said.BMW is working on a sixth generation of its technology and is investing a three-digit-million euro amount in battery cell research to better understand mass production, the company said.BMW makes electric cars at 10 plants across the world but has focussed mainly on hybrids, which combine combustion engines with battery powered electric motors, rather than vehicles reliant solely on batteries for their power.BMW said it wanted to add 25 new electrified models by 2025, of which 12 vehicles will be fully battery electric variants.Thanks to a new production method available from 2020 onwards, BMW will be able to make all its cars with pure electric, hybrid and combustion engined variants.In 2019 BMW will start making a fully electric Mini at its plant on the outskirts of the British city of Oxford, and will start production of a battery electric version of the X3 offroader in 2020.BMW is increasing the number of factories where it makes the X3 offroader. This year it will start making the X3 in China and South Africa, in addition to Spartanburg in the United States.BMW has chosen Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd (CATL) as its partner in China for battery cell production, Krueger said.(Reporting by Edward Taylor; Editing by Tom Sims and Edmund Blair)
HONG KONG   In the dead of night last month, two tanker ships pulled alongside each other in the East China Sea. One was a North Korean vessel, the other was the Belize-flagged Wan Heng 11.Lights on both ships were blazing, arousing a Japanese spy plane\'s suspicion they were carrying out a "ship-to-ship" transfer banned under United Nations sanctions imposed over North Korea\'s nuclear weapons program.Records for the Wan Heng and a number of other ships identified in recent U.N. and U.S. sanctions blacklists and Japanese surveillance reports reveal ties to Hong Kong through front companies based here. The findings underscore rising concern over the southern Chinese financial capital\'s role as a nexus for North Korea\'s underground business network, which has led the U.S. government to urge Hong Kong authorities to crack down.The corporate registration agents that set up these front companies "present a key vulnerability in the implementation of financial sanctions," said a report by the United Nations Panel of Experts on North Korean sanctions released on March 16. Researchers say North Korea relies on front companies acting as middlemen to mask its overseas trading links, many of which involve China.Successively tighter rounds of sanctions aim to deprive North Korea of key sources of revenue by choking off its ability to smuggle exports, including through oil transfers between ships on the high seas.Hong Kong, an Asian business hub, is "staying highly vigilant about activities and suspected cases" of sanctions violations and is "looking into the cases" involving Hong Kong-registered companies, the government said in a statement.The city often tops business and economic freedom rankings, based on criteria that include ease of setting up business. That can also facilitate illicit dealings.The city hosts a vast industry of company formation experts who can register corporations quickly and with minimum information from their clients. Many operate out of anonymous, one-room offices with as little as a single employee. They promise to set up a firm within a day for clients who can apply online if they\'re not in Hong Kong.Out of 11 companies based outside North Korean named in a U.S. Treasury sanctions list last month, two each were in China and Taiwan and one each in Singapore and Panama. The remaining five were in Hong Kong.The U.N. report said separate investigations of a Singaporean company and Glocom, identified as North Korean military equipment supplier, found evasion tactics included the use of Hong Kong front companies.Hong Kong has imposed new rules aimed at preventing money laundering that took effect this month that require licensing of corporate registration agents. Companies also must now identify and disclose their beneficial owners, but only to law enforcement authorities.It\'s not unusual in itself for a company to operate out of secretarial office, said David Webb, a Hong Kong corporate governance activist.But he says lax corporate disclosure rules give "Hong Kong a sort of Monaco of the East image, as a funny place for shady people."A review of Hong Kong company filings and shipping databases revealed a murky web of company names and employees working out of a variety of unlikely locations.One U.S.-sanctioned company, Liberty Shipping Co., shared an address with its registration firm in Hong Kong\'s Wan Chai district. A woman at the office, which had yet another name on the door, said it had ceased doing business with Liberty Shipping and didn\'t have contact information. She added that it dealt with the company through an intermediary she wouldn\'t name. Liberty Shipping\'s annual return showed that its director lived in Dalian in China\'s northeast but didn\'t provide a phone number.In the Wan Heng\'s case, shipping databases give the rusty tanker\'s registered owner and commercial manager as Zhejiang Wanheng Shipping Co., with a care-of address for an apparently related company, Hong Kong Wanheng International Trading Ltd., at an apartment in The Beaumont, a suburban luxury apartment development. No one answered the apartment\'s buzzer on a recent visit.Corporate registration records gave a second office address in Hong Kong\'s North Point neighborhood. A woman who answered the office door, which didn\'t have a sign, said Wanheng\'s director, Yip Kwok-man, was not in."He just uses the office as a nameplate. It\'s not convenient to give you any more information," she said, refusing to provide her name, adding that she and three other women in the office weren\'t his staff.A woman listed as Wanheng\'s company secretary said she was recruited by a friend. But she said she didn\'t work for the company anymore because it was too much hassle, without being more specific.Yip\'s home address in Wanheng\'s annual return turned out to be a modest one-bedroom unit in an aging public housing complex in the city\'s Tsing Yi suburb. No one was home when the AP visited and a neighbor said the resident there had a different surname.A further search of records found a second address for Yip in an upscale waterfront apartment block in the Sai Wan Ho district. A man who answered the intercom didn\'t respond when asked in both Mandarin and Cantonese whether Yip Kwok-man was there.___.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. AUSTIN BOMBER'S VIDEO AMOUNTS TO 'CONFESSION,' BUT NO MOTIVEA 25-minute cellphone video left behind by Mark Anthony Conditt details the differences among the weapons he built and amounts to a confession, police say.2. WHO IS BRACING FOR TRUMP TRADE SANCTIONSFarmers, electronics retailers and other U.S. businesses brace for a backlash as the president prepares to target China for stealing American technology or pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over.3. ZUCKERBERG EMBARKS ON RARE MEDIA MINI-BLITZBut it's far from clear whether Facebook's CEO won over U.S. and European authorities, much less the broader public in the wake of a privacy scandal involving a Trump-connected data-mining firm.4. AP: TOY COMPANY CEO LEADS EFFORT TO PARTIALLY SALVAGE TOYS R USIsaac Larian says he and other investors have pledged $200 million in financing and hope to raise more in crowdfunding in order to bid for up to 400 of the cherished brand's stores being liquidated in bankruptcy.5. ARAB SPRING YIELDS LITTLE FRUIT YEARS LATEREgypt votes next week in basically a one-candidate election  but almost nowhere in Arab world has democracy taken hold since the 2011 revolution.6. #METOO MOVEMENT SHAKES PATRIARCHAL SOUTH KOREAThe movement generates high expectations of change to the Asian nation's society, but challenges remain both in the workplace and in the courts.7. HURRICANE HARVEY'S TOXIC IMPACT DEEPER THAN PUBLIC TOLDThe Category 4 storm's noxious assault on the environment raises questions about the long-term consequences for human health, a joint media investigation reveals.8. NEW YORK CITY AGENCY INVESTIGATING KUSHNER PROPERTIESThe probe follows an AP report that the real estate developer routinely filed false paperwork claiming it had zero rent-regulated tenants in its buildings across the city.9. 'BOZO THE CLOWN' CHARACTER DIESLongtime Boston TV personality and entertainer Frank Avruch, who was the star of the popular children's TV program, was 89.10. WHERE THE FOCUS SHIFTS IN SWEET 16The NCAA Tournament resumes with a slate of four games, and the South Region will be a focus since the four top seeds there have been eliminated.
WASHINGTON   Saudi Arabia has international partners it can work with if the United States walks away from a potential deal on nuclear power technology over concerns about nuclear proliferation, Khalid al-Falih, the kingdom\'s energy minister, said in an interview on Thursday."If the U.S. is not with us, they will lose the opportunity to influence the program in a positive way," Falih said after he and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman met this week with President Donald Trump, Energy Secretary Rick Perry and other officials on a range of issues.Perry has been quietly working with Saudi Arabia on a civilian nuclear agreement that could allow the kingdom to enrich uranium and reprocess plutonium, technologies that nonproliferation advocates worry could one day be covertly altered to produce fissile material for nuclear weapons.The kingdom is also in talks with companies from Russia, China, South Korea and other countries as the race to build two reactors in Saudi Arabia heats up.Saudi Arabia has said it needs nuclear power to move away from burning crude oil to generate electricity and to diversify its economy. Earlier this month, its cabinet approved a national policy program that limits nuclear activities to peaceful purposes.Perry hopes Saudi Arabia will buy nuclear power technology from U.S. companies, including Westinghouse, which went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy this year and abandoned plans to build two advanced AP1000 reactors in the United States.But Salman raised concerns when he told CBS in an interview on Sunday that the kingdom will develop nuclear weapons if its archrival Iran does so.Some members of the U.S. Congress worry the Trump administration is moving too quickly on a deal that could relax nonproliferation standards and one day help lead to a nuclear arms race across the Middle East.If Saudi Arabia signs a deal that relaxes the safeguards, the UAE could be free to break its own deal it signed with Washington years ago and enrich uranium. The UAE deal contained the "gold standard" in such 123 nuclear agreements, because it contains the safeguards.On Wednesday, lawmakers from both parties in the U.S. House introduced a bill that would reform U.S. law to ensure that partners on nuclear energy abandon the pursuit of enriching uranium and reprocessing plutonium. The bill would also harden congressional approval of civilian nuclear deals.Falih said he was hopeful for a deal with Washington. "It will be natural for the United States to be with us and to provide us not only with technology, but to help us with the fuel cycle and the monitoring, and make sure we do it to the highest standard."But the kingdom has generous uranium resources it wants to develop. "It\'s not natural for us to bring enriched uranium from a foreign country to fuel our reactors," Falih said."The irony is that if the U.S. chooses not to (seal a deal) then somebody else will and we are fortunate to have many other alternative sources that have agreed to work with us and they will be competing for our program," Falih said. In that case,  "the U.S. will not have a seat at the table," he said.Perry stuck a similar chord in comments during a congressional hearing on nuclear deals this week. "It appears to me, either Russia or China is going to be a partner in building civil nuclear capability in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia," if the United States does not.Some nuclear analysts believe it is unlikely that the Saudis would choose to work with Russia because it has partnerships with nuclear projects in Iran.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)
SANTIAGO/LA PAZ   Chile argued in The Hague on Thursday that it had no obligation to negotiate access to the Pacific Ocean with Bolivia, saying the matter had been settled by a peace treaty more than a decade ago.Bolivia, which lost former coastal territory during a war in the 19th century, argued earlier this week that Chile has not kept later diplomatic promises and obligations under international law to negotiate over "sovereign access" - presumably a land corridor and port under its control.The issue has been a recurring bone of contention between the Andean neighbors over decades.Bolivia, which still retains a navy, wants a corridor to the sea to boost its exports of natural gas and minerals. Chile argues Bolivia already has access on favorable terms."The treaty is in effect and the border between Chile and Bolivia was agreed upon with clarity and in perpetuity. It\'s time Bolivia stopped confusing its own aspirations with Chile\'s obligations," Chilean President Sebastian Pinera said after watching the arguments from Santiago.Claudio Grossman, who spoke for Chile before the court, said the South American nation had already granted Bolivia more than what is required by the 1904 peace treaty."Bolivia benefits from access without restrictions to ports" in Chile, Grossman said.Lawyers for Bolivia earlier this week said the country was not asking "the court to rule on how sovereign access should be arranged ... but simply (to ensure) that Chile return to the negotiating table in good faith."Bolivian President Evo Morales said from La Paz on Thursday that Chile\'s defense had made "much reference to the Treaty of 1904, suggesting that Chile complied perfectly with it." But Chile had offered "no guarantee of free movement of people or goods," he added.Oral arguments run through March 28. Judges will the deliberate for several months before setting the date for a ruling.The International Court of Justice is the United Nations\' highest court for disputes between nations. Its rulings are binding and cannot be appealed, though countries have occasionally flouted them.(Additional reporting by Danny Ramos; Writing by Dave Sherwood; Editing by Leslie Adler)
BRUSSELS   The European Union and the U.S. seem to have averted a trade war for now, after the administration of President Donald Trump said Thursday it was ready to exempt the 28-country bloc from tariffs on steel and aluminum.EU leaders, who had threatened to retaliate to any new U.S. tariffs with restrictions on American goods, gave a cautious welcome to news of the exemption."A trade war would have damaged both sides," Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz tweeted from a summit of leaders in Brussels.In Washington, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said Thursday that Trump had decided to "pause" the tariffs for countries that are engaged in trade negotiations with the United States. He said the EU would be exempt, along with Canada, Mexico, Australia, Argentina and Brazil.The EU is the world\'s biggest trading bloc and it had drawn up a list of dozens of U.S goods  from peanut butter to motorcycles, worth 2.8 billion euros ($3.4 billion) in trade annually  upon which it could impose retaliatory tariffs.Trump had planned to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum. The sanctions are meant to hit China for flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum but in practice would have hurt many allies, such as the EU.European Parliament President Antonio Tajani told reporters that "if official confirmation arrives, then that will certainly be a piece of news that goes in the right direction. The U.S. and Europe are two sides of the same coin and I don\'t think we should get involved in a trade war."Earlier, Germany\'s economy minister said he had found officials in Washington "open to our arguments" when he visited to try and avert the tariffs.Germany\'s Peter Altmaier and EU trade commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom both visited Washington this week to seek the exemption.Altmaier told Germany\'s parliament Thursday "it is a question of fundamental significance: whether we all stand for open and fair world markets in the future."At the Brussels summit, EU leaders were expected to trumpet their commitment to the world trade order and to press on with free trade deals with the Mercosur countries of South America and Mexico.Ahead of the summit  in an invitation letter to the leaders  EU Council President Donald Tusk exhorted them to remain an example to the global trading system rather than revert to protectionism."As the world\'s biggest trading power, the EU\'s response will be responsible and reasonable," he wrote.The EU rejects Trump\'s assertion that the tariffs are needed for national security and sees them as protectionist measures. Most EU countries are U.S. allies in the world\'s biggest security organization, NATO.___Raf Casert in Brussels contributed to this report.
PARIS/BEIJING   French media giant Vivendi is selling its stake in Ubisoft for 2 billion euros (1.75 billion pounds) to investors including Chinese tech titan Tencent, ending a potential takeover battle for the French video games maker.Billionaire Vincent Bollore's Vivendi, which had been raising its holding in Ubisoft, has agreed to sell its 27.3 percent stake in the company, best known for its Assassin's Creed and South Park games.Tencent Holdings Ltd, which dominates China's mobile gaming market, is investing almost 370 million euros for a 5 percent stake, while the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is spending 250 million euros for a 3.4 percent stake.Ubisoft and Tencent will also form a strategic partnership to boost Ubisoft's reach into China, the world's largest video game market with estimated sales of $32.5 billion last year, according to data from gaming consultancy Newzoo.The move represents a strategic setback for Bollore and Vivendi, which has pledged to make video gaming one of its key pillars along with advertising, music and pay-TV. As part of the deal Vivendi has committed to not acquire any further shares in Ubisoft for five years.Vivendi's stake-building since 2015 had prompted Ubisoft's founding Guillemot family to court Canadian investors to fend off any hostile takeover.After the sale Vivendi will remain active in video gaming through its acquisition of mobile game maker Gameloft, which was also founded by a Guillemot brother but is much smaller than Ubisoft, the French leader in this market.Along with the investments from Tencent and Ontario Teachers, the deal also includes a share buy-back by Ubisoft that adds up to an 8.1 percent stake, as well as a share purchase by Guillemot Brothers SE and an accelerated book building with institutional investors.Ubisoft said Vivendi had approached it several weeks ago about its intention eventually to sell its stake. Ubisoft started tapping up potential investors at that stage.Tencent, Asia's biggest listed firm with a market value of around $540 billion, is investing heavily to expand its gaming empire at home and abroad. It launched some of its top games overseas last year, and last month invested 3 billion yuan ($474.73 million) in Chinese peer Shanda Games.The firm, which stretches from social media to online payment, announced a strong fourth quarter profit on Wednesday, but said mobile gaming revenue growth had slowed.(Reporting by Maya Nikolaeva and Matthieu Rosemain in Paris and Cate Cadell in Beijing; Writing by Adam Jourdan; Editing by David Goodman and Muralikumar Anantharaman)
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration began imposing stiff tariffs on imported steel and aluminum early on Friday morning. But it granted a brief exemption to some allies, and in a twist, said it might impose import quotas to prevent too much foreign metal from flooding into the United States.The White House detailed the decision in a pair of presidential proclamations late Thursday night. They gave allies that won exemptions a May 1 deadline to negotiate satisfactory alternative means to address what the administration calls the threat to United States national security resulting from its current levels of steel and aluminum imports. The exempted group includes Canada, Mexico, the European Union, Australia, Argentina, Brazil and South Korea.President Trump also said in the proclamation that he would consider directing Customs and Border Protection to put in place a quota on imports from the exempted countries before the May 1 deadline, if necessary and appropriate. Mr. Trump wrote that he would take into account all steel articles imports since Jan. 1, 2018, in setting the amount of such quota.The announcement also left the door open for other allies that did not win exemptions, most notably Japan, to negotiate with the administration over tariffs. Any country not listed in this proclamation with which we have a security relationship remains welcome to discuss with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports of steel articles from that country, Mr. Trump wrote.The shift in strategy reflects a few chaotic weeks in which foreign governments lobbied, cajoled and  threatened Washington to win exemptions from the 25 percent tariffs on steel and the 10 percent tariffs on aluminum.Peter Navarro, a top trade adviser to Mr. Trump, said Thursday in a television appearance that the White House would impose quotas.Every country that is not facing tariffs that were going to negotiate with will face quotas so that we protect our aluminum and steel industries, Mr. Navarro said on CNN. For all countries, there has to be a quota. If you dont put a quota on, then any country that can do whatever they want will become a transshipment point for every other country.The proclamation issued late Thursday declares that Mr. Trump will consult with the director of the National Economic Council, along with United States trade representative Robert Lighthizer and others, in determining any possible quotas.It also said Mr. Trump would decide by May 1 whether to continue to exempt those countries, based on the status of negotiations, and it held open the possibility that he could modify the tariffs affecting other countries at any time.Many of the countries that were exempted are engaged in trade talks in which the United States is trying to win concessions. That includes Canada and Mexico, which are in the midst of renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement, and South Korea, which is renegotiating its free-trade pact with the United States.Japan has been a source of ire for Mr. Trump, who has criticized its trade practices going back to the 1980s. The two nations made only modest progress in their economic dialogue last year, with the United States pushing for a new bilateral trade agreement that would ease restrictions on American exports of beef and cars to Japan.The tariff exemptions could help prevent retaliatory trade barriers that other trading partners had threatened, including the European Union, which said it would target American exports like Florida orange juice, peanut butter and motorcycles.It would also provide some relief to American companies that use foreign metals in the products they use and make, like oil and gas pipelines, beer cans and food packaging.But the move caught those who support the tariffs, including the American steel industry, by surprise.Everyone is kind of freaking out, said Philip K. Bell, president of the Steel Manufacturers Association. He said he was waiting to see the final details of the policy but would have wanted the exclusions to be much more narrow. This represents a lot of tons of imports that find their way to our shores, and this could have the effect of watering down Mr. Trumps trade action.Imposing quotas would offer some help, Mr. Bell said, because without the limits, American companies would face incentives to start buying their steel from excluded countries and domestic mills would be right back where they were pre-tariffs. The exempted countries account for more than half of the $29 billion in steel sold to the United States in 2017.Quotas are viewed as less aggressive than tariffs because foreign exporters tend to benefit from the constraints, in the form of higher prices, while in the case of tariffs, the United States government picks up the higher duties.It may be more palatable for countries to accept quotas in the form of voluntary export restraints than accept an increase in tariffs, said Monica de Bolle, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Tariffs are seen as very unfriendly by other countries because its a unilateral action rather than a negotiated action.Mr. Lighthizer outlined the exemptions during questioning Thursday morning in the Senate Finance Committee.The idea that the president has is that, based on a certain set of criteria, some countries should be out, Mr. Lighthizer said. What he has decided to do is pause the implementation of the tariffs in respect to those countries.The White House imposed the tariffs by citing a section of trade law that gives the president authority to limit imports to protect national security. The Commerce Department said the metals were a national security risk because they were degrading the American industrial base.The administration then floated the potential for exemptions, intimating that nations could be excluded if they found other ways to resolve the national security concerns and to reduce their trade deficit with the United States.The United States runs a trade deficit with many nations, including China and Japan, importing more goods from those countries than it exports. Last year, Japan sent about $1.7 billion in steel mill products to the United States, according to IHS Markit Global Trade Atlas. Without an exclusion, it will be the only one of the top six foreign suppliers of steel to the United States to face steep tariffs.Japanese steel makers argue that they hardly compete with American steel mills, because they make niche, specialized products that are not replicated here, rather than undercutting prices by flooding the market with a cheap commodity.Tadaaki Yamaguchi, chairman of the Japan Steel Information Center, a New York-based trade group, said failing to give Japan the same exemption that was extended to South Korea and Brazil was an outrage and a travesty.If the exempted countries are not subject to any export limits, the administration may need to raise tariffs on all the others if it wants to keep its promise to protect American producers on price. That would hit Japan harder than anyone.The leaders of several countries with close ties, including military alliances, with the United States had warned that the restrictions could touch off a trade war and undercut a global economic recovery. They also argued that the tariffs would be mutually destructive and ignore the complexity of modern supply networks.For example, the German carmaker BMW operates its largest factory in Spartanburg, S.C., buying about two-thirds of the steel it needs in the United States and importing the rest. BMW is also the largest exporter of cars made in the United States, with China being one of the main buyers, said Harald Krger, the companys chief executive. None of this would be possible without free trade, Mr. Krger said in Munich on Wednesday.
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.   In a story March 23 about a budget bill in Congress, The Associated Press erroneously reported that the bill would give $73 million to the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. The money would go to the Chesapeake Bay\'s program, not the foundation.A corrected version of the story is below:Spending bill rejects Trump effort to gut water cleanupsCongressional leaders are rejecting President Donald Trump\'s effort to kill or sharply cut funding of programs to protect and restore some of the nation\'s prized waters, such as the Great Lakes and Chesapeake BayBy JOHN FLESHERAP Environmental WriterTRAVERSE CITY, Mich. (AP)  President Donald Trump has gotten nowhere in his push to kill federal support for cleaning up some of the nation\'s most prized waterways, as the U.S. House decided Thursday to keep funding at current levels  and in some cases, boost it.A $1.3 trillion spending package making its way through Congress includes nearly $448 million for Environmental Protection Agency programs benefiting regional waters degraded by pollution, overdevelopment and exotic species invasions. That\'s an increase from $436 million in this year\'s budget.By far the biggest recipient is the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which again would get $300 million. It has averaged roughly that amount annually since it was established in 2010 to accelerate removal of toxins in river sediments, fight invaders such as Asian carp and prevent runoff that causes algae blooms.Trump called for eliminating its funding last year and cutting it by 90 percent this year, only to be rebuffed as lawmakers from both parties jumped to its defense. They also spared nearly a dozen similar programs benefiting Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico, Puget Sound, San Francisco Bay and other iconic waters, which the president\'s budget had recommended killing or cutting to the bone.The spending bill cleared the House on Thursday and was expected to win easy Senate approval.The programs\' likely survival illustrates yet again that even in a highly polarized Congress, partisanship often stops at the water\'s edge."There\'s an understanding that we\'re all connected from sea to shining sea," said Caitlin Sweeney, director of a public-private partnership called the San Francisco Estuary Project that rebuilds wildlife habitat and works on a variety of pollution issues.Trump\'s administration argues that such programs are "primarily local efforts" for which state and local governments should pay. Their supporters counter that federal funding is essential and often prompts matching contributions from other sources."You simply are not going to make the restorations, improvements and protections that are needed unless you have that federal investment," said Todd Ambs, director of the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, which represents more than 140 organizations in eight states, from New York to Minnesota.The Great Lakes initiative, which has funded more than 3,500 projects, is popular with voters who appreciate clean beaches, good fishing and other benefits, Ambs said."Every member of Congress from the region can point to a few projects in their district that have brought tangible improvements to the environment and, in most cases, the economy," he said. "That\'s not lost on any of them."Aside from the Great Lakes, those staying at their current levels would include Chesapeake Bay, San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound, South Florida, Lake Pontchartrain in Louisiana and estuaries in southern New England."The Bay is making progress and our legislators know how important it is to keep doing what works, especially when it is grounded in science," said William C. Baker, president of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. The bay\'s program will get $73 million.Programs benefiting the Gulf of Mexico, New York\'s Long Island Sound and Lake Champlain in New York and Vermont would get funding increases under the bill. The Gulf\'s total would jump from $8.5 million to $12.5 million."It\'s a pretty good signal when the Congress says, \'We\'ll see you one and raise you one,\'" said Steve Cochran, who deals with Gulf of Mexico protection for the Environmental Defense Fund.___
ASSAGO, Italy   Olympic figure skating champions Aliona Savchenko and Bruno Massot of Germany set a world record as they claimed their first world title as a pair with a flawless program packed with daring and grace on Thursday.The silver went to Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov of Russia skating fast, even if at times faltering, in eye-popping yellow polka dots to Christina Aguilera\'s "Candyman," and the bronze to Vanessa James and Morgan Cipres of France, who kept their nerves and nailed the rest of their program after she fell badly on an early triple throw.Massot\'s mouth fell open as the free program score was read out: 162.86 points, topping their own world record at the Olympics just a month ago of 159.81 and more than 18 points ahead of the second-placed Russians. Their total score, 245.84, also set a record."It was exactly the season we wanted," Massot said.A former French skater, Massot teamed with Savchenko in 2014 after her former partner, Robyn Szolkowy, retired after their fifth world title together."\'I realized today the crazy work I had to do over these four years," Massot said. "It was hard work for her to bring me to her level. And hard work for me to come to her level."The Germans\' mastery came through as Massot lifted Savchenko with just one arm, with super-high triple-twist lifts and jump combinations that earned them execution bonuses, and inventive moves like gliding across the ice with their inclined bodies forming an X.Their musical choice suggested the height of their jumps and throws: "La Terre vue du ciel," or "Earth viewed from heaven," by the French-Moroccan composer Armand Amar. Savchenko-Massot opened with a sky-high triple-twist, followed with a throw triple flip, and a triple-double-double jump. The momentum continued through the final move, with Massot holding Savchenko aloft head-down, before spinning her gently up and down for the dramatic release. Both kissed the ice.Savchenko said the emotional release at the end of the worlds was greater than at the Olympics because friends and family who couldn\'t be in South Korea were with them in Italy. "It was for us a motivation to be here. We gave all the energy. We skated with heart," she said.French pair James and Cipres added the throw triple salchow that nearly tripped them up just last week. James said she was having trouble recalibrating to the triple from quads. Her blade failed to grab the ice as she landed and she fell flat, sending a gasp through the crowd."I got the wind knocked out of me," she said, adding that over the last year "I learned that a mistake can\'t win or lose a competition but what you do next is what can change everything. ... At that moment I forgot the pain, Morgan was asking me if I was OK, and I didn\'t even reply. I was like, \'I need to go into my next thing.\'"Tarasova and Morozov earned 144.24 with their routine, as he faltered on a couple of jumps.Nathan Chen of the U.S. neatly vanquished ghosts of the Olympic short program to finish first going into the men\'s final free.Mikhail Kolyada of Russia was second with a program he simplified after the Pyeongchang Games. Vincent Zhou of the U.S. was one of the few skaters to improve his Olympic performance to place third.After bombing the short in South Korea, Chen wanted to redeem himself at the worlds."Ultimately, I am proud of what I did," Chen said.The U.S. champion hit two quads, one in combination, but the landings were a little off and he was marked slightly down. Still, the 101.94 score was a huge improvement on the 82.27 at the Olympics, though still shy of his personal best.Two favorites, Olympic silver medalist Shomo Uno of Japan and Jin Boyang of China, skated error-prone programs and remained within striking distance of the podium.Uno, the only male Olympic medalist at the worlds, missed a triple-triple combo, tacking on a double after a step out. He finished in fifth despite a huge quad and triple axel. Jin nearly landed on the boards after an under-rotated quad, finishing in fourth going into the final free on Saturday.____Daniella Matar contributed to this report.



At the entrance to the Rosemead, Calif., headquarters of Panda Restaurant Group, the parent company of Panda Express, Panda Inn and Hibachi-San, the artist Robert Indianas LOVE sculpture was recently unveiled.The 12-foot-high multi-million-dollar installation, with those four bright red letters made of aluminum, perches atop a fountain of flowing water. It was a private donation by the companys co-founders and co-chief executive officers, Andrew and Peggy Cherng.The sculptures message resonates with the Cherngs, who have spent the last 45 years building a Chinese restaurant empire that produced sales in excess of $3 billion last year, with over 2,000 Panda Express restaurants in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Guatemala, and Aruba. Those restaurants each average about 480 guests on a given day, and the Cherngs employ more than 35,000 associates.We are building a culture on trust, and the aim of trust is love, said Ms. Cherng, 70. Love is the verb we emphasize with our Panda family. We must respect and care for each other. We must push and stretch each other.Associates who work in Panda Express restaurants wear uniforms with the Chinese proverb: Make happy those who are near and those who are far will come.When I saw the LOVE sculpture, it made me think life is tough, life is difficult, said Mr. Cherng, 70. Life is something you really have to face squarely on. It is about overcoming the difficulty. Continuously working on improvement  that to me is the happiness, love is about that.Although the road to success has not always been a smooth one  there have been some legal disputes with employees  the Cherngs overall approach seems to have worked. Since 2005, the chain has more than doubled in size, with roughly 150 stores opening each year, Mr. Cherng said. And the company has had consecutive same-store-sales growth for 21 of the last 22 years.Its best-selling dish: orange chicken. This year, customers will buy an estimated 90 million pounds of the lightly sweetened fried chicken. And last year, Panda Express purchased 22 million pounds of broccoli.The Cherngs have routinely shunned opportunities to grow even faster by franchising locations, or to reap the reward for their achievement by selling shares of their company to the public. They choose to own and operate all their restaurants with the exception of a few select locations.The motivation of going public is really a financial play, Mr. Cherng said. Maybe you need to raise money to open more stores, or sometimes people go public because they want to have a little bit more money. We have always been able to grow anyway.The family-owned and operated company has richly provided for the Cherngs, who have a net worth of $3.3 billion, according to Forbes.The beauty of not being franchised, or not being public is you have control, said Bonnie Riggs, a restaurant industry analyst for The NPD Groups food-service division. You have consistency. When you have a franchise operation, even though rules are put in place, the franchisees dont always play along. And if you are public, then you are constantly having to answer to Wall Street, and its a challenge.And holding on to what youve built over decades has a psychological appeal. It is a business, but it is also tied to their personal identity, said Rob Lachenauer, a partner and chief executive officer at BanyanGlobal Family Business Advisors in Boston, Mass. One, you are not going to sell your identity. Two, it is hard to step away from the business because you are stepping away from who you are.Many family-owned businesses are creating a multigenerational business, Mr. Lachenauer said. They are not a Silicon Valley start-up trying to pop something in five years and then go to the beach. That speaks to trust because of the stability of a long-term investment that most families have in their businesses. It builds loyalty with their employees.Another upside: When youre a satisfied employee, youre going to provide your customers good service, Ms. Riggs said. If you enjoy what you are doing, and you like management, and you are not a disgruntled employee, that is going to come across in spades to the consumer. In our industry, today, it is sorely lacking.The Cherngs repay that trust to their employees by allowing them to run the individual restaurants, even if they do not have the full responsibility that a franchisee would have, and to hold prominent roles on the top management team.One of their three daughters, Andrea, 40, is the chief marketing officer, but there are nonfamily members in the senior ranks of the company, including the general counsel and senior vice president for international development, and the senior vice president of operations and licensing.Even with their command and control approach, however, the Cherngs have encountered some rough spots in employee relations.In recent years, a number of lawsuits have been filed. One, for example, was on behalf of a group of general managers who claimed that their positions were wrongfully classified as exempt from overtime; a settlement was reached in that case. In another, the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission charged that the company was treating its Latino employees differently from Asian workers at one restaurant. In California, a suit claimed cashiers and workers did not have seating while they were on duty. And last June, Panda Express settled a claim that it discriminated against workers who werent American citizens.The company did not comment directly on the suits.In a statement, Ms. Cherng said, People are the foundation for what we do and what we believe in. We practice continuous learning to understand how we can be an employer of choice, which includes additional training and systems to reinforce our core values. Our hope is to foster a relationship of mutual trust and love with our associates.Typically the Cherngs pay their mangers well to compensate for what are typically 50-plus hour weeks, according to employee reviews on Glassdoor.com. Store associates are eligible for bonuses. General managers can make $100,000 or more with bonuses. The firm also offers a stock option program that includes dividends. The company provides subsidized health care coverage to all its employees, including part-time workers who work over 30 hours, after six months.The Cherngs attribute much of their success to their core beliefs. Life is more than just for yourself, Mr. Cherng said. You want to do well for family, to take care of other people, other causes  that is where happinesses are.That leads to another aspect of the Cherngs business strategy: philanthropy. The Cherngs giving over the years between all their philanthropic efforts is in excess of $83 million.Through their giving organizations  Panda Cares, the philanthropic arm of the Panda Restaurant Group, and Panda Charitable Foundation  the Cherngs give chiefly within the areas of education, youth leadership development, and health.The motivation for giving is part of their back story. We are first generation immigrants here, and we were educated in the United States, Ms. Cherng said. The giving back and paying forward is very important to us.The Cherngs came to the United States from China in the mid-1960s to attend Baker University in Baldwin City, Kan., where they met as freshmen. Mr. Cherng then earned a masters degree in applied mathematics at the University of Missouri, and Ms. Cherng received a masters degree in computer science and a doctorate in electrical engineering.The restaurant business, though, was in Mr. Cherngs blood. In 1973, with the help of his father, Ming-Tsai Cherng, a chef, he opened his first restaurant, The Panda Inn in Pasadena, Calif.For me, my biggest business challenge was going from zero to one store and surviving that, Mr. Cherng said. When you dont have any money, and you arent making any money, whether I was going to survive or not to me was the challenge.In 1983, when the real estate developer of the Glendale Galleria, a customer of the Panda Inn, proposed opening a quick-serve location in his mall, the Cherngs leapt on the chance. And Ms. Cherng  who had worked on the software development team for organizations such as McDonnell Douglas and Comtal-3M  went to work for the family business.The LOVE sculpture makes me remember my personal change, Mr. Cherng said. When I was younger, I was probably much more task-oriented, much more demanding. As I get older, I connect with people. I am more patient. We are in the business of developing people, we just happen to be in the restaurant business and serve Chinese food.
Baselworld, the worlds largest watch and jewelry fair, opens Thursday and has a new shape this year.It expects around 600 exhibitors, fewer than half the 1,500 that the show reported in 2014, and two days have been lopped off its former eight-day schedule. Theres an argument these falling statistics reflect the industrys diminished confidence in the market, but theres evidence, too, that brands are finding other ways to spend their money  in short, doing their own thing.For now, though, Baselworld remains the industrys showpiece, and the moment in the year for some of the worlds largest watch brands to introduce new collections. Heres a taste of whats to come this week.Some of the most interesting debuts of 2018 come in the womens watch market. As predicted by analysts, brands are turning to jewelry watches to piggyback on the jewelry market, which has not experienced the declining exports seen in the watch industry over the last few years.PATEK PHILIPPE LADIES CHRONOGRAPH REF. 7150/250$83,918Patek Philippe was one of the first Swiss marques to turn its attention to the womens market. In the late 2000s and early 2010s, it introduced some Ladies First models, featuring complications such as a perpetual calendar and a chronograph. The latter was a cushion-shaped piece discontinued two years ago, now replaced by this 18-karat rose-gold round-cased model. The watch is a surprisingly large 38 millimeters across, has a new dial design (which includes a pulsometer scale, one of watchmakings most charmingly pointless devices) and is powered by one of Pateks in-house hand-wound chronograph calibers. The bezel is set with 72 diamonds.HARRY WINSTON EMERALD$13,800In a bid to steal some of its rivals thunder at the Salon de la Haute Horlogerie, Harry Winston officially unveiled the latest addition to its Emerald collection in January. The company, owned by the watchmaking giant Swatch Group, is certainly tactical. Whats as interesting is that its chosen to spearhead this years novelties not just with a womens watch, but with a quartz model. The brand has invested considerable sums in fine watchmaking advances but, rather like Cartier, it is centering its activities on more accessible  relatively speaking  pieces, early signs this year indicate. In Winstons case, this means quartz jewelry watches. This one is sprinkled with 108 diamonds, totaling 0.6 carats, three brilliant-cut pink sapphires and one heroic emerald-cut pink sapphire; it comes on a wraparound pink satin strap.GRAFF FLORALPrice on requestGraffs diamond riches continue to fund its watchmaking ambitions, seen in real time this year with the new Graff Floral collection. Available in four colors and inspired by the flora of the Delaire Graff Estate in South Africa, the watches feature rotating flowers at 1, 8 and 10 oclock. Each of these is in perpetual motion, creating a hypnotic dial dance thats becoming typical of the London-based jewelers watch division, which marks 10 years in watchmaking this year. As well as having 37-millimeter cases pavd with diamonds, the watches are also a showcase for mtiers dart, in particular enamel- and micro-painting. Inside each is an automatic movement with a 46-hour power reserve.OMEGA DE VILLE TRSOR$8,600Omega has doubled up on its heritage with the new womens De Ville Trsor collection. The watch is the latest expression of a model first seen in 1949, and the first to be fronted by Kaia Gerber, the model daughter of Cindy Crawford, herself an Omega ambassador since the mid-1990s. Omega has chosen quartz over mechanical for the new pieces, filling both the 36-millimeter Sedna Gold and 39-millimeter stainless steel versions with battery-powered calibers. Both case sizes have a slither of pavd diamonds up the sides, and a diamond inserted into a crown thats also decorated with a flower created of red liquid ceramic. The watch is fashion-forward: Along with a raft of material, strap and dial variations, it has a mirrored case back, a useful accessory at hand, the brand announcement said.At some point, the watch industry will get out of the sales rut it fell into a few years ago  that at least appears to be the conviction behind some of the bolder, more experimental designs being unveiled this year. In fairness, the green shoots of recovery are visible, with Swiss exports up almost 13 percent year-over-year in January.BULGARI OCTO FINISSIMO TOURBILLON AUTOMATIC$118,000At 3.95-millimeters thick, the Octo Finissimo Tourbillon Automatic becomes not only the worlds thinnest automatic tourbillon but also the worlds thinnest automatic watch, dethroning Piagets Altiplano 910P, which held the title for all of three months. Its no hyperbole to single out the watch as a remarkable achievement, nor to suggest that only a few years ago, it would have been unthinkable that Bulgari would be claiming this crown. But this sandblasted titanium watch, limited to 50 pieces, has now given the Italian company its fourth world record for thinness in just five years.CHANEL BOY.FRIEND SKELETON, CALIBRE 3Price on applicationWhile some of its fashion competitors have put their fine watchmaking operations on ice, Chanel continues to press ahead. The Boy.friend Skeleton, in what Chanel calls Beige Gold, is powered by the Parisian maisons third in-house caliber, Calibre 3, a hand-wound, skeletonized, blackened movement with a 55-hour power reserve.ZENITH DEFY ZERO G$100,800The return of Zeniths Defy last year came with the introduction of a one-hundredth of a second mechanical chronograph. This year the brand is bringing a full collection to Basel, continuing the high-concept message with this gravity-resisting model, which contains what it calls a downsized and fine-tuned Gravity Control gyroscopic module. This three-dimensional micro-mechanical marvel sits between two sapphire crystals at 6 oclock, contains 139 parts and is housed in a 44-millimeter brushed titanium case thats a hefty 14.85-millimeters thick.HUBLOT BIG BANG UNICO RED MAGIC$26,200Never a wallflower, Hublot is convinced that it has created the worlds first vibrantly colored ceramic. The company also said this new ceramic, which it calls Red Magic, is denser and harder than conventional ceramics, was developed in Hublots own research and development department, and took four years to get right. Only 500 of the 45-millimeter watches will be made, each powered by Hublots Unico HUB1242 column-wheel flyback chronograph caliber.NOMOS GLASHTTE AUTOBAHN$4,800The independent German watch house Nomos Glashtte has largely refrained from marketing its products by what the industry calls worlds, a segmentation strategy adopted by most of its competitors. But this year its moving into motoring with the Autobahn, a piece designed in collaboration with the Berlin furniture designer Werner Aisslinger. The 41-millimeter steel watch is also the first to carry the DUW 6101 automatic caliber, the 11th produced in-house by the brand.BELL & ROSS BRV2-94 RACING BIRD$4,400In recent years, Bell & Ross has introduced watches alongside high-concept supercars and motorcycles from its own design team. This year its taking that approach to a new level by pairing a watch with a plane, a single-seater pylon racer created by the brands co-founder and creative director, Bruno Belamich. The BR-Bird plane has the wings; the BRV1 and BRV2 Racing Bird watches have the hour and minute hands. This is the BRV2 chronograph version, which shares its graphic look with the plane, and will be made in a run of 999 pieces.RADO TRADITION 1965 XL AUTO$2,300Rado says the original inspiration behind the design of its angular Tradition 1965 was the Manhattan skyline. The rethink of that five-decades-old model might have a retro look but its case is made of titanium coated through the PVD, or physical vapor deposition, process. Its a modern material thats about 40 percent lighter than stainless steel. Rado will be making 1,965 of the model.CORUM HERITAGE ARTISANS COIN WATCH$21,000Unique watches are headline fodder, and dont brands know it. Corum is the latest to prove the theory with a one-off watch with a dial made of a United States dollar coin, with a skull and octopod motif overlay; a strap made of bluejeans; and water resistance to 10 meters, a shallow, hitherto unfashionable figure.In business, and particularly in a stressed market, smell what sells, they say. In watchmaking terms, that means sticking with classic designs but putting a novel spin on them. This year, many of the big dial names are leading with safe bets: reanimating tried and tested models, rather than experimenting with new lines or technologies.BREGUET CLASSIQUE TOURBILLON EXTRA-PLAT AUTOMATIQUE 5367Price to be announcedDetails make the difference at the high end of Swiss watchmaking. Breguets latest marks the first time the brand has introduced a grand feu enamel dial into its Grandes Complications collection. Under the beige dial is a slim-line automatic with an 80-hour power reserve and a tourbillon with a platinum carriage.CHOPARD L.U.C QUATTRO$24,400Chopards tendency to create watches that look as if theyve just fallen from the wrists of well-heeled central European businessmen shows no signs of abating. The latest is a version of its L.U.C Quattro, a collection mainstay  this time, a simple rose-gold-cased piece with an in-house caliber that boasts a whopping nine-day power reserve. Its blued hands, numerals and hour markers sit on a silver-toned and vertical satin-brushed dial, complemented by a strap of blue calfskin leather with a woven effect.JAQUET DROZ GRANDE SECONDE TRIBUTE$21,400The name of Jaquet Droz (the z is silent) might not be front-of-mind  its 280-year history is somewhat mixed. Recently, its become a collector favorite, led by its signature Grande Seconde, with its dominant running seconds counter and figure-of-eight dial layout. The watch was revived in 2002 but this is the first time it has been presented in yellow gold. Given the brands popularity in China, it is not, however, the first time weve seen a Jaquet Droz model limited to 88 pieces.GRAND SEIKO HI-BEAT 36000 V.F.A.$53,000There are two key dates in the history of Grand Seiko. The first is 1960, when the Seiko sub-brand made its debut; the second, 1998, when it introduced the 9S mechanical caliber, which has become the platform for every Grand Seiko caliber. Twenty years later, Grand Seiko comes to the table with a suite of three limited-edition anniversary styles. Prime among those is the V.F.A. model, which stands for Very Fine Adjusted, and is accurate to plus-three to minus-one seconds per day. Only 20 of the platinum-cased piece will be made.TAG HEUER CARRERA CALIBRE 16 CHRONOGRAPH$4,350Tag Heuer openly admits that its best-selling model is the Carrera. The motor sport-themed watch turns 55 this year, giving the brand a moment to produce a series of anniversary pieces. One of those is this 41-millimeter steel model with a polished black ceramic bezel, a reverse panda dial (a current Tag Heuer favorite) and racy red detailing.CARL F. BUCHERER MANERO TOURBILLON DOUBLE PERIPHERAL$72,300The most universally friendly design by the Lucerne-based house of Carl F. Bucherer is its Manero. This version carries the new CFB T3000, the brands third in-house caliber. Like the duo that came before, the new unit has a peripheral rotor, a feature the company trades on because it brings the benefits of an automatic without the hazards of a rotor that obscures 50 percent of the movement. The watchs tourbillon is peripherally mounted, what the brand says is a world first, so the tourbillon appears to be floating.ORIS DIVERS SIXTY-FIVE DATE$2,000The Divers Sixty-Five has given Oriss design credentials a shot in the arm since its introduction three years ago. Its 1960s design cues, solid quality and honest pricing have struck a chord with critics. This year, the independent Swiss company has added some voguish bronze to the outer edge of the watchs diving bezel, marrying that with rose-gold-plated hands and hour markers, and an earthy leather strap.MEISTERSINGER LUNASCOPE$3,850Making a watch with just the one hand has given MeisterSinger its U.S.P., the philosophy being that some people are more interested in the bigger picture than being anywhere on time. The German companys latest is its first astronomical watch. It features an uncommonly large, detailed moon that will need adjusting (assuming its kept wound) only once every 128 years.The raft of brands missing at Baselworld this year include some that have fallen on hard times but also a number that are going their own way: either defecting to rival fairs or running their own shows.HERMS SLIM DHERMS GMT$14,700Once a Baselworld stalwart, Herms crossed the divide in January to the Salon de la Haute Horlogerie. The short nine-month gap between last years Basel and this years S.I.H.H. no doubt curtailed its offering there, hence the arrival now of an addition to its Slim dHerms line of watches. The slimline case and Philippe Apeloigs bespoke numerals are joined by a gray dial, a smoked sapphire crystal and a version of Hermss H1950 caliber, powered up to show a second time zone with day/night indicators for both local and home time. Cased in palladium, itll run to just 90 pieces.BREMONT ALT1-C$6,495Bremonts damp, windy corner at Baselworlds Palace proved too small a home for the British brand, which bailed on Basel last year and instead took over a townhouse in London for a few days. It repeated the pop-up last month, and then took the format to New York a couple of weeks ago. At these, it announced an update to the ALT1-C, the watch that kicked off the Bremont story in 2007. Its now dressier, with baton hour markers instead of Arabic numerals, and includes a blue version inspired by the 100th anniversary of the Royal Air Force this year.


