HANOI/HONG KONG   Dozens of Chinese naval vessels are exercising this week with an aircraft carrier in a large show of force off Hainan island in the South China Sea, satellite images obtained by Reuters show.The images, provided by Planet Labs Inc, confirm a Chinese carrier group has entered the vital trade waterway as part of what the Chinese navy earlier described as combat drills that were part of routine annual exercises.The Liaoning carrier group last week traversed the Taiwan Strait, according to the Taiwanese defense ministry.The photos, taken on Monday, show what appear to be at least 40 ships and submarines flanking the carrier Liaoning in what some analysts described as an unusually large display of the Chinese military\'s growing naval might.Sailing in a line formation more suited to visual propaganda than hard military maneuvers, the flotilla was headed by what appeared to be submarines, with aircraft above.Jeffrey Lewis, a security expert at the California-based based Middlebury Institute of Strategic Studies, said the images showed the first confirmation that the carrier was joining the drills."It\'s an incredible picture," he said. "Thats the big news to me. Confirmation that, yes, the carrier participated in the exercise."While the Liaoning has previously entered the South China Sea as part of drills in uncontested training grounds south of Hainan, its annual exercises are closely watched by regional and international powers eyeing Beijing\'s growing military might.It is unclear where the flotilla was headed, or how long operations will last. China\'s defense ministry did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment.Collin Koh, a security expert at Singapore\'s S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, described the deployment as unusual for its size and scope."Judging by the images, it does seem they are keen to show that elements of the South Sea Fleet are able to routinely join up with the carrier strike group from Dalian in the north," he said."It does seem they want to show inter-fleet interoperability - something the (Chinese) navy has been quietly working on for some time."Chinese naval and coast guard forces have expanded rapidly in recent years and now patrol the vast swathes of the South China Sea, but little is known about their combat readiness and co-ordination.Koh said as well as the destroyers, frigates and submarines that would ordinarily support a carrier, the flotilla appeared to include a large oiler for re-supply as well as smaller corvettes and possibly fast attack catamarans."While it highlights an extensive ability to deploy, we are still left to guess at the PLAN\'s combat readiness," Koh said.As well as Vietnam, China\'s claims in the South China Sea are disputed by the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei while Taiwan also has claims.The exercises come amid fresh signs of tension in the resource-rich waterway, with Vietnam recently halting oil exploration off its coast by Spanish firm Repsol under pressure from Beijing.Beijing also objected to a so-called freedom of navigation patrol by a U.S. warship last week close to one of its artificial islands in the Spratlys archipelago further south.(Reporting By Greg Torode and James Pearson, additional reporting by Ben Blanchard. Editing by Lincoln Feast.)
HANOI/HONG KONG   Dozens of Chinese naval vessels are exercising this week with an aircraft carrier in a large show of force off Hainan island in the South China Sea, satellite images obtained by Reuters show.The images, provided by Planet Labs Inc, confirm a Chinese carrier group has entered the vital trade waterway as part of what the Chinese navy earlier described as combat drills that were part of routine annual exercises.The Liaoning carrier group last week traversed the Taiwan Strait, according to the Taiwanese defence ministry.The photos, taken on Monday, show what appear to be at least 40 ships and submarines flanking the carrier Liaoning in what some analysts described as an unusually large display of the Chinese military\'s growing naval might.Sailing in a line formation more suited to visual propaganda than hard military manoeuvres, the flotilla was headed by what appeared to be submarines, with aircraft above.Jeffrey Lewis, a security expert at the California-based based Middlebury Institute of Strategic Studies, said the images showed the first confirmation that the carrier was joining the drills."It\'s an incredible picture," he said. "Thats the big news to me. Confirmation that, yes, the carrier participated in the exercise."While the Liaoning has previously entered the South China Sea as part of drills in uncontested training grounds south of Hainan, its annual exercises are closely watched by regional and international powers eyeing Beijing\'s growing military might.It is unclear where the flotilla was headed, or how long operations will last. China\'s defence ministry did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment.Collin Koh, a security expert at Singapore\'s S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, described the deployment as unusual for its size and scope."Judging by the images, it does seem they are keen to show that elements of the South Sea Fleet are able to routinely join up with the carrier strike group from Dalian in the north," he said."It does seem they want to show inter-fleet interoperability - something the (Chinese) navy has been quietly working on for some time."Chinese naval and coast guard forces have expanded rapidly in recent years and now patrol the vast swathes of the South China Sea, but little is known about their combat readiness and co-ordination.Koh said as well as the destroyers, frigates and submarines that would ordinarily support a carrier, the flotilla appeared to include a large oiler for re-supply as well as smaller corvettes and possibly fast attack catamarans."While it highlights an extensive ability to deploy, we are still left to guess at the PLAN\'s combat readiness," Koh said.As well as Vietnam, China\'s claims in the South China Sea are disputed by the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei while Taiwan also has claims.The exercises come amid fresh signs of tension in the resource-rich waterway, with Vietnam recently halting oil exploration off its coast by Spanish firm Repsol under pressure from Beijing.Beijing also objected to a so-called freedom of navigation patrol by a U.S. warship last week close to one of its artificial islands in the Spratlys archipelago further south.(Reporting By Greg Torode and James Pearson, additional reporting by Ben Blanchard. Editing by Lincoln Feast.)
Since the days of the Nixon administration nearly 50 years ago, American policy has aimed to steer China out of its isolation to prosper in the global market economy. There neednt be conflict between the established superpower and the emerging giant, the best strategic minds argued. As it grew rich, they reasoned, China could be integrated peacefully into the institutional framework built by the Western powers from the rubble of World War II.The proposition fit with the liberal peace view of foreign relations: that nations engaged in intense economic intercourse would find it too costly to go to war. American businesses that flocked to China to tap its cheap labor and huge consumer market after its entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001 enthusiastically agreed with the approach.That strategy, it appears, is over.President Trumps announcement last week that the United States would impose a battery of tariffs against as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese goods while restricting Chinese investments in American technology companies has set policy onto a different, more belligerent path. China is now, in the presidents words, an economic enemy.Interestingly, not all scholars have opposed the change of tone. Many foreign policy experts agree that China is not playing by the rules. American businesses, which typically endorsed forbearance to protect their market access to China, have grown frustrated at its appropriation of their intellectual property.John Mearsheimer, a foreign policy expert at the University of Chicago, doesnt buy the idea of liberal peace. In The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, published in 2001, he wrote, A wealthy China would not be a status quo power but an aggressive state determined to achieve regional hegemony.And yet Mr. Trumps hard-line approach to China seems destined to fail. Taking a stand against Chinas abusive behaviors is not necessarily wrong. The problem with the presidents game plan is that it is inconsistent with all the other diplomatic initiatives he has taken so far. The tangle of stabs and swipes at allies and rivals alike, in the service of ill-conceived goals like closing a trade deficit, serves China more than it does the United States.Trump has been a godsend for China, noted Eswar Prasad, an expert on trade at Cornell University who once headed the China division at the International Monetary Fund. China has manipulated the rules, but Trumps response is counterproductive.China is clearly chafing at the rules put together by the West. It openly disagrees with the postwar apportionment of the South China Sea. It is more than willing to flout the World Trade Organizations intellectual property rules to build its domestic technological expertise.Several Chinese initiatives  its One Belt, One Road effort to build infrastructure to connect to Central Asia, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership it hopes to negotiate with its Asian neighbors, and its Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank  are aimed at building an institutional framework to rival the trade agreements and multinational financial institutions supported by the West.As a counterweight, Washington could strengthen the global institutions that support its own view of fair play, like the World Trade Organization, which the United States took such trouble to build. It could build new ones, like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, open to China as long as it agreed to abide by the rules. It could nail down its vast web of alliances in Asia and around the world  to ensure it wouldnt confront China alone.That is not, however, what Mr. Trump is doing. Ditching the Trans-Pacific Partnership, imposing new tariffs on Japanese steel and hinting that the United States may even walk away from the W.T.O. all serve Chinas goal of undermining the arrangements and institutions that stand in its way. Trump is a blessing for them, Mr. Prasad argued. All they were trying to do, Trump is ramping up a couple of levels.Where might Mr. Trump lead relations between the two biggest economies on earth?The outcome doesnt have to be horrible. Mr. Trumps willingness to slap real punitive tariffs on Chinese goods, regardless of the collateral damage they may cause on the American economy, gives Washington some leverage in its face-off with Beijing. It could be deployed productively.A decade ago, American pressure gave the Chinese government political space to let its currency appreciate and cool its runaway export growth. Today, American pressure could help Beijing make an argument to curb Chinas excess capacity in steel and aluminum.Washingtons threats could also help Chinese leaders build a legal system to protect intellectual property, a necessary step if China is to become a more innovative economy that develops its own technologies. Mr. Trump could even get China to offer more market access for agricultural products and other valuable American exports.While Professor Mearsheimer argues that the United States should aim to contain China by preventing it from expanding its influence or conquering territory in Asia and by building alliances to hem in Chinese power, Robert J. Art, a professor of international relations at Brandeis University, argues that the United States and China can make a deal.China and the United States would both benefit from stability in the Taiwan Strait and a peaceful reunification of Taiwan and China, Professor Art said. Both would prefer a denuclearized Korean Peninsula as well as a peaceful resolution of Chinas maritime disputes. Both would prefer that Japan not acquire nuclear weapons. Notably, both would prefer maintaining an open economic order.Mr. Trump seems uninterested in either path. Indeed, the uncertainty hanging over Americas relations with China is really a question about what the president ultimately wants. Is the objective to balance bilateral trade? Does he hope to slow Chinas growth, to prevent it from becoming a formidable rival? Both are probably unachievable.Trade deficits cannot be negotiated away. The United States will run a deficit as long as it depends on foreign money to close the gap between what it saves and what it spends. Slowing Chinas growth unilaterally is also pretty much impossible. There are too many countries that have little sympathy for Mr. Trumps objectives and are willing to trade with Asias biggest economy. Washington might slow Chinas technological progress but seems unlikely to stop it.The worry among economists and foreign policy experts alike is that Mr. Trumps stand on China is determined by domestic politics alone. The president doesnt know what he wants out of a relationship with China, nor what the United States could feasibly achieve. He has figured out what his voters would like. That, apparently, is enough.American workers are fed up with China. They believe the Asian giants entrance into the world economy cost them their jobs and undercut their wages. Up to a point, they are right. Their itch to punish it, however, is misguided. And allowing their irritation to shape American policy toward China is wrong.The view that China would peacefully rise within the Wests institutional framework may have proved hopelessly nave. Reorienting Washingtons China policy to fit the frustration of workers in Michigan could prove disastrous.
SEOUL   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met Chinese President Xi Jinping during a visit to China this week, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported on Wednesday.Kim visited China from Sunday to Wednesday with his wife, Ri Sol Ju, Yonhap said. It cited North Korea without elaborating.(Reporting by Joyce Lee; Editing by Paul Tait)
The Volvo Ocean Race is one of the most demanding sailing challenges in the world. A race around the globe held every three years in 65-foot yachts, it tests sailors in sometimes brutal weather conditions over eight grueling months.On Tuesday, the fears of every yachtsman came true, as race organizers announced that a crew member of one of the boats was presumed lost at sea.As the racers crossed the Pacific on leg seven, between Auckland, New Zealand, and Itajai, Brazil, John Fisher, a 47-year-old Briton sailing for a Hong Kong-based team, Sun Hung Kai/Scallywag, was swept overboard in strong winds 1,400 miles west of Cape Horn. The incident was reported on Monday, and on Tuesday morning Eastern Time, organizers said Fisher was presumed lost.The Sun Hung Kai/Scallywag team conducted an exhaustive search for several hours in extremely challenging weather conditions, but they were unable to recover their teammate, said Richard Brisius, the race president, in a statement. Fisher was serving on watch and wearing survival equipment at the time he went overboard, organizers said.A ship 400 miles away was alerted and headed to the scene, but was unlikely to arrive within a day. With the rest of the Volvo Ocean Race fleet approximately 200 miles downwind, sending them back upwind to assist, against gale to storm force winds, was not a viable option, Brisius said.Given the cold water temperature and the extreme sea state, along with the time that has now passed since he went overboard, we must now presume that John has been lost at sea, he said.Complicating rescue efforts was the remoteness of the boat. Two days earlier, the race passed Point Nemo, the spot on earth that is farthest from land.Brisius said the boat remained in a challenging position  the weather is deteriorating and is forecast to be quite severe over the course of today. The crew is, of course, emotionally and physically drained after what they have just experienced.Lee Seng Huang, owner of the boat, said in a statement: Over our long passages, I have come to know Fish well. Despite the dangers of the sport, he loved his sailing.Scallywags leg was suspended, but six other boats raced on.This edition of the race began in Alicante, Spain, in October, and has made stops in South Africa, Australia, Hong Kong and China. It was expected to finish in late June.Fishers team had stood in third place in the race overall after the last leg.Belying the stereotype of patrician yachtsmen with jaunty caps swilling drinks and getting tan, ocean sailing can be extraordinarily dangerous.In January, an American-Danish entrant in the Volvo race, Vestas, collided with a Chinese fishing boat in the middle of the night off Hong Kong, killing a fisherman.In the 2016 Clipper Round the World Race, an amateur version of the Volvo, two crew members of a yacht were killed in separate incidents.Andrew Simpson, an Olympic gold medalist, died in 2013 during testing for the Americas Cup in San Francisco Bay when his yacht capsized.
SHANGHAI   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un visited China from Sunday to Wednesday on an unofficial visit, China's state news agency Xinhua reported on Wednesday.The visit was Kim's first known journey abroad since he assumed power in 2011 and is believed by analysts to serve as preparation for upcoming summits with South Korea and the United States.The report did not say whether the two sides discussed North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons, which has led to tough U.N. sanctions, backed by China.(Reporting by David Stanway; Editing by Paul Tait)
BEIJING   The Latest on a possible North Korean visit to China (all times local):1:05 p.m.A convoy of official Chinese cars has been seen leaving the Beijing guesthouse amid speculation that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is making his first visit to China as the North's leader.City police and the paramilitary People's Armed Police stood guard Tuesday in the area and unidentified men in plainclothes attempted to prevent photographers from taking pictures.Cars in the convoy were identified by yellow stickers but carried no diplomatic license plates. The guesthouse had been the favored residence of Kim Jong Un's father, North Korea's former leader Kim Jong Il, during his visits to Beijing.The younger Kim had long been expected to make a visit to the capital of his country's most important ally and chief economic partner.___9:15 a.m.South Korea says it's closely monitoring the arrival of a train in Beijing that looks like one used by North Korea's previous leader. Seoul doesn't know who's on the train, but some media speculate that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has made a surprise visit to China.South Korea's presidential office said Tuesday that it cannot immediately confirm reports that the train carried Kim on what would be his first overseas trip since taking power in 2011. The office says it also cannot confirm a report that the train carried Kim's sister.Some see a recent diplomatic push by Kim Jong Un as an attempt to improve the country's economy. He has planned meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and President Donald Trump.___10 p.m.Japanese media reports say a special North Korean train has arrived in Beijing under unusually heavy security, suggesting a senior delegation might have been aboard.A spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Monday she was not aware of the situation and had no further comment. North Korea's state-run media had no reports of a delegation traveling to China.Japanese television network NTV and public broadcaster NHK reported the arrival of the train and said the heavy security in the city suggested a senior official was aboard.The reports sparked speculation that leader Kim Jong Un might have been on the train. Kim is expected to have a summit meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in in late April and with U.S. President Donald Trump by May.
SEOUL, South Korea   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s surprise visit to Beijing makes clear what has been easily forgotten amid the whirlwind of diplomatic developments in past months: China still plays a major role in efforts to end North Korea\'s nuclear program.Just how much is still open to debate, but the visit shows Kim Jong Un hasn\'t forgotten his only major ally despite recent antipathy between the countries and bombshell announcements that the young North Korean leader will hold summits with his foes in Washington and Seoul. China, after all, provides the vital trade, aid and diplomatic support that keep the North and its broken economy afloat.Because of North Korea\'s dependence on China, it makes sense that Pyongyang would consult with Beijing before any major approach to the West.Kim, on his first visit overseas since taking power since 2011, would have intended to remove any Chinese concern that it\'s being reduced to a bystander as Pyongyang attempts to shake up regional politics by reaching out to Seoul and Washington. In demonstrating its ties with China, North Korea could also send a message to Washington and Seoul, showing it has other options should the summits fall apart.It\'s also possible that the Kim-Xi meeting would have been planned long before Kim\'s outreach to South Korea and the United States. Kim Dong-yub, an analyst from Seoul\'s Institute for Far Eastern Studies, said the summit was a predictable outcome between two leaders who believe they have completed consolidating their power at home and are now shifting their focus to external stability."So what\'s next for Kim Jong Un  Russia?" said Kim, the analyst.North Korea\'s Korean Central News Agency said the two leaders "deeply" exchanged opinions on mutual relations and the security environment on the Korean Peninsula. The agency said without specifying that Kim called for stronger "strategic communication" and "strategic, tactical cooperation" to bolster unity and cooperation between the traditional allies and take relations to the next step."The North obviously believes maintaining its traditional relationship with China would give it stronger influence over the United States," said Koh Yu-hwan, a North Korea expert at Seoul\'s Dongguk University.  "Even if the situation surrounding its talks with Seoul and Washington plays out well for North Korea, it still needs China\'s help. And if the situation doesn\'t work out, North Korea will surely need Chinese support."It may also be that the North recognizes some hard realities.North Korea\'s diplomatic outreach to South Korea and the United States followed an unusually provocative year of weapons tests and has been seen as an attempt, in part, to improve a struggling economy crushed the heavy sanctions those tests brought about. North Korea\'s provocations also took a toll on relations with Beijing.Despite their decades-long alliance, forged during the 1950-53 Korean War, China has played a crucial role in international pressure against North Korea over its nuclear program and has signed on to increasingly strict U.N. sanctions. China\'s strengthened actions in recent months  including restrictions on oil supply  may have significantly raised North Korea\'s need to seek a diplomatic breakthrough.For Beijing, it wants to be seen as a custodian of peace and stability in the region and also a larger player in world diplomacy as it competes with the United States for influence in Asia.But it also has its own interests in mind. China is unhappy about having an emerging nuclear menace at its doorstep, but also doesn\'t want to see a collapse of a next door government it sees as a buffer state against U.S. ally South Korea.China has long advocated for a restoration of dialogue along the lines of the six-nation talks involving itself, North Korea, the United States, South Korea, Japan and Russia, accompanied by a pause in U.S.-South Korean war games and the North\'s suspension of nuclear and missile activities.If the North\'s talks with South Korea and the United States fall apart, Pyongyang could move to demonstrate its nuclear weapons and missile capabilities again.Du Hyeogn Cha, a visiting scholar at Seoul\'s Asan Institute for Policy Studies, said in that case it\'s likely that North Korea would seek China\'s commitment for future support, or at least a promise it won\'t hit the country too hard with more sanctions should it resume weapons tests.___Kim Tong-hyung has been covering the Koreas for The Associated Press since 2014.Associated Press writer Christopher Bodeen in Beijing contributed.
BEIJING  A flurry of activity and speculation surrounding Beijings diplomatic quarter on Tuesday accompanied what officials described as an unusual, and highly secretive, visit by North Koreas youthful leader, Kim Jong-un.The prospect of a high-level visit from North Korea  including a meeting with Chinas leader, Xi Jinping  raised questions about what Mr. Kim hopes to accomplish with this latest, unexpected burst of diplomacy after years of provocative threats punctuated by nuclear and ballistic missile tests.Mr. Kim, while educated in Switzerland, had never previously traveled abroad since becoming North Koreas leader in 2011. Nor has he met another head of state.A visit to Beijing could capitalize on the relative success of North Koreas diplomacy around the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, last month.A delegation led by Mr. Kims sister, Kim Yo-jong, and the Norths nominal head of state, Kim Yong-nam, put on a charm offense at the Games that led to direct talks with the South Koreans and the extraordinary offer to meet directly with President Trump.With his power at home secure and the countrys nuclear program (perhaps) completed, Mr. Kim appears to have the confidence to emerge as a recognized, if not yet respected player on the international scene, a crowning achievement for an ambitious young leader.China has long been North Koreas ally and patron, a lifeline keeping its struggling economy afloat. Relations between the two, though, have become increasingly strained, and Mr. Kims government needs Beijings help in emerging from its international isolation.China, evidently frustrated by the provocative behavior of its junior partner, has joined the United States and others in tightening sanctions, imposed in response to the Norths nuclear and missile tests. Mr. Kim has yet to meet his Chinese counterpart, and as he heads into direct talks with the United States and South Korea, he could use all the diplomatic support he can get.At a minimum, Mr. Kim cannot afford to deliver a diplomatic snub to an increasingly assertive and confident Mr. Xi by bypassing him during the coming talks with Seoul and Washington.China, which initiated the visit, had been left on the sidelines in the recent diplomatic breakthroughs.If talks progress, Chinese officials would certainly want to reclaim a central role in the diplomatic maneuvering to protect the countrys own strategic interests on the Korean Peninsula.China worries about being bypassed by North Korea and Trump, said Shen Zhihua, a prominent historian in China. China fears some collusion and fears its interests being disregarded.With increasing signs that the sanctions have begun to hurt in North Korea, Mr. Kim may have realized that he cannot survive a sustained economic squeeze.A high-profile diplomatic foray  coupled with a suspension of provocative statements and new weapons tests  should at a minimum avoid new sanctions and buy time for the economy.Mr. Kim could also seek an easing of sanctions as a concession for continuing talks. China and Russia, as previous negotiations have shown, may be less willing than the United States to punish the North if it commits to diplomacy.Hes playing one superpower against another, said Xia Yafeng, a historian at Long Island University.One of the first things Mr. Kim promised to his people when he took power was not to force them to tighten their belts again.Now that he claims he has nuclear missiles capable of hitting their countrys archenemy, the United States, he needs to focus on rebuilding the economy, and for that he needs the help of China and its vast market.To the North Koreans, improving ties with South Korea is important, but more important and urgent is improving ties with China, said Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute, a South Korean research organization.
BEIJING   The Latest on a visit by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to China (all times local):11:30 a.m.Japan\'s prime minister has reiterated that any talks with North Korea must end its nuclear weapons program, following an unexpected meeting this week between the leaders of North Korea and China.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told a parliamentary committee Wednesday that Japan has great interest in what happened and hopes to receive an explanation from China.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met Chinese President Xi Jinping on a visit to Beijing that caught most of the world by surprise.Abe said that "what\'s important is not dialogue for dialogue\'s sake, but to achieve nuclear and missile dismantling in a completely verifiable and irreversible way."He added that sanctions on North Korea must be maintained until it takes concrete actions toward that end.___9:10 a.m.The White House says the Chinese government contacted them Tuesday to tell U.S. officials about North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s visit to China.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the briefing included a "personal message from President Xi to President Trump," which was conveyed to the president. She did not say what that message entails.She\'s stressing the U.S. has been in close contact with South Korea and Japan and sees the development "as further evidence that our campaign of maximum pressure is creating the appropriate atmosphere for dialogue with North Korea."Trump earlier this month agreed to direct talks with Kim. Officials have yet to set a date.___8:40 a.m.China\'s official news agency is citing North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as saying that Pyongyang is "determined" to improve ties with South Korea and "willing" to hold a summit with the U.S.Xinhua News Agency said Kim told Chinese President Xi Jinping that North Korea is working to ease tensions and propose peace talks. The report Wednesday followed Kim\'s brief visit to Beijing this week.Without directly quoting him, Xinhua cited Kim as saying that North Korea is "determined" to improve ties with Seoul and hold a summit between the heads of the two sides.Xinhua described Kim as saying that North Korea is willing to hold a summit with the United States.___8:40 a.m.South Korea and Chinese media have confirmed that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has visited China.It was Kim\'s first known visit to a foreign country since he took power after his father\'s death in late 2011.China\'s official Xinhua News Agency said Wednesday that Kim made an unofficial visit to China and met with President Xi Jinping at the Chinese leader\'s request.The short trip saw a North Korean train enter China on Monday but was otherwise cloaked in secrecy.The train looked like one used by Kim\'s father, former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il.___4:50 p.m.The speculation over just who traveled by special train from North Korea to Beijing drew a swift reaction from Chinese censors.Searches for the term "North Korea" were blocked Tuesday while "Kim Jong Un" turned up results from several days ago on major social media platforms, including Sina\'s Weibo.China\'s routine censorship of sensitive subjects online can even target words and phrases with tenuous, and even unlikely, connections.One of those blocked Tuesday was a nickname Chinese have bestowed on the North Korean leader, Kim the Third Fatty ("Jin San Pang" in Chinese). A blocked Weibo post about Kim\'s possible visit even shows a combination of three photos of a pig character in a fictional Chinese television series.The arrival of a train in Beijing on Monday that looks like one used by Kim\'s father, former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, has triggered speculation that Kim was in Beijing.___4:15 p.m.The Chinese foreign ministry says it has no information on speculation that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has visited Beijing.A ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, told reporters at a regular briefing Tuesday that she knew they were "all very curious" but that she had "no information" on whether Kim or any other North Korean official was visiting Beijing.The arrival of a train in Beijing on Monday that looks like one used by Kim\'s father, former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, has triggered speculation that Kim was in Beijing.___3:40 p.m.A Japanese news agency says a train believed to be used by high-level North Korean officials has left the Beijing station.Kyodo News reported Tuesday afternoon the train had departed. The agency did not say how it knew that.The train\'s arrival Monday had sparked speculation that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was visiting China.A foreign guesthouse in Beijing had heavy security overnight and escorted vehicle convoys were seen near the guesthouse. A limousine was then seen entering the train station Tuesday afternoon.___3 p.m.A vehicle convoy has been seen entering the Beijing train station under heavy security amid speculation of a high-level North Korean visit.The convoy of about a dozen cars led by a motorcycle escort traveled Tuesday afternoon in the direction of the Beijing Railway Station. A black limousine about 10 minutes later entered the train station under a heavy security presence. The station itself was closed to the public in an unusual security measure.The activity followed the arrival Monday of a train resembling one used by North Korea\'s previous leader, and a foreign guesthouse in Beijing had a heavy security presence overnight. Some media have speculated that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was making a surprise visit to China.___1:05 p.m.A convoy of official Chinese cars has been seen leaving the Beijing guesthouse amid speculation that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is making his first visit to China as the North\'s leader.City police and the paramilitary People\'s Armed Police stood guard Tuesday in the area and unidentified men in plainclothes attempted to prevent photographers from taking pictures.Cars in the convoy were identified by yellow stickers but carried no diplomatic license plates. The guesthouse had been the favored residence of Kim Jong Un\'s father, North Korea\'s former leader Kim Jong Il, during his visits to Beijing.The younger Kim had long been expected to make a visit to the capital of his country\'s most important ally and chief economic partner.___9:15 a.m.South Korea says it\'s closely monitoring the arrival of a train in Beijing that looks like one used by North Korea\'s previous leader. Seoul doesn\'t know who\'s on the train, but some media speculate that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has made a surprise visit to China.South Korea\'s presidential office said Tuesday that it cannot immediately confirm reports that the train carried Kim on what would be his first overseas trip since taking power in 2011. The office says it also cannot confirm a report that the train carried Kim\'s sister.Some see a recent diplomatic push by Kim Jong Un as an attempt to improve the country\'s economy. He has planned meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and President Donald Trump.___10 p.m.Japanese media reports say a special North Korean train has arrived in Beijing under unusually heavy security, suggesting a senior delegation might have been aboard.A spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Monday she was not aware of the situation and had no further comment. North Korea\'s state-run media had no reports of a delegation traveling to China.Japanese television network NTV and public broadcaster NHK reported the arrival of the train and said the heavy security in the city suggested a senior official was aboard.The reports sparked speculation that leader Kim Jong Un might have been on the train. Kim is expected to have a summit meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in in late April and with U.S. President Donald Trump by May.
WASHINGTON/BEIJING   Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs on a host of Chinese goods and a potential trade war.A person familiar with the discussions said these were among the asks from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer as they pursue talks with Beijing.The Wall Street Journal first reported the demands from U.S. officials, saying they came in a letter sent to Beijing last week.White House trade adviser Peter Navarro confirmed that President Donald Trump asked Mnuchin and Lighthizer to try to resolve trade differences with China."We\'re hopeful there that China will work with us to basically address some of these practices," Navarro told CNBC television.U.S. stocks surged on Monday on the news that the two sides were talking, after a massive rout last week when Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports over alleged misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property.The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its third biggest point gain ever, rising 669.4 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 24,202.6 while the broader S&P 500 rose 2.7 percent after a nearly 6 percent drop last week.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China\'s door was always open to talks, but that this needed to happen on the basis of equality and mutual respect with a "win-win" outcome.Premier Li Keqiang said earlier on Monday that China and the United States should maintain negotiations and repeated pledges to ease access for American businesses to China\'s markets.Li told a conference that included global chief executives that China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, would not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington.Despite a steady stream of fierce rhetoric from Chinese state media lambasting the United States for being a "bully" and warning of retaliation, Chinese and U.S. officials are busy negotiating behind the scenes.TARIFFS TO PROCEED WITHOUT AGREEMENTIn an interview aired on Sunday, Mnuchin told Fox News that he was pursuing an agreement with the Chinese "for them to open up their markets, reduce their tariffs, stop forced technology transfer. These are all the things we want to do.""We are proceeding with these tariffs, were not putting them on hold unless we have an acceptable agreement that the president signs off on," Mnuchin added.China has offered to buy more U.S. semiconductors by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the negotiations. China imported $2.6 billion of semiconductors from the United States last year.Chinese officials are also working to finalize rules by May - instead of the end of June - to allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, the Financial Times said."I anticipate that for political reasons it would be logical for China to respond, because countries do," Blackstone Group Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the Beijing conference where Li spoke."Thats why I view this more as a skirmish, and I think the interests of both countries are served by resolving some of these matters."China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday to unite to oppose Trump\'s proposed tariffs targeting alleged intellectual property theft, saying they should "lock this beast back into the cage of WTO rules."On Friday, China responded to the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports, including fruit, nuts and wine.China could also inflict pain on U.S. multinationals that rely on China for a substantial - and growing - portion of their total revenues, said Alex Wolf, senior emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments."This could put U.S. companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Starbucks, GM, Nike, etc in the firing line," Wolf said in a note.China can increase the regulatory burden on U.S companies through new inspections and rules; ban travel; stop providing export licenses of key intermediate goods; raise the tax burden on U.S. multinationals in China; or block U.S. companies from the government procurement market, he said.CAR TARIFF DIFFERENTIALThe Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion.China has a 25 percent tariff on U.S. cars and has talked recently of lowering it, while Trump has often complained that the U.S. import tariff on passenger vehicles is only 2.5 percent. China\'s imports of U.S.-built motor vehicles totaled $10.6 billion in 2017, about 8 percent of the country\'s overall U.S. imports by value, according to U.S. government data.On the reported offer to increase U.S. semiconductor imports, it is unclear how U.S. chips would replace South Korean and Taiwanese chips, since there is minimal overlap between U.S. chips and those of the two Asian producers.China is heavily dependent on foreign semiconductors, one of its biggest import categories by value. That said, the United States accounted for just 1 percent of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, according to Reuters calculations based on Chinese customs data.(Additional reporting by Matthew Miller, Ben Blanchard, Elias Glenn and Stella Qiu in Beijing and Eric Beech in Washington; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Leslie Adler)
BEIJING  North Koreas enigmatic young leader, Kim Jong-un, made an unannounced visit to Beijing, meeting with President Xi Jinping weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders, Chinese and North Korean state news media reported on Wednesday.The visit amounted to Mr. Kims international debut: It was the 34-year-old leaders first trip outside North Korea since he took power in 2011, and his first meeting with another head of state. The surprise discussions added another layer of complexity to the rush of global diplomacy around North Koreas nuclear weapons program.Mr. Kim told the Chinese leader that he was open to dialogue with the United States, including a potential summit meeting with President Trump, and was committed to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, according to an account published by Chinas news agency Xinhua.If South Korea and the United States respond with good will to our efforts and create an atmosphere of peace and stability, and take phased, synchronized measures to achieve peace, the issue of the denuclearization of the peninsula can reach resolution, Mr. Kim said, according to Xinhuas summary of his meeting with Mr. Xi.Hours after the meeting was announced, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he looked forward to meeting Mr. Kim, and that there was a good chance that the North Korean leader would do what is right for his people and for humanity.Mr. Kims trip unfolded in extraordinary secrecy and security; it was confirmed only after he left Beijing on the same armored train that stirred speculation when it arrived mysteriously in the Chinese capital on Monday. (Both Mr. Kims father and grandfather, the Norths former leaders, used similar trains for foreign trips.)Mr. Kim made the trip at the invitation of Mr. Xi, North Koreas state-run Korean Central Television reported soon after the announcement in China. Mr. Kim was accompanied by his wife, Ri Sol-ju, as well as by his senior advisers, it said.The visit suggested that Mr. Kim values or needs Chinas approval  and possibly its advice  as he seeks to capitalize on a risky diplomatic opening with Mr. Trump after more than a year of tension and threats.Mr. Xi, for his part, said that China supported efforts to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula and he praised Mr. Kim for the recent improvement there.This year there have been promising changes in the situation on the Korean Peninsula, and we express our appreciation for the major efforts that North Korea has made in this regard, Mr. Xi said, according to Xinhua.The tone was a significant shift. Over the past six years, relations between the two leaders have been widely reported as chilly. Mr. Kim rebuffed overtures from China, and purged officials who had previously served as the main channels to Beijing, including his uncle, who was executed.At a banquet this week, though, Mr. Kim praised North Koreas friendship with China, saying he wanted to continue the traditional ties, Xinhua said.China described the trip as an unofficial visit, though it published photographs of the youthful leader with Mr. Xi and the two leaders wives, and of their tour of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.In Washington, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, told reporters that the Chinese government had contacted administration officials on Tuesday to brief them about Mr. Kims visit. The briefing included a personal message from the Chinese leader to Mr. Trump.Mr. Trump said on Twitter early Wednesday that Mr. Xi had told him the visit went very well, and that Mr. Kim looked forward to his meeting with Mr. Trump. In the meantime, and unfortunately, maximum sanctions and pressure must be maintained at all cost! Mr. Trump said.Yang Xiyu, one of Chinas leading experts on North Korea, said that Mr. Kim was clearly trying to repair the Norths deeply strained relations with Beijing, its traditional ally and benefactor, while opening new ties with its enemy South Korea.Even so, Mr. Yang said, that did not signal that Mr. Kim was willing to give up his nuclear arsenal, though he has told South Korean envoys that he was prepared to discuss the possibility.He is starting a new game where he could make concessions on denuclearization, Mr. Yang said. At most, he will cut the grass, but he will not pull out the roots.The Trump administration has made it clear that it will not tolerate a nuclear-armed North Korea able to launch ballistic missiles that could strike the United States. Those in Washington who favor a forceful approach with the North were bolstered last week by the appointment of John R. Bolton as Mr. Trumps national security adviser; only a month ago, Mr. Bolton warned that a pre-emptive strike on North Koreas arsenal would be a perfectly legitimate response to a threat to the American mainland.After months of increasing political and economic pressure, North Koreas once-defiant tone has shifted dramatically since January, for which some have credited Mr. Trumps threats of military action.Last month, the North sent a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, led by Mr. Kims sister, Kim Yo-jong, and the Norths nominal head of state, Kim Yong-nam. They put on a charm offensive that led to direct talks with the South Koreans, plans for a meeting between Mr. Kim and the Souths president, Moon Jae-in, and then an extraordinary offer to meet directly with Mr. Trump.The meeting with Mr. Moon is set to take place next month on the Koreas border, while Mr. Trump is to hold his own talks with Mr. Kim by May, though the exact timing and location are still to be determined.Now, with no prior fanfare, Mr. Xi has become the first major foreign leader to meet Mr. Kim.Their meeting may help ease tensions between China and the North after years of deepening rancor. China supports the international efforts to rein in the Norths nuclear weapons development, but experts say it also wants to keep the North as a stable buffer on its northeast border.Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, said that despite the recent strains in the relationship, it was not surprising that the North Koreans would turn to China at this moment  one that would be pivotal for any leader, let alone one as untested as Mr. Kim.Kim Jong-un is now in a most difficult economic situation, and he faces a gamble to meet Trump, Mr. Shi said.Since Mr. Kim took power after his fathers death more than six years ago, Chinese officials and experts have become increasingly disdainful of him for ignoring Beijings entreaties to halt his nuclear weapons and ballistic missile tests.While China has never entirely turned its back on North Korea, it has grown increasingly alarmed by the nuclear tests, which have brought threats of dire punishment from Mr. Trump. Under that pressure, Beijing has backed increasingly stringent United Nations sanctions that have reduced the Norths exports of coal, seafood and other goods to China.Mr. Kims Beijing visit underscored the historic bonds between the two countries, forged in shared experiences of war and Communist revolution.At a time when the situation on the Korean Peninsula is undergoing huge unprecedented changes, Mr. Kim said, according to Xinhuas account, I have made this quick visit to China with the fine hopes of advancing peace and stability on the peninsula and continuing and developing Korean-Chinese friendship.China backed North Korean forces in the Korean War of 1950-53, during which hundreds of thousands of Chinese soldiers died. Mr. Kim may be following an example set by his father, Kim Jong-il, in appealing to those ties after a period of tension.The elder Mr. Kims first visit to China  in 2000  also came roughly six years after he took power, and shortly before a planned summit meeting with South Korea. Before then, China and North Korea had gone through years of strain after Beijing established diplomatic relations with Seoul in 1992.There were other similarities between the two visits, including Kim Jong-uns furtive, unannounced arrival aboard an armored train, which was first spotted at North Koreas border with China near the city of Dandong.During his 2000 visit, Kim Jong-il toured Chinese special economic zones, as Chinese leaders sought to show him the merits of opening markets. But the current North Korean leader apparently made no such side trips outside of Beijing.Neither China nor North Korea acknowledged the visit while Mr. Kim was in the capital, underscoring the ability of both governments to tightly control the narrative of their diplomacy.The only evidence of Mr. Kims presence on Monday and Tuesday was heightened security around the North Korean Embassy and the government guesthouse where the delegation stayed, as well as the comings and goings of large motorcades of black sedans and sport utility vehicles with police escorts.The last of those carried Mr. Kims delegation back to Beijings central train station on Tuesday afternoon. Even then, a spokeswoman for Chinas Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua Chunying, deflected a question about it at a daily briefing. The official confirmation came only after Mr. Kim was back in North Korea early on Wednesday morning.
BEIJING   North Korea\'s leader Kim Jong Un and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping sought to portray strong ties between the long-time allies despite a recent chill as both countries on Wednesday confirmed Kim\'s secret trip to Beijing this week.The visit highlights Beijing and Pyongyang\'s efforts to better position themselves by showing they support each other ahead of Kim\'s planned meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and President Donald Trump in the coming weeks.Kim made the unofficial visit to China from Sunday to Wednesday at Xi\'s invitation, China\'s official Xinhua News Agency said, in what was in his first trip to a foreign country since he took power in 2011.Xi held talks with Kim at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing and he and his wife Peng Liyuan hosted a banquet for Kim and his wife Ri Sol Ju, Xinhua said. They also watched an art performance together, the news agency said.Official reports from both countries depicted in effusive terms warm ties between the two leaders in an effort to downplay recent tensions in relations over Kim\'s development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles.In these reports, "Kim reaffirms the traditional friendship between the two countries as if nothing had ever happened, when the relationship had plummeted to unprecedented lows," said Bonnie Glaser, an Asia expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.Ties in recent months have frayed as China supported tougher U.N. sanctions on North Korea and suspended imports of coal, iron ore, seafood and textiles. Pyongyang last year seemingly sought to humiliate Beijing by timing some of its missile tests for major global summits in China, while its state media accused Chinese state-controlled media of "going under the armpit of the U.S." by criticizing the North.Xi hailed Kim\'s visit as embodying the importance with which the North Korean leader regarded ties with China."We speak highly of this visit," Xi told Kim, according to Xinhua.For China, the visit also reminds other countries that Beijing remains one of North Korea\'s most important allies and is a player not to be sidelined in denuclearization talks. It also projects to the Chinese public that Xi is firmly in charge of steering Beijing\'s relations with North Korea in a way that favors China\'s interests."Here is Xi Jinping saying, \'Don\'t worry, everything is going to be great\'," Glaser said.Analysts say Kim would have felt a need to consult with his country\'s traditional ally ahead of summits with Moon and Trump. China would also not want Kim\'s first foreign meeting to be with someone other than Xi."China was getting concerned it could be left out of any initial political agreements that Moon and Kim or Trump and Kim could come to," said Michael Kovrig, senior advisor for northeast Asia at the International Crisis Group."This is China asserting its regional hegemony and influence, saying: \'Hey, you talk to me first.\'"Kim was described by Xinhua as saying that his country wants to transform ties with South Korea into "a relationship of reconciliation and cooperation." The two Koreas are still technically at war because their 1950-53 war ended in an armistice, not a peace treaty.Kim also said that North Korea is willing to hold a summit with the United States, according to Xinhua.North Korea\'s official Korean Central News Agency published Kim\'s personal letter to Xi dated on Wednesday, where he expressed gratitude to the Chinese leadership for showing what he described as "heartwarming hospitality" during his "productive" visit.Kim said that the first meeting between the leaders of the two countries will provide a "groundbreaking milestone" in developing mutual relations to "meet the demands of the new era." Kim also said that he\'s satisfied that the leaders confirmed their "unified opinions" on mutual issues."For the North Koreans, it is in their best interests to enter any meetings with Moon or Trump having shored up and repaired to a certain extent their relations with Beijing," said Paul Haenle, director of the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing.KCNA said Kim also called for more meetings with Xi and other Chinese officials to deepen the ties between the countries and also asked Xi to visit North Korea at a time convenient for him, to which Xi "gladly accepted."The North\'s diplomatic outreach this year follows a tenser 2017 when it conducted its most powerful nuclear test to date and tested three intercontinental ballistic missiles designed to target the U.S. mainland.The developments are being interpreted as the North being desperate to break out of isolation and improve its economy after being squeezed by heavy sanctions."At least one of the things that Kim would want out of these meetings is a way forward to begin to ease those sanctions and support from China in that effort," Glaser said.China remains North Korea\'s only major ally and chief provider of energy, aid and trade that keep the country\'s broken economy afloat.In a speech at a banquet in China, Kim described the traditional allies as inseparable "neighboring brothers" with a relationship molded by a "sacred mutual fight" to achieve socialist ideals, according to KCNA.In addition to the trip being his first abroad as leader, his talk with Xi was his first meeting with a foreign head of state. Kim\'s father, late North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, had visited China several times during his rule, lastly in May 2011, months before his death that December."It\'s most proper that my first overseas trip would be the capital of the People\'s Republic of China," said Kim Jong Un, according to the North Korean agency. "It\'s also one of my noble duties to value the North Korea-China friendship as I do my own life."___Kim reported from Seoul, South Korea. Associated Press writer Foster Klug in Seoul contributed to this report.
BEIJING/SEOUL   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has pledged to denuclearise and meet U.S. officials, China said on Wednesday after an historic meeting with President Xi Jinping, who promised China would uphold its friendship with its isolated neighbour.After two days of speculation, China and North Korea both confirmed that Kim had visited Beijing and met Xi during what China\'s Foreign Ministry called an unofficial visit to China from Sunday to Wednesday.The China visit was Kim\'s first known trip outside North Korea since he assumed power in 2011 and is believed by analysts to serve as preparation for upcoming summits with South Korea and the United States.North Korea\'s KCNA news agency made no mention of Kim\'s pledge to denuclearise, or his anticipated meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump that is planned for some time in May.Beijing has traditionally been the closest ally of secretive North Korea, but ties have been frayed by North Korea\'s pursuit of nuclear weapons and China\'s backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.China\'s Foreign Ministry cited Kim in a lengthy statement as telling Xi that the situation on the Korean peninsula is starting to improve because North Korea has taken the initiative to ease tensions and put forward proposals for peace talks."It is our consistent stand to be committed to denuclearisation on the peninsula, in accordance with the will of late President Kim Il Sung and late General Secretary Kim Jong Il," Kim Jong Un said, according to the statement.North Korea is willing to talk with the United States and hold a summit between the two countries, he said."The issue of denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula can be resolved, if South Korea and the United States respond to our efforts with goodwill, create an atmosphere of peace and stability while taking progressive and synchronous measures for the realisation of peace," Kim said.Kim Jong Un\'s predecessors, grandfather Kim Il Sung and father Kim Jong Il, both publicly promised not to pursue nuclear weapons but secretly continued to develop the programmes, culminating in the North\'s first nuclear test in 2006 under Kim Jong Il.The North had said in past failed talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear programme that it could consider giving up its arsenal if the United States removed its troops from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan.Many analysts and former negotiators believe this still constitutes North Korea\'s stance on denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula and remain deeply sceptical Kim is willing to give up the nuclear weapons his family has been developing for decades.TRUMP BRIEFEDThough billed as an unofficial trip, Kim\'s appearance in Beijing contained almost all the trappings of a state visit, complete with an honour guard and banquet at Beijing\'s Great Hall of the People.Kim and Xi also met at the Diaoyutai State Guest House, where Kim Il Sung planted a tree in 1959 that still stands.State television showed pictures of the two men chatting amiably and Kim\'s wife, Ri Sol Ju, getting an equally warm welcome from Xi\'s wife, Peng Liyuan.China briefed Trump on Kim\'s visit and the communication included a personal message from Xi to Trump, the White House said in a statement."The United States remains in close contact with our allies South Korea and Japan. We see this development as further evidence that our campaign of maximum pressure is creating the appropriate atmosphere for dialogue with North Korea," the statement said.A top Chinese diplomat, Politburo member Yang Jiechi, will brief officials in Seoul on Thursday, including President Moon Jae-in, on Xi\'s meeting with Kim, according to the presidential office in Seoul.Kim told a banquet hosted by Xi the visit was intended to "maintain our great friendship and continue and develop our bilateral ties at a time of rapid developments on the Korean peninsula", according to KCNA.Xi had accepted an invitation "with pleasure" from Kim to visit North Korea, KCNA said.However, China\'s statement made no mention of Xi accepting an invitation, saying only that Xi pledged to keep frequent contacts with Kim through the exchange of visits and sending special envoys and letters to each other.China had largely sat on the sidelines as Pyongyang improved its relations with Seoul, prompting worry in Beijing that it was no longer a central player in the North Korean issue, reinforced by Trump\'s subsequent announcement of his proposed meeting with Kim in May."China is North Korea\'s lifeline, so the notion, from a Chinese perspective, that Kim Jong Un couldn\'t have these other two meetings before meeting with Xi Jinping, I think the Chinese just thought that is not going to happen," said Paul Haenle, director of the CarnegieTsinghua Center in Beijing and the former White House representative to North Korea denuclearisation talks from 2007-2009.Speculation about a possible visit by Kim to Beijing was rife earlier this week after a train similar to the one used by Kim\'s father was seen in the Chinese capital, along with heavy security and a large motorcade.Improving ties between North Korea and China would be a positive sign before planned summits involving the two Koreas and the United States, a senior South Korean official said on Tuesday.Kim Jong Il met then-president Jiang Zemin in China in 2000 before a summit between the two Koreas in June that year. That visit was seen at the time as reaffirmation of close ties with Beijing.The secrecy around the visit was not unusual. The later visits of Kim Jong Il to China were only announced by both countries once he had left the country.(Additional reporting by Christine Kim and Soyoung Kim in SEOUL, David Stanway and John Ruwitch in SHANGHAI and Ayesha Rascoe in WASHINGTON, Writing by Lincoln Feast; Editing by Paul Tait)
SEOUL, South Korea   Unions at South Korea\'s two-largest automakers, Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp., have blasted plans to revise a free trade deal with the United States, saying the amended deal will prevent local automakers from entering the fast-growing U.S. pick-up truck market."It is a humiliating deal that accepts Trump\'s strategy to preemptively block South Korean pick-up trucks," Hyundai Motor\'s labor union said in a statement.As part of talks on revamping a free trade deal that took effect in 2012, South Korea and the U.S. agreed to push back the earlier agreed-to elimination of import tariffs on pick-up trucks by 20 years to 2041. South Korea\'s top negotiator said Monday that the move will have little impact on the local auto makers because there are currently no domestically produced pick-up trucks exported to the United States.However, Hyundai\'s labor union complained that the government gave in to U.S. President Donald Trump at a time when the American market represents big opportunities.Big U.S. automakers are trying to "kill the South Korean auto industry," it said.Kia\'s labor union said it shares that view.Hyundai said in a statement that it hoped the two governments would work together for further development of the automotive industry. It would not comment on issue of tariffs on pick-up truck exports.The outcome of the negotiations was mixed. While some complained about concessions in the auto sector, South Korea did win an exemption from recently announced import tariffs on its steel products.While Hyundai, the maker of the Sonata and Tucson, does not produce pick-up trucks, in 2015 and in 2016, it displayed prototypes that might be produced in within several years.Hyundai and Kia, which belong to the world\'s fifth-largest automotive group, have been struggling as sales slow in China and the United States. The pick-up trucks could help offset that weakness.Ssangyong Motor Co., the Korean unit of India\'s Mahindra & Mahindra and the only auto brand in South Korea that produces pick-up trucks, said it expects little impact from the revision of the trade deal because it does not plan to enter the U.S. market. Ssangyong\'s Korando Sports and and Rexton Sports pick-up trucks are sold in Europe and South America.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A surprise visit to Beijing, pressure mounts on Moscow, and a cosmetic surgeon specializes in fish. Heres what you need to know: An international debut.North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, met secretly with President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing. The surprise discussions came weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders.It was Mr. Kims first trip outside North Korea since taking power six years ago, and adds another layer of complexity to the rush of diplomacy around North Koreas nuclear weapons program.Mr. Kims trip was confirmed this morning, only after he left Beijing on the same armored train that stirred rumors when it arrived mysteriously in the Chinese capital on Monday. (Both Mr. Kims father and grandfather, the Norths former leaders, used similar ultraluxury trains.)Meanwhile, a new North Korean reactor appears to be coming online._____ Pressure is building in Russia. President Vladimir Putin declared a nationwide day of mourning over the mall fire in Kemerovo that killed at least 64 people, including many children. Above, the destroyed shopping center.As Mr. Putin blamed the fire on criminal negligence, thousands of people protested nearby to demand transparency and accountability. I no longer have a family, one demonstrator said. The ruling regime is guilty.And after the mass expulsion of Russian diplomats over the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy on British soil, some in the Kremlin say tensions with the West could become more volatile than during the Cold War._____ Repeal Americas right to bear arms?John Paul Stevens, a retired U.S. Supreme Court justice, writes in a Times Op-Ed that scrapping the Second Amendment would move gun-law campaigners closer to their objective than any other possible reform.Mr. Stevens argues that, until a 2008 Supreme Court ruling, there was no absolute right to guns. He calls the amendment a relic, and says it needs to go.And after Citigroup limited firearm sales by its retail clients, our business columnist suggested two more steps that banks could take to influence the gun control debate._____ Less than one in a trillion.Those are the odds youll be hit by debris from Tiangong-1, when the out-of-control Chinese space station plunges to Earth as early as April 1. (For many in the Northern Hemisphere, the chances are zero.) Above, a rocket carrying the Tiangong-1 lifting off in 2011.A 2016 malfunction cost Chinese scientists the ability to plop the 19,000-pound facility into the ocean. For now, its orbiting the planet about 130 miles up, careening a mile lower every day._____ Now the fish looks better and its owner will love it even more.Thats Eugene Ng, a cosmetic surgeon in Singapore who operates on Asian arowana fish, also known as dragon fish, above with a collector.Theyre a prized status symbol across Asia, with price tags that can reach tens of thousands of dollars. So for owners, less than $100 for an eyelift or chin job is pocket change. HNA, the Chinese conglomerate, has become a global powerhouse. A Times investigation found that a key behind-the-scenes player in that rise was Wang Wei, the younger brother of the companys co-chairman. Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, agreed to testify before Congress over the social networks handling of customer data. Uber was ordered to suspend testing of its autonomous vehicles on Arizona roads, eight days after one of its cars struck and killed a woman in Tempe. Green gold. How the avocado became the fruit of global trade. U.S. stocks were lower. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Lost at sea. John Fisher, a 47-year-old Briton sailing for a Hong Kong-based team in the Volvo Ocean Race, was swept overboard in strong winds 1,400 miles west of Cape Horn. [The New York Times] If Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia who was seized on Sunday, is returned to Spain, a trial could backfire by galvanizing the Catalan separatist movement. [The New York Times] Cambridge Analytica, the political firm at the center of the Facebook data scandal, is what modern day colonialism looks like, said Christopher Wylie, a former employee, at a U.K. parliamentary hearing. [CNBC] Vietnam detained the singer and activist Do Nguyen Mai Khoi in Hanoi after she arrived home from Europe, her Australian husband said. [Reuters] Are you a U.S. citizen? The 2020 U.S. census will ask respondents that question to measure how many people are eligible to vote. Critics say it will result in a significant undercount. [The New York Times] Chinese archaeologists are convinced that they have solved a centuries-old mystery and found the tomb of Cao Cao, a legendary warlord from 1,800 years ago. [South China Morning Post]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. What we know and dont know about how to lose weight. Determine whether your sickness is contagious. Recipe of the day: Tonight, bake a lemon tart with a filling thats somewhere between a custard and a pudding.  Our correspondent visited Gerald Murnane, who has become a towering literary figure while living in obscurity in Australia, pecking away at his three typewriters (he refuses computers). In memoriam. Li Ao, 82, a Taiwanese writer and politician who became known affectionately as the madman for his fiery anti-establishment stance. And the secrets of cockroaches: They can live for a week without a head and run as fast as 210 miles an hour, relative to their size. All of those feats, and more, are encoded in the insects genome, which scientists recently finished sequencing.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: torii.Torii (pronounced TOR-ee-ee) are familiar as a symbol of Japan, but many solvers were unsure of the word when it appeared in the March 20 puzzle with the clue Traditional Japanese gate. It has appeared 63 times in Times crosswords.These gates, which have a traditional shape and structure, are closely related to the Shinto religion. Typically located at the entrance of Shinto shrines or in spots that hold special religious significance, they signal to worshipers a transition from the profane world to the sacred. By walking through the torii, one has entered the world of the Kami, or Shinto gods.The earliest documentation of the torii in Japan dates to 922 A.D., during the Heian period.The structure of the torii varies, but the most important parts are the pillars (hashira), the lintel placed on the two pillars (kasagi), and a tie-beam that keeps the structure together (nuki).For the easier puzzles at the beginning of the week, the word might also appear with the clue: Shinto temple gateway or Shinto gateway.Later in the week, it might be referred to as: Shinto shrine entrance, Traditional Japantown feature, Decorative gateway in Japan or Japanese portal.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
LONDON   A British Volvo Ocean Race crew member who fell overboard in the Southern Ocean is presumed lost at sea, organizers said on Tuesday.John Fisher, 47, had been competing with Hong Kong entry  Team Sun Hung Kai/Scallywag on leg seven of the race from Auckland to Itajai in Brazil and was reported missing in extremely rough seas on Monday.The 65-foot yacht\'s location was some 1,400 nautical miles west of Cape Horn, and 1,200 miles from the nearest safe landfall in South America. The nearest competitors were 200 miles away downwind.Fisher, a Sydney-Hobart veteran who was born in Southampton but based in Adelaide, had been on watch and was wearing appropriate survival gear."Given the cold water temperature and the extreme sea state, along with the time that has now passed since he went overboard, we must now presume that John has been lost at sea," race president Richard Brisius said in a statement."The crew is, of course, emotionally and physically drained after what they have just experienced. Our sole focus now is to provide all the support and assistance that we can to the team," he added.Team Sun Hung Kai/Scallywag had carried out a search for several hours before heading in a north-easterly direction with the weather deteriorating and conditions challenging.A ship had been diverted to the scene but remained more than a day away.The 2017-18 Volvo Ocean Race started from Alicante, Spain, on Oct. 22 and covers 45,000 nautical miles (83,000 km) around the world, featuring a total of 12 host ports. It ends in The Hague, Netherlands, at the end of June.There has already been one fatal accident involving the race, with Vestas 11th Hour Racing withdrawing from the fourth leg in January after a collision with a fishing boat on the approach to Hong Kong.One member of the fishing vessel\'s crew died after being taken to hospital by helicopter.(Reporting by Alan Baldwin; Editing by John O\'Brien)
ABIDJAN   Djibouti is in talks with French shipping company CMA CGM to develop a new container terminal at an initial cost of $660 million (465.9 million) as part of the tiny African country\'s bid to expand into a sea and air transport hub for the continent.Aboubakar Omar Hadi, chairman of the Djibouti Ports and Free Zone Authority (DPFZA), told Reuters on Tuesday that the authority hopes to award the concession in July. It was also prepared to buy out DP World\'s stake in an existing container terminal to end a row with the Dubai port operator and avoid arbitration, he said.Djibouti\'s strategic location has led the United States, China, Japan and former colonial power France to build military bases there.Its ports already serve as an entry point for cargo which is then sent by smaller vessels to ports along Africa\'s eastern coast, but it is now seeking to become a sea-air trans-shipment hub for the entire continent.To do this, Hadi said DPFZA was also planning to construct a $350 million airport and expand Air Djibouti\'s fleet of cargo aircraft.The new container terminal project could break ground as early as September with construction expected to take 24 months, Hadi said, speaking on the sidelines of the Africa CEO Forum in Abidjan, Ivory Coast."We are going to build DICT, Doraleh International Container Terminal. This is a new plan," he said. "We are in discussions with CMA CGM."The port authority was not in talks with any other potential partners, he said. Shipping group CMA CGM declined to comment.Once operational, Hadi said the port terminal would boast an annual capacity of 2.4 million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU), but subsequent expansion phases would bring that up to 4 million TEUs.Fifteen percent of the project\'s cost will be financed through equity. Of that, the DPFZA will contribute 85 percent, with its concession partner providing 15 percent. The rest will be raised via international institutions and banks."We are targeting trans-shipment," Hadi said.Meanwhile, Hadi said the port authority was ready to end a dispute with DP World over its cancellation of a concession contract for another facility, the Doraleh Container Terminal, by buying out DP World\'s 33 percent stake.Djibouti ended the contract with the Dubai state-owned port operator last month, citing a failure to resolve a dispute that began in 2012.DP World has called the move illegal and said it had begun proceedings before the London Court of International Arbitration, which last year cleared the company of all charges of misconduct over the concession."We are prepared to pay them their 33 percent of shares," Hadi said. "There is no need for arbitration. We are going to buy their shares."(Reporting by Joe Bavier; Additional reporting by Gus Trompiz in Paris; Editing by Aaron Ross, Susan Fenton and Alison Williams)
SAN DIEGO   A sailor in the Volvo Ocean Race is presumed lost at sea after going overboard in the harsh, remote Southern Ocean some 1,400 miles west of Cape Horn.John Fisher, a native of Britain who lived in Adelaide, Australia, went overboard from Team Sun Hung Kai/Scallywag\'s 65-foot sloop in rough conditions Monday.Officials of the round-the-world race say the team searched for several hours in high wind and big waves before deteriorating conditions forced it to resume course toward South America.The rest of the fleet was more than 200 miles away, and the nearest ship that could be located was more than a day away.Given the cold water and fierce conditions, "We must now presume that John has been lost at sea," race president Richard Brisius said in a statement Tuesday that came nearly 24 hours after Fisher went overboard."This is heartbreaking for all of us," Brisius said. "As sailors and race organizers, losing a crew member at sea is a tragedy we don\'t ever want to contemplate. We are devastated and our thoughts are with John\'s family, friends and teammates."Race officials said the 47-year-old sailor was on watch and wearing appropriate survival gear when he went overboard. No further details were provided.Fisher was an experienced big boat sailor who was sailing in his first Volvo Ocean Race, the team\'s website said. He was a veteran of the Sydney-Hobart, one of the toughest offshore races.Earlier in the race, Scallywag crewman Alex Gough was swept overboard during a sail change and was rescued within seven minutes. Gough wasn\'t wearing a safety harness or life jacket, and skipper David Witt said at the time that he was lucky to be alive.In May 2006, Dutch sailor Hans Horrevoets was swept overboard in the Atlantic Ocean. The crew turned back and found Horrevoets but could not revive him.This edition of the race already had been tarnished by a collision involving Vestas 11th Hour Racing and a fishing boat that killed a fisherman in January. The collision off Hong Kong sank the fishing boat and caused severe damage to the racing yacht, forcing it to miss the next two legs.The teams are on Leg 7 from Auckland, New Zealand, to Itajai, Brazil. It will cover 7,600 nautical miles. The entire race will cover some 45,000 nautical miles.___
WASHINGTON  The Trump administrations steel and aluminum tariffs are provoking a chain reaction around the globe, as governments from Europe to Canada prepare to erect barriers to prevent cheap metal once bound for the United States from entering their markets.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada announced a series of regulatory changes that would make it easier for border officials to block steel and aluminum imports into that nation. The European Union has begun a safeguard investigation that could result in tariffs or other trade actions if it determines that steel intended for the American market is being diverted to the bloc.These past few days, weve looked at strengthening the measures that we already have in place because its important that we not be taking in dumped steel from around the world, Mr. Trudeau told reporters in Ottawa.Foreign policymakers have long shared President Trumps concerns about cheap foreign steel flooding their markets, particularly from China. But Mr. Trumps stiff 25 percent steel tariffs and 10 percent aluminum tariffs, which will halt the flow of foreign metals into the United States, have prompted other countries to move more rapidly to curtail overseas imports.The response could help Mr. Trump claim victory on one of his primary trade goals: cutting down on a glut of cheap Chinese steel, including metals that are routed through other countries through a process known as transshipping.This month, Mr. Trump called transshipping a big deal and argued that China routes much more steel to the United States than the statistics show. Administration officials have contended that Chinese steel is lightly processed and shipped through other countries, but they have been unable to quantify the pervasiveness of this practice.The American metals industry has long claimed that it is powerless against an onslaught of cheap metal from China, which now produces roughly half of the worlds steel and aluminum. Companies argue that past efforts to get China to reduce overcapacity have largely failed and that the only recourse is taking broader action that could galvanize a global movement.Scott N. Paul, the head of the Alliance for American Manufacturing and a supporter of the tariffs, said countries were taking initial steps toward a series of agreements and discussions that could help to squeeze out overcapacity and anticompetitive practices.Other large steel countries and blocs will necessarily step up to the plate and take a tougher line with China and on transshipment and circumvention. I think you see that occurring in the E.U. with its safeguard investigation, and I think you see that with respect to the Canadian government, he said. I dont think this is by any means the conclusion of the process. I think its just getting started.By restricting the supply of foreign metals in the United States, the tariffs are meant to raise the domestic price of those metals, which will translate into profits for struggling American metal makers. But in the process, more cheap metal will be available in markets outside the United States. That will push down the global price of steel and aluminum and create a two-tiered market.After Mr. Trump announced his tariffs, trade unions and Canadas steel and aluminum industries warned Mr. Trudeau that, without its own measures, Canada could be flooded with cheap steel and aluminum from countries that export at artificially low prices.European officials have also argued that, without protections, their companies could become collateral damage. Officials in Brussels have warned that they will take safeguard measures in the form of additional tariffs on steel products if an inquiry into the American tariffs shows there could be a significant surge in cheap steel imports.The E.U. is more than an innocent bystander, said Fredrik Erixon, the director for the European Center for International Political Economy, a think tank based in Brussels.The European Union already has antidumping tariffs on steel in place, mainly directed toward cheap Chinese imports. But the blocs leaders have also made clear they are prepared to do more and to exert diplomatic pressure on Beijing, pushing China to reduce government subsidies for its steel sector, cut import tariffs and open its market to American and European steel.Some supporters of the tariffs see the moves as evidence that the Trump administrations strategy is working. But other trade experts see this chain reaction as the first in a damaging series of actions that will end up raising the price of metals globally and making markets around the world less free.Eswar Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University, said that although Mr. Trumps approach appeared to be bearing fruit in the short term, it could ultimately hurt the trust of American trading partners and hamper the economy.Even if it looks like other countries are lining up on the U.S. side, and this is going to help in terms of reducing steel and aluminum supply, it may do very little for employment in those industries, and it may end up hurting other industries that use steel and aluminum as imports, he said. So we could end up with a somewhat Pyrrhic victory for the United States.For decades, the United States has been a primary driver in pushing to remove trade barriers globally, believing that these changes would increase trade and lift wealth around the world. The Trump administration has taken a drastically different approach, arguing that these beliefs have devastated domestic manufacturing and that tariffs and other restrictions are necessary to protect the American market from unfair trade practices.Despite the presidents initial statements that the measure would apply to all countries, Canada, Mexico, members of the European Union, Australia, Argentina, South Korea and Brazil have been exempted from the steel and aluminum tariffs. Together, the countries accounted for nearly two-thirds of American steel and aluminum imports last year.The tariffs now fall on exporters that sent roughly $18 billion in steel and aluminum to the United States in 2017  mainly Russia, China, Japan, the United Arab Emirates, Taiwan, Turkey, Vietnam and India, according to research by Chad P. Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump continued to push for global pressure on China during telephone calls with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France. In both discussions, according to official readouts released by the White House, Mr. Trump raised Chinas unfair trading practices and its illegal acquisition of intellectual property.
TOKYO   A dozen national Olympic committees have been given a quick look at Tokyo\'s venue preparations for the 2020 Summer Games.Mark England of the British Olympic Association says they were impressed."We haven\'t had many questions to ask the organizing committee because the venues have been absolutely fantastic," England said.The tour Tuesday marked the committees\' first visit to Tokyo since the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics ended last month.Tokyo\'s Metropolitan Gymnasium was among the venues. It was built in 1954 and hosted gymnastics for the 1964 Olympics. It will be the venue for table tennis in two years and sits next to the new Olympic stadium, which is under construction."In this venue here today  historical and traditional though it is  we can see that it is in absolutely superb condition," England said.Tokyo\'s use of existing venues will delight the International Olympic Committee, which has been criticized when cities have built "white elephant" sports venues.The most recent Olympics in Rio de Janeiro left behind a half-dozen venues that are not being adequately utilized.Rio built a cycling velodrome that has caught fire twice since the Olympics ended two years ago. Several arenas in the Olympic Park are largely vacant, and a newly built golf course has struggled to find players."It was obviously more challenging for Brazil because it was the first (Olympics) in South America, so they didn\'t have that history, tradition of hosting games," England said. "The games were very different in Rio de Janeiro. The two are not comparable. The state of readiness if very, very well advanced in Tokyo."In addition to Britain, nations on the venue tour included: Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Greece, Guatemala, Serbia, China, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Portugal, Monaco and Japan."National Olympic committees feed off of each other when we\'re talking and asking questions," England said. "Some of us go back a number of games, so we know each other well. And you can see this is a terrific opportunity."___His work can be found at: https://apnews.com/search/stephen%20wade
We know today why it took the United States so long to disengage from Vietnam: Leaving meant showing weakness in the face of the global Communist menace, prompting a backlash at home and the loss of Americas credibility among allies.But if Americas involvement is well understood, the same cannot be said of its superpower nemesis, the Soviet Union. What did the Russians stand to gain from backing a remote jungle war, sending advisers, matriel and money to help the North Vietnamese, even when doing so not only put Soviet-American relations on ice but also risked causing a global conflagration?Was it Vietnams geopolitical importance? Or, perhaps, Moscows preoccupation with spreading revolutionary ideology? We often attribute to the other side more foresight and purpose than we allow our own. There were in fact remarkable parallels between American and Soviet involvement in Vietnam. Like the United States, what Moscow was most concerned about was its credibility as an ally and a superpower and the domestic and international legitimacy that such credibility afforded.Nikita Khrushchev, who pioneered the Soviet pivot to the third world in the 1950s, had limited interest in and little patience with the North Vietnamese, whom he eyed with suspicion, especially after Hanoi began to tilt visibly to Chinas side in the unfolding Sino-Soviet split.North Vietnams siding with China was a tactical move in the absence of better options. Khrushchev himself precipitated this shift by refusing to provide aid. But he blamed his loss of North Vietnam on the imaginary machinations of Chinese half-breeds in the Vietnamese party leadership. For Khrushchev, the problem of Vietnam was only an aspect of his broader struggle with China, and a rather peripheral aspect at that.All of that changed when Khrushchev was ousted by his colleagues in a palace coup in October 1964. His successors, Leonid Brezhnev and Alexei Kosygin, wanted to prove that they were truly committed to an ally in need by providing military aid. The underlying rationale was that the new Soviet leadership faced a deficit of political legitimacy. Aiding Vietnam in a war against imperialism helped them in being recognized  by their people, their clients and allies and the broader world  as the legitimate heirs to the leadership of the socialist camp. For the same reason, Moscow attempted to improve relations with China.Mao Zedong, however, was not inclined to reciprocate. This became clear during Kosygins February 1965 trip to Beijing. Kosygin, the Soviet premier, spoke of the need for united action to help Hanois war effort. Mao responded to his pleas with hostile sarcasm, telling Kosygin that the Sino-Soviet struggle would last for 10,000 years. The U.S. and the U.S.S.R. are now deciding the worlds destiny, Mao said acidly. Well, go ahead and decide. He appeared unconcerned by the new round of escalation in Vietnam: So what? What is horrible about the fact that some number of people died?  and countered Kosygins worries about the deepening conflict with optimistic calls for a revolutionary war.Even as Moscows relations with China continued to deteriorate, Hanoi moved away from a pro-Chinese stand to a semblance of neutrality. That was because the North Vietnamese needed the Soviet weapons, especially advanced antiaircraft missiles, to protect themselves against American bombing. But the Chinese Cultural Revolution also helped. The Vietnamese leaders resented Beijings effort to stir up radicalism among the sizable community of Chinese living in North Vietnam. As paradoxical as it sounds, remarked one Politburo member, Nguyen Van Vinh, in 1967, at the height of American involvement, the Vietnamese do not fear the Americans but fear the Chinese comrades.The tensions between Beijing and Hanoi became much more pronounced in 1971, after Henry Kissingers secret trip to China and the announcement of Nixons impending visit. The North Vietnamese were not consulted and felt betrayed. But there was an even bigger problem: The Chinese and the Vietnamese had very different ideas about their relative importance. The Chinese leaders regarded the North Vietnamese as underlings. They helped them. They instructed them. But they expected deference in return. The Vietnamese refused to defer. After years of fighting against the United States, they felt entitled to claim revolutionary leadership, at least in Southeast Asia.This was the message that Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap brought to Moscow in December 1971 just as the Vietnamese geared up for the Spring Offensive to deal the final blow to South Vietnam. Giap promised that the joint Soviet-Vietnamese victory in Vietnam would herald Hanois rise to ranks of the leader of, and the socialist bridgehead to the third world. We would like to carry on this mission together with the Soviet Union, because no one can do it without the Soviet Union, he said. The Soviet leaders embraced the message, especially after Giap promised to allow the Soviet Union naval rights in then-still American-controlled Cam Ranh Bay.There were dangers in supporting Hanois militant attitude. The restart of major fighting in March 1972 threatened to derail the move toward the Soviet-American dtente. After the Americans responded to Hanois Spring Offensive by massive bombing raids, several in the Soviet leadership, including Kosygin, proposed to cancel the upcoming summit in Moscow. Are you kidding?, Brezhnev asked. Why not!, Kosygin countered. This would be the right kind of a bomb. Itll be a bomb all right, Brezhnev commented, but who will it affect more?Brezhnev regarded dtente as a personal achievement and was not willing to sacrifice it for the sake of Vietnam. At the same time, though, he was also unwilling to pressure Vietnam for the sake of a better relationship with the United States, the idea known to Kissinger and Nixon as linkage. What the American duo did not quite understand was that Vietnam was an important element of Brezhnevs bid for global leadership. Soviet support for Hanoi was what made the Soviet Union a true superpower and Americas equal.Nixon later recalled being taken aback during the May 1972 Moscow Summit when Brezhnev, who had just been laughing and slapping me on the back, started shouting angrily, accusing the United States of committing terrible crimes in Vietnam. Brezhnev did it because he had to defend his credibility in front of his own colleagues and also the North Vietnamese. I dont remember that I or my comrades ever had to speak to anyone so sharply and so harshly as we spoke to Nixon about Vietnam, Brezhnev later told General Secretary Le Duan and Prime Minister Pham Van Dong.Sino-Vietnamese relations at that time had reached new lows. By the summer of 1973, as the United States was completing its disengagement, Le Duan worried about China, telling Brezhnev that he thought Mao planned to invade all of Indochina and Southeast Asia if the circumstances were right. Brezhnev promised to help defend Vietnam  this time against its northern neighbor.The costs of postwar reconstruction were enormous. Le Duan and Pham Van Dong were upfront with Brezhnev about Hanois expectations: There would have to be a major Soviet aid effort to help industrialize Vietnam in order to show Southeast Asia the practical benefits of socialist orientation. We have nothing, Le Duan told Brezhnev, suggesting that everything would have to come from the Soviet bloc for the next 10 to 15 years.Brezhnev agreed to cancel all of Hanois debts. Credits kept coming, though, and by 1990 Vietnam had received more than $11 billion dollars in aid, most of which was never repaid. Subsidizing Vietnam became a serious burden on the Soviet economy in 1980s, contributing to Moscows insolvency.The Vietnam War ended with the Soviet-Vietnamese victory but, for Moscow at least, it was a Pyrrhic victory. Maintaining clients was good for ones credibility as a superpower and for the leaders political legitimacy, but it wasnt good for the state budget. Russias policy in recent years, in particular its operations in Syria, is reminiscent of the Cold War-era quest for legitimacy in Vietnam. The long-term consequences of this renewed quest will be equally dire.
HONG KONG   High above downtown Hong Kong\'s bustling, traffic-clogged streets, a group of office workers was toiling away not on a corporate acquisition or a public share offering but on harvesting a bumper crop of lettuce atop one of the skyscrapers studding the city\'s skyline.It\'s rooftop farming taken to the extreme, and more about reaping happiness than providing food.The volunteers were picking butter lettuce, Indian lettuce and Chinese mustard leaf in rows of low black plastic planters on a decommissioned helipad on the 146-meter (480-foot)-high roof of the 38-story Bank of America tower, the scenery: a vertiginous panorama of glass office towers framed by lush mountain peaks and Victoria Harbor."It\'s pretty dirty but still I really enjoy it," said Catherine Ng, one of five volunteers who work for the property company managing the tower.The farm is run by Rooftop Republic, a three-year-old startup whose founders are tapping growing interest in organic food and taking advantage of unused roof space in the cramped, high-rent Chinese city.Hong Kong, with its skinny office blocks and apartment towers and busy, affluent residents, might seem an unlikely place for rooftop farming to catch on. The finance and trading hub has rural suburbs, but farming only takes up 700 hectares (1,730 acres) of its land and agriculture accounts for 0.1 percent of its economic output. Rooftop Republic\'s founders say the appetite for their services is growing among Hong Kongers who are seeking a more sustainable lifestyle and concerned about where their food comes from."We have been getting more and more interest from people who want to grow their own food," said Michelle Hong, one of the founders. "A lot of it is triggered by concerns about food safety and the realization that a lot of the food they consume might be laden with pesticides. I think people want to have more control and also more trust."Hong Kong imports almost all of its food, much of it from mainland China. Public awareness about food safety in the former British colony has risen after countless food contamination scandals on the mainland.Rooftop Republic has set up on average one farm a month since its founding and now manages 36 covering more than 30,000 square feet (about 2,800 square meters), including one in mainland China, Hong said. It also provides workshops for companies, building owners, schools, and community groups.The Bank of America farm was a milestone because it was the first in the city\'s financial district. The company has since set up two more in the area and is looking at a few more sites, Hong said. Vegetables from the tower are donated to a food bank for uses in lunch boxes distributed to the needy. Some of its other farms are at hotels or restaurants, which use the herbs, eggplants and melons for dishes on their menus.Plenty of other groups or individuals have started cultivating their own rooftop vegetable gardens, said Matthew Pryor, a Hong Kong University architecture professor who has counted at least 60 and thinks there are a lot more he doesn\'t know about.Pryor\'s research found approximately 1,500 rooftop farmers in the city, cultivating a total area of about 1  hectares. He thinks there\'s potential for that to easily grow to 50,000 people working on a suitable rooftop area of 600 hectares.He helped set up a farm on top of a university building where volunteers, mainly staff, grow tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, lettuce, dragonfruit, papaya, beans, peas and squash.Pryor said he discovered through his research that their main product isn\'t edible."The rooftop farms here produce virtually nothing" compared to Hong Kong\'s overall consumption, Pryor said. "What they do produce, however, is happiness, and this social capital that they generate is enormous."The farms can help stressed-out, overworked and socially isolated Hong Kongers be happier and improve their well-being by letting them hang out with their friends and commune with nature.Those benefits were on display at another Rooftop Republic farm at airline Cathay Pacific\'s headquarters near the city\'s airport on rural Lantau Island.Airline staff planted crops that thrive in Hong Kong\'s cool, dry winter growing season, like kale, cabbage, radishes and carrots, which they can take home."We\'re right by the sea, we have great views of the harbor, at the same time have got great views of the airport. We see planes every two minutes," said volunteer Prian Chan. "So it\'s awesome to be here."
Under the volcanoes in Mexicos Michoacn state, violent cartels are fighting to dominate a shadowy and lucrative market. One gang, called La Familia Michoacana, announced its presence about a decade ago by tossing five rivals heads onto a dance floor in the town of Uruapan. The Knights Templar muscled in next, spouting a chivalric code of honor as it taxed, extorted and kidnapped farmers and usurped their land. Mexican security forces and local landowners have tried to fight back, but warring cartels continue to splinter and proliferate. In March, an armed group known as Los Viagras  apparently named for the way their leaders heavily moussed hair stands up  wreaked havoc by burning dozens of vehicles and effectively shutting down the states main highway. One conflagration took place not far from where an American businessman named Steve Barnard owns a packing plant in Uruapan. Its too dangerous to drive on the roads, Barnard says. The farm owners have to be very careful not to get kidnapped.The precious commodity that drives Michoacns economy and feeds an American obsession is not marijuana or methamphetamines but avocados, which local residents have taken to calling green gold. Mexico produces more of the fruit than any country in the world  about a third of the global total  and most of its crop is grown in the rich volcanic soil of Michoacn, upland from the beaches of Acapulco. It is one of the miracles of modern trade that in 2017, Mexicos most violent year on record, this cartel-riddled state exported more than 1.7 billion pounds of Haas avocados to the United States, helping them surpass bananas as Americas most valuable fruit import. Nine out of every 10 imported avocados in the United States come from Michoacn.The real marvel of Mexicos avocado trade, however, is not so much its size as the speed of its sudden growth. Avocados have been cultivated in Mexico for around 9,000 years. (When Spanish conquistadors first encountered the oblong fruit in the early 16th century, they called it aguacate, after ahuacatl, an Aztec word that means testicle.) Despite this deep history, Mexico exported very few avocados  and none at all to the United States  through the 1980s, when Barnards California-based company, Mission Produce, opened the first avocado-packing plant in Uruapan. The United States had banned Mexican avocados since 1914 over fears of an insect infestation and cheaper competition. But in 1994, Mexico, Canada and the United States enacted the North American Free Trade Agreement  and soon thereafter the United States began lifting its ban.An avocado explosion followed. In 1994, Americans consumed a little more than one pound of the fruit per person per year  almost all from California growers, whose harvest comes only in the summer. Today, that figure is up to seven pounds per person year-round. Fueled by a growing Latino community and Hollywood stars promoting the health benefits of the fruits unsaturated fats (Miley Cyrus has an avocado tattoo on her arm), Americas avocado craze has intensified every year. An estimated 135 million pounds of avocados were consumed in the weeks leading up to the Super Bowl last month. (The Super Bowl is Americas top avocado day, just ahead of Cinco de Mayo.) The boom caught everybody by surprise, says Barnard, whose company is the worlds largest avocado distributor. Were really scrambling. Were growing at 10 to 15 percent per year, but we still cant keep up with demand.Donald Trump has often railed at Nafta as the worst trade deal ever. But his focus on the loss of United States manufacturing jobs  felt keenly in the auto and textile industries  misses one of Naftas far-reaching benefits: the huge lift it has given to agricultural trade and consumer satisfaction in all three countries. Under Nafta, avocados have led an influx of year-round Mexican produce that has filled the seasonal voids in United States grocery stores and changed the way Americans eat. The avocado boom has caused environmental damage  some of Michoacns pine forests have been thinned out for avocado orchards  but it has been good for Americans gorging on guacamole in wintertime and Mexican farmers fending off the urge to join the drug trade or immigrate to the United States. According to a 2016 study commissioned by a marketing group for buyers and producers of Mexican avocados, the avocado supply chain has also created nearly 19,000 jobs in the United States and added more than $2.2 billion to the gross national product.Even California growers, once vociferous opponents of Mexican imports, are happy with the situation. Land and water are too scarce to expand their seasonal harvests  which are around 10 percent of Mexicos annual production  but surging demand and prices have buoyed their businesses, too. Avocados are Naftas shining star, says Monica Ganley, an expert on Latin American trade and the founder of Quarterra, a consulting firm based in Buenos Aires. But its important to remember that the benefits flow in both directions. Under Nafta, United States agricultural exports to Mexico have expanded nearly fivefold, to $18 billion, with sales of American corn, soybeans and dairy products booming south of the border. Trade is a multiplier, not a zero-sum game, Ganley says. We tend to overstate how much Mexico is dependent on the U.S. But American producers may have more to lose than Mexican producers if Nafta disappears.Trump hasnt killed Nafta yet. But as negotiations over a revamped agreement head into their eighth round, a trade war looms. The United States decision last month to impose steel and aluminum tariffs on most countries hangs over the talks, as do the planned trade sanctions against China. Trump offered temporary exemptions to Canada and Mexico, but only with the proviso that they remake Nafta to his liking. Even within the talks, avocado growers in Mexico and California worry that new anti-dumping duties proposed by the United States side could lead to a tit-for-tat retaliation that would harm both sides. Once it starts, Barnard asks, where does it end?So long as global demand keeps growing, though, the avocado seems almost impervious to upheaval at home and abroad. The violence in Michoacn, for example, has not curtailed the avocado industrys goal of increasing exports to the United States by 15 percent this year. Nor would new tariffs necessarily stop Mexican avocado imports: The United States cant sate its appetite for avocados elsewhere (no other producer is big enough), and the Mexicans have no other market so big and so near. The price of guacamole and avocado toast would go up again, but consumers already showed last year, during a spike in prices, that they might be willing to pay more. The bigger effect might be that avocado producers heighten their efforts in other developing markets, especially the one with most potential: China.When I lived in Shanghai, I often bicycled to an open-air grocery store run by a woman everybody knew simply as the avocado lady. She was one of the first grocers in the city to carry what is known in Chinese as butter fruit, though her clients were mostly grateful expatriates like me or Chinese returning from abroad. Even on days of heavy storms or bitter cold, this hardy entrepreneur was always in her shop before dawn, wearing rubber boots and tallying prices with a pencil. I never learned her name, but last year, in an unnecessary bit of marketing, she hung a crudely painted sign  The Avocado Lady  in front of her store.A decade ago, avocados were virtually unknown in China. The country imported only two tons in 2010; last year, it brought in 32,100 tons. The trend accelerated in 2017 when KFC ran an ad campaign for its avocado wraps called Green Is Going Red (to be hot, that is). It featured a pop star sporting an avocado mustache. The wraps didnt sell so well, but the ads made avocados cool for Chinas millennials.Mexico was Chinas largest supplier of avocados until last year, when it was surpassed by Chile. (Peru is moving in quickly, too.) In the future, the competition may come from China itself. With state backing, some Chinese businessmen are developing avocado plantations in the southern province of Guangxi. If they can come up with an avocado that matches the Latin American variety, at a lower cost, then the global market could shift.For now, though, China is adjusting. Most avocados sold there are hard and green  often to the confusion of the uninitiated. To solve this problem, Barnards Mission Produce built Chinas first ripe center in Shanghai last year, with another to follow in Shenzhen next year. And Barnard is dreaming big. If I could put four avocado chunks in every bowl of noodle soup in China, he muses, we wouldnt have enough avocados in the world. Only Mexican production would come close. And who knows? If American trade policy lurches toward a trade war, the farmers under the volcanoes in Michoacn might be eager to start sending their harvests to China instead.
TOKYO   When North Korea's leaders need to travel, they've got a train that's unlike any other.The arrival of the deep green train with yellow piping used exclusively by the ruling Kim family generated much speculation before the official confirmation Wednesday that it had carried leader Kim Jong Un on his first trip outside of North Korea since taking power upon the death of his father, Kim Jong Il, in December 2011.Here's a look at what's known about the North Korean ruling family's personal version of the Orient Express.___MAUSOLEUM MOCK-UPJust how often Kim Jong Un has used the train to get around inside North Korea isn't known.But his father, who famously hated flying and had a penchant for a playboy lifestyle, is said to have decked the train out for lavish parties, bouts of heavy drinking and karaoke on his many journeys by rail.According to an account published in 2002 by Konstantin Pulikovsky, a Russian official who accompanied Kim Jong ll on a three-week trip to Moscow in 2001, the train carried cases of Bordeaux and Beaujolais from Paris. Passengers could feast on live lobster and pork barbecue.A version of the train open to the North Korean public is more businesslike.A life-sized mock-up of one of the train's carriages is on permanent display in the ornate mausoleum on the outskirts of Pyongyang where national founder Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il lie in state. According to North Korea's official account, Kim Jong Il died of a heart attack while on a long-distance train trip.The display room features a map of the trips the leaders made on the train, with little lights to indicate each stop. One of the many paintings on the wall shows Kim Jong Il standing beside the train on one of those journeys. Kim Il Sung also used the train extensively, taking it all the way to eastern Europe in 1984.Inside the car is a desk used by the leaders, along with chairs and a sofa.Guides at the mausoleum explain that the carriage was used as a mobile office  proof, they insist, the leaders worked tirelessly for the people.___SAFETY ON THE RAILSKim Jong Il made about a dozen trips abroad, almost all to China and all by train.The first was in 1983, while he was still Kim Il Sung's heir apparent. That was the only time the special train is known to have been used by anyone but the leader himself.Kim Jong Il's first trip abroad on the train as leader came in 2000, six years after his father's death. It's now been six years since Kim Jong Il's death.The heavily armored train's most important feature might be security.According to South Korean reports, North Korea has 90 special carriages in total and operates three trains in tandem when a leader is traveling  an advance train to check the rails, the train with the leader and his immediate entourage, and a third train behind for everyone else.Advanced communications and flat-screen TVs have been installed so the North Korean leader can give orders and receive news and briefings.___PLAUSIBLE DENIABILITY?For Kim Jong Un's predecessors, trips were often secret until after they ended.Experts still couch their estimates of how many times North Korean leaders have traveled abroad because some trips may still remain secret. The Chinese and North Korean media aren't much help. They are state run and follow the directives of their respective ruling parties.Kim Jong Il's trip to China in 2003, for example, wasn't announced until days later. When he took the train across Russia to visit President Dmitry Medvedev in 2009, local photographers were reportedly banned from documenting the journey through their country. Whole towns in Siberia were instructed to stay indoors and keep off the streets until the train safely passed.This journey showed how much times have changed.News of the train's arrival in Beijing on Monday broke in large part because regular people posted cellphone videos online. Japanese media quickly picked up the videos along with fresh scenes of heavy security and a long motorcade arriving at a state guesthouse.That unleashed media stakeouts all over town.In the age of social media and ubiquitous camera phones, it seems discretion is getting harder everywhere.___Talmadge is the AP's Pyongyang bureau chief. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram: @EricTalmadge
HONG KONG   Art dealers, collectors and gallery owners gather in Hong Kong for the annual Art Basel exhibition this week at a time when fairs are increasingly driving growth in the sector and collectors from across Asia are flocking to the financial hub.Asia, which accounts for 23 percent of global art sales and 15 percent of private dealer sales, continues to rely heavily on mainland Chinese demand although collectors from South Korea, Japan and Southeast Asia are helping to spur growth."We also get clients from everywhere in Asia. A large number of the collectors come from South Korea," said Leng Lin, partner and Asia president of Pace Gallery, which has bases in 10 locations including Beijing, Hong Kong, and Seoul.Pace Gallery opened a new space in Seoul last year and a second outlet in Hong Kong this month to tap growing demand.As buyers from across the globe descend on the former British colony, dealers are also ramping up their presence, with 14 galleries from the Americas and Europe making their debut at the fair this year.Chinese buyers have been a huge boon to the global art market, with sales reaching $13.2 billion in 2017, up 14 percent from $11.5 billion a year earlier, according to a report by UBS and Art Basel.The bulk of that came from auctions, which comprised $9.3 billion, up from $7.5 billion in 2016 although down nearly 40 percent from a peak of $15.2 billion in 2011.The global art market achieved total sales of $63.7 billion in 2017, up from $56.6 billion in 2016.Amanda Hon, managing director of Ben Brown Fine Arts, which has galleries in Hong Kong and London, expects solid sales from Art Basel based on strong appetite at fairs in the Netherlands and New York.She acknowledged that increased scrutiny by Beijing on capital outflows had made it difficult to receive payment from some clients although for the most part, she had not experienced trouble as she had a number of long-standing clients."Usually the people we sell to are people we know and trust," Hon said. "It\'s rare that we\'ll sell to someone new that we just heard of that day ... So we do have a clear understanding with our clients and sometimes we\'ll ask them to put down a deposit and we have a credit card machine ready. It\'s always a little bit touch and go."Art fairs have grown increasingly in importance, with Art Basel Hong Kong, which runs from March 29-31, featuring 248 galleries from 32 countries and territories, up from 241 galleries in 2017.The exhibition coincides with the expansion of galleries in Hong Kong, a key hub for art transactions thanks to the absence of tax and its proximity to mainland China, although rising rents in one of the world\'s most expensive property markets pose challenges.Soaring rents have seen many galleries set up shop in the formerly industrial district of Wong Chuk Hang on the outskirts of Hong Kong island, transforming the area into a new arts hub.Henrietta Tsui-Leung, owner of Hong Kong-based Galerie Ora-Ora and co-president of the Hong Kong Art Gallery Association, believes there\'s plenty of room for growth in the city\'s art market."We only have 100 galleries in Hong Kong ... definitely below 120. Any established city like New York or London will have over 1,000 or 2,000. There is definitely a lot of wealth in Hong Kong as well. We have a lot of room for growth," she said.(This version of the story corrects percentage change in sixth paragraph to 14 percent, from 13 percent, and title of Henrietta Tsui-Leung in 15th paragraph)(Reporting By Carmel Yang; Writing by Anne Marie Roantree; Editing by Michael Perry)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A collective response to Russia, a brutal hate crime in France and a mysterious train in Beijing. Heres the latest: Sixty diplomats expelled, the Seattle consulate shut.The United States joined European allies in kicking out Russian officials over the nerve gas poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil. But President Trump avoided any public condemnation of Russias role in the attack.We examine how an outraged Europe agreed to the hard line against Vladimir Putin, Russias president. The coordinated response is a win for Britains prime minister, Theresa May, and a show of unity by NATO allies after a year of fraying ties.The expulsions were Mr. Trumps toughest action yet against the Kremlin. In the special investigation into his ties to Russia, Mr. Trump is essentially down to a one-man legal defense team after two newly hired lawyers bowed out._____ To attack a Jew is to attack France.That was French interior minister, Grard Collomb, condemning the brutal murder in Paris of Mireille Knoll, an 85-year-old Jewish woman who had survived the Holocaust.A number of anti-Semitic episodes have shaken France, and the speed with which the authorities labeled Ms. Knolls killing, in the apartment building above, a hate crime is being seen as a reaction to anger at the official response to the murder last year of another older Jewish woman.That woman was killed by a man who shouted, God is great and threw her out a window. Prosecutors took months to characterize that crime as anti-Semitic._____ President Trump secured his first major trade deal. The U.S. and South Korea agreed to renegotiate their trade pact, with Seoul exempted from tariffs on steel and aluminum in exchange for reducing its steel exports and opening its market to American cars.The deal, discussed by South Koreas trade minister, above, looked like early vindication of the White Houses efforts to use the tariffs as a bargaining chip.Meanwhile, many are wondering if Kim Jong-un, North Koreas reclusive leader, is in Beijing. The question emerged after a video showed an old-style green train  similar to one previously used by North Koreas leaders  arriving in the Chinese capital amid high security._____ Anti-abortion campaigners have flooded Ireland as the country prepares to vote in May on a referendum on whether to repeal its ban on abortion.But not all of them are Irish, raising fears of foreign interference in the vote._____ A shocking betrayal.A U.S. Army veteran who served two tours of duty in Afghanistan was deported to Mexico after his application for citizenship was denied because of a felony drug conviction.The case of Miguel Perez-Montes (above, in a photo held by his father), who had been given a diagnosis of P.T.S.D., rose to prominence after a U.S. senator who served in Iraq appealed to the Department of Homeland Security to stay his deportation._____ The diplomatic tensions between the West and Russia appear to be dampening interest in visiting Russia for the 2018 World Cup, at least for soccer fans in the United States and England.  Our reporters uncovered the ways one of President Trumps top fund-raisers leveraged his political connections to help his business, an illustration of a new breed of access peddling proliferating in the Washington swamp Mr. Trump vowed to drain. Hong Kongs housing market is so tight that nano flats, smaller than 200 square feet, are all the rage. (A parking spot just sold for $664,000.) Grindr, the worlds largest gay-dating app, will offer users frequent H.I.V. test reminders. Facebook stock fell as much as 6.5 percent after the Federal Trade Commission confirmed it was investigating the companys privacy practices. U.S. stock markets had their best day in nearly three years amid reported trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. Heres a snapshot of global markets. In Russia, emergency exits were blocked and a security guard had switched off the fire alarm in a shopping mall in Siberia that burned down on Sunday, killing at least 64 people, including many children. [The New York Times] In the U.S., some supporters of the far right and the National Rifle Association are using doctored photos to villainize the teenage survivors of last months school shooting in Florida and undermine their campaign for gun control. [The Washington Post] British whistle-blowers questioned the integrity of Britains vote to leave the E.U., presenting 50 pages of documents that they say prove the official Brexit campaign group violated election finance rules. [The Associated Press] Senior officials from Cricket Australia are investigating the national teams ball-tampering scandal in South Africa, which has shocked Australians and outraged fans of a sport that has always professed some moral sanctimony. [The New York Times] South Sudan, the worlds youngest nation, appears to have stopped Guinea worm disease within its borders. [The New York Times] A 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that had been stored at a university in Australia for 150 years was found to be filled with human remains, shocking archaeologists who thought it was empty. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. How to lose weight? Heres one conclusion from a much-discussed study: The best diet is the one you can stick to. Is it time to give up on fish oil? Not all supplements carry the same health benefits. Whether or not you have children, creating a will is about your legacy. Recipe of the day: Try a different kind of pizza topped with caramelized onions, figs, bacon and blue cheese. I feel Im in Japan, Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, although hed never been there. The Dutch painter, in fact, became obsessed by Japanese art. An exhibition in Amsterdam explores how that fascination shaped his work, like Almond Blossom, above. Add your voice: Were preparing our coverage of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who connected his fight for civil rights in the U.S. to the global reality of racism and poverty. Wed like to hear what he means to you.On this day in 1915, Mary Mallon, nicknamed Typhoid Mary, was placed in quarantine for the second time in New York City. Though she never displayed any symptoms of the disease, she would be confined for the rest of her life.In 1906, health officials tied Ms. Mallon to outbreaks of typhoid fever in seven wealthy families for whom she had worked as a cook.She was confirmed to be a carrier of the disease and quarantined. Doctors released her in 1910 under the condition that she no longer work as a cook. Shortly after, she disappeared.Ms. Mallon was rediscovered in 1915 by officials investigating a typhoid outbreak in a Manhattan hospital. She had been working there as a cook under an assumed name.She was then quarantined for 23 years, until her death in 1938 after a stroke.During her life, the public was fascinated by Ms. Mallon, above. She often appeared in news stories and cartoons, with one depicting her frying skulls in a pan. She was frustrated by the attention and by her captivity, once describing herself as a peep show for everybody.Her case is often referenced during public health crises, such as the Ebola epidemic, in debates over the power of officials to quarantine people they believe carry diseases.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates   A top Emirati aviation official accused Qatar on Tuesday of allowing its military fighter jets to come dangerously close to a large airplane and a helicopter, allegations immediately denied by Doha amid an Arab boycott of the energy-rich Gulf nation.Speaking to The Associated Press, Ismaeil al-Blooshi of the General Civil Aviation Authority left open the possibility Emirati officials would formally order its many commercial aircraft to stay away from Qatar, citing earlier decisions not to fly over territory once held by the Islamic State group.While the claims and counterclaims represent just the latest dispute within the wider diplomatic crisis tearing at Gulf Arab nations, aviation remains the lifeblood of Dubai, home to the world\'s busiest international airport. Any disruptions or new routes would affect millions of travelers passing through the region."I can assure the general public ... we will take all necessary measures to protect the safety of aviation," said al-Blooshi, the GCAA\'s assistant director-general for aviation safety. "If there is a need for such action, we will definitely take it."Al-Blooshi declined to offer specifics about the aircraft involved in the alleged incidents Monday in international waters off the coast of Bahrain, an island near Saudi Arabia.However, Bahrain\'s state-run news agency identified the plane as an Airbus A320 with a tail number corresponding to an aircraft flown by the ruling family of Fujairah, one of the UAE\'s seven emirates. Fujairah officials did not respond to a request for comment.The Emirati aircraft was at 32,000 feet (9,755 meters) and climbing when it noticed a "blip" on its radar, al-Blooshi said. Within minutes, the Qatari fighter jets came within 700 feet (213 meters) of the Emirati aircraft, causing collision-avoidance warnings to sound and forcing pilots to quickly climb to 35,000 feet (10,670 meters), he said.His comments mirror those reported by officials in Bahrain, another of the nations along with the UAE, Egypt and Saudi Arabia now boycotting Doha.Data from FlightRadar24, a flight-tracking website, shows that an Airbus A320 associated with Fujairah\'s ruling family flew Monday en route to Rome and did climb to 35,000 feet near Bahrain. However, that data did not offer an explanation for the gain in altitude.The second incident, involving the helicopter, happened at 7,000 feet (2,133 meters) and authorities have less information, al-Blooshi said. He said an investigation into both incidents was underway.Across the world, military aircraft are understood to have wide latitude in their operations. However, al-Blooshi called the Qatari fighter jets\' alleged conduct Monday dangerous.The state-run Qatar News Agency issued a statement from civil aviation authorities late Monday denying the Emirati claims and calling it an attempt to cover up previous violations of Qatari airspace. Qatar accused Emirati military jets of violating its air space in December and January in two incidents, filing a complaint to the U.N.The UAE denied those allegations and filed its own complaints over similar alleged incidents in January.Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the UAE cut off Qatar\'s land, sea and air routes on June 5 over its alleged support of extremists and close ties with Iran.Qatar has long denied funding extremists, though it supports Islamist opposition movements that are considered terrorist groups by other countries in the region. After the boycott began, Doha restored full diplomatic ties with Iran, with which it shares a massive offshore natural gas field.The diplomatic crisis has hurt Qatar Airways, Doha\'s long-haul carrier that competes with UAE airlines Emirates and Etihad.Qatar had complained to the Montreal-based International Civil Aviation Organization about the boycotting nations cutting off its air routes, forcing the carrier to take longer flights through Iran and Turkey. Its regional feeder flights in Saudi Arabia and the UAE also have been cut off.Widening the Gulf dispute to include civilian aviation and airspace could hurt Emirati airlines already stung by President Donald Trump\'s travel bans, as well as last year\'s ban on laptops in airplane cabins, which has been lifted.For those flying in the region from Dubai, passengers have gotten used to seeing flights divert either north or south over Qatar, a peninsular nation that sticks out like a thumb in the Persian Gulf. Al-Blooshi said there was no formal order from the GCAA demanding airlines fly those routes, though officials likely would consider whether to issue one after concluding their investigation.The GCAA\'s chairman, Sultan bin Saeed al-Mansouri, said the UAE would complain again to the U.N. over Monday\'s incident. He did not elaborate while speaking to journalists outside an event featuring South Korean President Moon Jae-in.___Follow Jon Gambrell on Twitter at www.twitter.com/jongambrellap . His work can be found at http://apne.ws/2galNpz .
TOKYO   Paro the furry seal cries softly while an elderly woman pets it. Pepper, a humanoid, waves while leading a group of senior citizens in exercises. The upright Tree guides a disabled man taking shaky steps, saying in a gentle feminine voice, right, left, well done!Robots have the run of Tokyo\'s Shin-tomi nursing home, which uses 20 different models to care for its residents. The Japanese government hopes it will be a model for harnessing the country\'s robotics expertise to help cope with a swelling elderly population and dwindling workforce.Allowing robots to help care for the elderly - a job typically seen as requiring a human touch - may be a jarring idea in the West. But many Japanese see them positively, largely because they are depicted in popular media as friendly and helpful. (Click https://reut.rs/2IVPNAd to see a picture package about these elder care robots.)"These robots are wonderful," said 84-year-old Kazuko Yamada after the exercise session with SoftBank Robotics Corp\'s Pepper, which can carry on scripted dialogues. "More people live alone these days, and a robot can be a conversation partner for them. It will make life more fun."Plenty of obstacles may hinder a rapid proliferation of elder care robots: high costs, safety issues and doubts about how useful - and user-friendly - they will be.(GRAPHIC: Robo care - https://tmsnrt.rs/2DYdaFQ)The Japanese government has been funding development of elder care robots to help fill a projected shortfall of 380,000 specialized workers by 2025.Despite steps by Japan to allow foreign workers in for elder care, obstacles to employment in the sector, including exams in Japanese, remain. As of the end of 2017, only 18 foreigners held nursing care visas, a new category created in 2016.But authorities and companies here are also eyeing a larger prize: a potentially lucrative export industry supplying robots to places such as Germany, China and Italy, which face similar demographic challenges now or in the near future."It\'s an opportunity for us," said Atsushi Yasuda, director of the robotic policy office at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry or METI. "Other countries will follow the same trend."More than 100 foreign groups have visited Shin-tomi the past year from countries including China, South Korea and the Netherlands.A few products are trickling out as exports: Panasonic Corp has started shipping its robotic bed, which transforms into a wheelchair, to Taiwan. Paro is used as a "therapy animal" in about 400 Danish senior homes.(GRAPHIC: Japan\'s aging population - http://tmsnrt.rs/2HKy1i7)STILL TINYThe global market for nursing care and disabled aid robots, made up of mostly Japanese manufacturers, is still tiny: just $19.2 million in 2016, according to the International Federation of Robotics.But METI estimates the domestic industry alone will grow to 400 billion yen ($3.8 billion) by 2035, when a third of Japan\'s population will be 65 or older."It\'s potentially a huge market," said George Leeson, director of the Oxford Institute of Population Ageing. "Everyone is waking up to their aging populations. Clearly robotics is part of that package to address those needs."To nurture the industry, the government is using a two-pronged approach. METI is promoting development, providing 4.7 billion yen ($45 million) in subsidies since 2015.The labor ministry is spearheading the spread of robots, and spent 5.2 billion yen ($50 million) to introduce them into 5,000 facilities nationwide in the year that ended last March. There is no government data about how many care facilities use robots.Government officials stress that robots will not replace human caregivers."They can assist with power, mobility and monitoring. They can\'t replace humans, but they can save time and labor," said METI\'s Yasuda. "If workers have more time, they can do other tasks."THAT\'S A ROBOT?Most of the devices look nothing like the popular image of a robot. By the government\'s definition, each has three components - sensors, a processor and a motor or apparatus.Panasonic used government aid to develop Resyone, a bed that splits in two, with one half transforming into a wheelchair.Cyberdyne Inc\'s HAL - short for Hybrid Assistive Limb - lumbar type is a powered back support that helps caregivers lift people.Those needing walking rehabilitation can grab hold of Tree, made by unlisted Reif Co, which crawls along the ground, showing where to place the next step and offering balance support.SoftBank\'s Pepper is used in about 500 Japanese elder care homes for games, exercise routines and rudimentary conversations.But some workers find Pepper difficult to set up, said Shohei Fujiwara, a manager at SoftBank Robotics, a unit of Internet conglomerate SoftBank Group Corp. They\'d like Pepper to respond to voice commands and move around independently - functions that SoftBank hopes to introduce this year, he said.A COSTLY SOLUTIONCute, furry and responsive, Paro reacts to touch, speech and light by moving its head, blinking its eyes and playing recordings of Canadian harp seal cries."When I first petted it, it moved in such a cute way. It really seemed like it was alive," giggled 79-year-old Saki Sakamoto, a Shin-tomi resident. "Once I touched it, I couldn\'t let go."Paro took more than 10 years to develop and received about $20 million in government support, said its inventor, Takanori Shibata, chief research scientist at the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology. About 5,000 are in use globally, including 3,000 in Japan.But Paro, like most robots, is expensive: 400,000 yen ($3,800) in Japan and about 5,000 euros in Europe. Panasonic\'s Resyone bed costs 900,000 yen ($8,600) and Cyberdyne\'s HAL lumbar exoskeleton costs 100,000 yen ($950) a month to rent.Most facilities using them, including Shin-tomi, have relied on local and central government subsidies to help cover the costs. Individuals can also use nursing care insurance to help cover approved products, but those numbers are tiny.And so far, the robots have not reduced Shin-tomi\'s personnel costs or working hours."We haven\'t gotten that far yet," said Kimiya Ishikawa, president and CEO of Silverwing Social Welfare Corp, which runs Shin-tomi. "We brought them in mostly to improve the working environment, keep staffers from getting back injuries and make things safer."What they have done, he said, is boost the morale of both staff and residents."That\'s brought a peace of mind among the staff and the residents feel supported," he said.(Reporting and writing by Malcolm Foster; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
TOKYO   Paro the furry seal cries softly while an elderly woman pets it. Pepper, a humanoid, waves while leading a group of senior citizens in exercises. The upright Tree guides a disabled man taking shaky steps, saying in a gentle feminine voice, right, left, well done!Robots have the run of Tokyo\'s Shin-tomi nursing home, which uses 20 different models to care for its residents. The Japanese government hopes it will be a model for harnessing the country\'s robotics expertise to help cope with a swelling elderly population and dwindling workforce.(Graphic - Robo care IMG: https://tmsnrt.rs/2DYdaFQ)Allowing robots to help care for the elderly - a job typically seen as requiring a human touch - may be a jarring idea in the West. But many Japanese see them positively, largely because they are depicted in popular media as friendly and helpful. (Click https://reut.rs/2IVPNAd to see a picture package about these elder care robots.)"These robots are wonderful," said 84-year-old Kazuko Yamada after the exercise session with SoftBank Robotics Corp\'s Pepper, which can carry on scripted dialogues. "More people live alone these days, and a robot can be a conversation partner for them. It will make life more fun."Plenty of obstacles may hinder a rapid proliferation of elder care robots: high costs, safety issues and doubts about how useful - and user-friendly - they will be.The Japanese government has been funding development of elder care robots to help fill a projected shortfall of 380,000 specialised workers by 2025.Despite steps by Japan to allow foreign workers in for elder care, obstacles to employment in the sector, including exams in Japanese, remain. As of the end of 2017, only 18 foreigners held nursing care visas, a new category created in 2016.But authorities and companies here are also eyeing a larger prize: a potentially lucrative export industry supplying robots to places such as Germany, China and Italy, which face similar demographic challenges now or in the near future."It\'s an opportunity for us," said Atsushi Yasuda, director of the robotic policy office at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry or METI. "Other countries will follow the same trend."More than 100 foreign groups have visited Shin-tomi the past year from countries including China, South Korea and the Netherlands.A few products are trickling out as exports: Panasonic Corp has started shipping its robotic bed, which transforms into a wheelchair, to Taiwan. Paro is used as a "therapy animal" in about 400 Danish senior homes.STILL TINYThe global market for nursing care and disabled aid robots, made up of mostly Japanese manufacturers, is still tiny: just $19.2 million (13.5 million) in 2016, according to the International Federation of Robotics.But METI estimates the domestic industry alone will grow to 400 billion yen ($3.8 billion) by 2035, when a third of Japan\'s population will be 65 or older."It\'s potentially a huge market," said George Leeson, director of the Oxford Institute of Population Ageing. "Everyone is waking up to their ageing populations. Clearly robotics is part of that package to address those needs."To nurture the industry, the government is using a two-pronged approach. METI is promoting development, providing 4.7 billion yen ($45 million) in subsidies since 2015.The labour ministry is spearheading the spread of robots, and spent 5.2 billion yen ($50 million) to introduce them into 5,000 facilities nationwide in the year that ended last March. There is no government data about how many care facilities use robots.Government officials stress that robots will not replace human caregivers."They can assist with power, mobility and monitoring. They can\'t replace humans, but they can save time and labour," said METI\'s Yasuda. "If workers have more time, they can do other tasks."(Graphic - Japan\'s aging population. img: http://tmsnrt.rs/2HKy1i7)THAT\'S A ROBOT?Most of the devices look nothing like the popular image of a robot. By the government\'s definition, each has three components - sensors, a processor and a motor or apparatus.Panasonic used government aid to develop Resyone, a bed that splits in two, with one half transforming into a wheelchair.Cyberdyne Inc\'s HAL - short for Hybrid Assistive Limb - lumbar type is a powered back support that helps caregivers lift people.Those needing walking rehabilitation can grab hold of Tree, made by unlisted Reif Co, which crawls along the ground, showing where to place the next step and offering balance support.SoftBank\'s Pepper is used in about 500 Japanese elder care homes for games, exercise routines and rudimentary conversations.But some workers find Pepper difficult to set up, said Shohei Fujiwara, a manager at SoftBank Robotics, a unit of Internet conglomerate SoftBank Group Corp. They\'d like Pepper to respond to voice commands and move around independently - functions that SoftBank hopes to introduce this year, he said.A COSTLY SOLUTIONCute, furry and responsive, Paro reacts to touch, speech and light by moving its head, blinking its eyes and playing recordings of Canadian harp seal cries."When I first petted it, it moved in such a cute way. It really seemed like it was alive," giggled 79-year-old Saki Sakamoto, a Shin-tomi resident. "Once I touched it, I couldn\'t let go."Paro took more than 10 years to develop and received about $20 million in government support, said its inventor, Takanori Shibata, chief research scientist at the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology. About 5,000 are in use globally, including 3,000 in Japan.But Paro, like most robots, is expensive: 400,000 yen ($3,800) in Japan and about 5,000 euros in Europe. Panasonic\'s Resyone bed costs 900,000 yen ($8,600) and Cyberdyne\'s HAL lumbar exoskeleton costs 100,000 yen ($950) a month to rent.Most facilities using them, including Shin-tomi, have relied on local and central government subsidies to help cover the costs. Individuals can also use nursing care insurance to help cover approved products, but those numbers are tiny.And so far, the robots have not reduced Shin-tomi\'s personnel costs or working hours."We haven\'t gotten that far yet," said Kimiya Ishikawa, president and CEO of Silverwing Social Welfare Corp, which runs Shin-tomi. "We brought them in mostly to improve the working environment, keep staffers from getting back injuries and make things safer."What they have done, he said, is boost the morale of both staff and residents."That\'s brought a peace of mind among the staff and the residents feel supported," he said.(Reporting and writing by Malcolm Foster; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching: So you want to be Deutsche Banks next C.E.O... Investors are selling tech again. Will Wall Streets top regulator keep going after bad bankers? More potential limits on gun sales Facebooks growing political troubles Ubers self-driving travailsGet this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Imagine you are applying to be the C.E.O. of Deutsche Bank now that its reportedly seeking a successor to John Cryan, the banks current chief.You survey the banks numbers to get a sense of the opportunities and challenges youd face.Staring you in the face is the stock price, down nearly 30 percent this year. Ugly, but it could be a good entry point. It gives you time to try out some tough measures aimed at improving Deutsche Banks performance. Even if those moves produce near-term losses, the stock may not dive, given how far its already fallen.Then you look at the strength of Deutsche Banks capital, as expressed by a regulatory measure called the common equity tier 1 capital ratio. Thats at 14 percent, a solid-looking level, achieved in part by an 8 billion equity raise last year. In theory, you have something to spend on your chosen plans.But then you realize that Deutsche Banks share price is now back at the level at which the bank sold those shares. Shareholders must be livid. Not only that, Deutsche Banks stock market value is less than 40 percent of its net worth as stated on its balance sheet (its stock price is 11.30 and its book value per share is 30.16.) When a company trades at a hefty discount to its net worth, it either needs to raise a lot of new capital, which doesnt seem to be the case at Deutsche Bank, or investors have serious doubts about the companys business model.So, Ill rejig the banks business model, you say to yourself, thats what new C.E.O.s do!You look for ways and stumble upon an unavoidable obstacle. Deutsche Bank is heavily dependent on Wall Street revenue, which can be far more unpredictable than revenue from other businesses. Last year, revenue from Deutsche Banks corporate and investment bank, which has struggled to keep up with its peers, accounted for 54 percent of the banks overall revenue. Compare that with JPMorgan Chase, whose investment bank accounted for a third of its revenue last year. And you are stuck with the Wall Street operations; no one wants to buy an investment bank with 1.2 trillion in assets.Maybe you can cut costs, another go-to tactic of an incoming C.E.O. Indeed, Deutsche Banks investment bank employees seem better paid than their counterparts at other firms. Going by a back of the envelope calculation, the units compensation expense is equivalent to 44 percent of its revenue (excluding the interest the investment bank earns on its assets.) Thats higher than the 39 percent ratio for JPMorgans investment bank last year, and 41 percent for Goldman Sachs. Maybe you could slash the pay of bankers and traders.Sorry, Mr. Cryan tried that. Peter EavisThe roller coaster ride in tech continues.The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite tumbled nearly 3 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 fell 1.4 percent and 1.7 percent.Tech companies in the S.&P. 500 tech sector slid 3.4 percent, the steepest decline among the indexs 11 main sectors.Chip makers were among the hardest hit on the day. Shares of Nvidia dropped 7.8 percent after it said it was halting tests on self-driving cars.Nvidias slide weighed on the shares of rival chip makers. Micron Technologies fell 5.7 percent, and AMD dropped 4.2 percent.But semiconductor companies were hardly the only ones getting pummeled. The famed FANG stocks, among the biggest gainers over the past year, tumbled Tuesday. Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet all finished down more than 4.5 percent.Tesla tumbled 8.2 percent on news that the National Transportation Safety Board is conducting its second investigation this year into a Tesla car crash. The stock is off nearly 20 percent since March 12 on increasing concerns that the electric-car maker will fall short of its production goals for the Model 3.Twitter dropped 12 percent after Andrew Lefts Citron Research said it was shorting the social media company.Tuesdays fall continued the recent volatility in American stocks, and specifically, the shares of tech companies. Enthusiasm about the technology sector had long propelled stock markets to new heights. But the specter of intensifying regulation of the industry has taken the sheen off. Last week tech stocks dragged the broader markets to their worst week in more than two years. The selling took a break on Monday as the S.&P. 500s tech sector rose 4 percent pushing the index to its best day in almost three years.A vigorous debate is taking place over who should become the next head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a powerful regulator on Wall Streets front lines.Contenders for the post should address one question: What will you do to clean up the culture at banks?William C. Dudley, the outgoing president of the New York Fed, had made improving the culture at the firms he oversaw a key initiative of his tenure of at the institution.When Mr. Dudley took the helm in 2009, the financial crisis had left the New York Feds reputation as a regulator damaged. The institution had not done enough to address the severe weaknesses at the banks it oversaw, like Citigroup. Early on, Mr. Dudley commissioned a review of the New York Feds bank supervision department and then overhauled it. But in 2012, JPMorgan Chase, also overseen by the New York Fed, suffered huge trading losses in what was known as the London Whale scandal. The New York Fed was faulted.Following the embarrassing London Whale imbroglio, Mr. Dudley used his bully pulpit to focus on bankers ethics. Banks were stronger financially, but recent scandals showed that the culture of their firms still needed to improve, he observed. And if a cleanup didnt occur, it may be a sign that they needed to be reduced in size, Mr. Dudley said in a 2014 speech that rattled Wall Street.The next big banking scandal  Wells Fargos widespread mistreatment of customers, which came to light in 2016  strongly supported Mr. Dudleys arguments. Wells Fargo was considered one of the most stable too big to fail banks, with its focus on plain vanilla lending, but in fact, its retail sales culture had degraded. The Fed earlier this year slapped relatively harsh sanctions on the bank, including a limit on its size.The example of Wells Fargo is pertinent for John C. Williams, a top candidate to replace Mr. Dudley. Mr. Williams is head of the San Francisco Fed, which oversees Wells Fargo.And there is still work to do to fulfill Mr. Dudleys initiative. He proposed a database of banker misconduct, similar to the one for brokers, that would track a bankers record on ethics and compliance. Banks could consult it before hiring. But this idea has not taken off. In a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Monday, Mr. Dudley explained why: Understandably, firms are concerned about legal risk if they share information about banker misconduct, but there may be ways to address these concerns through legislation.Mr. Dudley had also pressed banks boards of directors to focus on ethical culture. On Monday, he said the boards had set up separate committees to focus on culture and conduct. Weve made part of the journey but I think more could be done, Mr. Dudley said. Whether it will, depends on who steps into his shoes. Peter EavisThe yield curve is near its flattest level since the financial crisis. The difference between the yields on the two-year and 10-year Treasury notes is at 0.52 percentage points, not far off its post-crisis low of 0.50 percentage points hit in January.That has some asking if the nine-year-old economic recovery is at risk.Since the end of World War II, no barometer has done a better job of predicting a recession than the yield curve. A flattening yield curve tends to indicate slowing economic growth in the near future. But what is more worrisome is if the yield curve goes beyond flattening and into outright inversion.The chances of a recession when the yield curve is flattening is just 20 percent, according to the calculations of Jim Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group. That jumps to 72 percent when the curve inverts.There is another reason not to be too concerned about a flattening yield curve, and it has to do with the actions of central banks around the world. The unprecedented stimulus from the Fed, Bank of Japan and E.C.B. have brought down long-term rates. That means the yield curve might not be the predictor it once was.A week after a self-driving Uber vehicle hit and killed a woman in Arizona, the fallout continues to spread.Nvidia on Tuesday said it had suspended self-driving tests in New Jersey, Santa Clara, Japan and Germany. A Nvidia spokesperson said in a statement, using A.V. as an abbreviation for automated vehicles :Nvidias artificial intelligence platform is the autonomous industrys leader. The chip maker has partnered with auto makers such as Volkswagen, Tesla and Audi. Around 320 firms - from software developers, automakers and their suppliers, sensor and mapping companies - use Nvidias platform, Reuters reports.Nvidia is just the latest company to halt tests on self-driving cars in the wake of the accident in Arizona. Toyota, nuTonomy and Uber have all already done so.Roger Lanctot, an automotive technology analyst with Strategy Analytics, wrote:Citigroup became the biggest Wall Street firm thus far to take actions to limit gun sales. Others, like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Visa and Mastercard, are studying options. (Bank of America and JPMorgan are two of the bankruptcy lenders to Remington Outdoor, along with Wells Fargo, which is the N.R.A.s bank of choice.)In his latest column, Andrew suggests these new tactics: Credit-card issuers and banks could give gun sellers who have announced restrictions on sales, like Walmart and Dicks Sporting Goods, a special merchant category code. That could help financial firms decide with whom they want to do business. Payment processors could geofence gun shows and enforce restrictions on transactions coming from those GPS coordinates.Heres what Citis C.E.O., Mike Corbat, told Andrew about his firms actions:Where to begin? The company faces inquiries from the Federal Trade Commission, the Senate Judiciary Committee, several state attorneys general and the watchdog group Common Cause. And Britains Parliament asked Mark Zuckerberg to testify (hes sending a deputy).Facebooks stock overall is headed for its worst monthly performance in nearly five years. Yet the companys shares recovered from another beating, closing up slightly yesterday. And just two analysts have sell ratings on the stock, compared to 44 who have buy ratings.In Cambridge Analytica news: Did a Brexit campaign group violate election laws by not declaring some of its spending with AggregateIQ, a digital marketer with ties to Cambridge Analytica?Critics corner: Nir Kaissar of Gadfly thinks that the big question is how many users value privacy more than having a Facebook account. Charlie Warzel of BuzzFeed argues the Cambridge Analytica scandal could lead to a full-scale personal and public reckoning that looks at the way weve used the internet for the last decade.Bankers and deal lawyers may want to send some of their bonus to Amazon this year. M.&A. activity is running at record levels and concerns about the e-commerce giant have played a role in driving a number of the largest deals.The latest? GlaxoSmithKlines decision to buy out Novartiss stake in their consumer health joint venture, which includes Sensodyne toothpaste, for $13 billion.Amazon may not have been the main reason, but its impact on the pricing of consumer health products likely played a role.Historically, such products have lower margins than prescription drugs, but customers that keep coming back. Sales, though, are slowing, up just 3 percent over the past two years, half the rate of the previous two, according to Morgan Stanley. Price competition from online retailers like Amazon has some worried it could decelerate further.That partly helps explain why Novartis was willing to exit the business.So why was Glaxo willing to pay up for the business?1) Starting this month Novartis had the right to require Glaxo purchase its stake in the joint venture. Doing the deal now removes uncertainty.2) The deal will allow its new chief executive to get on with fixing GSKs pharmaceutical division, which suffers from a relatively lackluster pipeline of new drugs, writes Neil Unmack of Breakingviews. Shares of Glaxo have gained 6.3 percent.The S.&P. 500 rose 2.7 percent yesterday, its best day in nearly three years (as President Trump would be happy to tell you). Maybe its because, as Peter Eavis writes, the presidents threats of a trade war with China might be merely negotiating tactics.More from Peter: According to this view, the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about shifting trade terms. If China doesnt show real signs that it will do more to open its markets, Mr. Trump could up the ante  roiling the markets again. But the White Houses more conciliatory tone yesterday after last weeks sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full trade war.But remember that Beijing is firmly committed to its industrial policy, while the U.S. is equally adamant about letting American companies operate more freely in China. (Even if G.M. and Ford, who have joint ventures with Chinese companies, wouldnt benefit from a lower tariff on U.S. car imports.) And Stephen Roach of Yale thinks that the U.S.-China trade deficit will keep widening.Elsewhere in trade: The U.S. is near a deal with South Korea, after winning concessions on steel exports and imports of U.S. cars. Betting on trade wars is risky. Hedge funds are taking refuge in southern European stocks. And the Western worlds economic institutions are being attacked from within. White House lawyers are examining whether more than $500 million of loans to Kushner Companies may have violated criminal laws or federal ethics regulations. (WSJ) Democrats and progressive groups arent happy with the possibility of John C. Williams taking over the New York Fed. (NYT) Stormy Danielss interview with 60 Minutes drew 22 million viewers, the programs highest ratings in almost a decade. Shes suing President Trumps personal attorney, Michael Cohen, for defamation. The White Houses criterion for judicial nominees: favor shrinking the federal government. (NYT)The states governor, Doug Ducey, ordered Uber to halt self-driving car tests there after the death of a pedestrian in Tempe.Ubers repeated problems  even after a change in leadership  have led the journalist Steven Hill to argue that limits should be placed on the company, including caps on the number of vehicles and rules against subsidizing rides.Elsewhere in tech Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Masa Son of SoftBank met in New York. (@spagov) The F.C.C. is another regulator wary of Huawei. (NYT) Google, Tesla and Qualcomm are banding together to challenge SoftBanks ARM Holdings. (The Information) Bitcoin fell below $8,000 after Twitter banned some cryptocurrency ads. (CNBC) A.I. is now coming for Hollywood special-effects producers. (NYT) IBM faces accusations of age discrimination. (ProPublica)Third Point: Dan Loebs hedge fund has built a position in United Technologies, according to an antitrust filing, following Pershing Square Capital Management. Theyre both betting that the industrial conglomerate will split up.Elliott: The firm has reportedly taken a stake in Travelport Worldwide and plans to push the company to consider selling itself.D.E. Shaw: The hedge fund scored another win yesterday when Lowes said that its chairman and C.E.O., Robert Niblock, would retire. D.E. Shaw has been pressuring the retailer to expand sales more quickly and will have a say in choosing the new C.E.O. .Barington Capital: To settle a proxy fight, the embattled cosmetics company Avon gave the activist fund a seat on its board. The fund has been pushing for a sale. Meet HNAs quiet power broker: Wang Wei, younger brother of the Chinese conglomerates chairman. (NYT) Akzo Nobel has reached a deal to sell its specialty chemicals unit to the Carlyle Group and GIC of Singapore for 10.1 billion, including debt, or $12.6 billion. (FT) Brookfield Property Partners agreed to buy the 66 percent of GGP that it doesnt already own for about $9.25 billion. (WSJ) Spotify is paying I.P.O.-level fees for its non-I.P.O. SmartSheet, a cloud-based business software company, reportedly plans to go public. Both Yeti, the maker of upscale coolers, and Gategroup, the Swiss airline catering business owned by HNA, have pulled their offerings. Lightspeed Venture Partners is raising $1.8 billion for new funds. Lerer Hippeau is taking over most of the portfolio companies of the embattled Binary Capital. How Alibaba and Tencent became Asias biggest deal makers. (FT) Why private equity hasnt helped smaller grocery chains struggling against Walmart and Amazon. (NYT) Deutsche Bank is reportedly seeking to replace its C.E.O., John Cryan, according to The Times of London and Financial News. Harry Keogh, the Coutts & Company banker accused of sexual harassment, has resigned. (WSJ) JPMorgan Chase has named James Roddy as the co-head of its global diversified industrials investment banking team. (Reuters) Shell Oil plans to name Gretchen Watkins, the former C.E.O. of Maersk Oil, as president and U.S. country chair. (Houston Business Journal) Nickelodeon has cut ties with Dan Schneider, the producer of iCarly and Kenan and Kel. (WSJ) Goldman Sachs began an investigation after a former employee wrote to Lloyd Blankfein saying that a group of colleagues attempted to rape her in 1994. (Financial News) Goldman is deploying investment banking partners to hubs like Atlanta, Dallas, Seattle and Toronto. (Business Insider) The average Wall Street bankers bonus last year was the highest since before the financial crisis. (WSJ) How a tiny Latvian bank became a haven for the worlds dirty money. (WSJ) Cisco Systems promised to donate $50 million over five years to fight homelessness in Santa Clara County, Calif. (WaPo) Royal Dutch Shell has set out what it thinks it would take for the world to control climate change  including using far less oil by 2070. (WaPo) G.M. said its South Korean unit would file for bankruptcy if a labor union rejected a restructuring plan. (Bloomberg) Imagine if Gordon Gekko bought news empires. Heath Freeman is like that, only worse, writes Joe Nocera. (BloombergView)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
She was a brain researcher and an authority on the scientific basis of love. He, too, was a neuroscientist, but with an expertise in loneliness. She was in her mid-30s, he in his late 50s.Both were wedded to careers in separate hemispheres  until they happened to be seated beside each other, serendipitously, at dinner on the last night of a neuroscience research symposium in Shanghai.Before going their separate ways, they left the restaurant together. A romantic full moon was rising over the East China Sea. He snapped a photograph. A few weeks later, she emailed him to request a copy (which she later admitted was just a pretext to resume their brief acquaintance).She, Stephanie Ortigue, was conducting research at the University of Geneva in Switzerland at the time. He, John T. Cacioppo, was doing the same at the University of Chicago. They timed their sporadic subsequent dates to coincide with other scientific conferences.She fell in love. He felt lonely without her. Within eight months they were engaged. In 2011, they married.She took her husbands name and joined him at the University of Chicago at the Pritzker School of Medicine. They not only shared the same office (the sign on the door said The Cacioppos) but also the same desk. They collaborated on more than a dozen articles about the neurology of social connections. In 2015, when he developed salivary gland cancer, they slept in the same hospital bed, in matching hospital gowns.Dr. John Cacioppo died on March 5 at home in Chicago. He was 66. His wife said the cause had not yet been determined.Dr. Cacioppo (pronounced kass-ee-OH-po) and his Ohio State University colleague Gary Berntson were, in the early 1990s, the founding fathers of what they called social neuroscience.A new academic domain, it bridged biology and psychology and was inspired, Dr. Cacioppo once explained, by an insight he had after surviving a near-fatal car crash: that love and social connections are what really matter in life.He likened loneliness to hunger, explaining that it helps naturally gregarious humans establish mutually beneficial relationships that meet social needs vital to survival.He estimated that about one in four Americans are lonely, without any confidants, and that social isolation results in negative emotional and physical consequences.Chronic loneliness increases the odds of an early death by 20 percent, Dr. Cacioppo told The Guardian in 2016, which is about the same effect as obesity, though obesity does not make you as miserable as loneliness. (Although, he pointed out, loneliness can also make you gain weight if you binge on sweets to ease your misery.)He drew a distinction between loneliness and being alone.In animals, its not separating a monkey from any companion; its separating them from a preferred companion, he said in an interview last year with The Atlantic magazine. Being with others doesnt mean youre going to feel connected, and being alone doesnt mean youre going to feel lonely.Indeed, he said, having fewer social connections can sometimes be healthier.Millionaires, billionaires tend to feel lonely, Dr. Cacioppo said. A lot of athletes often feel lonely. Lots of people want to be their friend, but how would you feel if all the people who want to be your friend, you had the alternative interpretation  that they want material or social benefits that you could give them.At his death, Dr. Cacioppo was a psychology professor at the University of Chicago, director of the universitys Center for Cognitive and Social Neuroscience and chairman of the Social Psychology Program.He received scores of awards, was the author of hundreds of articles and more than a dozen books, including his seminal Loneliness: Human Nature and the Need for Social Connections (2008), which he wrote with William Patrick.He is a creative genius whose cumulative accomplishments are so inseparable from the field that it is hard to imagine contemporary psychology without him, said another collaborator at Ohio State, Professor Richard E. Petty.Professor Amanda Woodward, interim dean of the Division of Social Sciences at the University of Chicago, said Dr. Cacioppo had an uncommon genius  he was a brilliant scientist and was unique in his ability to see deep connections across diverse fields and to create generative new theoretical frameworks.John Terrence Cacioppo was born on June 12, 1951, in Marshall Tex., to Cyrus Cacioppo and the former Mary Katherine Kazimour. His parents owned several businesses, including a chain saw distribution company.A math prodigy in high school, Dr. Cacioppo was the first in his family to attend college. He received a bachelor of science degree in economics in 1973 from the University of Missouri, where a chance meeting with a psychology professor persuaded him to abandon a law career and pursue a doctorate in social psychology at Ohio State; he received his in 1977.He and Richard Petty, who was also a first-year graduate student at the time, engaged in so many intellectual arguments that they became roommates, painted an entire wall black and used it to map competing postulates.After teaching at the University of Notre Dame and the University of Iowa, he returned to Ohio State in 1989, joined a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation research network in 1995 and the University of Chicago faculty in 1999.In addition to his wife, Dr. Stephanie Cacioppo, director of the Brain Dynamics Laboratory at the University of Chicago and a research professor at the Center for Cognitive and Social Neuroscience there, he is survived by two children, Anthony and Christina, both from an earlier marriage, which ended in divorce.The social neuroscience first defined by Dr. Cacioppo and Professor Berntson spawned research into the impact of personal relationships on physiology, including cognition, emotions and physical health.Dr. Cacioppo cautioned that confiding to a psychotherapist was not a substitute for having friends and companions.Being just a client of a psychotherapist fulfills some needs, he said, but it doesnt fulfill that real need to have a rich reciprocal bond.Similarly, he said the internets role in forming social connections depends on whether a website becomes just a destination.If the only acceptance you can get of yourself is a fake representation on the web, thats not going to make you feel connected, he said. But if you look at online dating, there youre using it to meet other people, so not surprisingly that tends to be associated with lower levels of loneliness.Dr. Stephanie Cacioppo agreed that loneliness and being alone are different.I think we both had come to be real fans of loneliness before we met each other, she wrote in an email on Monday. As John would say, and I agreed with him: If you think about what our species would be like without loneliness, it would not be nearly as endearing a species. Loneliness, which compels us to bond with others, gives us what we call Humanity. When her husband was sick, she was quoted as saying last year in a Modern Love column in The New York Times, As a couple, we became more united than ever.She wrote on Monday: I did not know what true love was until I met my husband. John taught me what true love really means. And now, thanks to my husband, I am on the verge of knowing what true eternal love is.
Today in HistoryToday is Tuesday, March 27, the 86th day of 2018. There are 279 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On March 27, 1968, Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin (gah-GAH\'-rihn), the first man to orbit the Earth in 1961, died when his MiG-15 jet crashed during a routine training flight near Moscow; he was 34.On this date:In 1513, Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon (hwahn pahns duh LEE\'-ohn) sighted present-day Florida.In 1625, Charles I acceded to the English throne upon the death of James I.In 1794, Congress approved "An Act to provide a Naval Armament" of six armed ships.In 1884, the first telephone line between Boston and New York was inaugurated.In 1912, first lady Helen Herron Taft and the wife of Japan\'s ambassador to the United States, Viscountess Chinda, planted the first two of 3,000 cherry trees given to the U.S. as a gift by the mayor of Tokyo.In 1933, Japan officially withdrew from the League of Nations.In 1942, during World War II, Congress granted American servicemen free first-class mailing privileges.In 1958, Nikita Khrushchev became Soviet premier in addition to First Secretary of the Communist Party.In 1964, Alaska was hit by a magnitude 9.2 earthquake (the strongest on record in North America) and tsunamis that together claimed about 130 lives.In 1977, in aviation\'s worst disaster, 583 people were killed when a KLM Boeing 747, attempting to take off in heavy fog, crashed into a Pan Am 747 on an airport runway on the Canary Island of Tenerife (ten-uh-REEF\').In 1980, 123 workers died when a North Sea floating oil field platform, the Alexander Kielland, capsized during a storm.In 1998, the Food and Drug Administration approved the drug Viagra, made by Pfizer, saying it had helped about two-thirds of impotent men improve their sexual function.Ten years ago: The Pentagon said Defense Secretary Robert Gates had ordered a full inventory of all nuclear weapons and related materials after the mistaken delivery of ballistic missile fuses to Taiwan.Five years ago: Lawyers for Colorado theater shooting suspect James Holmes said he would plead guilty to the attack that killed 12 people and serve the rest of his life in prison to avoid the death penalty. (Prosecutors rejected the offer, but Holmes ended up being sentenced to life in prison anyway.) Former South African President Nelson Mandela was admitted to a hospital for pneumonia (he was discharged 10 days later).One year ago: U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions warned so-called "sanctuary cities" they could lose federal money for refusing to cooperate with immigration authorities; city leaders vowed to intensify their fight against the promised crackdown despite the financial risks. NFL owners meeting in Phoenix approved the Oakland Raiders\' move to Las Vegas 31-1; Miami was the lone dissenter.Today\'s Birthdays: Dance company director Arthur Mitchell is 84. Actor Julian Glover is 83. Actor Jerry Lacy is 82. Hall of Fame racer Cale Yarborough is 79. Actor-director Austin Pendleton is 78. Actor Michael York is 76. Rock musician Tony Banks (Genesis) is 68. Rock musician Andrew Farriss (INXS) is 59. Jazz musician Dave Koz (kahz) is 55. Movie director Quentin Tarantino is 55. Rock musician Derrick McKenzie (Jamiroquai) is 54. Rock musician Johnny April (Staind) is 53. Actress Talisa Soto is 51. Actor Ben Koldyke is 50. Actress Pauley Perrette is 49. Singer Mariah Carey is 48. Rock musician Brendan Hill (Blues Traveler) is 48. Actress Elizabeth Mitchell is 48. Actor Nathan Fillion is 47. Hip-hop singer Fergie is 43. Actress Emily Ann Lloyd is 34. Actress Brenda Song is 30. Pop singer-songwriter Kimbra is 28. Actress Taylor Atelian is 23. Classical crossover singer Amira Willighagen (TV: "Holland\'s Got Talent") is 14.Thought for Today: "A sheltered life can be a daring life as well. For all serious daring starts from within."  Eudora Welty, American author (1909-2001).
SINGAPORE  Eugene Ng jabbed a pudgy finger against the side of the glass tank, like a predator singling out his unlucky target.That fishs eye is looking a little droopy, said Mr. Ng, pointing to a fish with large metallic gold scales swimming happily among its companions.Minutes later, the fish was knocked out and getting an eyelift, a procedure that has become standard practice in Mr. Ngs job as one of the premier cosmetic surgeons for Asian arowana fish here in Singapore. Using a pair of forceps, Mr. Ng  known to his clients as Dr. Ark, after the pet fish store that he also runs  worked quickly, loosening the tissue behind the fishs eye and pushing the eyeball up into the socket.I know some people think its cruel to the fish, said Mr. Ng, lifting his sedated patient with one hand to show off its newly straightened eye. But really Im doing it a favor. Because now the fish looks better and its owner will love it even more.The idea of cosmetic surgery for a fish may sound extreme. But the Asian arowana is not your average pet store fish. Known as the long yu, or dragon fish in Chinese, it reigns as one of the worlds most expensive aquarium fish, selling for anywhere from a few hundred dollars to tens of thousands of dollars.One fish was even rumored to have been bought by a Chinese Communist Party official for $300,000. So for most owners, the cost of an eyelift ($90) or a chin job ($60) for their pet fish is pocket change.In Singapore, if you have an arowana, that means you have status, said Kenny Lim, a local hobbyist who has invested an estimated $600,000 over eight years into building up his aquatic menagerie, which includes 13 arowana and more than 100 stingrays. Its a sign of wealth.While prices of the fish saw a boom and a bit of a bust earlier this decade, the arowana remains a popular luxury accessory across Asia. Wealthy Chinese businessmen in particular prize the fish  with its large glimmering scales, sage-like whiskers and aggressive personality  for its resemblance to the mythical Chinese dragon.Adding to the allure are the often-repeated tales of arowana that sacrifice their lives by jumping out of tanks to warn owners about a bad business investment or other potential dangers.For those reasons, aficionados call the arowana the king of the fish, emperor of the tank, a dragon among mere mortals.For Chinese, keeping fish is about bringing good luck and wealth, and the Asian arowana are especially lucky, said Kenny Yap, the executive chairman of Qian Hu Fish, one of the top arowana breeders in Singapore.In the West, dragons are evil monsters, added Mr. Yap, or Kenny the Fish, as he prefers to be called. But in Chinese culture, dragons are divine.Perhaps nowhere is the obsession more apparent than here in this tropical city-state, a hub of the global ornamental fish trade and home to a thriving network of breeders and hobbyists dedicated to the Asian arowana (not to be confused with the silver arowana, its South American cousin).The fish has become so deeply ingrained as a status symbol that it was even featured in the latest installment of Kevin Kwans Crazy Rich Asians, a popular series of novels about the lives of Singapores elite, in the form of a $250,000 super red arowana named Valentino.Singaporeans are crazy about the fish, said Emily Voigt, the author of The Dragon Behind the Glass, a rollicking account of her transcontinental journey into the murky world of the arowana.At one point, Ms. Voigt said, the global craze for the fish reached such a frenzy that even in Singapore, where the crime rate is so low that a stolen delivery parcel makes headlines, there were four arowana heists in one week. During one of the robberies, the thief punched an elderly woman as he ran away with her fish in a sloshing bucket.In a separate episode, a Singaporean man was sentenced to three years in prison and 12 strokes of the cane for trying to steal arowana from a shop.You think of pet fish as being an innocent thing, Ms. Voigt said. But I didnt expect to find myself confronting this dark underbelly.The prominence of the Asian arowana is a sharp reversal in fortune for a fish that half a century ago was considered by locals in its natural swamp habitat of Borneo and Indonesia to be a common food fish  and a rather bony and tasteless one at that.Experts say the turning point came in 1975, when the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, signed by 183 countries, banned the fish from international trade. By classifying it as a rare species, some say, the treaty elevated its status as a luxury item.After the ban, a booming black market for arowana emerged. Smuggled arowana were turning up in countries around Asia and later in the United States, where it is still banned. The overwhelming demand had a devastating effect on the wild population of arowana. So starting in the late 1980s, restrictions were loosened to allow trade of farm-bred arowana whose parents were also born in captivity.While the wild arowana never recovered, trade in captive-bred arowana flourished, reaching a peak in the 2000s as buyers in mainland China jumped into the game.Breeders used DNA technology to pinpoint characteristics in a bid to create a perfect fish: straight feelers, bright eyes, large and round fins and tails and shimmering red scales. Neon pink tanning lights became a common feature in tanks to enhance the fishs reddish hue.Its like a beauty pageant, said Alex Chang, the head of research and development at Qian Hu Fish, who was caught several years ago attempting to smuggle two suitcases full of endangered fish worth over $180,000 into Australia. The fish cannot be fat. It must look strong and have personality. It must swim confidently and be firm, stern and fierce. It cannot be timid.But around 2012, the price of arowana crashed as breeding farms flooded the market. While prices have somewhat bounced back in recent years, big farms like Qian Hu have begun breeding other species.Despite the sharp dip in prices, the arowana remains an aspirational luxury good and a point of obsession for many Singaporeans.As a young boy growing up in Singapore, Nicholas Chia always dreamed about having an arowana. Then, last year, he finally bought his first one. Since then, he has acquired five more. He keeps his prized fish in six large tanks that take up a third of his living room.Sometimes my wife complains that I neglect the children because of the fish, said Mr. Chia, a 30-year-old software entrepreneur. To a certain extent, yes, I guess thats true.
