BEIJING   China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in an escalating tariff dispute with President Donald Trump that companies worry might depress global commerce.The Finance Ministry said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum that took effect March 23. But a bigger clash looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods in a separate argument over technology policy.The tariff spat is one aspect of wide-ranging tensions between Washington and Beijing over China\'s multibillion-dollar trade surplus with the United States and its policies on technology, industry development and access to its state-dominated economy.Forecasters say the immediate impact should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if it prompts other governments to raise import barriers. Those fears temporarily depressed financial markets, though stocks have recovered some of their losses.On Monday, stock market indexes in Tokyo and Shanghai were up 0.5 percent at midmorning.Beijing faces complaints by Washington, the European Union and other trading partners that it hampers market access despite its free-trading pledges and is flooding global markets with improperly low-priced steel and aluminum. But the EU, Japan and other governments criticized Trump\'s unilateral move as disruptive.The United States buys little Chinese steel and aluminum following earlier tariff hikes to offset what Washington says is improper subsidies. Still, economists expected Beijing to respond to avoid looking weak in a high-profile dispute.Effective Monday, Beijing raised tariffs on pork, aluminum scrap and some other products by 25 percent, the Finance Ministry said. A 15 percent tariff was imposed on apples, almonds and some other goods.The tariff hike has "has seriously damaged our interests," said a Finance Ministry statement."Our country advocates and supports the multilateral trading system," said the statement. China\'s tariff increase "is a proper measure adopted by our country using World Trade Organization rules to protect our interests."The White House didn\'t respond to a message from The Associated Press on Sunday seeking comment.China\'s government said earlier its imports of those goods last year totaled $3 billion.The latest Chinese move targets farm areas, many of which voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.U.S. farmers sent nearly $20 billion of goods to China in 2017. The American pork industry sent $1.1 billion in products, making China the No. 3 market for U.S. pork."American politicians better realize sooner rather than later that China would never submit if the U.S. launched a trade war," said the Global Times, a newspaper published by the ruling Communist Party.Washington granted EU, South Korea and some other exporters, but not ally Japan, exemptions to the steel and aluminum tariffs on March 22. European governments had threatened to retaliate by raising duties on American bourbon, peanut butter and other goods.Beijing has yet to say how it might respond to Trump\'s March 22 order approving possible tariff hikes in response to complaints China steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Trump ordered U.S. trade officials to bring a WTO case challenging Chinese technology licensing. It proposed 25 percent tariffs on Chinese products including aerospace, communications technology and machinery and said Washington will step up restrictions on Chinese investment in key U.S. technology sectors.Trump administration officials have identified as potential targets 1,300 product lines worth about $48 billion. That list will then be open to a 30-day comment period for businesses.Beijing reported a trade surplus of $275.8 billion with the United States last year, or two-thirds of its global total. Washington reports different figures that put the gap at a record $375.2 billion.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce announcement (in Chinese with link to list of affected products): http://gss.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/zhengcefabu/201804/t20180401_2857769.html
HARTFORD, Conn.   Curt Deane says his grandfather would be thrilled to know that a century after his service in World War I, people have not forgotten the heroics of his dog, Stubby.A new animated film based on the true story of the decorated war dog, "Sgt. Stubby: An American Hero" opens April 13.Director Richard Lanni says he tried to be as authentic as possible when telling the story of the small stray who was adopted in 1917 by Deane\'s grandfather, J. Robert Conroy, of New Britain, while he was training in New Haven.Conroy was able to smuggle Stubby aboard a ship taking soldiers to Europe and, as the story goes, the Boston Terrier mix became the mascot of the 102nd Regiment by charming officers with his ability to salute, a trick which Conroy taught him.Stubby was never made a sergeant, Deane said. But he did have many documented exploits, earning a medal that was presented to the dog by famed Gen. John Pershing."Before Stubby was a cartoon, he was a real dog, and he really did some amazing things," Deane said.Stubby was in the trenches during 17 battles, where he was injured in a gas attack and later used his keen nose to give troops early warning of chemical shellings, said Christine Pittsley, who manages the Connecticut State Library\'s World War I preservation project. He even had his own custom-made gas mask.He also would stand by injured soldiers on the battlefield and alert medics by barking. He was even credited with capturing a German soldier he discovered behind the Allied lines, biting him on the rear end and holding on until help arrived, said Pittsley, who helped filmmakers research Stubby\'s story.He also would visit wounded soldiers, including Cpl. Conroy, in field hospitals."What I think meant the most to my grandfather is that Stubby took some of the edge off what was a horrific war," said Deane. "There was just an absolute comfort that soldiers got from seeing him. He was, in fact, the first service dog."After he returned from the war, Stubby became famous and toured the country. He posed for photos with celebrities and veterans and met three presidents, Deane said.Stubby died in 1926. His hide was placed over a plaster cast and is on display at the Smithsonian Institution\'s National Museum of American History in Washington D.C., part of an exhibit called "The Price of Freedom: Americans at War."Kathleen Golden, who curates that exhibit, said Stubby is popular, especially with teachers who are able to use his story as a way to begin the discussion of the Great War with young students."Children can relate to the story of a dog who stowed away and has all these exploits," she said. "It\'s much more interesting to them then just hearing about soldiers and battles."Later this month, Pittsley will travel to France with a plush Stubby doll, documenting on social media as she visits the places where Stubby and the 102nd Regiment\'s 26th Infantry Division (the Yankee Division), were deployed."I want people to get a little more interested in the war," she said. "I\'m hoping this film helps people take another look at the war, especially within their own families and get some of those great intergenerational conversations going."Lanni says that is also the hope of the filmmakers, who also have partnered with Humane Society of the United States and approximately 90 other regional and national animal organizations to help promote the adoption of stray dogs."We have educators en masse making block bookings to take their kids to this film," Lanni said. "We really believe Stubby can be a force force for good."There will be a Connecticut premiere of the movie April 8 in New Haven. The film features the voices of Logan Lerman, Helena Bonham Carter and Gerard Depardieu.
PALM BEACH, Fla.  President Trump, blaming Democrats and the Mexican government for an increasingly dangerous flow of illegal immigrants, unleashed a series of fiery tweets on Sunday in which he vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.Minutes after wishing the nation a happy Easter Sunday, Mr. Trump denounced liberal laws that he said were preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their jobs. He said that Republicans should use the nuclear option to sidestep Democratic opposition in the Senate and enact tough laws NOW.It was unclear whether the presidents tweets represented any change in his immigration policy, or were just the sort of venting he is known to do after reading a newspaper article or seeing a television program. The president, who spent much of his holiday weekend golfing with supporters and watching television, was apparently reacting to a Fox and Friends segment on immigration that had aired minutes before.Whatever his intention, Mr. Trumps Twitter outburst captured the fickle tendencies that have driven his policy positions on immigration. On one hand, he has suggested at times that he is open to extending citizenship to millions of undocumented people. On the other hand, he has denounced those who have entered the country illegally as brutal criminals and raged about lax enforcement that he said had allowed immigrants to pour into the country.In his tweets, Mr. Trump referred to caravans of immigrants heading north toward the United States-Mexico border  a subject that was addressed on the Fox program. A group of hundreds of Central Americans has been traveling through Mexico toward the United States, where some hope to seek asylum or sneak across the border. A reporter for BuzzFeed has been traveling with the group as it makes its way north.As he walked into church in Palm Beach on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump did not respond to a question from reporters about whether his tweets meant that he would no longer support any deal for the young immigrants protected by the DACA program. But he said that Mexico has got to help us at the border, and a lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA.The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, gave protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. The program requires immigrants to have resided in the United States since 2007, meaning any crossing the border now would not be eligible.Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program, but courts have blocked his decision. He has said he is open to negotiating with Democrats on it, but has repeatedly backed away from potential deals that he argues do not include immigration changes that are tough enough.Outside the church on Sunday, the president said the Democrats blew it after having had a great chance.But well have to take a look, he added.Several Democrats challenged the idea that they were at fault for a breakdown in negotiations.NO MORE DACA DEAL?!! Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota wrote on Twitter. You were never doing a DACA deal. Your actions gave you away: cancelling DACA with no plan, making racist comments about Black/Brown immigrants, ejecting several by bipartisan deals. You didnt fool anybody.Representative Dwight Evans, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said on Twitter that DACA recipients were students, military service members, teachers, scientists, doctors, and lawyers  they are integral members of our community.Mr. Evans said the presidents comments were simply unacceptable.The presidents remarks also drew a rebuke from a high-profile member of his own party. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio wrote on Twitter: A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesnt take hope from innocent children who call America home.Mr. Trump directed an equal measure of anger at Mexico, saying the country was doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. He said Mexican leaders must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA.NEED WALL! he added.It was far from the first time that Mr. Trump has threatened to scrap Nafta as he pushes to change American trade policies that he says have hurt the United States economy and cost the country large numbers of jobs. The United States, Mexico and Canada are locked in difficult negotiations over a revamping of the trade pact.The presidents tweets seemed at odds with some unifying steps taken last week by members of his administration: The homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, met with President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico to discuss ways to work together on security and trade issues, according to a description of the conversation released by the Department of Homeland Security.But Mr. Trump may have been hearing a harder-line administration voice over the weekend. He was accompanied to his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, by Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations tough stance on immigration.The president, in his tweets, criticized what he called Catch & Release, a practice in which detained undocumented immigrants are sometimes released as they wait for a hearing before an immigration judge. In some cases, they are released because the government has nowhere to house them.Critics say the practice  which, contrary to the presidents tweet, is not enshrined in law  gives the immigrants an opening to skip their hearing and settle undetected in the country. The Trump administration has declared an end to the practice, though it may take a while before significant changes are carried out.Mr. Trumps tweets on Sunday echoed remarks on Fox and Friends by Brandon Judd, the president of the National Border Patrol Council, whom the president has praised in the past.Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate, they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want, Mr. Judd said on the program. They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program thatll allow us to hold them for a long time.Mr. Judd also said that the catch and release policy was helping to lure the caravan of Central Americans to the United States.A representative for a group called Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, said that it would take four to six weeks before it reached the United States-Mexico border, and that the number of participants would be significantly smaller by then.Most people are likely to drop out of the caravan in Mexico, rather than journey all the way to the border, the representative said, because they know they would be turned back by American border officials.Many of them know they wont qualify for asylum. They are afraid of being detained, said Roberto Corona, the groups communications director, adding that most of them just wanted to reach Mexico, where they plan to speak with members of that countrys Congress.Migrants who cannot prove that they face persecution or that their lives are endangered in their home country are unlikely to be allowed to remain in the United States. The Trump administration has also sought to increase detentions to deter would-be migrants.
TRADEThe Trump administration is expected this week to announce the list of Chinese products that will be hit with tariffs over what the administration has called the countrys theft of intellectual property. Mr. Trump has said the levies will affect at least $50 billion in imported goods and will most likely focus on cutting-edge tech products of the kind that United States fears losing out on to China. Americans are more likely to feel the impact of these tariffs than those applied to steel and aluminum in March, because they will probably hit consumer products found on store shelves, rather than raw materials used by manufacturers. Natalie KitroeffECONOMYThe Federal Reserve Bank of New York will begin publishing a new short-term market interest rate on Tuesday. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or S.O.F.R., was created to wean the worlds financial markets off the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, a benchmark rate that currently serves as the basis for hundreds of trillions of dollars of financial instruments  from interest rate swaps to credit card and mortgage debt  that incorporate floating interest rates. Since the 2008 financial crisis, policymakers and financial institutions alike have wanted to find a replacement for Libor, as the process for setting the rate has been vulnerable to manipulation. The New York Feds new rate is based on the rates in the active market for a kind of short term-loan known as a repurchase agreement, or repo, which uses Treasury securities as collateral. Matt PhillipsREGULATIONBy Wednesday, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees in Britain must publish figures showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. The requirement to submit this data to the government has put pressure on companies to explain the differences, which are often a result of fewer women in management and more women in lower-paid levels or occupations. EasyJet, one of the companies that has already filed, reported a 52 percent pay gap and its chief executive cut his salary by 34,000 pounds to match his female predecessors earnings. The filings have fueled debate over pay for women, which has been under greater scrutiny since the British Broadcasting Corporation attracted high-profile criticism for its pay practices. Amie TsangECONOMYLast months jobs report was a barn burner: Employers added 313,000 jobs in February, the most in one month since 2016, and the strong labor market drew hundreds of thousands of Americans into the work force. Marchs data, due from the Labor Department on Friday, is unlikely to match those highs. Still, all signs point to the job market  and the economy, in general  remaining strong. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected the report would show a gain of 189,000 jobs and a decline in the unemployment rate to 4 percent, which would represent the best mark since 2000. And in good news for workers, economists expect a modest pickup in wage growth, which was sluggish in February and has been weak for much of the nearly nine-year-long recovery. Ben CasselmanJerome H. Powell will make his first speech outside Washington as the chairman of the Federal Reserve on Friday, choosing an itinerary that demonstrates his concern for business and entrepreneurship. Mr. Powell will tour a manufacturing incubator in Chicago on Friday afternoon, after giving a speech on the economic outlook at the Economic Club of Chicago. Jim TankersleyINTERNATIONALCrown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia has met with President Trump, business leaders, journalists, technology executives and even rabbis on his whirlwind multiweek tour of the United States. He will finish up his trip on Saturday in Houston, the global energy capital, with visits to Saudi Aramco facilities, including a technology center and a refinery outside the city. Clifford Krauss
Gen. Efran Ros Montt, who as dictator of Guatemala in the 1980s ordered fierce tactics to suppress a guerrilla insurgency and was later convicted of genocide and crimes against humanity, died on Sunday in Guatemala City. He was 91.The cause was a heart attack, according to his lawyers, Jaime Hernndez and Luis Rosales. The general had dementia and had suffered lung and heart problems in recent years.In the panoply of commanders who turned much of Central America into a killing field in the 1980s, General Ros Montt was one of the most murderous. He was convicted in 2013 of trying to exterminate the Ixil ethnic group, a Mayan Indian community whose villages were wiped out by his forces.A Guatemalan judge found that the general had known about the systematic massacres, in the hillside hamlets of the El Quich department, and had done nothing to stop them or the aerial bombardment of refugees who had fled to the mountains.The conviction, seen as a landmark in human rights law, was overturned shortly afterward. At his death he was being retried in absentia.But the general was also a paradox. He began his political career as a reformer and became an evangelical preacher and teetotaler. Though reviled by many, he was a hero to others who believed his beans and bullets policy had helped keep Guatemala from falling under the power of Marxist-led guerrillas.President Ronald Reagan was General Ros Montts most prominent admirer. After meeting him in 1982, Mr. Reagan said the general was getting a bum rap on human rights.I know that President Ros Montt is a man of great personal integrity and commitment, he said. I know he wants to improve the quality of life for all Guatemalans and to promote social justice. My administration will do all it can to support his progressive efforts.Jos Efran Ros Montt was born on June 16, 1926, in the highland town of Huehuetenango. He joined the army as a young man and was trained at the United States Army School of the Americas in the Panama Canal Zone.Guatemala has long been under the shadow of American influence. The leftist president Jacobo Arbenz was overthrown in a C.I.A.-backed coup in 1954, an event in which General Ros Montt, then a young junior military officer, played a minor role.In 1970, he became army chief of staff, but lost his post as a result of political rivalries and was sent to Washington to join the faculty of the Inter-American Defense College.General Ros Montt returned to Guatemala in 1973. The next year he ran for president as the candidate of a coalition supported by the center-left Christian Democrats. He lost after what was widely seen as fraud directed by military commanders. He was then sent out of the country as military attach in Spain.In the late 1970s, after returning to Guatemala, General Ros Montt reinvented himself. He took a Dale Carnegie course in human relations, abandoned Roman Catholicism, became a preacher in the California-based Church of the Word, and struck up friendships with American evangelists, including Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson.With his slicked-back hair, bushy mustache, charismatic speaking style and reputation for personal rectitude, General Ros Montt built an enthusiastic following. On March 23, 1982, he and a handful of other officers staged a successful coup. He became head of a three-man junta.By that time, leftist guerrillas had seized power in Nicaragua and were mounting strong campaigns in El Salvador and Guatemala. Determined to crush the Guatemalan insurgency, General Ros Montt intensified the scorched-earth campaign that had been waged by his predecessor, Gen. Romeo Lucas Garca. In his first five months in power, according to Amnesty International, soldiers killed more than 10,000 peasants.Thousands more disappeared. Hundreds of thousands fled their homes, many seeking refuge across the border in Mexico. Nearly all victims were indigenous people of Mayan extraction.General Ros Montt liked to say that a true Christian carried the Bible in one hand and a rifle in the other.If you are with us, we will feed you, he told Guatemalan peasants. If not, we will kill you.Rival officers deposed General Ros Montt in a coup on Aug. 8, 1983, after he had effectively ruled as dictator for 17 months. He remained a public figure, however, running for president in 1990 and 2003. Supporters portrayed him as incorruptible, and said he had brought a measure of peace to a country that was careening toward anarchy.General Ros Montt served several terms in Congress, which gave him immunity from prosecution. When his last term expired in 2012, he lost that immunity.By then, advances toward civilian democracy in Guatemala had made it feasible to indict him. An exhaustive truth commission investigation provided much evidence. More came from the excavation of mass graves.General Ros Montts trial opened in January 2013. He and his former chief of intelligence were charged with responsibility for massacres in 15 Ixil Maya villages in which 1,771 unarmed men, women, and children were killed.The general, who was then 86, protested his innocence.I never did it, he testified at his trial. Of everything that has been said here, there has never been any evidence of my participation.In pronouncing her verdict after a five-month trial, Judge Yasmn Barrios said she was completely convinced of General Ros Montts guilt. She sentenced him to 80 years in prison.Relatives of victims who packed the courtroom, many wearing colorful Maya clothing, erupted in cheers of Justice! and Yes, it was genocide! The generals co-defendant was acquitted.For Guatemala it broke ground that these people are no longer untouchable, Jo-Marie Burt, a Latin America expert at the Schar School of Policy and Government at George Mason University, said of the trial. The Ros Montt trial was another example of Latin America leading the way in showing that it is possible to bring war criminals to trial and to bring some measure of reparation to the victims, and to rewrite the historical record so that its a more accurate reflection of what happened and who was responsible.General Ros Montt is survived by his wife, Mara Teresa; a son, Enrique, who served as army chief of staff but resigned after being charged with embezzlement; and a daughter, Zury, a former member of Congress who is married to a Republican former member of the United States Congress, Gerald C. Weller. Another son, Homero, a military doctor, was killed in 1982 when guerrillas shot down a helicopter in which he was traveling.Consider the thousands of unarmed men, women and children killed by the army while he sermonized about morality, and he is a monster, wrote David Stoll, a professor of anthropology at Middlebury College in Vermont. Consider the hopes invested in him by many Guatemalans, including poverty-stricken Catholic peasants, and he becomes a hero of mythic proportions.
WASHINGTON  Once described as an ill-equipped band of insurgents, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces across Afghanistan using night-vision goggles and lasers that United States military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market.The devices allow the Taliban to maneuver on forces under the cover of darkness as they track the whirling blades of coalition helicopters, the infrared lasers on American rifles, or even the bedtime movements of local police officers.With this new battlefield visibility, the Taliban more than doubled nighttime attacks from 2014 to 2017, according to one United States military official who described internal Pentagon data on the condition of anonymity. The number of Afghans who were wounded or killed during nighttime attacks during that period nearly tripled.That has forced American commanders to rethink the limited access they give Afghan security forces to the night-vision devices. Commanders now worry that denying the expensive equipment to those forces puts them at a technological disadvantage, with potentially lethal consequences.For years, American commanders have been reluctant to give night-vision equipment to rank-and-file Afghan soldiers and police officers out of concern of widespread corruption among those forces. The devices  headsets and infrared lasers  are usually given only to elite Afghan commandos and police special mission units, according to American military officials.As some of this equipment falls into Taliban hands, the militants are joining a larger trend, said David W. Barno, a retired lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005. Advanced equipment, such as drones and precision weapons, is being seized by other extremist groups in other global conflict zones, he said.Its going to be a problem, Mr. Barno said, and its going to change how we operate.With the spread of the devices, infantry units on patrols have been told not to use certain marking devices that can be seen only by night-vision equipment. Helicopter crews have been made distinctly aware that their aircraft are no longer cloaked by darkness.In one case last November, Taliban fighters wearing night-vision goggles attacked a police outpost in Farah Province, in western Afghanistan. By the time the predawn assault was over, eight Afghan officers lay dead in their beds, Haji Abdul Rahman Aka, the elder of the provinces Pule Regi area, said at the time. Only one Afghan officer survived.The frequency and ferocity of the nighttime Taliban attacks are linked to attempts by Afghan forces, based in small checkpoints across the country, to hold territory that has been wrested away from the militants.Previously unreported documents, obtained by The New York Times, underline concerns about the Talibans growing sophistication on the battlefield after 16 years of war  and American commanders efforts to stunt it.The documents show that the American military has begun to send older models of night-vision hardware to regular Afghan Army units. Those headsets cost an estimated $3,000 each, officials said.One of the first batches of night-vision equipment for conventional units in southern Afghanistan, part of a monthslong pilot program, was sent to the embattled 215th Corps in Helmand Province in the spring of 2016.Only 161 of the 210 devices were returned, according to the military documents obtained by The Times, and the equipment was not effectively used, in part because the forces were not properly trained to use it.Afghan troops said the missing devices were reported as battle losses, but could not support that claim with any proof or records to explain where or when they were left behind, according to the documents.At the time, the commander of the 215th Corps was Maj. Gen. M. Moein Faqir. He was later arrested on sweeping corruption charges that included misuse of food money meant for his troops.Last year, and with better results, night-vision equipment was sent to the 205th Corps, located around Kandahar, the military documents showed.Five devices were lost between July and December, when the program ended, according to the documents. Over the summer and fall, the Afghan National Army suffered 15 percent fewer casualties around Kandahar than it had during the same period in 2016.The documents credited the night-vision equipment for the marked reduction, concluding that the devices are becoming an integral part of base defense plans. The American military is now planning to equip the unit with roughly 2,500 night-vision goggles as part of what the documents described as a concept for a permanent program.Despite those measured successes, it remains unclear if the American military will give the devices to the rest of the Afghan Army.The American military headquarters in Kabul has said it equips only Special Operations units in the Afghan Army and police forces with night-vision technology.Capt. Tom Gresback, a spokesman for United States forces in Afghanistan, declined to comment on the plans to distribute the devices to the Afghan National Army, as outlined in the military documents. He said American commanders would provide Afghan national defense and security forces with the resources necessary to promote security throughout Afghanistan.But some American advisers closer to the ground fight are already trying to get the technology for their Afghan counterparts, according to a United States official. He said that would require a decision made through the leadership in Kabul and the Pentagon to allow American commanders to distribute the devices to even more Afghan security forces.With the night-vision devices, Taliban fighters have been able to approach Afghan bases nearly undetected before attacking.Initially, such ambushes were attributed to Taliban forces known as Red Units located in Afghanistans southern provinces. But over the last year, the night-vision devices have frequently turned up in the countrys north and east, according to two American military officials, signaling a widespread distribution into other groups of Taliban fighters.Those officials said the Taliban were using both tightly controlled American-made devices and gear that is widely available for purchase. In some cases, American officials said, the equipment was left on the battlefield by United States or Afghan troops, including those who were killed in action.In others, Afghan soldiers are believed to have sold the devices to the extremists.That was disputed by Gen. Dawlat Waziri, who until recently served as spokesman for the Afghan Ministry of Defense. He said all night-vision equipment provided to Afghan troops by the American military had been accounted for.No case of night vision sold by our soldiers to the Taliban has been reported, General Waziri said.Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the Taliban, said fighters obtained night-vision devices after attacking Afghan bases or capturing members of the Afghan security forces.Rank-and-file Afghan police officers are particularly under threat by increasing numbers of deadly nighttime attacks, said one of the American military officials. Those units are spread farther into sparsely populated areas across Afghanistan than are army soldiers.Officers with the Afghan National Police, especially in the south, have been making desperate requests for the equipment for months, the official said. The police are part of the Ministry of Interior, which is suspected of rampant corruption.In Helmand Province, Marine Corps advisers are helping a request by the 505th Zone of the Afghan National Police to receive night-vision devices, Col. C.J. Douglas, the head of the Marines police advising component there, said in an email.It is unclear if the Afghan police unit will get them.

SEOUL   South Korean exports grew less than expected in March, adding to worries about the outlook for global demand amid growing fears of a U.S-China trade war and a resurgence in protectionism.Booming demand for South Korean memory chips and computers across China and Europe lifted March exports, while shipments to the United States fell amid rising U.S. protectionism, resulting in a smaller trade surplus with Washington.March exports grew 6.1 percent to $51.6 billion from a year earlier, below 7.5 percent seen in a Reuters survey but outperforming a revised 3.9 percent expansion in February, government data showed on Sunday.Imports increased 5 percent to $44.7 billion, less than the 6.2 percent growth economists had expected and compared with a revised 14.9 percent in February.That resulted in a trade surplus of $6.9 billion, up from $3.2 billion in the previous month.The soft February readings were likely skewed by the long Lunar New Year holiday which fell in the middle of the month this year but in late January last year.Exports grew 10.3 percent in January-March combined from a year earlier, slower than the 14.6 percent expansion seen during the same period in 2017."Exports growth is steady, it\'s likely to continue to post single-digit expansion. But there\'s dangers of a global trade war, a downside risk to Korea exports," said Park Sang-hyun, a Seoul-based economist at HI Investment & Securities.Shipments to the United States declined 1 percent in the first 20 days of March from a year earlier even as Korean memory chips sold well, as American demand for South Korean cars were sluggish.Exports to China and the European Union jumped 16.6 percent and 24.2 percent, respectively.South Korea\'s trade surplus with the United States stood at $1.05 billion as of March this year, down by about 41.5 percent from the same time last year amid ongoing efforts by Seoul to import more from the United States in the past year.Korea\'s trade ministry data shows that a drop in car exports combined with a steady increase in imports of U.S. beef, oranges and aircraft engines have resulted in a decline in the trade surplus with the United States.The Bank of Korea expects the trade-reliant economy to expand by 3 percent this year after 3.1 percent growth in 2017, the fastest expansion since it grew 3.3 percent in 2014.However, policymakers are wary of risks to exports as the Trump administration begins rolling out a series of punitive trade measures which would hit countries such as South Korea and its biggest trading partner, China.The United States and South Korea agreed last week to revise their six-year-old free trade agreement with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and give more access for U.S. automakers and drugmakers to the South Korean market.The deal also lifted the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on imports of steel from South Korea in exchange for quotas that will effectively cut U.S. imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent. Without the agreement in place, the tariffs would take effect on May 1.But President Donald Trump said on Thursday he may hold up the trade agreement reached with South Korea until after a deal is finalised with North Korea on denuclearization, increasing uncertainties for the trade outlook.(Reporting by Cynthia Kim; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)
BEIJING   U.S. policy toward China has been misdirected for decades and policymakers are now recalibrating ties, Senator Elizabeth Warren told reporters during a visit to Beijing amid heightened trade tensions between the world\'s two largest economies.Warren\'s visit comes as U.S. President Donald Trump prepares to implement more than $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods meant to punish China over U.S. allegations that Beijing systematically misappropriated American intellectual property.The Massachusetts Democrat and Trump foe, who has been touted as a potential 2020 presidential candidate despite rejecting such speculation, has said U.S. trade policy needs a rethink and that she is not afraid of tariffs.After years of mistakenly assuming economic engagement would lead to a more open China, the U.S. government was waking up to Chinese demands for U.S. companies to give up their know-how in exchange for access to its market, Warren said."The whole policy was misdirected. We told ourselves a happy-face story that never fit with the facts," Warren told reporters on Saturday, during a three-day visit to China that began on Friday."Now U.S. policymakers are starting to look more aggressively at pushing China to open up the markets without demanding a hostage price of access to U.S. technology," she said.Warren discussed trade issues and North Korea with senior Chinese officials, including Liu He, the vice premier for economic policy, Yang Jiechi, a top diplomat, and the Minister of Defence Wei Fenghe.She said she told officials she met that Americans cannot support a more integrated economic system with China if it "fails to respect basic human rights".China\'s ruling Communist Party has tightened controls on society since President Xi Jinping assumed power, from online censorship to a crackdown on activists and non-governmental organizations, though Chinese officials routinely deny accusations of rights abuses.Warren also made stops in Japan and South Korea, and she said that U.S. allies in Asia were having trouble understanding Trump\'s "chaotic" foreign policy.North Korea\'s Kim Jong Un and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war over North Korea\'s tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement last month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Warren said success for that meeting would mean getting a commitment to discuss verifiable steps to reduce North Korea\'s nuclear threat, which would require careful negotiations from a State Department whose role has been vastly diminished under Trump, with several high-profile posts unoccupied.Trump\'s efforts to "take the legs out from underneath our diplomatic corps" are a "terrible mistake", she said.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)
VATICAN CITY   Pope Francis, in his Easter address on Sunday, called for peace in the Holy Land two days after 15 Palestinians were killed on the Israeli-Gaza border, saying the conflict there "does not spare the defenseless".The pope made his appeal in his "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) message from the central balcony of St. Peter\'s Basilica to tens of thousands of people in the flower-bedecked square below where he earlier celebrated a Mass.He also appealed for an end to the "carnage" in Syria, calling for humanitarian aid to be allowed to enter, and for peace in South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo.Francis appeared to refer directly to the Gaza violence last Friday, calling for "reconciliation for the Holy Land, also experiencing in these days the wounds of ongoing conflict that do not spare the defenseless."Israel\'s defense minister has rejected calls for an inquiry into the killings by the military during a Palestinian demonstration that turned violent at the Gaza-Israel border.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Federica Mogherini, the European Union\'s foreign policy chief, and other leaders have called for an independent investigation into the bloodshed.The Pope also begged for peace for "the entire world, beginning with the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria, whose people are worn down by an apparently endless war.""This Easter, may the light of the risen Christ illumine the consciences of all political and military leaders, so that a swift end may be brought to the carnage in course ... " he said.He spoke a day after the Syrian army command said it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta. Tens of thousands of people have now evacuated once-bustling towns in the suburbs east of the capital, which had nearly 2 million people before the start of the conflict and were major commercial and industrial hubs.Francis called for international assistance for Venezuela, so that more people would not have to abandon their homeland because of the economic and political crisis.He hoped the "fruits of dialogue" would advance peace and harmony on the Korean peninsula, where the two sides are set to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, after North Korean leader Kim Jong Un pledged his commitment to denuclearisation.Francis, celebrating his sixth Easter as Roman Catholic leader since his election in 2013, urged his listeners to work for an end to the "so many acts of injustice" in the world.He prayed the power of Jesus\' message "bears fruits of hope and dignity where there are deprivation and exclusion, hunger and unemployment, where there are migrants and refugees - so often rejected by todays culture of waste - and victims of the drug trade, human trafficking and contemporary forms of slavery".(Reporting by Philip Pullella; Editing by Mark Potter)
VATICAN CITY   On Christianity\'s most joyful day, Pope Francis called for peace in a world marked by war and conflict, "beginning with the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria" and extending to Israel, where 15 Palestinians were killed on the Israeli-Gaza border two days before Easter Sunday.Francis reflected on the power of Christianity\'s core belief  that Jesus rose from the dead following crucifixion  in his formal "Urbi et Orbi" Easter message delivered from the balcony of St. Peter\'s Basilica to a packed square of some 80,000 faithful below.The pontiff said the message of the resurrection offers hope in a world "marked by so many acts of injustice and violence," including parts of Africa affected by "hunger, endemic conflicts and terrorism.""It bears fruits of hope and dignity where there are deprivation and exclusion, hunger and unemployment; where there are migrants and refugees, so often rejected by today\'s culture of waste, and victims of the drug trade, human trafficking and contemporary forms of slavery," the pope said.Francis called for a "swift end" to the seven years of carnage in Syria, demanding that aid be delivered to the war-torn country\'s needy and calling for "fitting conditions for the returned and the displaced."The pope also urged reconciliation in Israel, a place "experiencing in these days the wounds of ongoing conflict that do not spare the defenseless." His remarks followed the Friday deaths of Palestinian protesters who charged toward Gaza\'s border with Israel, the area\'s deadliest violence in four years.Turning to Asia, Francis expressed hope that talks underway could bring peace to the Korean peninsula, urging "those who are directly responsible act with wisdom and discernment to promote the good of the Korean people."The pope also urged more steps to bring harmony to divided Ukraine, called for peace in South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo and appealed for the world not to forget victims of conflict, especially children."May there be no lack of solidarity with all those forced to leave their native lands and lacking the bare essentials for living," said Francis, who has often championed the cause of migrants and refugees.The church\'s first pontiff from Latin America cited in particular the problems in Venezuela. He said he hoped the country would "find a just, peaceful and humane way to surmount quickly the political and humanitarian crises that grip it."Earlier, tens of thousands of faithful underwent heavy security checks to enter St. Peter\'s Square to participate in Easter Sunday Mass celebrated by the pope, followed by his "Urbi et Orbi"  message ("to the city and the world.")Security precautions included bag checks and metal detector wands for everyone entering the square, while the main avenue leading to the Vatican, as well as smaller adjoining streets, were closed to traffic.Francis opened Easter festivities with a tweet to his global flock: "Our faith is born on Easter morning: Jesus is alive! The experience is at the heart of the Christian message."Elsewhere, hundreds of Christians marked Easter by flocking to Jerusalem\'s Church of the Holy Sepulchre, built on the site where they believe Jesus was crucified, buried and resurrected.
(Reuters) - Mexico\'s presidential front-runner launches his campaign near the U.S. border on Sunday, amid tension over U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plan to put a wall between the two countries.As the July 1 election approaches, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and three other candidates will face off over issues including corruption, drug violence and trade.Here are some facts on the presidential contenders:ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADORTwo-time runner-up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration. Trump\'s pledge to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexican border was a main theme of his 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, Lopez Obrador, 64, has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign. His slogan is "peace and love," and he says he is not looking for revenge against the current government.But the former Mexico City mayor has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital\'s new airport, spooking investors.When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organised a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.RICARDO ANAYAThe youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over the presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39-year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country\'s governorships for the first time in its history.His main proposals include a universal minimum income and an international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta, where his wife and three children have lived, and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.Anaya denied the allegations.He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming president of the federal lower house in 2013.JOSE ANTONIO MEADEAt the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs, including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance, under PRI and PAN governments.His critics blame him for a hike in gasoline prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.MARGARITA ZAVALAZavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico\'s first-ever female president.In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN\'s executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon\'s policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.(Reporting by Mexico City Newsroom; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
QASR AL-YAHUD BAPTISM SITE, West Bank  One by one, the pilgrims plunged under the cool, khaki-toned waters of the Jordan River, wading in from the Israeli-controlled western bank to rededicate their faith at the spot where John the Baptist is believed to have baptized Jesus.The river here is narrow and lazy, lined with vivid green bulrushes and dotted with palm trees.It was freezing cold! exclaimed Laura Ng, 58, a member of a Christian Bible study group from Singapore, as she emerged from the murky water in a purple T-shirt. But when I got immersed, I felt cleansed all over.On the opposite bank, a few gentle swim strokes away, a smaller group of tourists stood on the Jordanian side and took photos on their cellphones.In the days before Easter, Holy Land tour groups were arriving by the busload at the Israeli-run baptism site known as Qasr al-Yahud. Arabic for the Castle of the Jews, the name is said to be a reference to the castle-like appearance of a nearby Greek Orthodox monastery and to Jewish belief, which holds that this is where Joshua led the Israelites into the Promised Land.Located a few miles north of the Dead Sea and east of the town of Jericho in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, the baptism site drew about 570,000 visitors last year, according to the Israeli authorities. Yet the peaceful scenes of pilgrimage today belie the areas turbulent history as a battle zone.The site remained off-limits for decades after Israel captured the West Bank from Jordan in the Arab-Israeli War of 1967. Israel and Jordan made peace in 1994, and Israel has since renovated a small portion of the site, opening it to the public in 2011.But armed Israeli soldiers still patrol here to make sure nobody crosses the river to or from the Jordanian side. To get to the water, pilgrims have to get through a military zone, sticking to a narrow path surrounded by minefields.The anti-personnel and anti-tank mines were planted by Israeli military battalions after the 1967 war as part of a new defense line. In mid-February, an Israeli military jeep went over a land mine buried in the sand here; seven soldiers were injured. The blackened hulk of the vehicle is visible from the road lined with danger signs.The churches and compounds of eight denominations built around the 1930s in the area were abandoned five decades ago and remain out of bounds.Israeli Army engineers are believed to have booby-trapped the windows and doors of the sanctuaries and monks cells, mostly belonging to the Eastern Orthodox churches, because they were being used as cover for Palestinian fighters infiltrating from Jordan to attack Israelis.Now, in an effort to rehabilitate and open up the rest of the site, the Halo Trust, a British-American mine clearance charity, has begun a mine-clearing operation with the cooperation of the Israeli National Mine Action Authority, working under Israels Ministry of Defense, and the Palestinian Mine Action Center under the auspices of the Palestinian Authority.The project is being jointly funded by the Ministry Defense and Halo, which has raised more than $1 million so far, and it will probably take at least a year.Despite the political awkwardness of working in occupied territory, the Palestinians and Israelis share an interest in promoting Christian tourism. Both Israel and the West Bank boast major Christian sites like Nazareth and Bethlehem, and the pilgrim trade is lucrative.Experts estimate that there could be as many as 3,000 mines and other explosive devices littering the site, an area less than half a square mile, as well as other war detritus like unexploded rockets, mortars and artillery rounds.War is a way of achieving a political objective, said James Cowan, the chief executive of the Halo Trust. Land mines remain lethal for decades after that political purpose has passed.Mr. Cowan, who was a major general in the British Army, described the anti-personnel mines as being about the size of a Camembert cheese and the anti-tank mines as being around the size of a 12-inch pizza.The idea is to restore the properties to the churches, allowing monks  and pilgrims  to return.The work, which started on March 11 in the southern Ethiopian Church compound, is painstaking. The various Israeli units passing through left no record or maps of where they put the anti-personnel mines, and commanders who could be tracked down could not remember with any precision. Recently, a multinational team of Israelis, Palestinians and Georgians worked gingerly, using detectors and armored mechanized equipment.The churches have time, said Ronen Shimoni, the Halo Trusts program manager in the West Bank, standing by an abandoned Israeli military post atop a hill with a commanding view in the already searing heat of spring. They will remain here after all of us.The expansion of Qasr al-Yahud may heat up the competition between the two banks of the Jordan River, over which is the authentic baptism site. The Jordanian side, which boasts a church complex with a golden dome, is known as Al Maghtas, Arabic for baptism, or as Bethany beyond the Jordan.In 2012, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or Unesco, designated the eastern, Jordanian bank as a World Heritage Site, declaring it is believed to be the location of Jesuss baptism.Though remains of ancient churches, chapels and monks cells dating to the Roman and Byzantine periods have been found on the eastern side, there does not appear to be any archaeological evidence on either side from the first century.Matthew 3:13 describes Jesus coming to the Jordan to be baptized by John from the Galilee, in what is now northern Israel. An apparent reference to the eastern bank comes in John 1:28, which states: These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.But Qasr al-Yahud, on the Israeli-controlled side, has already proved more popular with pilgrims. Entry is free and it is close to other Christian sites.Neil Taylor, 63, a tourist from Sussex, England, surveyed the scene by the riverbank as members of a Russian pilgrim group in white robes, available from the souvenir store for $9 a piece, sang praises, then entered the water.Mr. Taylor said he was not fazed by the warnings of minefields and more signs proclaiming Border Ahead.When John the Baptist was baptizing people, I imagine that was pretty chaotic as well, he said. To see the young lady with a machine gun is a little off-putting, he said of an armed Israeli border guard at the waters edge.Brenda Ben, 59, and her husband Michael Ben, 58, Canadians, both took the opportunity to be rebaptized in the Jordan River. They said they had traveled to a lot of crazy places before, including the Democratic Republic of Congo.We came because of our faith, Mrs. Ben said. Its just amazing seeing some of the sites and realizing the presence of God.Dripping wet, Mr. Ben added, Well worry when the sirens go off.
WASHINGTON  The organization at the center of one of the largest fraud scandals in the history of for-profit colleges is planning a comeback.The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools was stripped of its powers in December 2016 amid the collapse of two for-profit university chains, where tens of thousands of students were encouraged to take on hundreds of millions in debt based on false promises, including jobs after graduation.The ordeal left thousands of students stranded, and many have since flooded the Education Department with applications for relief from student loan debt. The Obama administration approved about 32,000 claims totaling $449 million.Now, that same accrediting council is asking to be reinstated by the Trump administration as a federal gatekeeper for hundreds of degree-granting programs and billions of dollars in federal funds.The move comes as the accrediting agency continues to be the target of criticism. Last week, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the outspoken chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, singled it out when he charged that for-profit accreditation boards were running visa mills used by foreign students to come to the United States with minimal scrutiny.Michelle Edwards, the councils president and chief executive, said that two of the schools mentioned in Mr. Grassleys letter had already had their recognition revoked for failing to meet financial requirements, but that the agencys criteria do not focus on matters relating to student visas.The councils prospective return has outraged student and consumer protection advocates, who worry that it would signal that predatory institutions will be allowed to flourish in the for-profit-friendly administration of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.Advising Ms. DeVos are several executives from the for-profit sector, one of whom reportedly helped the council navigate the application process. Ms. DeVos has halted Obama-era regulations that sought to hold for-profit institutions accountable for their poor outcomes, but were denounced by the sector as overly broad and punitive. And she has revamped the process for approving debt relief for defrauded students, granting only some partial relief.If they reverse this decision, it will tell accreditors that you can fight back and politically try to retain your eligibility, said Robert Shireman, a former deputy under secretary at the Education Department who is now a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, a liberal research organization. And more important, it will tell accreditors that there are no consequences if you do a horrible job.Higher education in the United States is largely decentralized, dependent on about 75 regional, national and specialized accrediting agencies to serve as watchdogs for postsecondary institutions that have access to federal student aid. The agencies are relied upon to regularly evaluate the quality of institutions to ensure they comply with federal education law. The accreditors are responsible for flagging and penalizing schools that do not.Most public, private and nonprofit higher education institutions are regionally accredited, while national and specialized accreditors tend to draw for-profit and trade schools. To receive federal financial aid funding, schools must be accredited by an Education Department-recognized agency. The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools was responsible for about 240 institutions that received $4.7 billion in taxpayer money when it came under scrutiny in 2015.For-profit accreditation has faced scrutiny dating back to the early years of the G.I. Bill, when the institutions were accused of preying on veterans who received large sums of federal education funding when they returned from war.But it had been decades since the for-profit sector felt as targeted as it did under the Obama administration, industry leaders say. And they contend that a reinstatement of the banished accrediting council could remedy the unfair treatment meted out by the previous White House. A federal judge recently ruled that the department had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in determining the councils fate.All we have ever asked for is due process and fairness, said Steve Gunderson, a former Republican congressman who leads the trade organization Career Education Colleges and Universities. We now hope the current secretary will recognize the need to work with A.C.I.C.S. and the schools impacted by this ruling.The independent advisory committee that vets accrediting bodies, called the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, will consider the councils application in May, just a few weeks before dozens of schools serving at least 100,000 students that are still operating under its purview will lose accreditation.The chairman of the bipartisan committee is Arthur Keiser, a political appointee who challenged the panels original recommendation to terminate the councils recognition. He also formerly ran a for-profit college, Keiser University, that settled claims of misrepresentation before he sold it to a nonprofit organization started by his family.The Obama administration revoked the agencys accrediting power after it had racked up nearly two dozen violations in federal quality and accountability standards. In a letter rendering its decision, the department said it was not confident that the agency could address all of its problems in one year.Officials at the council say it has made more than 50 improvements.Today, as a result of these changes, we are a fundamentally different agency and, I believe, a better one, Ms. Edwards, the councils president, said in a statement.Consumer protection and student advocates are unconvinced.I think its an awfully bold claim that a fundamentally flawed agency can erase years of misbehavior in a matter of months, said Ben Miller, an Obama administration official who is now the senior director of postsecondary education at the liberal Center for American Progress, and who has tracked the councils progress. It really has the feel as if someone went on a diet for a week and said, Look, Ive completely changed my lifestyle.For years, the accrediting body gave its seal of approval to institutions plagued by complaints, and oversaw for-profit schools that had some of the lowest graduation rates in the country and some of the highest rates of student loan defaults.It accredited Corinthian Colleges even as it was declaring bankruptcy in 2015, and the agency did not pull the accreditation of ITT Technical Institute until after the federal advisory panel recommended the termination of the councils recognition.Ms. Edwards said the organization had overhauled its governance structure to eliminate conflicts of interest. It established an ethics committee, created a group to monitor complaints and identify at-risk institutions, and strengthened data collection by requiring campuses to file quarterly and annual accountability reports.We are ready for the scrutiny because we believe todays A.C.I.C.S. fully meets the criteria to be recognized by the department, she said.In a letter to the Education Department, 20 state attorneys general disagreed. The officials wrote that the council had been found to be out of compliance with federal standards as recently as February 2017, and therefore does not meet the requirement that an agency demonstrate effective compliance for at least two years before seeking initial recognition.Given the gravity of A.C.I.C.S.s recent dereliction and the magnitude of the harm A.C.I.C.S. caused to students and taxpayers, any attempt by A.C.I.C.S. to become nationally recognized once again should be treated with great skepticism by the department, the letter read.The agencys application became public only after a lawsuit by the Century Foundation, and critics who have scrutinized the application said the council failed to demonstrate that it had put in place more rigorous standards. In  a letter to the department, the foundation, which combed through more than 20,000 pages of application materials, said that the bulk of the agencys letters of support had come from institutions that it accredited.But in a break for its application, Judge Reggie B. Walton of United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruled on March 23 that the Obama administration had failed to take into account 36,000 pages of relevant supplemental information as it deliberated the agencys fate in 2016. Judge Walton wrote that former Education Secretary John Kings decision-making process was flawed.The judgment did not overturn the Obama Education Departments decision, or weigh in on whether it was justified, but sent the case to Ms. DeVos to reconsider.The judges action was cheered by for-profit agencies that had long complained that the Obama administration targeted the accrediting organization unfairly.Yes, our sector has had bad schools like every sector of higher education, Mr. Gunderson said. But it is time that everyone across the political spectrum stop, step back and look for ways to work together to establish public policies that treat all sectors of higher education on a fair and equal basis. The ideological wars must end.
LOS ANGELES  Charles H. Rivkin began his Hollywood career in 1988, when Jim Henson hired him to plot a business future for Kermit the Frog.Mr. Hensons unexpected death two years later threw the Muppets into crisis. But Mr. Rivkin pushed the little puppet studio toward the booming cable and DVD businesses, ultimately engineering its sale for $680 million in 2000  $1 billion in todays dollars.A hairpin turn into politics awaited. Mr. Rivkin  polished, almost preternaturally so  became a mega-fund-raiser for the soon-to-be-president, Barack Obama, who named him ambassador to France in 2009. After a celebrated run in Paris, where he was the youngest American envoy since the Eisenhower administration, Mr. Rivkin became an assistant secretary of state.And now Mr. Rivkin, 55, finds himself trying to meld both of those lives  Hollywood insider and Washington influencer  as chairman of the musty Motion Picture Association of America, which runs the byzantine movie rating system and lobbies around the world for the six old-line Hollywood studios (20th Century Fox, Universal, Warner Bros., Disney, Sony and Paramount). He officially took over the organization on Jan. 1, replacing Christopher J. Dodd, the former longtime Democratic senator of Connecticut.Depending on your perspective  and whether or not you see opportunity in upheaval  Mr. Rivkins timing either is perfect or couldnt be worse.There is little doubt about his point of view. Over dinner with a reporter at Bouchon Beverly Hills, he was in such a good mood about returning to moviedom that he broke into song as Gonzo, rasping out a couple of lines from Im Going to Go Back There Someday, a song from The Muppet Movie. Mr. Rivkin then merrily downed an oyster, pinkie in the air, and called his new position possibly the best job in the world.But Hollywood has changed immensely in the time he has been away.Attendance at theaters in the United States and Canada dropped 6 percent in 2017, to a 22-year low. Yet studios are more reliant than ever on the box office. Squeezed by the rise of subscription streaming services like Netflix, the six major studios reported an 18 percent drop in home-video rental and sales revenue, including video-on-demand purchases, in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the 2016 period.Digital TV Research, a British media consultancy, estimated in October that piracy would cost the global movie and television business $37.4 billion in lost revenue this year, an 18 percent increase from 2017. Losses in 2022 were projected to reach $51.6 billion.To cope with these challenges and others, Hollywood is consolidating. Disney will soon absorb Fox. AT&T is fighting the Justice Department in court for the right to acquire Time Warner, which owns Warner Bros. As Amazon, Netflix and even Apple pour resources into original content, more consolidation is expected.Mergers could lead to budget cuts for the nonprofit Motion Picture Association. Under the current setup, the six member studios chip in more than $16 million apiece annually to fund the associations global operations, according to tax filings.The organization, which endured a 20 percent budget cut in 2009 as the studios dealt with the Great Recession, also faces challenges in Washington. Its influence has diminished over the past decade: Silicon Valley stars reign supreme now.I do not think we have punched our weight in terms of influence  the power that we should have, given the jobs we support, said Jeff Shell, chairman of the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, which includes Universal Pictures, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features. Mr. Shell added that the M.P.A.A. is a big, complicated organization and needs an executive to go in and rethink every part as a business  what should be invested in and grown, what should be scaled back.And Mr. Rivkin, who hails from a storied Democratic family (his godfather, Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, wrote a note on a napkin to excuse him from school so that he could attend the partys 1968 national convention), inherits the M.P.A.A. during a culture war. Hollywood personalities  Meryl Streep, Jimmy Kimmel, Kathy Griffin, among others  have attacked President Trump, who has been happy to return fire.Many studio executives, while publicly silent, privately worry that Mr. Trumps position on trade, in particular his aggressive stance toward China, will hurt their profitability. China is fast eclipsing North America as the worlds No. 1 movie market, and studios have been trying to persuade the Chinese government to relax restrictions on film imports.The Office of the United States Trade Representative is leading those negotiations, but Mr. Rivkin also plays a role. As the associations chief, he is effectively Hollywoods global ambassador and its chief Washington crusader. (He does not, however, plan to register as a lobbyist; for that role, Mr. Rivkin hired Gail MacKinnon, a former Time Warner executive who started her career working for Republican lawmakers.)Mr. Rivkin acknowledged that the organization faces challenges big and small, including questions about its identity and its structure. Netflix plans to release 80 original movies this year but is not a member. Should it be? But he spoke about solutions with a confidence that felt genuine, calling the association a dust-covered diamond that can easily shine again.He then began an impassioned recitation of industry data. Did you know, for instance, that more Americans go to the movies than attend professional football, basketball, baseball and hockey games combined? Mr. Rivkin also spoke excitedly about plans, some already in motion, to increase the trade organizations profile, including improved branding, more star-studded events in Washington and livelier social media feeds.Reinvigorated at every level, he said of the association.At the same time, Mr. Rivkin aggressively disputed the notion that Mr. Trump and Hollywood are on opposite sides.President Trump probably knows this industry better than any president since Reagan, he said. I think he understands that entertainment is important both as an economic force  jobs in every single state  and as a projection of American values. Its our soft power. Its showing the world what America is capable of.The film and television industries support 2.1 million jobs in the United States, contribute $134 billion to the economy and account for $16.5 billion in exports, according to Motion Picture Association data.Hollywood has struggled to cast the right person as its cheerleader in chief since 2004, when Jack Valenti retired after 38 years. Mr. Valenti, who worked in the White House for Lyndon B. Johnson, was larger than life. He picked fights, lionized the studio chiefs and fended off lawmakers efforts to limit sex and violence on screen by devising the self-regulating film ratings system.Mr. Valenti was followed by an entertainment outsider, Dan Glickman, secretary of agriculture during the Clinton administration. Mr. Glickman, affable but low key, scored victories, including securing $400 million in government production incentives. But Hollywood never accepted him as one of its own. He left in 2010.Mr. Dodd took over the next year. While making inroads on piracy, he also struggled at times to persuade the six studios to speak with one clear voice on crucial industry matters, including the 2014 cyberattack on Sony Pictures. Michael Lynton, then Sonys chief, was so furious over the organizations lack of public support during the early days of that crisis that he almost canceled Sonys membership.Herding studio chiefs is harder than it used to be. In Mr. Valentis era, the film factories were stand-alone entities whose interests were in lock step. Today, the studios are owned by sprawling conglomerates, which employ their own lobbyists and often have competing interests.Mr. Rivkin, who has been married to the businesswoman Susan Tolson for 28 years (they have two children), has deep political relationships, some of which involve family. His father, William R. Rivkin, who was close to the Kennedys, served as ambassador to Luxembourg, Senegal and Gambia. His brother, Robert, is Chicagos deputy mayor. Mr. Rivkin worked at the State Department under John Kerry, a close friend.At the same time, unlike his two most recent predecessors, Mr. Rivkin knows Hollywood. At the Henson Company, he forged agreements with partners like Sony and Disney. After the Henson Company was sold, he led another boutique studio, WildBrain, where he oversaw production of the hit Nickelodeon series Yo Gabba Gabba!One of Mr. Rivkins cousins, the Democratic fund-raiser and education advocate Jamie Alter Lynton, is married to Mr. Lynton, the former Sony chief.Despite moving in rather grand circles, Mr. Rivkin does not wear his ego on his sleeve, say people who know him well. Charlie was always the Dudley Do-Right of the kids business, said Brown Johnson, Nickelodeons former president of animation, referring to the heroic Rocky and Bullwinkle Show character. So honest. So respectful. A listener.Brian Henson, chairman of the Henson Company and Jim Hensons son, agreed  with a twist.I think that putting his ego aside actually is part of his ego, he said. Charlie wants to be the guy who makes things happen for others.
Under tight security in St. Peters Square in Rome, tens of thousands of worshipers from around the word thronged to a Mass celebrated by Pope Francis on Easter Sunday.The pope began the day with a post on Twitter: Our faith is born on Easter morning: Jesus is alive! The experience is at the heart of the Christian message. He then delivered the papal blessing Urbi et Orbi (To the City and to the World) from the central balcony of St. Peters Basilica.The night before, Francis celebrated an Easter Vigil service at St. Peters, where he baptized eight adults into the Roman Catholic faith, including a Nigerian migrant, John Ogah, called a hero in Italy for foiling a robbery.In his message on Sunday, the pope called for peace in a world marked by war and conflict. He cited a need to end the carnage in the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria.He urged reconciliation in the Middle East and pressed for the fruits of dialogue to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula. He also noted the hunger, endemic conflicts and terrorism suffered by parts of Africa.Francis also touched on the problems in Venezuela, voicing hope that the country would find a just, peaceful and humane way to surmount quickly the political and humanitarian crises that grip it.The pope said the message of the Resurrection offered hope in a world marked by so many acts of injustice and violence.He added: It bears fruits of hope and dignity where there are deprivation and exclusion, hunger and unemployment; where there are migrants and refugees, so often rejected by todays culture of waste, and victims of the drug trade, human trafficking and contemporary forms of slavery.At the  Mass, Francis urged Catholics not to remain paralyzed in the face of injustice, and he challenged them to break out of their routines and to let God in.The Resurrection of Christ is also celebrated in parades, religious ceremonies and through quiet reflection around the world.In Jerusalem, crowds also flocked to the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, built on the site where Christians believe Jesus was crucified, buried and resurrected.In Australia, contemplation of sin and redemption even found a topical example in a scandal involving the national cricket team.Australian cricket has been rocked to the core after three national players conspired to cheat by scuffing the ball with sandpaper during a match against South Africa a week ago.At St. Andrews Cathedral in Sydney, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure  including disgraced sportsmen.When we all look at our own selves, we recognize weve all been there, weve had our own failures, Mr. Davies said, according to Reuters.If its hard enough to confront and stand up to a press gallery and admit youre wrong, what would it be like to stand before the living God and admit that you were wrong?Back in Italy, the story about Mr. Ogah had made headlines in the countrys news media. He had been begging for spare change outside the Carrefour market in the Centocelle neighborhood of Rome in September when a masked thief, armed with a meat cleaver, tried to make off with 400 euros, or about $493.Security cameras captured Mr. Ogahs next steps: Armed only with his bare hands, he confronted the thief, wrested the cleaver away and, after the man fell from his motorbike when trying to escape, held him by the collar until police officers arrived.Mr. Ogah then disappeared, apparently fearing he would be deported because he had no papers. He had arrived in Italy after reaching Libya and crossing the Mediterranean on a migrant smugglers boat in May 2014.The authorities in Rome tracked him down in an effort to reward his heroism, and, within a month, he was given a residency permit. Mr. Ogah had previously been denied a permit after an earlier bid for asylum failed, according to The Associated Press.According to the news agency ANSA, Mr. Ogah now has a job with the Italian Red Cross and a place to call home.In preparing for his baptism, the agency reported, Mr. Ogah asked Nunzio Carbone, the Rome police captain who handled his case, to be his godfather. Mr. Carbone appeared at the baptism ceremony.In an interview soon after the theft, Mr. Ogah told the newspaper La Repubblica that his dream was to be a legal resident in Italy and to have a job to support his child back home in Nigeria.If Pope Francis or the president of the republic could do something for me, I would be the happiest man in the world, he was quoted as saying. I dont want to be a hero. I just want to be legal, work and have a dignified life in Italy.On Saturday, Mr. Ogah chose his baptismal name: Francesco.
BEIJING   China has slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as on wine and certain fruits and nuts, in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel, China\'s finance ministry said.The tariffs, to take effect on Monday, were announced late on Sunday and match a list of potential tariffs on up to $3 billion in U.S. goods published by China on March 23.China\'s Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) said it was suspending its obligations to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to reduce tariffs on 120 U.S. goods, including fruit. The tariffs on those products will be raised by an extra 15 percent.Eight other products, including pork, will now be subject to additional tariffs of 25 percent, it said, with the measures effective from April 2."China\'s suspension of its tariff concessions is a legitimate action adopted under WTO rules to safeguard China\'s interests," the Chinese finance ministry said.China has imposed the additional tariffs amid escalating trade tensions between Beijing and Washington, sparking fears of a full-blown trade spat between the world\'s two biggest economies.U.S. President Donald Trump is preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods intended to punish Beijing over U.S. accusations that China systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations Beijing denies.China has repeatedly promised to open its economy further, but many foreign companies continue to complain of unfair treatment. China warned the United States on Thursday not to open a Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe.In a statement published on Monday morning, MOFCOM said the United States had "seriously violated" the principles of non-discrimination enshrined in World Trade Organization rules, and had also damaged China\'s interests."China\'s suspension of some of its obligations to the United States is its legitimate right as a member of the World Trade Organization," it said, adding that differences between the world\'s two largest economies should be resolved through dialogue and negotiation.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe; Additional reporting by David Stanway in SHANGHAI and Stella Qiu in BEIJING; Editing by Eric Meijer & Shri Navaratnam)
HANOI   Chinese Foreign MinisterWang Yisaid on Sunday China and Vietnam should settle their disputes in the South China Sea through talks and move to jointly exploit its waters."We have agreed that settling the maritime issues is extremely important for the healthy and sustainable development of bilateral relations," he told reporters after a meeting with Vietnamese Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Pham Binh Minh in Hanoi.China claims 90 percent of the potentially energy-rich maritime territory and has been building on and militarising  rocky outcrops and reefs in its waters.Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also lay claim to parts of it, through which about $5 trillion (3.6 trillion) of trade passes each year. Vietnam is the country most openly at odds with China over the issue."The two sides should better manage disputes through talks and refrain from taking unilateral actions that may further complicate and expand the disputes," Wang said."At the same time, (the two sides) should promote cooperation at the sea, including holding talks on joint exploitation."Wang and Minh said bilateral relations had seen positive development, with rising trade and investment as the two neighbours further opened up markets to each other. Bilateral trade exceeded $100 billion last year.Minh said Vietnam and China shared responsibility to maintain peace and stability in the region, reiterating Vietnam\'s stance that the maritime disputes must be resolved peacefully manner and according to international law.(Reporting by Khanh Vu and Minh Nguyen; Editing by Andrew Roche)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Pope Francis calls for peace, Kim Jong-un takes in some K-pop, and Tesla faces more trouble. Heres what you need to know: President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a dangerous flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations hard-line stance on immigration._____ In Afghanistan, the Taliban are increasingly attacking security forces using night-vision goggles and lasers that U.S. military officials said were either stolen from Afghan and international troops or bought on the black market.And a retired U.S. lieutenant general who led the war effort in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 said advanced equipment, like drones and precision weapons, is being seized by extremist groups in other global conflict zones.Its going to change how we operate, he said._____ For every 10 killed, 20 more will join.That was a protester in the Kashmir Valley on Sunday, after the Indian Army killed at least 12 militants. It was the largest one-day toll of insurgents in recent years, in a brutal territorial conflict between India and Pakistan that has endured for decades.At least three soldiers and four civilians also died, and about 70 other people were reported wounded._____ Tesla appears to be in real trouble.Concerns that Elon Musks electric-car company is burning through cash have damaged its credit rating and raised questions about whether it could run out of money by the end of the year.And its stock fell in after-hours trading last week, after Tesla disclosed that a fatal crash in California on March 23 occurred while Autopilot, its semiautonomous driving system, above, was engaged._____ Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the carnage in the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria and urged reconciliation in the Middle East. The pope also pressed for the fruits of dialogue to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula, above, where 10,000 Christians gathered in Seoul to pray.At St. Andrews Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, the Anglican archbishop Glenn Davies said the redemption of Easter gave hope of forgiveness to all who faced moral failure  including the disgraced Australia cricket team. Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.) Eight years after Live Nation merged with Ticketmaster, bringing together the worlds largest concert promoter with the worlds leading ticket provider, U.S. regulators are looking into accusations that the company uses threats and pressure to rule ticketing. Ready Player One, Steven Spielbergs nostalgia-soaked science-fiction adventure, took in more than $181 million on its debut weekend. Chinese ticket buyers turned out in particular force. Facebooks latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending  growth at any cost  even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.) The list of Chinese products that will be hit with new U.S. tariffs is expected to be announced within days. Here are other headlines to watch for this week. Markets are closed in Australia, Hong Kong, London and Milan. Heres a snapshot of other global markets. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, and South Koreas culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, were in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times] Like a Dream. The Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai made an emotional return home to Pakistans Swat Valley, where the Taliban tried to kill her in 2012. [The New York Times] The U.N. announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade sanctions. [The New York Times] Israel warned that it would target groups inside Gaza if violence along the border continued. On Friday, at least 15 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire. [The New York Times] A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old Filipina maid, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Agence France-Presse] The Chinese space lab Tiangong-1 is expected to burn into Earths atmosphere within hours. Heres a look at the rise and fall of Chinas first space station. [The New York Times] April Fools Day on the internet: Australias public broadcaster navigated some of this years biggest joke headlines, including drop bears and chocolate burgers. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Working out is great for you. Heres how to start. For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo. Why would a 70 year old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? To feel alive, said the man who did it. A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical? And The Last Wild Men of Borneo by Carl Hoffman tells the stories of an environmental activist accepted by an indigenous tribe as one of its own, and a man who became one of the worlds most successful tribal art collectors.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates to 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature activity, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive a souvenir wooden egg as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
GUATEMALA CITY   Former Guatemalan military dictator Efrain Rios Montt, hounded by charges of genocide for decades, died on Sunday aged 91, leaving bitter memories of his bloody stewardship of the Central American nation during its civil war.Thousands of mostly rural Maya civilians were victims of massacre, rape and torture under a "scorched earth" policy implemented during his 17-month rule between 1982 and 1983 at the height of the Cold War-era conflict.Rios Montt, diagnosed with senile dementia in 2015, faced a new genocide trial in 2017 overseen by a Supreme Court tribunal that was ongoing at the time of his death.On Sunday, his lawyer Luis Rosales said the former dictator maintained his innocence up to his death.In May 2013, a court found Rios Montt guilty of genocide and crimes against humanity, prompting Amnesty International to hail the proceedings as the trial of the decade.But just 10 days afterwards, the country\'s top court quashed the conviction on a technicality after persistent efforts by his defense team to derail the trial with complex appeals.Rios Montt took power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and founded the right-wing Guatemalan Republican Front party.An evangelical Protestant, Rios Montt was overthrown in August 1983, but served in Congress for nearly two decades until he stepped down in 2012. At a stroke, he lost the immunity granted by law to public officials and became open to prosecution for atrocities committed under his rule.In January 2012, a Guatemalan court charged Rios Montt for conceiving a counterinsurgency plan that killed at least 1,771 members of the Ixil tribe and displaced thousands more. One year later, a judge ordered him to stand trial for the bloodshed.The former dictator took the witness stand hours before his conviction, telling the court he had never committed genocide."My job as head of state was national policy. I was not commanding troops," said Rios Montt, then 86.Human rights activists in Spain also sought to charge Rios Montt with war crimes in Spanish courts.Critics likened Rios Montt to other Latin American presidents who ruled with an iron hand, like Chile\'s Augusto Pinochet and Peru\'s Alberto Fujimori.But at the time his regime received open support from U.S. President Ronald Reagan, who believed Guatemala faced a serious challenge from leftist guerrillas suspected of being in alliance with Cold War communists.An estimated 200,000, mostly Maya, civilians were killed during the 1960-1996 war and another 45,000 went missing.A United Nations-backed truth commission report released after the 1996 peace accords found that the army and paramilitary groups were responsible for over 90 percent of more than 400 massacres during the war.CAREER SOLDIERBorn on June 16, 1926 in Guatemala\'s rural western highland department of Huehuetenango, Rios Montt was the third of 11 children and became fascinated with the army at an early age.Joining the military academy in 1943, he participated in the 1954 U.S. Central Intelligence Agency-backed military coup that ousted democratically elected President Jacobo Arbenz who was seen by the United States as a communist sympathizer.That coup eventually ignited the brutal civil war, pitting a string of right-wing governments against leftist guerillas.Rios Montt rose to the rank of general in 1972 and sought the presidency in 1974, losing to rival Kjell Eugenio Laugerud, the handpicked successor of the incumbent.He went into exile, serving in Spain as the Guatemalan military attach, before returning home in 1977 where he was introduced to the evangelical Church of the Word, eventually becoming a lay minister.On March 23, 1982, Rios Montt headed a junta which removed President Angel Guevara from power, denouncing the elections earlier in the month as fraudulent. Declaring his presidency to be the "will of God," Rios Montt annulled the constitution, dissolved Congress and suspended political parties.He lost little time in reviewing the government\'s anti-insurgency measures, opting for a crackdown that led to tens of thousands of deaths, tortures and displacements of Guatemala\'s rural population suspected of aiding leftist rebels."If you are with us, we\'ll feed you, if not, we\'ll kill you," he famously told a crowd of indigenous Maya in July 1982.Such pronouncements did not prevent Reagan from describing Rios Montt as "a man of great personal integrity" who was "totally committed to democracy."In the 1990s Rios Montt tried twice to run for president but was blocked by a constitutional clause that prevented anyone who had taken part in a military coup from becoming head of state.He settled for a seat in Congress instead, and went on to serve as president of the legislature.Rios Montt tried again for the presidency in 2003 and when denied the chance, called on his supporters to take to the streets in protest. Two days of rioting now known as Black Thursday and Friday of Mourning erupted in the capital as protesters torched cars and buildings and shot out windows.The courts eventually let the former general stand as a candidate, but he came a distant third in the race.(Reporting by Sofia Menchu; Editing by Richard Chang)

LONDON   Queen Elizabeth II has sent congratulations to Britain\'s Royal Air Force on the 100th anniversary of its founding.The queen\'s message was read at a breakfast reception held Sunday at a central London building that served as the RAF\'s first headquarters.The Royal Air Force was created on April 1, 1918 through the merger of the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service.Its reputation is strongly associated with the extraordinary bravery and skill of the pilots who defended Britain against Germany\'s Luftwaffe during World War II.Elizabeth said in her anniversary wishes that the RAF has "defended our freedom gallantly."Top air force officers attended the reception, but the job of reading the queen\'s message fell to 16-year-old Aircraftsman Adam Wood, one of the RAF\'s youngest members.
BERLIN   German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas wants to resume dialogue with Russia and gradually improve ties after diplomatic expulsions over a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in England that Britain blames on Russia, he said on Sunday.Conservative German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Maas have joined the United States and other European countries in standing with Britain in a major standoff over the attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter.Maas, a member of the Social Democrats (SPD) who are split on how tough to be on Moscow, told Bild am Sonntag much trust had been lost in the last few years due to Russia\'s behavior."At the same time, we need Russia as a partner to settle  regional conflicts, for disarmament and as an important pillar of multilateralism," he was quoted as saying in the paper."We are therefore open for dialogue and are trying to rebuild trust bit by bit if Russia is ready."He also, however, defended the decision to expel diplomats.  "to show solidarity with Britain but also as a signal of unity".In the last week, as part of mass expulsions on both sides, Germany expelled four Russian diplomats and Moscow has reciprocated with the same number, prompting talk of a crisis in relations between Russia and the West.Some Social Democrats have urged the \'grand coalition\' of their party and Merkel\'s conservatives to ensure a new Cold War does not start, and business groups are also worried.Germany relies on Russia for roughly a third of the gas it uses and, before Western states imposed sanctions on Russia over its role in the Ukraine crisis, Europe\'s biggest economy exported about 38 billion euros of goods to Russia.London accuses Moscow of being responsible for the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two and Germany has repeatedly called on Moscow to cooperate more with the investigations.(Reporting by Madeline Chambers; Editing by Mark Potter)
PALM BEACH, Fla.   President Donald Trump on Sunday declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they\'re coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S."Mexico has got to help us at the border," Trump, holding his wife\'s hand, told reporters before the couple attended Easter services at an Episcopal church near his Palm Beach home. "If they\'re not going to help us at the border, it\'s a very sad thing between our two countries.""A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA," he added.Former President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to provide temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought here as children. Trump ended the program last year, but gave Congress six months to pass legislation enshrining it. A deal has so far proved elusive and Trump has blamed Democrats.It was not immediately clear what Trump was referring to when he said people are coming to take advantage of the program.The Department of Homeland Security is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed. The Obama administration allowed signups during a set period of time, and the program is closed to new entrants.Proposed DACA deals crafted by lawmakers and rejected by Trump also were not open to new participants.Trump did not explain what he meant when questioned by reporters as he entered the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea with the first lady and his daughter Tiffany. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for clarification.Trump, when addressing reporters briefly before entering the church, again blamed Democrats for failing to protect the "Dreamers.""They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it. They had a great, great chance, but we\'ll have to take a look because Mexico has got to help us at the border. They flow right through Mexico. They send them into the United States. It can\'t happen that way anymore."Trump promised during the 2016 presidential campaign to build a Southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated him by not moving as quickly as he wants to provide money for construction.The president also complained on Twitter that border patrol agents can\'t do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweeted that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He did not offer details to back his comment.The president\'s tweets came after Fox News\' "Fox & Friends" reported early Sunday on what it said is a group of 1,200 immigrants, mostly from Honduras, headed to the U.S. The segment was a follow-up to a report by Buzzfeed News on hundreds of Central Americans making their way through Mexico in hopes that American authorities will grant them asylum or be absent when they attempt to cross the border.The Fox headline was "Caravan of illegal immigrants headed to U.S." The president is known to watch the cable TV program in the morning.Brandon Judd, leader of the union representing border patrol agents, predicted on "Fox & Friends" that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for what he described as immigration reform. Judd also said Congress needs to pass tougher laws, an idea Trump appeared to echo, and create more bed space for immigration authorities to house people.Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, chided Trump over the tone of the tweets."A true leader preserves & offers hope, doesn\'t take hope from innocent children who call America home. Remember, today is Easter Sunday," tweeted Ohio Gov. John Kasich, a Trump critic who challenged him for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination.Arizona Republican Sen. Jeff Flake, another Trump foe, urged Congress to take up the fight for Dreamers."There are plenty of lawmakers on both sides of the aisle who stand ready to work with the administration on legislation to protect DACA kids who call America home," he tweeted. "Let\'s do it."Sunday\'s church visit was Trump\'s first public appearance with his wife since CBS\' "60 Minutes" aired an interview the previous Sunday with Stormy Daniels, the adult-film star who says she had sex with Trump in 2006, early in his marriage and a few months after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son. The White House says Trump denies the affair. Mrs. Trump spent most of the past week in Palm Beach with her son.The Trumps returned to Washington later Sunday.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed to this report.___
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico   Mexico\'s presidential front-runner launched his campaign close to the U.S. border on Sunday, demanding respect for Mexicans hours after U.S. President Donald Trump again threatened to scrap a key trade pact and erect a wall between the countries.Striking a nationalistic tone, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador signalled that if he won the July 1 election, he would be less accommodating towards Trump than the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which has lagged in opinion polls over its failure to contain violence and corruption."Mexico and its people will not be the piata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech to thousands of people who jeered and swore at the mention of Trump. The U.S. president is almost universally disliked in Mexico."It\'s not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Symbolically, the three-month campaign began in Ciudad Juarez, whose namesake, Benito Juarez, was a 19th century Mexican president from indigenous roots whose exiled government resisted a French colonialist intervention from the unruly city that borders El Paso, Texas.Trump on Sunday morning reiterated his threat that has hung over the campaign, to cancel the North American Free Trade Agreement among Mexico, Canada and the United States, tying its future to its efforts to stop migrants going north."Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border," he said in a tweet.Lopez Obrador criticized President Enrique Pena Nieto for export-focused economic policies that he said benefited the few, and promised a strategy to build up Mexico\'s internal markets.He decried the paltry minimum wage in Mexico, which is less than 90 pesos ($4.96) a day, and the huge salary differences between U.S. and Mexican auto industry workers, challenging Trump\'s narrative that Mexico has benefited most from NAFTA.While he reaffirmed his backing for the pact, he said talks to renegotiate the agreement should be suspended until after the election, and that any new deal should address wages and immigration."I liked that he said we won\'t be Trump\'s servants, nobody has said it like that," Abelardo Ochoa, 32, said at the rally. "We work so hard here to earn well, but you cross the border and it\'s something else."\'EXPERIENCE OF SERVING\'The ruling-party candidate trailing in third place, former Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade, launched his own campaign on Sunday at the other end of the country in the southeastern town of Merida, touting his years in government as his strength."I have the experience of serving and getting results for more than 20 years, without scandals. I live off my salary," Meade told a cheering crowd dressed mostly in white.Second-place Ricardo Anaya began campaigning on Friday.Silver-haired Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, first ran for president in 2006. He said he would treat Trump\'s administration with respect but would demand the same for Mexicans.His unconventional, and at times inconsistent, policy stances have sometimes led to comparisons with the U.S. president.The 64-year-old candidate played to his leftist base, attacking the current government and saying he would suspend a $13 billion airport, an important project for Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, which he says is tainted by corruption.He has promised to "consult the people" on reforms and plans to turn the presidential residence into a cultural centre, sell the presidential plane and cut his salary in half.Sandra Flores, 24, who was at Sunday\'s rally with her two children, said she and members of her family, including those living in California, supported Lopez Obrador."I voted for the president we have now and honestly I\'m not satisfied," she said. "(Lopez Obrador) will be able to stand up against what Trump is doing."(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico; Writing by Christine Murray; Editing by Frank Jack Daniel, Peter Cooney and Richard Chang)
BEIRUT   The Latest on the conflict in Syria (all times local):10:10 p.m.Russia\'s military says a preliminary agreement has been reached on the withdrawal of fighters of the Army of Islam rebel group from the eastern Ghouta suburbs of Syria\'s capital, Damascus.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, chief of the Russian center for reconciliation of the Syrian warring parties, said Sunday that the fighters are to hand over maps of mined areas and underground tunnels while leaving the Douma area of Eastern Ghouta.They also must voluntarily remove mines from buildings and clear major transport routes of barricades.___7:05 p.m.A council member of the opposition-controlled town of Douma in the eastern Ghotua suburbs of Damascus says reports of an agreement to surrender the town to the central government are not true.Iyad Abdelaziz says there is no agreement reached to have the Army of Islam rebel faction leave Douma for north Syria and hand over the town to government forces. He says, however, that "humanitarian cases" will be allowed to evacuate on Monday.Douma has been besieged by government forces since 2013. It was one of the earliest hubs of the Arab Spring-styled uprising against President Bashar Assad that swept through the country in 2011.Hundreds of residents are believed to require care for war wounds and medical conditions exacerbated by the siege. The government routinely blocks aid groups from evacuating patients from besieged areas for medical care.An opposition official told the Saudi TV channel al-Arabiya that the Army of Islam was still engaged in talks with Russia over the future of Douma. Russia is a key backer of the Syrian government.Ahmad Ramadan says Turkey, which backs various Syrian rebel groups, and shares control over a part of opposition territory in north Syria, is also party to the talks.___6:15 p.m.Syrian military media says rebels belonging to the powerful Army of Islam group have agreed to evacuate their stronghold in the suburbs of Damascus, giving the government complete control of the eastern Ghouta region which has been rebel-held since 2011.The Central Military Media outlet, which is linked to the Syrian military, says the Army of Islam has agreed to leave the town of besieged town of Douma for Jarablus, a town shared between rebel and Turkish control in north Syria.It says a local council for Douma will be formed with the approval of the central government.Douma was one of the earliest hubs of the uprising against President Bashar Assad in 2011. The security services responded by putting the town and other suburbs around Damascus under siege, bombing hospitals and residential areas, and blocking food and medical relief. Douma is one of the last pockets of the opposition around the capital to hold out against the government.It was not immediate possible to confirm the details of the deal and there was no comment from the Army of Islam.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group reported earlier in the day Russia\'s military police would be deployed inside Douma to take custodianship of the town.___4:10 p.m.A rebel faction trapped by Syrian government forces outside the capital agreed to evacuate to northern Syria on Sunday as talks continued over lifting the siege against the town of Douma, where tens of thousands of civilians await relief.Fighters from the Faylaq al-Rahman group left Douma on buses sent by the Syrian government to the rebel-held province of Idlib, SANA state news agency reported.It was the first organized evacuation of fighters from Douma, which has held out against government forces through 7 years of war. The town was one of the hubs of the Arab Spring uprising against President Bashar Assad\'s government in 2011, which drew a brutal response from security forces, sparking the ongoing civil war.Some 1,300 fighters, activists, and civilians signed up to leave the town, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
KABUL   An exhibition that reproduces the precious treasures of Mughal art in their original setting in Kabul\'s Babur Garden opened this weekend, bringing a rare moment of cultural relief to a city pounded by war for decades."King Babur\'s Kabul: Cradle of the Mughal Empire" displays a selection of high quality reproductions of some of the masterpieces of the Timurid and Mughal periods from the mid-16th century, one of Central Asia\'s richest cultural eras.It follows a similar exhibition in December held in the historic citadel of the western Afghan city of Herat, at one time the seat of the powerful Timurid dynasty and one of the great centres of the Persian world.At the Kabul exhibition\'s launch on Saturday, Michael Barry, a world authority on Afghan art and culture who curated the exhibition reminisced about a visit he made to the city at the height of the brutal 1990s civil war."Here in the Bagh-e Babur, what we saw in 1994 was wreckage, broken trees, shells fired. The beautiful 17th century marble mosque here was full of bullet holes. All we saw was despair and ugliness."The Bagh-e Babur or Babur\'s Garden, one of the oldest surviving Mughal gardens, was named after the first emperor of the Mughal dynasty, which came to rule over much of India in the following three centuries.Babur loved Kabul and was buried in the garden which he ordered to be created after he conquered the city in 1504. It was largely destroyed in the 1990s but was restored with the help of the Agha Khan Foundation in 2008.The garden remains a popular picnic spot with Kabul families but the artistic riches of the Mughal court have disappeared from the city, with not a single original painting from the period known to be left in Afghanistan.Barry said he had formed the determination to bring not just humanitarian aid to Afghanistan but to help restore some of the cultural heritage lost to the country through years of war."In this garden, we will bring back the magnificent paintings which so influenced world civilization, back to the Afghans, right here in this historical environment," he said.Over the centuries, all of the originals have been dispersed outside Afghanistan and while their removal undoubtedly saved many precious art works from destruction, their loss has deprived Afghans of a central pillar of their cultural heritage.Using state-of-the-art printing techniques, dozens of miniatures have been reproduced on metal and put on display, showing a fabled world of poets, rulers, hunters and scenes of court life and making clear the considerable interplay that existed between European and Mughal art."Many of these disappeared from Afghanistan over 500 years ago, and even then only Shahs (kings) and Wazirs (ministers) and maybe senior scholars had an opportunity to see them," said Thomas Barfield, President of the American Institute of Afghan Studies, which oversaw the organisation of the exhibition."People may remember poetry but they cannot see the art."(Editing by Christian Schmollinger)
GABORONE   Botswana\'s new president, sworn in on Sunday as the landlocked country\'s fifth post-colonial leader, said he would give priority to tackling youth unemployment and diversifying its economy.Retired teacher Mokgweetsi Masisi, who takes over from former army general Ian Khama, inherits a state with a reputation as one of Africa\'s rare political and economic success stories.But he faces a huge task in attempting to reduce its dependence on the diamond trade while creating more jobs after collapsing commodity prices tipped it into recession in 2015."We still seek to build a Botswana in which sustained development is underpinned by economic diversification," Masisi told a cheering crowd in parliament. "One of my top priorities ... will be to address the problem of unemployment especially amongst the young."Botswana, with a population of some 2 million, has a jobless rate of around 20 percent, with youth unemployment thought to be much higher.Khama, 65, and a son of the country first president Seretse,  bowed out after two five-year terms in a scripted succession that compelled him to hand over power to his deputy.Masisi becomes only Botswana\'s third leader outside the Khama dynasty since its independence from Britain in 1966.As part of efforts to branch out of diamonds, he also said his government would scale up access to technical education and set up initiatives in tourism, mining, beef and financial services.CHALLENGING TIMESBut the country\'s opposition predicted little change, saying Masisi as deputy president was instrumental in an economic strategy that had failed to adapt the economy to the needs of a new generation of finance and science graduates."There isno need to celebrate, the change of guard will just be cosmetic. As vice president he... failed even at the time he was at the ministry of education," said a spokesman for the UDC opposition coalition, Moeti Mohwasa.After working for United Nations Children\'s Fund, Masisi became a lawmaker in 2009. He served as a minister of public affairs from 2011 to 2014, when Khama named him minister of education and, later the same year, also vice president.Viewed by the markets as more business-friendly than his predecessor, Masisi will serve as leader until national elections in October 2019, for which the Botswana Democratic Party (BDP) is expected to name him as its presidential candidate.The BDP has governed the country since independence but for the first time won less than 50 percent of the vote for the legislature in the previous election in 2014. Polls suggest its share will fall further in next year\'s ballot.(Writing by Tiisetso Motsoeneng; editing by John Stonestreet)
GUATEMALA CITY   Former Guatemalan military dictator Efrain Rios Montt died at the age of 91 on Sunday, a bitterly divisive figure in the country\'s long civil war who escaped a 2013 genocide conviction only to face renewed charges last year.At the time of his death, which his lawyer, Luis Rosales, announced, Rios Montt was again on trial for genocide for his role during one of the bloodiest phases of the Cold War-era conflict that lasted from 1960 until 1996."He died facing justice," tweeted Claudia Paz y Paz, a former Guatemalan attorney general who was instrumental in bringing charges against members of the military accused of committing atrocities during the civil war."Thank you to the survivors for their dignity and bravery. May it never happen again," Paz y Paz added.Ruling Guatemala from 1982 to 1983, Rios Montt was convicted in 2013 of genocide and crimes against humanity, to the relief of many victims\' families. Barely a week later, judges on the country\'s top court threw out the sentence.Rios Montt was buried in the afternoon at an upscale cemetery of Guatemala City known as La Villa de Guadalupe in a closed ceremony attended by military officials, close friends and relatives, including his daughter Zury and widow Teresa.Zury, a conservative politician, gave a brief eulogy to her father, calling him "general of generals" and a "great political leader and an upstanding man" to applause and shouts of "Viva Rios Montt!" from mourners, broadcasts on local media showed.A few protesters gathered outside the National Palace in a square in Guatemala City holding placards saying: "There will be no forgiveness."On the square, they painted in red letters: "Rios Montt genocidal killer the people do not forgive, do not forget."President Jimmy Morales, whose party has strong ties to the military, expressed his condolences to Rios Montt\'s family in a brief statement. Other leaders on the right also paid their respects.Former conservative President Alfonso Portillo, a party colleague of Rios Montt\'s who was convicted of money laundering in 2014, said he had valued the retired general as a friend."I learnt a lot from him and his life is part of our history," he said, noting the two also had their differences.MAINTAINED INNOCENCEAn evangelical Protestant, Rios Montt served in Congress for nearly two decades and stepped down in 2012, putting an end to the immunity he enjoyed by law as a public official.A Guatemalan court in January 2012 charged him with conceiving a counterinsurgency plan that killed at least 1,771 members of the Ixil tribe and displaced thousands more.His lawyer Rosales said on Sunday that Rios Montt maintained he was innocent of genocide until the end.An estimated 200,000, mostly Maya civilians were killed during the war, and a further 45,000 went missing.Born on June 16, 1926, in Guatemala\'s rural western highland department of Huehuetenango, Rios Montt took part in the 1954 U.S. Central Intelligence Agency-backed military coup that ousted democratically elected President Jacobo Arbenz, who was seen by the United States as a communist sympathizer.Rios Montt was a general by 1972 and ran for the presidency two years later. He lost and went to Spain, serving as military attache, then returned to Guatemala in 1977. In March 1982, he headed a junta that removed President Angel Guevara from power.Rios Montt was diagnosed with senile dementia in 2015, and a new genocide trial overseen by a Supreme Court tribunal began against him in 2017. The process was ongoing when he died.Hector Reyes, a lawyer for victims\' families, said the genocide trial would continue because another general, Jose Rodriguez Sanchez, was still facing charges. Rios Montt\'s death meant he was no longer part of the process, he added.Rigoberta Menchu, a Guatemalan activist and Nobel Peace laureate who fought for victims of the conflict, said the death of the general would give some a measure of closure."Either way, for us, the victims, he has already been judged, and the crimes have been set out," she said.(Reporting by Sofia Menchu; Editing by Dave Graham and Peter Cooney)
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.   The Latest on President Donald Trumpx (all times local):11:25 a.m.President Donald Trump says Mexico has "got to help us at the border."Trump says a lot of people are coming into the U.S. from Mexico because they want to take advantage of a U.S. program that protects "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.Trump ended the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last year, though a federal judge has ordered the administration to continue renewing permits.Months of negotiations between the White House and lawmakers in both parties have failed to produce a deal to protect the "Dreamers."Trump tweeted about the issue before he attended Easter services at a church near his Palm Beach, Florida, home.Asked about the tweets, Trump blamed Democrats, saying they blew a "great, great chance" to make a deal.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump is attending Easter services at an Episcopal church near his home in Palm Beach, Florida.The president was accompanied by his wife, Melania, and daughter Tiffany.He was expected to return to his Mar-a-Lago estate afterward to join other families for annual Easter festivities, including brunch and an Easter egg hunt.Trump has attended the Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea for years. It\'s also where he and the first lady got married in 2005.The president opened the religious holiday by tweeting "HAPPY EASTER!" to his many followers. He complained in a follow-up tweet about "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that he says make it harder for Border Patrol agents to do their jobs. He also said a deal to help immigrants known as "Dreamers" was "NO MORE."___10:40 a.m.President Donald Trump says he\'ll stop Mexico\'s "cash cow" unless it does more to stop its people from crossing into the U.S.Trump tweets on Easter that Mexico is doing next to "NOTHING" to stop illegal immigration and laughs "at our dumb immigration laws." The president adds that Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"The U.S., Canada and Mexico are currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA hurts the U.S.Trump promised during the presidential campaign to build a southern border wall to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming in from Mexico, but Congress has frustrated the president by not moving as quickly on the wall as he would like.___10:25 a.m.President Donald Trump is claiming that Border Patrol agents can\'t do their jobs properly because of "ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws" that allow people caught for being in the country illegally to be released while they await a hearing before a federal immigration judge.Trump tweets on Easter that the situation is "Getting more dangerous" and "Caravans" are coming. He offers no information to back up his claims.Trump also says Republicans in charge of the Senate "must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW."Senate rules require 60 votes for legislation in the 100-member Senate. Republicans only control 51 seats, and GOP Senate leaders basically have rejected Trump\'s calls to change the longstanding rules.Trump also says "NO MORE DACA DEAL!" to help immigrants known as "Dreamers."
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.   The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. fought for many issues throughout his life as a minister and the leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, speaking out against various barriers holding back blacks, Hispanics, Asian Americans and Native Americans. Fifty years after his assassination, some of these barriers have fallen  but others remain.Here is a look at five civil rights issues King addressed during his lifetime and where they stand now:SEGREGATIONFour days after Rosa Parks was arrested for refusing to give up her seat on a Montgomery, Alabama, city bus, King exhorted a crowd at the Holt Street Baptist Church to launch a bus boycott. "Now let us go out to stick together and stay with this thing until the end," he told the thousands gathered at the church that day in 1955.A federal court ended racial segregation on Montgomery public buses, elevating King into the national spotlight. Years later, he stood behind President Lyndon Johnson at the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which banned segregation in public places and employment discrimination on the basis of race or national origin.Still, King\'s legacy concerning desegregation remains mixed, according to Gordon Mantler, a professor at George Washington University."Yes, the traditional spaces like lunch counters and restrooms were integrated," Mantler said. "But some lunch counters were shut down and public pools became private."And while schools became largely integrated in the 1980s, many have re-segregated. In 1988, for example, about 44 percent of black students went to majority-white schools nationally. Only 20 percent of black students do so today, according to a study examining the nation 50 years after the release of the landmark 1968 Kerner Report.The Kerner Report came from a commission created by President Lyndon Johnson in 1967 to examine the causes of urban riots in the 1960s. It blamed them largely on poverty, joblessness and tension with police and minority communities.VOTINGKing\'s participation in the 54-mile (87-kilometer) march from Selma, Alabama, to the state capital of Montgomery elevated awareness about the troubles blacks faced in registering to vote.President Johnson addressed a special session of Congress after marchers were attacked by white mobs and police, successfully urging lawmakers to pass the Voting Rights Act.Here, Mantler said King achieved a lasting effect. By the 1970s and 1980s, the American South had elected thousands of blacks to various offices, compared to almost none in the 1950s.Black and Latino coalitions sprouted in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Houston to elect people of color to local and federal offices  and eventually aided in electing the nation\'s first black president.POVERTYKing was assassinated in Memphis while coming to the aid of striking sanitation workers. He also was in the midst of organizing the Poor People\'s March on Washington, a campaign that sought to highlight the economic and human rights of poor citizens of all ethnic backgrounds struggling with poverty.Former U.S. Sen. Fred Harris of Oklahoma, the last surviving member of the Kerner Commission, said the fight to reduce poverty remains one of King\'s most significant unfinished works."There are far more people who are poor now than was true 50 years ago," Harris said. "Inequality of income is worse."The percentage of people living in deep poverty  less than half of the federal poverty level  has increased since 1975, according to a study marking the 50th anniversary of the Kerner Report. About 46 percent of people living in poverty in 2016 were classified as living in deep poverty  16 percentage points higher than in 1975.Rev. William J. Barber II, a Goldsboro, North Carolina, pastor who is leading a multi-ethnic "Poor People\'s Campaign: A National Call for Moral Revival" later this year, said tackling poverty remains a moral obligation for the nation."After 50 years, we still have work to do," he said.HOUSINGDuring King\'s lifetime, landlords could refuse to rent to blacks and Latinos, and racial covenants and redlining allowed people of color to be excluded from buying homes in certain neighborhoods.After King\'s assassination, President Johnson asked Congress to pass the long-stalled Fair Housing Act, which banned refusing to rent or sell housing based on race, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.In the decades after the act\'s passage, black homeownership rose by almost 6 percentage points. But those gains were wiped out from 2000 to 2015 when black homeownership fell 6 percentage points.Harris, the former senator, said blacks were disproportionately affected by the subprime loan crisis of the late 2000s, which contributed to the further racial and economic segregation of neighborhoods, especially in urban areas.WAR"I oppose the war in Vietnam because I love America," King told an audience at New York\'s Riverside Church in 1967. "I speak out against this war, not in anger, but with anxiety and sorrow in my heart, and, above all, with a passionate desire to see our beloved country stand as the moral example of the world."King had concluded that militarism, like poverty, was stalling the U.S. from living up to its ideals. And Mantler said King felt it ultimately could lead to fascism.Today, the U.S. remains involved in the war of Afghanistan, and maintains military bases around the world.Mantler said the nation did not heed King\'s warning that war damages the nation\'s moral authority. "Both parties fight to give more money to the Pentagon," Mantler said. "It hasn\'t changed."And that support for militarism often comes at the expense of fighting poverty, he said.______For AP\'s complete coverage marking 50 years since Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
JERUSALEM   Israel\'s defense minister on Sunday rejected international calls for an investigation into deadly violence along Gaza\'s border with Israel, saying troops acted appropriately and fired only at Palestinian protesters who posed a threat.Fifteen Palestinians were killed and over 700 wounded in Friday\'s violence near the Israeli border, according to Palestinian health officials. It was the area\'s deadliest violence since a war four years ago.Human rights groups have accused the army of using excessive force, and both the U.N. secretary-general and the European Union\'s foreign policy chief have urged an investigation.In an interview, Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman said Israel would not cooperate with a U.N. inquiry if there were one."From the standpoint of the Israeli soldiers, they did what had to be done," Lieberman told Israeli Army Radio. "I think that all of our troops deserve a commendation, and there won\'t be any inquiry."Friday\'s mass marches were largely led by Gaza\'s ruling Hamas group and touted as the launch of a six-week-long protest campaign against a stifling decade-old blockade of the territory. Israel and Egypt have maintained the blockade since Hamas, an Islamic militant group sworn to Israel\'s destruction, seized control of Gaza in 2007.In Friday\'s confrontations, large crowds gathered near the fence, with smaller groups of protesters rushing forward, throwing stones and burning tires.Israeli troops responded with live fire and rubber-coated steel pellets, while drones dropped tear gas from above. Soldiers with rifles were perched on high earthen embankments overlooking the scene.Protests have continued since Friday but at a far smaller scale. On Sunday, one person was seriously wounded by gunfire, Palestinian medical officials said.The military has said it responded only to violent attacks aimed at troops and the border fence.But video from the scene showed at least a handful of incidents in which people appear to have been shot either far from the border or while they were not actively rioting.In one video that spread on social media, a young man was fatally shot from behind while running away from the border area carrying a tire.The Israeli military accused Hamas of releasing videos that were either incomplete, edited or "completely fabricated." It said troops had followed strict rules of engagement, and that protesters were putting themselves in "harm\'s way" by operating in a dangerous area.In the case of the man with the tire, the army said the video told only part of the story, and said he was a Hamas militant who had been involved in violence just moments before he was shot. It gave no additional evidence to support the claims.In the interview, Lieberman said those who protested peacefully were not harmed, saying claims that peaceful protesters were harmed were "lies and inventions.""Whoever didn\'t get close to the fence was not shot," he said.The Israeli military has said those killed by troops were men who were involved in violence and who belonged to Hamas and other militant factions. The army later released the names and ages of 10 of the dead, including what it said were eight members of Hamas and two from other militant groups. It also accuses Gaza health officials of exaggerating the number of wounded.Four of the 15 dead were members of the Hamas military wing, Hamas said Saturday. The group said a fifth member who was not on the Health Ministry list was killed near the border, and that Israel has the body. It said another man is also missing in the border area.The protests are to culminate in a large border march on May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel\'s founding. The date is mourned by Palestinians as their "nakba," or catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands were uprooted in the 1948 Mideast war over Israel\'s creation. Most of Gaza\'s 2 million people are descendants of Palestinian refugees.Gaza\'s continued border closure has made it increasingly difficult for Hamas to govern. Life in the coastal strip has deteriorated further in recent months, with rising unemployment, grinding poverty and daily blackouts that last for hours.Hamas has been further weakened by international isolation and financial pressure by the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority, along with three wars against Israel. It appears to be taking a gamble by using the protests to draw attention to Gaza without sparking another painful war.Israel has warned that it will not allow the border to be breached. It also accuses Hamas of trying to use protests as a cover for planting explosives and staging attacks. On Saturday, Israel\'s military said it will target militant groups inside Gaza if the border violence drags on.It appears unlikely that large-scale protests will continue daily, with larger turnouts only expected after Friday noon prayers, the highlight of the Muslim religious week.Inside Israel, most of the country has lined up solidly behind the army. Still, on Sunday, dozens of Israelis demonstrated in Tel Aviv against the violence, criticizing Israel for its response.
Today in HistoryToday is Easter Sunday, April 1, the 91st day of 2018. There are 274 days left in the year. This is April Fool\'s Day.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 1, 1918, Britain\'s Royal Air Force came into being toward the end of World War I as the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service were merged into a single, independent entity.On this date:In 1789, the U.S. House of Representatives held its first full meeting in New York; Frederick Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania was elected the first House speaker.In 1865, during the Civil War, Union forces routed Confederate soldiers in the Battle of Five Forks in Virginia.In 1933, Nazi Germany staged a daylong national boycott of Jewish-owned businesses.In 1945, American forces launched the amphibious invasion of Okinawa during World War II. (U.S. forces succeeded in capturing the Japanese island on June 22.)In 1954, the United States Air Force Academy was established by President Dwight D. Eisenhower.In 1962, the Katherine Anne Porter novel "Ship of Fools," an allegory about the rise of Nazism in Germany, was published by Little, Brown & Co.In 1972, the first Major League Baseball players\' strike began; it lasted 12 days.In 1983, tens of thousands of anti-nuclear demonstrators linked arms in a 14-mile human chain spanning three defense installations in rural England, including the Greenham Common U.S. Air Base.In 1984, recording star Marvin Gaye was shot to death by his father, Marvin Gay (cq), Sr. in Los Angeles, the day before his 45th birthday. (The elder Gay pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter, and received probation.)In 1988, the scientific bestseller "A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes" by British physicist Stephen Hawking was first published in the United Kingdom and the United States by Bantam Books.In 1992, the National Hockey League Players\' Association went on its first-ever strike, which lasted 10 days.In 2003, American troops entered a hospital in Nasiriyah (nah-sih-REE\'-uh), Iraq, and rescued Army Pfc. Jessica Lynch, who had been held prisoner since her unit was ambushed on March 23.Ten years ago: The Pentagon made public a legal memo dated March 14, 2003 that approved the use of harsh interrogation techniques against terror suspects, saying that President George W. Bush\'s wartime authority trumped any international ban on torture. (The memo was rescinded in December 2003.) Top executives of the country\'s five biggest oil companies told a skeptical Congress they knew record fuel prices were hurting people, but argued it wasn\'t their fault and that their huge profits were in line with other industries.Five years ago: Prosecutors announced they would seek the death penalty for James Holmes should he be convicted in the July 2012 Colorado movie theater attack that killed 12 people. (Holmes, found guilty of murder, ended up being sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.) A cast member of the MTV reality show "BUCKWILD," Shain Gandee, 21, was found dead in a sport utility vehicle in a West Virginia ditch along with his uncle and a friend; the cause was accidental carbon monoxide poisoning.One year ago: An avalanche of water from three overflowing rivers swept through a small city in Colombia, leaving more than 300 dead. Bob Dylan finally received his Nobel Literature diploma and medal during a small gathering in Stockholm, where he was performing a concert. Acclaimed Russian poet Yevgeny A. Yevtushenko died at a Tulsa, Oklahoma, hospital. Japan\'s Yuzuru Hanyu produced a remarkable comeback to win the men\'s world figure skating title in Helsinki. Two-time NBA scoring champion Tracy McGrady, Kansas coach Bill Self, former Chicago Bulls executive Jerry Krause and former UConn star Rebecca Lobo were among 11 people named to the Basketball Hall of Fame.Today\'s Birthdays: Actress Jane Powell is 89. Actor Don Hastings is 84. Baseball Hall of Famer Phil Niekro is 79. Actress Ali MacGraw is 79. Rhythm-and-blues singer Rudolph Isley is 79. Reggae singer Jimmy Cliff is 70. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito is 68. Rock musician Billy Currie (Ultravox) is 68. Actress Annette O\'Toole is 66. Movie director Barry Sonnenfeld is 65. Singer Susan Boyle is 57. Actor Jose Zuniga is 56. Country singer Woody Lee is 50. Actress Jessica Collins is 47. Rapper-actor Method Man is 47. Movie directors Albert and Allen Hughes are 46. Political commentator Rachel Maddow is 45. Tennis player Magdalena Maleeva is 43. Actor David Oyelowo (oh-YEHLOH\'-oh) is 42. Actor JJ Field is 40. Singer Bijou Phillips is 38. Actor Sam Huntington is 36. Comedian-actor Taran Killam is 36. Actor Matt Lanter is 35. Actor Josh Zuckerman is 33. Country singer Hillary Scott (Lady Antebellum) is 32. Actor Asa Butterfield is 21.Thought for Today: "Life would be tragic if it weren\'t funny."  Stephen Hawking (1942-2018).
WASHINGTON   Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said he\'s glad John Bolton will serve as President Donald Trump\'s national security adviser going into talks with North Korea because of his "very healthy skepticism."A U.S.-North Korean summit is slated for May. Hopes have been raised that Kim Jong Un  may be willing to discuss his nuclear weapons program and other measures to reduce the threat of war, possibly in exchange for security guarantees and an easing of the international sanctions that have severely pinched the already struggling North Korean economy.Graham said he had dinner with Bolton a couple of nights ago and the hawkish former ambassador to the U.N. expressed fears that North Korea is "just buying time" as it seeks to develop a nuclear-armed missile."He sees these negotiations as a way of buying time. That\'s what they\'ve done in the past," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.Bolton replaces Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster on April 9.Graham said he would be skeptical about the terms and conditions of the summit, but he does hope the president will meet with the North Korean leader. He called for negotiations that are "very focused and get quick action.""We don\'t want to give him nine months or a year to talk and build a missile at the same time," Graham said on "Fox News Sunday."At the same time, Graham warned Trump not to remove troops from Syria. Trump declared earlier this week: "Let the other people take care of it now."Graham said that leaving Syria would allow the Islamic State group to strengthen, the fighting between the Syrian Kurdish militia and Turkey would get out of hand, and Russia and Iran would go on to dominate Syria."It would be the single worst decision the president could make," Graham said.
Emily Louise Cashman and Harrell Raso Kirstein were married March 29 at the Manchester City Hall in Manchester N.H. Joanne Doukeris, a member of the city clerks office, officiated. On March 31, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and a friend of the couple, led an exchange of vows at the Bedford Village Inn, a hotel in Bedford, N.H.The bride, 32, works in Washington as the senior manager of government affairs at Thorn, a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco that builds technology to defend children from sexual abuse. From 2010 to 2016, the bride worked in various positions for Senator Shaheen. She also worked as the trip director for Hillary Clintons general election campaign in New Hampshire in 2016. She graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., and received a masters degree in international relations from the Universidad Autnoma de Madrid in Spain.She is the daughter of Madeline Q. Cashman and Brian A. Cashman of Litchfield, N.H. The brides father retired as a special agent in the Andover, Mass., field office of the Defense Security Service, a federal security agency of the Defense Department based in Quantico, Va. Her mother is a teacher at the Matthew Thornton Elementary School in Londonderry, N.H.The groom, 31, is the communications director for the Trump War Room for American Bridge 21st Century, a democratic opposition research group in Washington. He served as the communications director for Ms. Shaheens re-election campaign in 2014 as well as in communication positions in Mrs. Clintons 2016 presidential campaign.He is a son of Melinda R. Kirstein and Philip L. Kirstein of Princeton, N.J. The grooms mother retired as a fixed-income portfolio manager in the Plainsboro, N.J., office of Merrill Lynch. She currently works as an independent trustee of the WisdomTree Trust board in New York. His father retired as the senior officer and independent compliance officer of the AllianceBernstein mutual funds in New York.The couple met in 2010 while both were working for the New Hampshire Democratic Party.
Elizabeth Ebert kept small stacks of paper in every room of the farmhouse  just in case. She wrote whenever the rhymes blossomed: sometimes in the middle of the night, sometimes at the chirp of dawn, sometimes in the summer fallow tractor, where shed draw a finger across the dusty windshield.She started with a single line, a single rhyme, and then you have to fill in all this other garbage, she once said, with the sort of dry, self-deprecating humor that often infused her verse.Ms. Ebert, who rose to queenly prominence within the chivalrous ranks of cowboy poetry, died on March 20 at a hospital in Bismarck, N.D., after breaking a hip. She was 93, and cognizant enough to remark, just hours before she died, that it was her wedding anniversary.She left instructions for her funeral in a poem called When I Leave This Life, which is included in her 2006 collection, Prairie Wife. It reads in part:Let the memories be of the happy times,Let the sound of laughter grace the day.Find an old cowhand with an old guitarTo yodel me joyfully on my way.Ms. Ebert wrote in secret for most of her life, often feeding her lines to the fire, and was already well into her 60s when her husband, Selmer Johannes Ebert, who went by S.J., persuaded her to perform at a cowboy poetry gathering in Bismarck. There she caught the eye  or rather, the ear  of Baxter Black, the genres most celebrated poet.I knew from the very first poem that she started at the top; she just had it, Mr. Black told American Cowboy magazine. Its like youre having a parade, and everyone is driving a Honda, and she comes in a Cadillac, sitting on the top.A somewhat esoteric genre today, cowboy poetry originated in the cattle drive era following the Civil War, as cow punchers strained to keep themselves entertained during the long and often tedious journeys north from Texas. Typically narrative-based and following traditional ballad rhyme schemes, the genre mostly retreated from popular view until the founding of the National Cowboy Poetry Gathering in Elko, Nev., in 1985.Though cowboy poetry remains an outsider art, the national gathering helped launch several poets into a larger orbit, among them Mr. Black and Waddie Mitchell, both of whom performed multiple times on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.After her first performance at the Elko gathering, in 1991, Ms. Ebert attracted an almost immediate following with her authentic portrayals not only of the cowboy but also of what she called the cowmans wife. Her womans perspective helped open a male-dominated genre to female voices.In one poem, titled Cowboy Courtin Time, she described a ranch romance, in which the woman invariably ends up between the cowboy and his dog.The cowboyll put his arm aroundAnd hug you til you hurtAnd then he starts to pawin(The dog, that is) your shirt.Theyve got you snuggled there betweenJust a pawn within their game.It doesnt matter where you turnCause they kiss about the same.Long years have passed since courtin timeChanged me from Miss to Mrs.And Ill admit, Ive grown to likeThose cowboy-cowdog kisses.Ms. Ebert later performed at gatherings all over the country, rising to the status of what her friend and fellow poet Yvonne Hollenbeck called the Grand Dame of Cowboy Poetry, a title quickly ratified by their peers.Elizabeth walks up to the podium, and every time you think, Whats this old gray-haired lady doing here?  Ms. Hollenbeck told American Cowboy. And then she starts in her little high voice, and she just kills her audience.Besides Prairie Wife, Ms. Ebert wrote another full-length book of poetry, Crazy Quilt, a chapbook of Christmas poems and a spoken-word album titled Live From Thunder Hawk.In perhaps her most popular poem, titled He Talked About Montana, she eulogized one of her husbands hired hands.And hed talk about Montana.And youd get a glimmer then,Of the cowboy that he used to be,And the man he might have beenBefore the war and wife and whiskeyHad bent him out of shape.Now the war and wife were historyAnd the whiskey was escape.Among her awards, Ms. Ebert was the inaugural recipient in 2012 of The Badger: Excellence in Cowboy Poetry Award, presented by the Heritage of the American West Performance Series. In 2005, Mike Rounds, then governor of South Dakota, proclaimed Feb. 24 of that year Elizabeth Ebert Day.Its doubtful that Ms. Ebert  who insisted that if it isnt meter and rhyme, its prose  would have found similar success within the wider world of contemporary literature, which often considers the genre a folk art at best, if not mere doggerel. She didnt seem to mind.I dont like their poetry, either, Ms. Ebert said, so its fair enough.Elizabeth Summers was born on Feb. 24, 1925, outside tiny Thunder Hawk, S.D., just south of the North Dakota border, one of four children. She spent her early years watching Dust Bowl storms scour the prairie.When she was 4, Elizabeths impoverished family, chasing work, spent one summer in a three-sided tent attached to their car. Though her parents, John and Alma, worked odd jobs over the years, they were primarily small farmers, raising wheat and cattle.Ms. Ebert attended Thunder Hawk High School, receiving her diploma as the valedictorian of a class of four. At 16, she enrolled at the Black Hills Secretarial School in Rapid City, S.D. She worked briefly as a bookkeeper for a bank in Lemmon, about 10 miles west of Thunder Hawk, before following a friend to Washington, where she spent a summer waiting tables.Miserable in the city, she returned to South Dakota. At 18, yearning to be a novelist, she moved to Minneapolis and spent a year at the University of Minnesota studying journalism and English and imagining a writers life, like that of Dorothy Parker.At the time, I admired Parkers long cigarette holder and wished to go to New York and hobnob with the literati, she said. One summer in secretary school, one year at the University of Minnesota, and a summer in Washington, D.C., cured me of that notion, and all I wanted was a piece of prairie that I could call my own and lot fewer people around.She met S.J.  a cute and capable World War II veteran, in her words  at a dance hall in Morristown, S.D., in November 1945. They married four months later, put money down on some farmland and spent their first 15 years together in a fixed-up homestead shack, upgrading to a newer farmhouse up the road in 1962. They raised three children on the farm.Ms. Ebert said the best years of her life were spent with S.J. after their retirement, when they took the scenic routes to her poetry gatherings around the country. It was a time, she said, when we got to do what we wanted to do and didnt have to worry about things. Mr. Ebert died at 94 in 2008.Saddled with a small oxygen tank during her last years, Ms. Ebert often cursed her immobility and the burden her frailties had placed on others.I dont worry about dying  thats the least of my problems, she told American Cowboy. Some days I wish I would, cause Im tired of dragging this damn thing around.Though physically spent, her daughter Jayne says, she was Mother, bright and sharp, to the end.And though she was surprised by the attention she received, she appreciated it. Its nice that somebody recognizes you. It really is, she said in October 2016. They even know me in Lemmon now sometimes.

MEXICO CITY   The front-running candidate for Mexico\'s July 1 presidential election formally opened his campaign Sunday in Ciudad Juarez, the border city that launched some of the country\'s key resistance struggles.Leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador depicts his third run for the presidency as a historic battle against corruption and entrenched elites, on a par with the resistance to the French invasion of 1862-1867 and the 1910-1917 revolution. Ciudad Juarez served as a base in both struggles.Governing party candidate Jose Antonio Meade also launched his campaign Sunday in the colonial city of Merida, the capital of Yucatan state, one of the few governorships that his Institutional Revolutionary Party hopes to retain among the nine statehouses that will be at stake in the July elections.Meade is running third in the polls. He alluded to Lopez Obrador, saying, "Don\'t let them take away the future of our children with false promises."Still, Lopez Obrador seemed to dominate the other candidates\' attention.The third major-party candidate, Ricardo Anaya of a left-right coalition, announced that he will hold news conferences at 7 a.m. every day of the campaign  a move that echoes the morning meetings with journalists that Lopez Obrador held daily when he was mayor of Mexico City in the early 2000s. A fourth candidate, former first lady Margarita Zavala, is running as an independent.While he has been accused of being a populist and a radical, Lopez Obrador has moved to the center and gave an opening campaign speech that could have played well in the Rust Belt of the United States."Those who defend the current economic model talk about modernity, but they don\'t mention that this \'modernity\' is a synonym for the economy of the elite, one that benefits only a minority and excludes the majority," Lopez Obrador said. "They tend to put up the supposed benefits of NAFTA as an example, but the few benefits have come at an extremely high cost."Like U.S. President Donald Trump, Lopez Obrador expresses some skepticism about the North American Free Trade Agreement. The candidate vowed that "we are going to be very respectful of the U.S. government, but we are going to demand they respect us Mexicans. Neither Mexico nor its people will be treated like a piata by any foreign government.""We are not going to rule out the possibility of convincing Donald Trump that his foreign policy and, in particular, his contemptuous attitude toward Mexicans are wrong," Lopez Obrador said.He stressed that his main campaign promise is to end corruption.Echoing his favorite president, Benito Juarez, whose 1857 reform movement established secular government in Mexico, Lopez Obrador said, "Just as Juarez separated the church and state, now we are going to separate economic power from political power."He pledged to cut the country\'s value-added tax from 15 percent to 8 percent and double pensions for the elderly.Meade is trying to shake the image of corruption, low growth and high inflation and debt that saddles the PRI. His campaign logo doesn\'t even include the party symbol, and instead uses a series of three colored arrows or triangles representing the PRI and two tiny parties that are running in coalition.Meade promised equal pay for women, easier access to credit and more scholarships to study abroad.He made several other campaign promises, focusing on education, health care and public safety, and also pledged to "get corruption out of politics."Meade has said in the past that Mexico should do more to stop U.S. guns from being smuggled into Mexico. "We are going to keep the weapons and money from reaching the criminals," he said.Mexico is suffering an upsurge in violence that seems to defy most solutions so far, and none of the major candidates has submitted a detailed plan on how to handle it.Meade proposed largely technical solutions to Mexico\'s problems, depicting himself as the future and Lopez Obrador as someone obsessed with the policies of the past."This election boils down to a choice between two things: move forward together, or retreat," Meade said. "My proposal is to move forward ... that is why I am asking for the votes of people who want to build, not tear down, who want to unite, not divide, to advance, not retreat."

ARLINGTON, Texas   Must be nice to have a rotation so good that Gerrit Cole is the No. 4 starter.Cole struck out 11 over seven innings in his Houston debut and the World Series champion Astros rolled to an 8-2 victory over the Texas Rangers on Sunday to take three of four from their state rivals in the season-opening series.The 2015 All-Star allowed two hits after teammate Lance McCullers Jr. struck out 10 in another easy Houston win Saturday. They followed a pair of Cy Young Award winners to the mound in Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel.Cole started on opening day last year for Pittsburgh before an offseason trade to the Astros."This is obviously high-end stuff across the board," Houston manager A.J. Hinch said. "Gerrit would have pitched opening day for a lot of teams, and to have him pitch the fourth game of the year is really indicative of the depth of this rotation."The first hit off Cole (1-0) was slugger Joey Gallo\'s opposite-field homer just over the tall wall in left field in the first inning against a four-man outfield. Third baseman Alex Bregman gave chase down the line on Gallo\'s first of the season.Facing the four-man outfield again in the eighth, Gallo singled through the vacant left side of the infield."You talking about the one that went out of the ballpark?" Texas manager Jeff Banister said. "It was a great job by him beating the shift. I don\'t think you can put a fifth outfielder over the fence."Derek Fisher had a tying RBI triple in the fifth and scored the go-ahead run on George Springer\'s sacrifice fly against lefty Mike Minor (0-1), making his Texas debut and first major league start since 2014.Carlos Correa doubled home two runs in the seventh and AL MVP Jose Altuve had three hits to finish 9 for 16 in the series. Evan Gattis had three hits and three RBIs, including a pair of run-scoring doubles. Max Stassi added an RBI single.Cole struck out the side in the fifth and seventh innings for his most strikeouts since matching his career high of 12 in his final start of 2014.The other hit Cole allowed was Elvis Andrus\' leadoff double in the sixth, when he got an inning-ending double play with runners at the corners to preserve a 4-1 lead."He was in total control of the game, and I think he finished even stronger than he started," Hinch said. "His stuff was electrifying at the end of the game. What a great way to start his Astros career."Minor, who missed two big league seasons after shoulder surgery in 2015, was a reliever in Kansas City last season before signing as a free agent. He gave up three hits and two runs with five strikeouts in 4 2/3 innings."I felt like my old self again," Minor said. "Something to build on. I think the strength\'s going to get better as the season goes on."BOTTOM FEEDERSBefore Drew Robinson homered in the eighth for Texas, the bottom five hitters in the order were a combined 1 for 38 this season. With center fielder Delino DeShields out at least a month with a broken left hand, Ryan Rua and Robinson could be forced into the lineup more instead of platooning in left. Rookie Carlos Tocci is an option in center, but is considered a defense-first outfielder right now.TRAINER\'S ROOMAstros: 1B Yuli Gurriel is expected to be in the lineup Tuesday, a day after another batting practice session at the Astros\' spring training facility in Florida. Gurriel started the season on the restricted list to serve his five-game suspension for an inappropriate gesture after homering against Japanese pitcher Yu Darvish of the Dodgers in Game 3 of the World Series. Gurriel had surgery for a broken bone in his left hand Feb. 28.UP NEXTAstros: RHP Charlie Morton, who was on the mound for the final out in Game 7 of the World Series in Los Angeles, starts the home opener against Baltimore on Monday.Rangers: RHP Bartolo Colon is scheduled to start Texas\' first road game in Oakland on Monday. The 44-year-old right-hander is set to become the second-oldest player for Texas behind Nolan Ryan, who was 46 when he made the final start of his career in 1993.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
The recent tribulations of Facebook, which has lurched from crisis to crisis over the last year, most recently over the handling of users personal data, has pushed a few of the industrys most prominent names to speak out against the company.Marc Benioff, the chief executive of Salesforce.com, has compared the deleterious effects of social media to those of tobacco and alcohol, and has called for more regulation of those tech companies. Timothy D. Cook, Apples chief executive, has also suggested new regulation protecting personal data might be in order for businesses like Facebook.I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary, Mr. Cook said recently at an event in China, referring to Facebooks recent problems.But dont expect a long lineup of other industry leaders to speak out any time soon.Although technology companies have their differences, a spirit of comity prevails among its leaders in moments of crisis. For example, technology chiefs have mostly kept quiet about Ubers travails  from its efforts to sidestep law enforcement to a pedestrian death caused by one of its self-driving cars  even if they might express their opinions privately.Representatives from companies as varied as Amazon, Microsoft and Slack declined to comment for this story. Part of the silence, people in the industry say, comes from a desire to avoid the business equivalent of bad karma  knowing that they, too, may one day face the buzz saw of public censure.Others say companies have little moral standing to criticize Facebooks practices, when they have themselves relied on the social network to acquire customers, using the same ad-targeting tools that rely on personal data that have stirred up so much controversy in the context of politics.I think we just have to acknowledge the entire industrys complicity with whats happening with Facebook, said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an internet real estate firm. Its almost like were Inspector Renault in Casablanca where we say were shocked, shocked with whats happening and then a moment later someone hands us our winnings.Weve all been advertising avidly on Facebook, Mr. Kelman added.Many companies are also linked to Facebook through partnerships, professional organizations and a worldview about the power of data that is not all that different from that of Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook.It has been really hard for executives to turn their back on the gold mine of big data even in the face of compelling arguments to do so, said Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook and a mentor of Mr. Zuckerbergs before becoming one of the companys most vocal detractors. The C.E.O.s who are stepping forward here are taking the long view.Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment.There are many critics of Facebook in Silicon Valley. They include former tech workers, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs like Brian Acton, who became a billionaire when Facebook acquired WhatsApp, a messaging company he helped found. It is time. #deletefacebook, Mr. Acton posted on Twitter last month.But there are few active corporate leaders in Silicon Valley who have taken a stand. Most of the handful of chiefs who have spoken out against Facebook have long been forthright on the topic of privacy. It is no coincidence that their businesses do not rely on the collection of personal data to the same degree that most internet companies do. Mr. Cook of Apple, which makes the vast majority of its revenue from the sale of devices, has for years declared that when an online service is free, youre not the customer  youre the product.Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.When asked about the Facebooks difficulties at an event in China recently, Ginni Rometty, chief executive of IBM, said companies needed to give their users better control over their personal information. Ginni has long believed that individuals or customers own their data  not platforms, said Edward Barbini, a spokesman for IBM.Noah Theran, s spokesman for the Internet Association, a trade group that counts Facebook and Salesforce among its members, though not Apple and IBM, said maintaining privacy and security was a top priority for internet companies.Internet companies comply with a wide variety of data privacy and security laws and regulations that are actively enforced by the F.T.C. and state attorneys general, Mr. Theran said. Trust and comfort with our products and services is essential to a thriving internet, and the internet industry is committed to providing people with information and tools to make informed choices about how their personal information is used, seen and shared online.Another tech leader, Elon Musk, chief executive of Tesla and SpaceX, said recently on Twitter that none of his companies advertise on the social network and vowed to take down the official Facebook pages for Tesla and SpaceX.Its not a political statement and I didnt do this because someone dared me to do it, he wrote. Just dont like Facebook. Gives me the willies. Sorry.Mr. McNamee, the early Facebook investor, believes more industry leaders should speak out, partly because he predicts the United States can and should eventually adopt more stringent regulations akin to those emerging in Europe.Companies that get ahead of that curve, he said, will be way more successful than those who can pretend they can sustain the old model.
SAN DIEGO   Milwaukee\'s bold offseason moves for Christian Yelich and Lorenzo Cain are working quite well so far.Yelich tied his career high with five hits to lead a dominating performance by the Nos. 2-3-4 hitters for the Brewers, who swept the San Diego Padres with a 7-3 victory Saturday night.Yelich scored three times and drove in two runs as Milwaukee improved to 3-0 for the first time since it won its first five games in 2006. Cain had three hits and two RBIs, and Travis Shaw drove in three runs."It could be a fun year for the middle of the order," Shaw said. "Tonight\'s special; 2-3-4 get on, what, 10 times? Yelich with five hits. His bat-to-ball skills are unbelievable. He finds a way to get the barrel to the ball every single time no matter the count. He\'s fun to watch."The Brewers bolstered their outfield when they acquired Yelich in a January trade with Miami and signed Cain to an $80 million, five-year contract during free agency.Yelich matched the career high he set when he had five hits for the Marlins against Philadelphia on Oct. 3, 2015."Anytime you do that there\'s always a little luck involved," he said. "There\'s some ground balls that just missed some people\'s gloves and they find some grass out there, but it\'s a good feeling. You get on base in front of the big guys, with Lo Cain, and start putting pressure on the other team every time you get out there and usually good things happen when you do that."Yelich had his first three hits off Luis Perdomo (0-1), including a single in the first, a single in the third and an RBI double in the fourth. He then singled off Robbie Erlin in the sixth and added an RBI single in the eighth to chase Erlin, who missed all of 2017 while rehabbing from reconstructive elbow surgery.Shaw singled in Yelich in the first and brought in Yelich and Cain in the third with a double that bounced over the left-field fence. Cain singled in Yelich in the fourth and added an RBI single in the eighth.Yelich, Cain and Shaw had 10 of the Brewers\' 12 hits. Cain and Shaw each walked once."They\'re a good team," San Diego manager Andy Green said. "You make mistakes to the heart of their order, they\'re going to make you pay. Those are real hitters in the middle of their order."With the Padres facing a right-hander, Ryan Braun was out of the lineup and left-handed hitting Eric Thames started at first and batted leadoff. Braun\'s impressive three-run homer capped a five-run rally in the ninth inning Friday night that gave Milwaukee an 8-6 win.Braun is impressed with Yelich."He has a picture-perfect swing," Braun said. "It\'s what you\'d try to teach kids. It doesn\'t get much better than that."Brewers left-hander Brent Suter (1-0) went five innings, allowing three runs and three hits. He combined with Josh Hader and Jacob Barnes on a six-hitter.Freddy Galvis hit a two-run homer for San Diego in the second, and Eric Hosmer doubled home a run in the third.Perdomo allowed five runs and seven hits in four innings."It\'s two years on the roster. It\'s time for him to go, it\'s time for him to step up and attack," Green said of Perdomo. "The challenge is there out in front of him."COMING BACKErlin was a candidate for the rotation coming out of spring straining. "Coming back from Tommy John, being out for a long time, I like where he is," Green said. "He gave us an opportunity to get back in that game. We just didn\'t put much on the board after that third inning."TRAINER\'S ROOMPadres: OF Wil Myers will take two days off because of a sore back.UP NEXTBrewers: Following an off day, RHP Zach Davies is scheduled to start the home opener Monday against RHP Miles Mikolas and the St. Louis Cardinals.Padres: RHP Bryan Mitchell is scheduled to make his Padres debut Monday night in the opener of a home series against Colorado, which will counter with RHP Chad Bettis.
AMMAN   The group in control of the last rebel bastion near Damascus appeared on Sunday to have agreed a deal for its fighters to make peace with the government or quit the eastern Ghouta enclave, Syrian state media said.Jaish al Islam, most of whose members are drawn from the area, has been defending the city of Douma against a months-long onslaught by government forces.If confirmed, its surrender or departure for rebel-held areas in northwest Syria would herald an end to large-scale conflict in the enclave.State television and Syrian newspapers said information indicated that, under the deal, the group would hand over heavy and mid-sized weapons and acknowledge the restoration of state sovereignty over Douma.A Hezbollah run-media unit said on Sunday an agreement had been reached after several days of negotiations to spare bloodshed in Douma.The unit of the powerful Lebanese Shi\'ite militia that has been fighting with the Syrian army said among the terms of the deal was setting up a Syrian government-approved local council to run the city\'s affairs after rebels withdraw.It also said a Russian-led committee with representatives from Turkey, Iran and Russia, the three guarantors of the Astana peace talks who set up "de-escalation" zones across Syria, would be responsible for handing over prisoners of war jailed by the rebels.Jaish al Islam had no immediate comment on the reports but responded to earlier claims by the Syrian government that it was negotiating a deal to stay and not to pull out of the city.The government lost control of Douma, the largest urban center in the eastern suburbs of Damascus in insurgent hands, in the early phase of Syria\'s civil war, now in its eighth year.If confirmed, the agreement with Jaish al Islam would mirror others reached by insurgents following heavy bombing of areas under their control by government forces and Russian jets that has killed hundreds of civilians.Late on Saturday, negotiators reached a deal to evacuate wounded Jaish al Islam civilians and fighters to Idlib in the northwest.A group of stranded fighters from another insurgent group, Failaq al Rahman, who had fled to Douma from advancing army troops at the start of the latest campaign, left the city on Sunday, state media said.Syria\'s state news agency SANA said 24 buses carrying around 1,200 fighters from Failaq al Rahman and their families left Douma on Sunday in the first such pullout of fighters.On Saturday the rebel group concluded a week-long evacuation of thousands of its fighters from areas it had controlled in other parts of the enclave.SEEKING A WAY OUTA political official in Jaish al Islam denied they had agreed to evacuate Douma and said the government-inspired reports were stepped up psychological warfare aimed at forcing them to capitulate."Jaish al Islam has taken the decision to remain steadfast and the idea of leaving is not on the table," said the official.Opposition sources say Jaish al Islam officials have been desperately trying to strike a deal that would bring Russian military police into Douma, and let the group keep a role in maintaining internal security but under the state\'s overall jurisdiction.Russian military officers negotiating with Jaish al Islam told the group it accepted such an arrangement but the Syrian government remained against it, a senior opposition source familiar with the talks said.Russia, a key ally of President Bashar al-Assad, was behind the main battle plan, directing elite forces and militias on the ground and calling in air strikes from Syrian and Russian warplanes, two Western intelligence sources based in the region told Reuters this week.The Syrian army last week warned the insurgents to surrender or face a military assault to drive them out.The Syrian army command said on Saturday it had regained most of the towns and villages in eastern Ghouta and was pressing its military operations in Douma.The city\'s fall would seal the rebels\' worst defeat since 2016.The once bustling commercial hub on the outskirts of the capital was the main center of street protests in the Damascus suburbs against Assad\'s one party rule that ignited the conflict more than seven years ago.A resident reached by phone described a sense of foreboding among those still in the besieged city."The fear is of the unknown and not bombardment or hunger ... what the coming days will bring we cannot predict," said the resident, Bilal Bwaidani.Defense analysts say a major goal of the government\'s campaign was to complete a security belt around the capital, where for years rebels dug into a network of tunnels and well-fortified positions resisted countless offensives to seize the enclave.Many of the predominantly Sunni Muslim inhabitants of eastern Ghouta say they fear their displacement was part of a deliberate attempt to bring demographic changes in strategic areas that dilutes their presence in favor of Assad\'s Alawite sect and other minorities.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Robin Pomeroy and Daniel Wallis)

YANGON   Myanmar\'s de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi called on Sunday for her people to remain united, saying the Southeast Asian country faces "challenges" at home and abroad, as she marked two years since her party swept to power in a historic vote.In a televised speech, Suu Kyi made only a passing reference to the crisis in Rakhine state, where her government faces mounting international condemnation for a military operation against Rohingya Muslims that has sent nearly 700,000 members of the minority community fleeing to Bangladesh.The Nobel Peace Prize laureate has also struggled to match the sky-high expectations that swept her National League for Democracy (NLD) to power in 2016, and is struggling to rebut criticism over slower economic growth and continued fighting with ethnic armed groups.In the televised address, Suu Kyi urged people to be united. "The world\'s focus in on Rakhine right now, but we also need to peacefully develop the country.""We are facing challenges from inside and outside of the country, as we are struggling to develop politics, society and economy," she said.She also urged people to "respect the intentions and vision of the international community." She did not elaborate.The civilian government led by Suu Kyi has no control over the military, which launched the crackdown in Rakhine in response to insurgent attacks on security forces in August.The United States and United Nations have described the operation as ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya, which Myanmar denies.Suu Kyi also talked about her number one priority - to end decades of fighting between ethnic rebels and the military, which has kept Myanmar in a state of near-perpetual civil war since independence in 1948."While building peace and stability is the most important requirement for our country, we need the strength of unity," she said.Two ethnic armed groups in Myanmar signed a ceasefire with the government in February as Suu Kyi sought to revive the stuttering peace process. The Buddhist-majority country has seen the worst fighting with rebels in years since she took office.Myanmar on Friday swore in a close ally of Suu Kyi as the country\'s new president after the outgoing president retired. Analysts said the move was unlikely to affect a delicate balance of power between Suu Kyi and the military. [nL3N1R94QS](Reporting By Shoon Naing and Yimou Lee; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
MOGADISHU   Islamist insurgents battled for hours on Sunday with African Union troops after exploding two car bombs outside one of their bases, Somali police, military and the militants said.Al Shabaab militants attacked an African Union (AU) peacekeeper base in the town of Bulamarer, 130 kilometres southwest of the capital Mogadishu, around 9 a.m. local time, residents from the area told Reuters.Since withdrawing from Mogadishu in 2011, the al Qaeda-linked group has lost control of most of Somalia\'s cities and towns. But it still retains a strong presence in regions outside the capital.The militants initially detonated two suicide car bombs that hit one AU vehicle and one Somali military vehicle, Somali army major Farah Osman, who is stationed near the AMISOM (African Union Mission in Somalia) base, said."Then a large number of al Shabaab fighters began firing from under the trees ... it was a hellish battle," he said, adding there was an unknown number of casualties.Militants on foot then attacked nearby villages, said Ali Nur, deputy governor of the Lower Shabelle region where the base is located. "They were repulsed, but all these attacks were to stop reinforcement."The phone of the spokesman for the AMISOM force based in Mogadishu was switched off on Sunday and Reuters was unable to reach any other officials from the force for comment.The Ugandan army said in a statement that Ugandan soldiers serving in the AU peacekeeping mission killed 22 al Shabaab militants that had attacked the Bulamarer base and two other posts, all in the Lower Shabelle region. Four Ugandan soldiers were killed, the army said.Abdiasis Abu Musab, a spokesman for al Shabaab said 14 of the group\'s fighters and 59 AMISOM troops were killed in the incident.Nur, the government official, said no soldiers from the Somali army were killed and was not sure if any AMISOM troops were killed.A police major stationed in a nearby town also said two car bombs exploded outside the base before the al Shabaab fighters entered it.Major Nur Ali told Reuters that Somali and AMISOM forces had attacked al Shabaab in rural areas near the base on Saturday night. "Then al Shabaab attacked this morning as a revenge," he said.Somalia has been mired in civil war since 1991.(Reporting by Abdi Sheikh; Additional reporting by Feisal Omar; Writing by Maggie Fick; Editing by Mark Potter and Alexandra Hudson)

There are violinists who talk about Strads, which are old, and Zygs, which are less old. The violinist Chad Hoopes, who used to play a Strad, now plays the other.The word newer would have been tidier in that first sentence. But less old seemed appropriate after Mr. Hoopes, who went from playing a Strad made in 1713 to playing a Zyg made in 1991, said that the Zyg is not a new violin.Its older than I am, he added, quickly.It is, by almost four years. Mr. Hoopes is 23. In 2016, The Washington Post said he had been rising  or maybe hurtling  toward international stardom since he was a teenager. Last year he won an Avery Fisher Career Grant through a program established by the electronics executive and philanthropist.Now, about those violin names.Strads were made in Italy more than 300 years ago by Antonio Stradivari. Almost ever since, aficionados have tried to figure out what made them so special, what gave them their almost magical properties. Was it the wood? Was it the varnish, which changes the way the wood vibrates? Was it the F-shaped holes on the front, as suggested by scientists who studied the matter? (The F-holes serve as escape hatches for air from inside  air that resonates with the strings, contributing to the tone.)And Zygs? They are made in Samuel Zygmuntowiczs studio in Brooklyn. He has made violins for Joshua Bell, Maxim Vengerov and Leila Josefowicz, among others, and a cello for Yo-Yo Ma.Mr. Hoopess Zyg is a copy of an instrument by another celebrated maker from the 18th century, Bartolomeo Giuseppe Guarneri. He was the youngest son in a family of violin makers and was also known as Joseph Guarnerius del Ges (and his violins as del Gess). If Strads were considered the Rolls-Royce of the trade, the writer John Marchese wrote in his 2007 book about Mr. Zygmuntowicz, those by Guarneri del Ges were on the order of Jaguars  more erratically made, but powerful and distinctive.Mr. Hoopess Zyg is a copy of a Guarneri del Ges that Mr. Zygmuntowicz made for Isaac Stern, who owned the original instrument. This was relatively early in my career, recalled Mr. Zygmuntowicz, who had left his job as a violin restorer in 1985 to build his own instruments full time. Working with Mr. Stern was like working with the pope, or something. (Mr. Sterns del Ges had an illustrious past before him: It once belonged to the celebrated Belgian violinist Eugene Ysae, and it is Ysaes name that is associated with it.)When it came to the copy he had made, Mr. Zygmuntowicz listened, and not just to the music. Mr. Stern played it for a while, and at a certain point, I asked how it was, and he said, Oh, its good  not as deep as the original, Mr. Zygmuntowicz recalled. I thought, I really want him to be happy, so I took it apart, I did some minor rebuilding, I opened it up and he was happier.All that happened while the violins future owner, Mr. Hoopes, was a toddler in the Midwest.He started violin lessons when he was 3. My older sisters were playing and I was desperate to be doing what they were doing, he said. At 13, he won first prize in the junior division of the Menuhin Competition, a prestigious contest named for the virtuoso Yehudi Menuhin, who started it.My now-manager said, You need a Strad, Mr. Hoopes recalled, and before long he was introduced to a British investor who said, Hey, I have a few nice violins.When someone says that to you, Mr. Hoopes said, it could be something he pulls out of the attic, a keepsake.It was a Stradivarius, made in 1713. Mr. Hoopes, who said it was worth several million dollars, described it as the violin on which I really learned to play.When youre playing on a Strad, you have this illusion  we dont need modern violins, Mr. Hoopes said. We  violinists  have these beautiful instruments on loan. Strads are wonderful. When you play a Strad for seven or eight years, you hear that sound in your ears.The prestige reaches well beyond concert halls: When youre at the security line at the airport and you say, Its a violin, its fragile, and they say, jokingly, Is that a Strad? you can say, Actually, it is.But on Christmas Eve 2015, the owner told Mr. Hoopes he wanted it back in six months. Mr. Hoopes was devastated. He negotiated a few extra months, which let him appear with the Philadelphia Orchestra, and began hunting. He was offered a couple of Guarneri del Gess, he said, but nothing lived up to what Id been playing.Then David Finckel and Wu Han, the co-artistic directors of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, invited him to a dinner party. Mr. Finckel is another of Mr. Zygmuntowiczs customers. Mr. Hoopes knew who he was, and as it happened, Mr. Zygmuntowicz had brought along one of his violins, the copy of the Ysae.Mr. Zygmuntowicz let him try it. Mr. Hoopes said he felt a sensational connection.There were so many things I liked in this violin in the first few minutes, he said. With some Strads, it takes years. (Or maybe the magic never happens. As Mr. Zygmuntowicz explained: If you have a Strad, you feel youd better get used to it because its a Strad. If somethings not comfortable about it, its your fault  not the instruments.)In pursuit of the Zyg, Mr. Hoopes began pursuing its maker. I went to Brooklyn, Mr. Hoopes said. I begged: Can I buy this one? He says, I have to think about this. Why dont you just take it and play it?Returning the Strad to its owner made Mr. Hoopes more determined. I called him: Hey, Sam, I dont know if youve thought about this, but   And finally he said, O.K., you can buy it. Mr. Hoopes is reluctant to talk prices  other Zygs have sold in the low six figures  and Mr. Hoopes said he was lucky to have had the grant money to help with the purchase.Of course its an investment, he said, but this was about needing a tool. Some of us are lucky to have lifetime loans, but at some point you have to have your own violin. If you take away the romance  He plays on a Stradivarius  you realize you can find your voice on any instrument.Mr. Hoopes played the Zyg and the Strad, when he still had it, in a blind test in London. A violin dealer who attended chose the Zyg, thinking the sound he liked had to have come from the Strad. Mr. Hoopes says he now disdains comparisons because one violin is not necessarily better than another  they are just different.But it is the Zyg that Mr. Hoopes will play in three concerts at Lincoln Center in the next two weeks  on Thursday in two Chamber Music Society concerts and on April 15 in a solo recital on Lincoln Centers Great Performers Sunday Morning Coffee Concerts series.When people hear me now, like my mom  shes my toughest critic  she said, Chad, I had no idea, but this is a serious violin.
LOS ANGELES, (Variety.com) - Steven Spielberg\'s latest blockbuster topped the domestic box office over the four-day holiday weekend.Warner Bros.\' "Ready Player One" debuted in line with recent projections of $53 million from 4,324 locations. The film opened Thursday, getting a head start over its fellow weekend releases, "Tyler Perry\'s Acrimony" and "God\'s Not Dead: A Light in Darkness."The virtual reality fantasy, which currently holds an A- CinemaScore and 76 percent on Rotten Tomatoes, released internationally with $128 million since it opened on Tuesday, bringing its worldwide total up to a solid $181.2 million. The film based on Ernest Cline\'s novel stars Tye Sheridan, Olivia Cooke, Ben Mendelsohn, Mark Rylance, Simon Pegg and T.J. Miller."Tyler Perry\'s Acrimony" -- Tyler Perry\'s 19th collaboration with Lionsgate -- secured second place with $17 million in 2,006 locations. Meanwhile, the third installment of the "God\'s Not Dead" franchise premiered with $2.6 million in 1,693 locations.Marvel\'s "Black Panther" remains a powerhouse in the No. 3 slot, taking in $11 million in 2,988 locations. The blockbuster crossed the $650 million mark at the North American box office, making it the fifth-highest release in the U.S. of all time. It looks to shortly become the fourth-highest release after it passes "Jurassic World," which made $652 million. Currently, "Titanic" is at No. 3 with $659 million.Over the Easter weekend, the Christian drama "I Can Only Imagine" stayed strong in fourth place with $10.5 million in 2,648 locations, totaling $55.3 million in its three weeks of release. Another faith-based film, "Paul, Apostle of Christ" saw $3.5 million at 1,473 locations. In two weeks, the film has made $11.5 million.Rounding out the top five is Universal\'s "Pacific Rim Uprising" with $9.2 million in 3,708 locations. The sci-fi actioner, which held the top spot last weekend, has taken in $45.6 million domestically. On par with its first weekend, the sequel to 2013\'s "Pacific Rim" had an impressive international turnout with $22.2 million in 63 markets, bringing its international total up to $96.6 million.Continuing its limited release, Wes Anderson\'s "Isle of Dogs" made $2.9 million for a per screen average of $17,420 after expanding to 165 locations. Fox Searchlight Pictures\' stop-motion animation has grossed $5.9 million and looks to cross the $6 million mark in the upcoming week. Next weekend, "Isle of Dogs" will spread to between 450 and 500 locations.In total, the box office is down 21.2 percent compared to the same weekend last year, while the 2018 North American box office is down 3.8 percent from 2017.However, Paul Dergarabedian, a media analyst at comScore, says "Ready Player One" looks to have promising playability at the box office ahead of the debuts of "Blockers" and "A Quiet Place" next week and "Avengers Infinity War" at the end of April."After a rough month of March at the box office, down 24.1 percent vs. last year, \'Ready Player One\' will hopefully portend bigger and better things to come at the April box office," he said.
WASHINGTON/IXTEPEC, Mexico   President Donald Trump said on Sunday that there will be no deal to legalize the status of young adult immigrants called Dreamers and he said the U.S.-Mexico border is becoming more dangerous.After tweeting a "Happy Easter" message on Twitter, he said: "Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous."\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!" he wrote, adding a threat to kill the North American Free Trade Agreement which is being renegotiated with Mexico and Canada.DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is a program created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Trump sought to rescind last autumn.Designed for people brought to the United States as children by parents who were undocumented immigrants, the program shielded them from deportation and gave them work permits.Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats who want to protect DACA in exchange for funding to build a U.S.-Mexico border wall, a campaign trail promise.He insisted during his 2016 White House run that Mexico would pay for the wall, something the Mexican government has repeatedly rejected.Mexico\'s presidential front-runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, launched his campaign close to the border on Sunday demanding respect for Mexicans and signaling he may take a harder line toward Trump if he wins the July 1 election."Mexico and its people will not be the piata of any foreign government," Lopez Obrador said in a speech in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, which borders El Paso, Texas.  "It\'s not with walls or use of force that you resolve social problems."Whether Trump will stick to his guns on DACA is unclear. Trump last month threatened to veto a spending bill because it did not address the fate of Dreamers and did not fully fund his border wall but he ultimately signed the bill.In the months after Trump took office, apprehensions of illegal crossers along the U.S.- Mexico border dropped from more than 42,400 arrests in January 2017 to a low of around 15,700 in April, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection data. Since then, the number of arrests has risen and in the first months of 2018 was above Obama administration levels."Mexico has got to help us at the border," the president, who is spending Easter at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, told reporters on his way into an Easter church service. "A lot of people are coming in because they want to take advantage of DACA. They had a great chance. The Democrats blew it."MIGRANT CARAVANTrump\'s DACA tweets came after a report on the Fox New Channel\'s Fox & Friends program, one of his favorites, that a "caravan" of mostly Honduran migrants was crossing Mexico and headed to the United States, "either illegally or by asking for asylum."More than 1,000 would-be migrants have passed through Mexico\'s southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca in recent days in a so-called "refugee caravan" organized by U.S.-based immigrant advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In the town of Ixtepec, more than 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala waited in a sweltering warehouse on Saturday, mattresses rolled and bags packed, as local authorities and immigration officials from Mexico\'s federal government organized 15 buses to take them to their next stop on the long journey north.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.Gina Garibo, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras traveling with the migrants, said the group would hold a meeting to discuss Trump\'s statements on Sunday and stressed that the caravan\'s aim was to protect vulnerable people."The main people here are fleeing criminal violence, political violence, in their country and this allows us to save lives," she said in response to Trump\'s comments.A guest on Sunday\'s Fox & Friends show, Brandon Judd, head of the National Border Patrol Council union, said illegal immigrants benefit from the "catch and release" program that Trump referenced in his tweet. Under it, they can be freed while awaiting court hearings if detained in the United States.If recent border crossers do not claim asylum, they can usually be deported quickly. But if they say they fear targeted violence or persecution in their home countries, they can begin the long process of petitioning for asylum in immigration court.Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that Mexico is doing "very little, if not NOTHING," to stop the flow of people across the southern border. "They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!"Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said the United States and Mexico work together on migration every day."An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter," he said in a tweet.Mexico deported some 80,000 people in 2017, down from about 160,000 in 2016, official statistics show. The vast majority were from Central American nations. The drop reflects fewer Central Americans crossing the country last year.(Reporting by Valerie Volcovici in Washington and Delphine Schrank in Ixtepec, Mexico; Additional reporting by by Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Mica Rosenberg in New York, David Lawder in Washington and Lizbeth Diaz in Ciudad Juarez; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Daniel Wallis)
Here are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. No amount of kindness or compassion alone would have changed the person that Nikolas Cruz is and was, or the horrendous actions he perpetrated. That is a weak excuse for the failures of our school system, our government and our gun laws.Among our best-read articles this week was an Op-Ed written by Isabelle Robinson, a senior from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. She wrote the piece because she was disturbed by the notion that the shooting might have been prevented if Mr. Cruzs classmates were nicer to him. Above, a memorial outside the school after the attack.John Paul Stevens, the retired Supreme Court justice, also wrote a well-read Op-Ed on guns. He labeled the Second Amendment a relic and called for its repeal.Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. Heres the front page of our Sunday paper, and our crossword puzzles.____2. President Trumps advisers are urging tougher policies on Russia after a week of mass expulsions of diplomats. But Mr. Trump has refused to embrace a tough public posture, and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go. Above, the American Embassy in Moscow.Meanwhile, turnover continued in his administration with the departure of Hope Hicks, the communications director, and David Shulkin, the secretary for veterans affairs. Heres our running tally.And heres a roundup of the five biggest stories in politics this week, including the uproar over a citizenship question on the census.____3. In Ohio, President Trump visited a training center for union workers to promote his infrastructure plan. But he diverted to other topics, saying he might delay a trade deal with South Korea  and promising to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria. Above, American service members near Manbij.Two members of the U.S.-led coalition fighting there were killed this week  one American soldier and one British. Mr. Trump ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for stabilization and humanitarian aid, as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict.Idlib Province, the largest remaining rebel-held enclave in Syria, has been flooded with refugees from other areas. As the government wraps up a blistering military campaign in the eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus, Idlib is likely to be the next target, and civilians there are trapped.____4. The Israeli military killed 15 Palestinians in confrontations on the border with Gaza.Tens of thousands of Gazans had gathered for what was billed as a peaceful demonstration against Israels longstanding blockade and in support of their right to return to their homes in what is now Israel.Gazas economy is collapsing and residents  most of whom are refugees or their descendants  face intense restrictions on the movement of goods and people in and out of the territory.The Israelis said that some demonstrators hurled stones, firebombs and burning tires, and that two gunmen fired at them. They responded with tear gas and gunfire. Some 1,000 people were injured.____5. Stephon Clark, the unarmed man killed by the Sacramento police in his grandmothers backyard last month, was shot eight times from behind, according to a private autopsy. Above, an image from police footage of the shooting.Protesters in Californias capital have taken to the streets nearly every day since Mr. Clarks death, demanding that the citys leadership fire the two officers involved. An activist at a rally outside the city on Saturday was struck by a Sheriffs Department vehicle and was treated for minor injuries.And the police in Baton Rouge, La., fired the officer who shot Alton Sterling in 2016. The department released new footage of the killing that shows the officer shouting profanities at Mr. Sterling, slamming him into a car and threatening to shoot him in the head.____6. The acquittal by a federal jury of Noor Salman, the widow of the man who gunned down dozens of people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando two years ago, handed federal prosecutors on Friday the rarest of defeats: a loss in a terrorism case.Jurors unanimously rejected government charges that Ms. Salman had helped her husband plan his violent assault in the name of the Islamic State.After our recent coverage of the bombings in Austin, Tex., some readers took issue with our reporting, asking why we didnt label him a terrorist. Some of our editors and reporters addressed those questions here.____7. We took a look at recent patent applications filed by Amazon and Google. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.)Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used and are years from even being possible.But the recent filings offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices.For example, a device could start analyzing speech when it hears love, bought or dislike and then send out targeted ads based on that information.____8. Our critic writes that the clock is ticking on the overdue International African American Museum in Charleston, S.C. Above, a rendering. But will $11 million be found to fully fund it?And the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is Wednesday. As we sorted through historical photographs for our coverage, we encountered many people, particularly women and children, who had gone unnamed.Now we want to know: Who were they? Were hoping you might be able to help us.____9. Tax Day is approaching.The deadline to file is April 17. Our personal finance experts say its also an excellent time to give yourself a financial tuneup.Theyve created a weeklong program that walks you through some of the simplest financial tasks you can do to tidy your finances, optimize your spending and make sure you are planning appropriately for the long term.____10. Why are Catholic colleges so good at basketball?While theological explanations are tempting, there is more than just something in the holy water. Our college sports reporter explains.One of those colleges is Loyola-Chicago, whose fans, above, cheered its long-shot run to the N.C.A.A. tournaments Final Four. The team lost to Michigan, which will face Villanova in the championship game Monday night.____11. Finally, competing bunnies were beaten by a cat in the race to No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list for childrens picture books.The bunnies are both named Marlon Bundo. (One was created by the vice presidents daughter, and the other by the staff of Last Week Tonight With John Oliver.) They were overtaken by Pete the Cat: Big Easter Adventure.On that note, if youre looking for last-minute Easter recipes, weve got you covered. Above, homemade Peeps, also known as saffron honey marshmallows. We also have a wide array of recipes for the Passover table.Up for some more reading? Try this collection of our best weekend reads, which includes our coverage of the Roseanne reboot, Sean Penns literary adventures and a bittersweet return to Puerto Rico.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
BEIRUT   A rebel faction trapped by government forces outside the Syrian capital agreed to evacuate to northern Syria on Sunday as reports swirled of a larger agreement that would have the government retake full control of the eastern Ghouta region after seven years of revolt.Fighters from the Faylaq al-Rahman group left Douma on buses sent by the Syrian government to the rebel-held province of Idlib, SANA state news agency reported. Some 1,300 fighters, activists, and civilians signed up to leave the town, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group.It was the first organized evacuation of fighters from Douma, one of the earliest centers of the anti-government demonstrations that swept through the country in 2011. Security forces responded by putting the town and other suburbs around Damascus under siege, bombing hospitals and residential areas, and blocking the entry of food and medical relief.Douma is a stronghold of the powerful Army of Islam rebel group. The town is one of the last around the capital to hold out against the government.Later Sunday, a media outlet linked to the Syrian military reported that the Army of Islam also agreed to leave to north Syria, effectively transferring control of Douma to Damascus.The deal would mark the end of a weeks-long push by the government to consolidate its control of the eastern Ghouta region just outside the capital.Fighters from the Army of Islam would evacuate to Jarablus, a town in the northern Aleppo province that is shared between rebel and Turkish control. Turkey, with support from rebels, is running its own military operations against a U.S.-backed Kurdish party that controls territory along the frontier.A local council for Douma would be formed with the approval of the central government, said the government-linked Central Military Media outlet.Russia\'s military also said Sunday that a preliminary agreement has been reached on the evacuation of Army of Islam fighters. Maj.-Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, chief of the Russian center for reconciliation of the Syrian warring parties, said the fighters are to hand over maps of mined areas and underground tunnels while leaving Douma, as well as clear major transport routes of barricades.Opposition officials, however, denied the reports. There was no comment from the Army of Islam.The Army of Islam did not agree to leave the town, said Iyad Abdelaziz, a member of Douma\'s current local council. He said "humanitarian cases" would be allowed to evacuate on Monday.Dozens if not hundreds of residents are believed to require care for war wounds and medical conditions exacerbated by the siege of the town. The government routinely blocks aid groups from evacuating patients from besieged areas for medical care.Local activists say over 100,000 civilians are trapped inside Douma, which suffered devastating damage during the latest government assault.Ahmad Ramadan, a prominent opposition figure in exile, told the Saudi TV channel al-Arabiya that the Army of Islam was still engaged in talks with Russia over the future of the town. He said Turkey was also participating in the talks.Faylaq al-Rahman did not have a significant presence in the Douma. They were instead pushed into the town by a recent government offensive that broke rebel lines and cleaved eastern Ghouta into three parts, said local media activist Ahmad Khansour.The fighters in Douma were following their Faylaq al-Rahman comrades trapped in the other two Ghouta pockets that relocated to northern Syria last week. Government forces extended their control over those areas over the course of a five-week offensive that killed at least 1,600 civilians and displaced tens of thousands more, according to the Observatory, an opposition-linked group that monitors both sides of the conflict.___Associated Press writer Albert Aji Damascus, Syria, contributed to this report.
John Legend steps into the sandals of Jesus. And Benedict Cumberbatch stars in a new movie about grief and loss. JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR LIVE IN CONCERT 8 p.m. on NBC. Celebrate Easter by watching John Legend portray Jesus. The R&B superstar will take center stage to play the son of God in Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rices once-villified, now-canon rock musical. I had a hard time turning down the role of Jesus Christ, Mr. Legend told The Times. Hell be joined at the live Brooklyn armory performance by a starry cast that includes Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene and Alice Cooper as King Herod. And Brandon Victor Dixon, who recently played another conflicted antagonist as Aaron Burr in Hamilton, will take the role of Judas.MLB BASEBALL There may have been a big snowstorm recently, but thats not stopping baseball from heralding the return of spring. Two games will be televised nationally on Sunday: At 1:10 p.m., the St. Louis Cardinals face the New York Mets on ESPN. And at 8:37 on ESPN, the San Francisco Giants hope to kick-start another year of Even Year Magic as they wrap up their series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, who came within one victory of winning the World Series last year. Rich Hill, who started two World Series games, gets the ball for Los Angeles.BEVERLY HILLS DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on USA. Despite protests at other events, expect to see lots of fur on the red carpet.IN ICE COLD BLOOD 7 p.m. on Oxygen. As Fin Tutuola on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Ice-T has spent a lot of time around crime scenes and corpses. He turns his attention to real victims in this new series, which spotlights crimes involving sex, money, and murder through interviews, archival footage and re-enactments. Is it any good? Well, this writer would prefer not to draw Ice-Ts ire toward critics, as seen in a recent Twitter outburst: Criticizing things??! Is the EASIEST job in the world. Its [sic] takes NO talent what so ever, he wrote on Wednesday. So youll have to watch to find out for yourself.THE CHILD IN TIME 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Benedict Cumberbatch has built a huge fanbase and drawn accolades for playing emotionless and highly poised characters, as in Sherlock and The Imitation Game. He plunges into a character with the opposite characteristics in this adaptation of Ian McEwans 1987 novel. He plays Stephen Lewis, a writer whose daughter disappears; he and his wife (Kelly Macdonald) struggle to cope with the trauma, and he is soon besieged by memory jumps and hallucinations that leave him with a shaky grasp on reality.ROSEANNE on Amazon Prime. Fuller House didnt get nearly as many headlines. The reboot of Roseanne Barrs family sitcom stormed to the center of the countrys culture war last week, as the first episode drew huge ratings and earned a congratulatory call from the president. Return to earlier, less contentious times by binging the original nine seasons. (Heres a guide to the best episodes.)
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., more than most civil rights leaders, understood the singular role that television played in documenting the brutality of racial violence on African-Americans and eliciting sympathy from white viewers. As three new television documentaries marking the 50th anniversary of his assassination show, King embraced prime time news television coverage as a matter of political strategy and survival through his savvy use of sound bites, well-timed protests and the practice of nonviolence in the face of abuse.These documentaries share much in common. They feature some familiar civil rights voices, most notably those of Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee activists John Lewis and Diane Nash, and reveal how Kings relationships with the news media and the movement waned dramatically in his final years. And they attempt to present a more radical version of King to a new generation of viewers, with varying degrees of success.Hope & Fury: MLK, the Movement and the Media, which aired on NBC in late March and returns on MSNBC on April 1, is a two-hour documentary about the strained yet symbiotic relationship between civil rights activists and the emergent nightly television news. We felt there was so much hagiography of the movement and a flattening of the characters into a one-dimensional portrait, said Rachel Dretzin, a producer and co-director; Andrew Lack, chairman of NBC News and MSNBC, is executive producer. The decision to focus on the political savvy and the sophistication of King and other leaders of the movement ended up making it much more dimensional and interesting to us.Opening with Andrew Youngs declaration that one of the reasons Martin Luther King was so successful was that he understood television, Hope & Fury begins with the invisibility of black life and racial suffering on American television before the 1957 coverage of the black students who desegregated Central High School in Little Rock, Ark. Before, it was black newspapers like The Baltimore Afro-American and The Chicago Defender that provided comprehensive reporting on African-Americans. The film reminds us that television images of federal troops protecting brave and innocent black youth from white protesters was new for white Americans and helped spark peoples consciences.Hope & Fury largely relies on archival footage and commentary from former civil rights activists and historians as well as journalists both veteran (Tom Brokaw, Dan Rather, Moses Newson) and contemporary (Nikole Hannah-Jones of The New York Times and Chris Hayes and Joy-Ann Reid of MSNBC). And while an intense focus on the importance of television by a major news network risks veering toward the self-congratulatory, the films strength lies in its acknowledgment of a singular debt, not just to King, but to an ensemble of civil rights leaders. Hope & Fury is careful to show that it was the momentum of the civil rights movement that helped increase the audience of evening news, expand its format and enshrine its authority.On April 4 on the Paramount Network, I Am MLK Jr. will showcase the highlights of Kings activism, including the Montgomery Bus Boycott and the March on Washington. Directed by John Barbisan and Michael Hamilton, the documentary features older civil rights leaders like Jesse Jackson, contemporary media personalities like Van Jones and celebrities like Nick Cannon. An interview with Shaun King, a key figure in Black Lives Matter, is the films most obvious nod to how Kings activism has inspired action today. But, with the notable exception of Ms. Nash and a few others including her fellow SNCC member Rutha Mae Harris, the largely patrilineal tradition of black activism portrayed here overlooks those girls and women of color who have long been at the forefront of social justice movements.Turning to the final chapters of Kings life, HBOs King in the Wilderness, airing on April 2, presents an image of King that might be familiar to academics and leftist activists but unrecognizable to many Americans. The filmmakers pulled hundreds of news accounts from 1968-2014 about King, said Peter Kunhardt, the director. In most, he said, the reporter would summarize him with the I Have a Dream speech. He went on, It never went beyond that. So we were pleased to not deal with that aspect and look at the nightmare the dream turned into.Relying heavily on At Canaans Edge: America in the King Years, 1965-68, the final book in Taylor Branchs King trilogy (Mr. Branch is also an executive producer), the film portrays King as both dejected and rejected. He is disillusioned by the turn from civil rights to Black Power among a younger generation of African-Americans and the backlash he receives for protesting racial injustice in northern cities like Chicago, opposing the Vietnam War, and demanding fair pay and equitable working conditions for black laborers.For Trey Ellis, an executive producer, presenting King not as a towering figure but as an outsider was part of what drew him to the project. King actually outlived his legend, Mr. Ellis said. I think the documentary is really important in showing he did deal with contemporary issues were dealing with right now. He added, Even when the press had turned against him, when black people turned against him and saw nonviolence as soft, and whites saw him as a communist. Even his own advisers were questioning him. He just put his head down and did the work.King in the Wilderness benefits from its counterintuitive approach. We see the continuing influence of Kings wife, Coretta, to carry on with his nonviolent philosophy, particularly his stance against the Vietnam War. In one compelling moment, Xernona Clayton, an event organizer for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, celebrates Kings birthday by giving him gag gifts that will help him when hes arrested. King, though clearly tired, is tickled by the gesture.In order to crystallize the moral courage of Kings nonviolence, however, all three films share an antipathy toward the Black Power movement that will fully blossom in 1968. For Jeanne Theoharis, author of A More Beautiful and Terrible History: The Uses and Misuses of Civil Rights History, such narratives present a two-dimensional sense of the relationship between the civil rights and Black Power movements and obscure how their conflicts existed earlier as well. I think there are real debates going on in the mid-1960s in the black freedom struggle about black power, she said. Clearly not everyone is on the same page. Even if Malcolm X is super hated in the early 1960s, it doesnt mean that King is loved.Television news stoked this tension. Black Power and the movement that emerged in the mid-1960s complicated the narrative for many journalists, said Phil Bertelsen, a producer and co-director of Hope & Fury. A simple straightforward narrative of good versus evil now was a little bit more nuanced. Not only did nightly news seem to require a charismatic male civil rights leader like King, but as Hope & Fury shows, it also prioritized black suffering over black self-defense, making the rise of the Black Panther Party ill-suited for a prime-time white audience.Toward the end of his career, King began to castigate the media for focusing solely on the most famous personalities and spectacular events, said Brandon Terry, editor of the essay collection Fifty Years Since MLK. Mr. Terry suggests that King gave us a glimpse of his new strategy in his book Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Community?, written a year before his death.More and more, the civil rights movement will become engaged in the task of organizing people into permanent groups to protect their own interests and to produce change in their behalf, King wrote. This task is tedious, and lacks the drama of demonstrations, but it is necessary for meaningful results.
JERUSALEM  Days after the deadly flare-up along Israels border with Gaza, during which Israeli troops killed 15 Palestinians, a new war  of videos and strong statements  has erupted over what happened and why.The violence has waned in what was the bloodiest day in Gaza since the war of 2014, but both sides have been pressing their cases to defend their actions.Palestinians, supported by human rights groups, view the events as a legitimate protest that was met with disproportionate force by trigger-happy Israeli soldiers.Israel says it acted judiciously to prevent a dangerous breach of its borders and sovereignty led by Hamas, the Islamic group that controls Gaza, and to protect nearby communities. The toll would have been much higher, Israel says, if the protesters had managed to break through the security barrier.But nobody actually crossed the fence on Friday.The episode has elicited international concern and condemnation. The United Nations and the European Union have called for an independent and transparent investigation.Israels defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman, ruled out participation in any commission of inquiry, telling Army Radio on Sunday that the Israeli military did what had to be done.He added, I think that all of our troops deserve a medal.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey described the harsh Israeli response as an inhumane attack. After Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel wrote on Twitter that the most moral army in the world will not be preached to on morality by someone who for years has indiscriminately bombed a civilian population, apparently referring to Ankaras battle against the Kurds, Mr. Erdogan called the Israeli leader a terrorist.Fridays protest was the start of a six-week campaign called the Great Return March. The organizers said it was intended to raise international awareness of the longstanding blockade of the isolated and impoverished coastal enclave, imposed by Israel and Egypt, and to support the Palestinian demand to return to homes lost in 1948, in what is now Israel.The organizers had been purposely vague about plans to breach the border, to keep Israel guessing.The Israeli mainstream has largely backed the army, though there has been criticism.I categorize what happened as a failure, said Shlomo Brom, a retired brigadier general now at Israels Institute for National Security Studies. The Palestinian aim was to raise international consciousness, and to put the Palestinian issue back on the international and Israeli agenda. It succeeded.While the military probably also decided to use lethal force as a deterrent, Mr. Brom said, In my opinion they should have planned from the beginning to use minimal force and to prevent casualties.Mkhaimar Abusada, a professor of political science at Al-Azhar University in Gaza, said that from what he had heard there was no plan to cross the border. It was a mass Palestinian nonviolent protest against Israel, and to approach the border area, he said. But when you have large crowds you cannot control  so yes, some tried to infiltrate the borders between Gaza and Israel.Ahmed Abu Artema, a Gazan social-media activist who initiated the protest, said by telephone on Sunday that the idea of returning to the lands lost in 1948 was a strategic goal that would not necessarily be achieved within a month or a year, but that the protesters along the borders would determine the timing.Hamas, which quickly adopted the return campaign, played a large role in orchestrating it. The Islamic group, which is classified by much of the Western world as a terrorist organization, said five of those killed belonged to its military wing, but said they were participating in the protest side by side with their people.Last Friday we stopped at the border, Ismail Haniya, the groups leader, said on Sunday. Next time we dont know where the limit will be.The Israeli authorities named eight of those killed as Hamas fighters or activists and said two more belonged to other militant factions.The Israeli military produced a video showing what it said was one of the Hamas fighters and an accomplice shooting at Israeli forces across the fence in northern Gaza before being killed by Israeli tank and gunfire.Another army video montage showed protesters hurling stones and firebombs and rolling burning tires at the fence, apparently in an effort to set it on fire.On the other side of the divide, videos circulated widely on social media appearing to show unarmed protesters being shot by the Israelis.In one, a youth identified as Abdel Fattah Abd al-Nabi, 19, is shot in the back as he runs away from the fence carrying a tire; in a second, a woman is shot as she approaches the fence waving a Palestinian flag; in a third, a man is shot in the leg when he stands up after praying by the fence.Israel identified Mr. Nabi, who was killed, as a Hamas fighter, but Hamass military wing did not claim him as one of its members.Gaza health officials said an additional 800 protesters were injured by live fire.Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, the chief army spokesman, described that as nonsense in an interview on Sunday, saying the number of live fire injuries was more likely in the dozens, with the rest hit by rubber bullets or tear gas.General Manelis said that his troops had fired precisely, and that there was information that Hamas was planning attacks under the cover of the protests, like the cross-border shooting. He would not detail the rules of engagement but said the principle was not to allow the sabotage of military infrastructure and not to allow any mass crossing of the fence.He said his forces in the field had described Mr. Nabi as one of the most active participants in rolling burning tires toward the fence, but said the military would examine each episode.If the fence had burned and collapsed, General Manelis said, the nightmare scenario of a mass influx may have been realized. How many would have been killed then? he asked. We prevented a blood bath.Jihad Abu Jamous, 30, from Bani Suheila, a village near Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip, set off for the border in a taxi with his wife, Ghadir, and their four children. He didnt come back.His widow said he had moved toward the fence and was shot in the head. It was not clear whether he was throwing stones at the time. His widow said he had been holding an onion she had given him to counteract the effects of tear gas. Like most of the protesters, she stayed back.The mourning tent outside the house flew the yellow flags of Fatah, Hamass main rival. Ms. Abu Jamous said her husband had been jailed in the past by Hamas and was financially desperate.He became tired of life, she said. Berating Hamas leaders for caring only about their own positions, she said, The leaders are sending the young men toward the borders. The people are the victims.Relatives said he had worked from dawn till dusk collecting scraps of plastic, iron and soda cans from garbage dumps, and was thin as a skeleton.He went to be a martyr, said his aunt, Mona al-Najjar, 51. Its better than robbery or being a beggar.
SEOUL, South Korea  He clapped and he smiled, even posing for a group photo with a K-pop band.The appearance by North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, on Sunday at a concert by South Korean musicians in Pyongyang was all the more unusual because his authoritarian government has been struggling to stave off what it sees as an infiltration of the Souths pop culture among his isolated people.But Mr. Kim shook the hands of members of South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, which he and his wife, Ri Sol-ju, watched from a balcony.After watching Red Velvet perform, Mr. Kim reportedly pronounced the event a gift for Pyongyang citizens.The two-hour show at the East Pyongyang Grand Theater was part of a political dtente between the neighboring countries as relations have thawed.It was the first time a North Korean leader watched a South Korean musical performance in the Norths capital.The performances by the South Korean troupe that flew in on Saturday with great fanfare to Pyongyang were done in the name of international diplomacy.The show occurred just weeks before Mr. Kim is scheduled to meet with South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, at a border village on April 27, and ahead of a planned summit meeting with President Trump in May.They were the first South Korean singers to perform in North Korea in more than a decade. Their visit reciprocated a North Korean art troupes performances in South Korea during its Winter Olympics in February. Mr. Moon watched one of the North Korean performances.Mr. Kim and Ms. Ri, a former singer, were among hundreds of North Koreans who filled the 1,500-seat theater to watch the South Korean singers, including older crooners, gelled rockers and K-pop starlets.On Sunday evening, thunderous clapping erupted when Mr. Kim and his wife entered the concert hall and seated themselves in a second-floor balcony, according to pool reports from South Korean journalists and officials.Attention was focused on how Mr. Kim would react to the pop singers, particularly Red Velvet. The five-member girl group is typical of South Korean girl groups  known for their chirpy, bubble-gum harmonies and sexy choreography.Their tunes are so infectious that the South Korean military has broadcast them across the border in a psychological war against North Korean soldiers. The North used to threaten to direct its artillery at the loudspeakers, warning of an all-out war if the South didnt turn them off.How things have changed.South Korean officials said the North did not attempt to reject any of the South Korean song lineup or change the pop stars lyrics or risqu dance moves.(But apparently, even North Korea had a limit to how far it would go in accepting K-pop. South Korean officials said the North had rejected their suggestion that the global star Psy, the singer famous for his Gangnam Style hit, be included in the visit.)Please tell President Moon how good this kind of exchange is. I know there has been attention to whether I will come and see Red Velvet, Mr. Kim was quoted as telling South Korean officials. I thank you for bringing this gift to Pyongyang citizens.Kim Yerim, a Red Velvet member who is known as Yeri, was quoted as saying, The audience clapped loudly and even sang along.The South Korean culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, told reporters in Pyongyang after the show that Mr. Kim showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics.Mr. Kims acceptance of Red Velvet and South Korean pop culture was striking because his government has stepped up a crackdown on DVDs and computer thumb drives containing South Korean pop songs, movies and TV dramas smuggled from China, calling for establishing mosquito nets to keep out decadent capitalist influence.Defectors from the North have said that those who were caught selling or watching South Korean K-pop music videos could be sent to prison camps.Mr. Kim, who studied in Switzerland as a teenager, has tried of late to present himself as more flexible, at least among the loyal elite citizens living in Pyongyang. North Koreas Moranbong Band, often said to be Mr. Kims favorite girl group, has performed in short skirts and high heels, featuring theme songs from Hollywood films.Though it was Mr. Kims first known K-pop experience, his father, Kim Jong-il, watched a South Korean female singer perform in a provincial town in North Korea in 2001.The younger Mr. Kims appearance was part of a breakthrough after a tense international standoff spurred by Mr. Kims nuclear ambitions and his missile tests, prompting the international community to slap ever more punishing economic sanctions on his isolated country.In the past week, Mr. Kim traveled by train to pay a stealth visit to President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing.Other gestures from the North to foster the dtente have included sending athletes, cheerleaders and an art troupe to the South during the Winter Games in February. Athletes from North and South Korea also marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony.The South Korean singers now in the North will hold a joint concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday at an indoor stadium in Pyongyang.South Koreans will see a recorded version of the concert later this week, according to local news media. Its unclear if, or when, ordinary North Koreans will be allowed to see it.
In the spring and summer of 1943 in Amsterdam, Johan van Hulst was at the center of a daring scheme to save Jewish children from being sent to a concentration camp.The children  from infants to 12-year-olds  had been taken from their parents at a deportation center and brought by nursery workers to a nursery next to the teachers college where Mr. van Hulst was the principal.The rescue plan was simple but risky: the children were surreptitiously handed over a hedge between the nursery and the college and hidden in a classroom until they could be smuggled to the countryside by Dutch Resistance groups.Mr. van Hulst is credited with helping to rescue as many as 600 children, yet he was haunted by what he could not do. With up to 100 children still in the nursery as it was about to be shut down that September, Mr. van Hulst was asked how many more he could smuggle out.That was the most difficult day of my life, he told Yad Vashem, the Holocaust remembrance center in Jerusalem, which in 1972 named him one of the Righteous Among the Nations, a designation for non-Jews who rescued Jews. He is one of 5,595 Dutch people given the honor.You realize that you cannot possibly take all the children with you, he said. You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on, I asked myself, Why not 13? Nearly 70 years later, when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel visited the Netherlands in 2012, he met Mr. van Hulst and told him: We say those who save one life saves a universe. You saved hundreds of universes.Mr. van Hulst died on March 22 in Amsterdam, the Dutch Senate announced. He was 107.Mr. van Hulst started teaching at the Reformed Teachers Training College in 1938. Two years later, he was named deputy principal. But after the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands began in May 1940, the school came under great financial pressure. The Dutch government eliminated a subsidy for teachers salaries, seemingly dooming the school to closing.But Mr. van Hulst came up with a plan to ask the students parents to fund the school, and it succeeded, saving the school and helping him rise to principal.When Germany invaded the Netherlands, there were about 140,000 Jews, and by September 1944, more than 100,000 of them had been sent to concentration camps, according to Yad Vashem. Jews from Amsterdam were taken to the transit camp in Westerbork, in the Netherlands, before being transported to Nazi extermination centers in Poland like Auschwitz.The teachers college represented one side of the childrens rescue triangle. The deportation center  a former theater  was managed by Walter Sskind, a German refugee. The nursery was run by Henritte Pimentel, who asked Mr. van Hulst to let the children play in the colleges garden and take naps in a classroom. Then, as the plan took hold, the children were whisked to safety.The plan necessitated deception  and led to difficult conversations with parents whose children had been wrested from them.Sskinds role was to let the children disappear from the lists, Bart Wallet, a historian at Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, wrote in an email, referring to the administrative records he altered to help save the children.Ms. Pimentel, he added, convinced the parents to let their children be smuggled out. Van Hulst was the one who did the actual smuggling  of course, together with his team of students and fellow resistance workers.To avoid suspicion, Mr. van Hulst sent only a few children at a time to safety; not all of them at any given time in the nursery could be saved.We had to make a choice, he told the Dutch broadcaster NOS last year, and one of the most horrible things was to make a choice.Emile Schrijver, general director of the Jewish Cultural Quarter in Amsterdam, said in an email that Mr. van Hulst had demonstrated that we all have a choice to do the right thing at any time; even in times of enormous trouble; he used the power of disruption; disruption of an evil system and of the arrogance it entailed.The teachers college where Mr. van Hulst was the principal is now the National Holocaust Museum.Johan Wilhelm van Hulst was born on Jan. 28, 1911, in Amsterdam, to Gerrit van Hulst, a furniture upholsterer, and the former Geertruida C. Hofman. His education included masters degrees in psychology and pedagogy from Vrije Universiteit and a Ph.D. in humanities there.After the war, he continued to teach but also entered politics, serving in the Dutch Senate and the European Parliament.He was also an accomplished chess player and the chairman of a chess club in Amsterdam. When Jewish members faced restrictions from the Germans, he told the website Chess Vibes in 2010, we decided to secretly play at their houses instead of at the club.Later this had to stop as well, he said.He is survived by his daughters, Diane Schoonemann-van Hulst and Catherine Koot-van Hulst; two grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His wife, the former Anna Janette Donker, died in 2006.Mr. van Hulst was interviewed frequently about his wartime activities but was modest in assessing them.I was at the center of a particular activity, he told the Dutch newspaper Het Parool two years ago. Its not about me. I dont want to put myself in the foreground or play Resistance hero. All I really think about is the things I couldnt do  the few thousand children I wasnt able to save.
BOSTON   The race for the top seed in the Eastern Conference is getting more interesting.Marcus Morris had 25 points and nine rebounds before getting ejected in the closing seconds, and the Boston Celtics rallied to beat the East-leading Toronto Raptors 110-99 on Saturday night.Jayson Tatum added 24 points, six rebounds and four assists as Boston posted its sixth straight win and moved within two games of Toronto for the top seed in the East. Terry Rozier finished with 21 points and seven assists.Both teams have six games remaining. They meet for the final time on Wednesday in Toronto."We have to see them twice in a week, and we know it\'s going to be a battle," Rozier said. "But I say we don\'t let the standings dictate anything. We just go out there and we play and we go to war. That\'s what happened tonight."The Celtics got their 53rd win, matching their total from last season.Things got heated in the final seconds, when four technical fouls were assessed between the teams. Morris was hit with two and was tossed. Toronto\'s C.J. Miles and Serge Ibaka received one each.The kindling for the ejection came when Morris dribbled into the front court and was fouled with 10.9 seconds remaining. He then began jawing back and forth with Raptors players."I just thought the game was over and just think the foul was a little too much, being down 10 with (10 seconds) left," Morris said. "It got a little heated."The ending did little to damper the performance of Morris or his teammates over the preceding 47 minutes.For Morris, it was his fourth straight game with at least 20 points  a career high.DeMar DeRozan led Toronto with 32 points, seven rebounds and seven assists. Ibaka added 15 points and 10 rebounds.After giving up 24 points in the paint in the first half, the Celtics mixed in some zone defensively in the second half to try to limit the Raptors\' opportunities.It was effective, and helped ignite a 10-0 Celtics run that gave them a 104-94 lead with 3:27 left on a layup by Tatum."It had a lot (of effect)," Raptors point guard Kyle Lowry said. "We were stuck outside. They did a good job in the zone. We didn\'t make any plays. We had to figure it out. We just didn\'t figure it out quick enough."There were 15 ties and 20 lead changes in a game that was played within 5 to 6 points most of the night."Whatever they can do, we can do," Morris said. "We just play hard. A couple guys stepped up. ... It was a good team win."TIP-INSRaptors: DeRozan extended his franchise record for 30-point games to 92. ... Toronto\'s franchise-record streak of hitting at least 10 3-pointers came to an end at 17 games.Celtics: Rozier has scored 10 or more points in 25 straight games. He is the seventh Celtics player since 2010 to have a streak that long. ... Aron Baynes\' two 3-pointers were a career high. He entered the night 1 for 19 from beyond the arc. The one he made previously was in Boston on Nov. 30, 2014. ... Morris (right ankle sprain) and Al Horford (left ankle sprain) both returned after missing a game.MAKING PROGRESSCeltics coach Brad Stevens said he got his first peek at Kyrie Irving since the All-Star had surgery last week to remove a tension wire in his left knee."Saw him (Friday), spent a lot of time with him. His spirits are good," Stevens said. "Bending (and) extending his knee on a training table. No on-court videos. No 360 dunks. Just extending his knee on a training table."Irving is out at least for the remainder of the regular season. The team said recovery would take three to six weeks.STAYING HEALTHYPlaying the Celtics highlighted the Raptors\' health. Toronto had its entire roster available, which coach Dwayne Casey said was "huge" for his team\'s prospects going forward."That was one of the things coming into this year  to make sure we cut back some minutes," Casey said. "DeMar and Kyle (Lowry), keep their minutes back to make sure they didn\'t get those high-usage rates on their body. Knock on wood, it\'s not over yet."UP NEXTRaptors: At Cleveland on Tuesday.Celtics: At Milwaukee Tuesday.___More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
SEOUL, South Korea   North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un clapped his hands and said he was "deeply moved" as he, along with his wife and hundreds of other citizens, watched a rare performance by South Korean pop stars visiting Pyongyang. The concert highlights the thawing ties between the rivals after years of friction over the North\'s nuclear program.During Sunday\'s performance at the packed 1,500-seat East Pyongyang Grand Theater, North Korean concertgoers  most of the men in dark suits but some women in colorful traditional "hanbok" dresses  waved their hands from their seats when the South Korean stars joined together to sing a popular Korean song, "Our wish is unification." After the two-hour performance ended, the North Koreans gave a thundering standing ovation.A South Korean artistic group, including some pop legends and the popular girl band Red Velvet, flew to Pyongyang over the weekend for two performances in the North Korean capital, one on Sunday and the other on Tuesday. How North Koreans would react to Red Velvet was a focus of keen media attention in South Korea.Kim, wearing a dark Mao-style suit, made a surprise visit to the performance with his wife Ri Sol Ju, sister Kim Yo Jong and other senior North Korean officials, including nominal head of state Kim Yong Nam. Kim Jong Un applauded during the event and shook hands with the South Korean performers. He also took a group photo with them after their performance, according to North Korea\'s state news agency and South Korean media pool reports from Pyongyang.Kim "said that he was deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the South side," the North\'s Korean Central News Agency said.Short South Korean media pool footage showed Kim clapping from the second-floor VIP stand as South Korean Culture Minister Do Jong-hwan bowed and greeted North Korean spectators looking on from the first floor."We should hold culture and art performances frequently," Kim told South Korean performers. Mentioning the performance\'s title, "Spring comes," Kim also asked the performers to tell South Korean President Moon Jae-in that the two Koreas should hold a similar event in Seoul in the autumn, according to South Korean media pool reports.Kim also talked about Red Velvet."There had been interest in whether I would come and see Red Velvet. I had initially planned to attend a performance the day after tomorrow but I came here today after adjusting my schedule," Kim was quoted as saying. "I thank you for this kind of gift to Pyongyang\'s citizens."It was the first time for a North Korean leader to attend such a South Korean performance in the North. During a past period of detente, South Korea occasionally sent pop singers to North Korea, but that stopped in 2005.The 26-second South Korean video clip showed a quiet audience when members of Red Velvet, wearing clothes less revealing than their normal stage costumes, danced and sang their popular hit song "Red Flavor."Full video of their and other South Korean singers\' performances wasn\'t immediately available. But Red Velvet said in a post-concert interview that the North Koreans gave them a big hand.Band member Seulgi said she cried when North and South Koreans sang together the song, "Our Wish is Unification." Another member Yeri said she was "very" nervous when she exchanged handshakes with Kim Jong Un, but she said it was still "really, really an honor" to do so.        The South Korean group includes prominent singers such as Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sunhee and Cho Jin Hee, who all previously performed in Pyongyang.The ongoing cooperation steps between the rivals began after North Korea took part in February\'s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. During the games, a North Korean art troupe performed in South Korea, and Moon and his wife watched it with visiting senior North Korean officials including Kim Yo Jong, who became the first member of the North\'s ruling Kim family to visit the South since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War.Some experts suspect Kim Jong Un may be attempting to use his outreach to Seoul and Washington as a way to weaken international sanctions and buy time to further advance his nuclear bomb program.Kim is to meet Moon at a border village on April 27 and President Donald Trump in May in separate summit talks.On Tuesday, the South Korean K-pop stars plan to hold a joint performance with North Koreans. Meanwhile, a South Korean taekwondo demonstration team also held a performance in Pyongyang on Sunday.

LONDON  British officials investigating the poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian double agent, believe it is likely that an assassin smeared a nerve agent on the door handle at his home. This operation is seen as so risky and sensitive that it is unlikely to have been undertaken without approval from the Kremlin, according to officials who have been briefed on the early findings of the inquiry.This theory suggests that an assassin, who Britain believes was working on behalf of the Russian government, walked up to the door of Mr. Skripals brick home on a quiet street in Salisbury on March 4, the day that he and his daughter, Yulia, were sickened.Mr. Skripal, who was freed in a spy swap with the United States in 2010, is still in critical condition and unresponsive, but Yulia is conscious and talking, according to a BBC report.Because the nerve agent is so potent, the officials said, the task could have been carried out only by trained professionals familiar with chemical weapons. British and American officials are skeptical that independent actors could have carried out such a risky operation or obtained the agent without approval at the highest levels of the Russian government  almost exactly the same phrase that American intelligence agencies used in October 2016, when they first attributed the hacking of emails from the Democratic National Committee to a team of Russian hackers.Four weeks after the assassination attempt, British and American officials are turning to the question of whether President Vladimir V. Putin himself was aware of, or ordered, the attack.They say there is no evidence so far of his direct participation, but the Russian president, a former K.G.B. officer, is skilled at hiding his communications.Russia has denied involvement in the poisoning, and in the election hack.British and American officials say they are struck by the symbolism of the attack on Mr. Skripal, as well as its effectiveness. There were many ways the former spy could have been killed: He could have been shot, or killed in a staged accident.But the assassins knew the nerve agent would be identified, and knew it would be linked to Russia, the officials said. That was meant to send a chilling message to others who would think of defecting to, or informing, the West.And by conducting the operation in an historical British town, some distance from London, the attack was meant to indicate that no place was out of reach of Russian assassins, the officials said.The boldness of the attack on Mr. Skripal, which took British authorities by surprise, has caused them to reassess Mr. Putins use of what has come to be called hybrid warfare.The officials are now viewing those actions as part of a pattern  one rarely seen in the Cold War  in which Mr. Putin exerts Russian power in ways that are hard to attribute directly to Russian actors, but leave little doubt in the minds of adversaries about the countrys willingness to use a range of new tactics.NATO allies are now thinking anew about coordinated responses, which is what the simultaneous ouster of the Russian agents was intended to represent. But it is unclear whether those countries can hold together in a continuous series of confrontations with Russia.Eight days after the Skripals collapsed, Prime Minister Theresa May identified the poison as Novichok, developed in the last years of the Soviet Union.For an assassin to leave poison on Mr. Skripals door handle would require considerable knowledge of the underlying chemistry, said Richard Guthrie, an independent chemical weapons expert and editor of CBW Events.The nerve agent would have to be designed so that it would remain on the door handle, and then reliably be transferred to the targets hand, he said.Its a huge implication, if it was the door handle, because it means someone had to be in the U.K. with the material, Mr. Guthrie said. Anything you create that would stick to the door handle, youve got to make it so that it would be removed from the door handle when it was handled, and not dropped off too quickly. Thats complicated chemistry.The assassin, he added, would have had to possess a high confidence that his target would be affected, because, he said, you dont want to stand in front of the front door.Alastair Hay, an emeritus professor of toxicology at the University of Leeds, agreed that such an attack would require specialized knowledge, to ensure the poison adhered to the door handle but felt innocuous to the targets.Once they touched it, they would know that this handle was wet, Professor Hay said. But they would not have dreamed that someone was trying to poison them. If they had, they would try to wipe it off.Some experts have expressed caution about assuming that Mr. Putin approved the attack. Its timing was awkward, coming too late to help him much in last months election, and casting a diplomatic shadow over Russias hosting of the 2018 World Cup.And the Kremlins embrace of proxy forces in recent years has opened the door to freelancing from other power centers, like security agencies or the countrys military intelligence, which may not share their plans in detail.In their consultation with the United States and other allies, British officials shared a three-part case against Russia, the officials said.The first element was an analysis of the nerve agent provided by mass spectrometry, a technique that sorts ions based on their mass-to-charge ratio. If the sample is strong enough, this technique could provide scientists with a chemical signature identifying its national source or even the specific laboratory that produced it, said Paul F. Walker, a chemical weapons expert at Green Cross International, a disarmament advocacy group.The second element was evidence that Russia had publicly stated its intent to assassinate defectors living abroad. British officials pointed to 2006 legislation passed by the Russian Parliament, which granted Russias president expanded powers to use force against opponents living in other countries.Russia has never acknowledged using the authority under the law, and has denied any role in high-profile deaths, like that of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former Russian K.G.B. officer who was poisoned with a rare and highly radioactive isotope known as Polonium 210 a few months after it was passed.A third element of the British case against Russia consisted of intelligence  either human intelligence, intercepted communications or other information  that the officials would not share.The dispute between Russia and Britain deepened last week, after the United States and European allies expelled more than than 150 Russian diplomats suspected of being spies.Russias government has said it insists on the right to visit Ms. Skripal, a Russian citizen. The British foreign office has said it will consider Russias request, taking into consideration both international law and Ms. Skripals wishes.Russia also protested the search of an Aeroflot passenger jet on Friday after it traveled from Moscow to Londons Heathrow Airport, and said that the British Border Force had tried to search the plane in the absence of its crew or captain. Ben Wallace, the British security minister, said there was nothing unusual about the search.It is routine for Border Force to search aircraft to protect the U.K. from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country, Mr. Wallace said.Russia on Saturday also released a list of questions addressed to Britain, France and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the Skripal poisoning.The questions scrutinize the British claim that the nerve agent originated in Russia, noting that an antidote was provided to the Skripals within hours of their poisoning, and questioning whether British scientists had produced Novichok nerve agents in their own laboratories.
SEOUL   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the North\'s capital. Kim was seen clapping in tune to some of the songs and took photographs with the performers after the show."Our dear leader comrade said his heart swelled and he was moved by the sight of his people deepen their understanding of South Korean popular culture and cheer with sincerity," the North\'s KCNA state media said.The North Korean audience clapped, cheered, sang along to some of the songs and later presented the South Korean performers with bouquets."(Kim Jong Un) showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics," Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters after the show.Sunday\'s performance coincided with the start of annual joint South Korean-U.S. military drills, which have previously been met with denunciations and missile launches by the North, and were delayed and shortened this year in order not to overshadow the Olympic detente.The recent thaw in relations, which could even lead to a summit between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump in May, follows months of increased tensions after North Korea conducted missile launches and a nuclear test last year in defiance of United Nations Security Council sanctions.Sunday\'s concert was held under the title "Spring is Coming"  at the East Pyongyang Grand Theatre, performed by an elite lineup of South Korean artists including veteran vocalists Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sun-hee, rock star Yoon Do-hyun and singer Baek Ji-young, as well as K-pop girl band Red Velvet.Like the concert title, the performance had brought a "spring of peace" to the two Koreas, Kim was also cited as saying by the North\'s central news agency, and expressed wishes for a "prosperous autumn".The North Korean leader\'s face was slightly flushed in a group photograph with the performers distributed by North Korean state media. He was seen in another directly addressing members of Red Velvet, which commands more than 4.6 million followers on Instagram.North Korean staff were spotted outside the performers\' dressing rooms using Japan-made electronic devices to serve coffee and cupcakes, including Western Lavazza and Coffee-mate products, according to a South Korean media pool report.SIGNIFICANT THAWSunday\'s two-hour concert in Pyongyang, along with a separate taekwondo performance earlier in the day, came as South Korea\'s engagement with North Korea has grown since Kim expressed his willingness for more contact between the two countries.Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics in February. The significant thaw in the inter-Korean relations has led them to set a date for their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.The two Koreas are technically still at war after the 1950-1953 conflict ended with a ceasefire rather than a peace agreement.The South Korean delegation included artists, concert staff, taekwondo demonstrators, reporters and government officials. They travelled to Pyongyang on Saturday in a reciprocal cultural visit after North Korea sent performers to the South in February, the South\'s Culture Ministry said.In addition to the concert, a team of South Korean taekwondo demonstrators performed on Sunday at the Pyongyang Taekwondo Hall, drawing more than 2,300 North Koreans, including Choe Hwi, chairman of the National Sports Guidance Committee.BANNED MEDIAThe images of Kim posing and laughing with the young South Korean pop stars and applauding in the stands contrasts with reports from North Korean defectors who say he has overseen a crackdown on foreign media."North Korean refugees overwhelmingly and consistently report that it has become more dangerous to consume foreign media under Kim Jong Uns crackdowns," Sokeel Park, the South Korea country director for refugee aid organisation Liberty in North Korea, said on Twitter.A 2015 survey of North Korean refugees conducted by the U.S. government\'s Broadcasting Board of Governors found that 77 percent of respondents said it had become more dangerous to listen to foreign radio under Kim.South Korean movies were often reported to be especially taboo compared to Chinese films, according to a report by the InterMedia consultancy group, with North Koreans potentially facing prison time if caught.Seohyun, an actress and vocalist with South Korean girl group Girls\' Generation, sang a North Korean pop song called "Blue Willow Tree". She had performed with the North\'s Samjiyon Orchestra in Seoul in February.Cho Yong-pil, 68, sang a string of hits including "The Cafe in the Winter", "Short Hair" and "Let\'s Go on a Trip". Cho staged a solo concert in Pyongyang in 2005 - the last concert by a South Korean artist in the North before Sunday\'s performance.The same South Korean singers will hold a joint concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday at the Ryukyung Chung Ju Yung Gymnasium, a joint project between the North and South named after Hyundai Group billionaire founder Chung Ju-yung, who had long advocated inter-Korean cultural and economic exchanges.Kim had been planning to attend the Tuesday performance but decided to watch Sunday\'s show due to "political schedules", KCNA and South Korean officials there said.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang and Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Josh Smith; Editing by Louise Heavens, Peter Cooney and Paul Tait)
LOS ANGELES   Steven Spielberg has found his way back to the top of the box office with the action-adventure "Ready Player One," while Tyler Perry has scored again with "Acrimony."Studio estimates on Sunday say Spielberg\'s virtual reality-focused film earned a solid $53.2 million in its first four days in theaters from 4,234 locations since opening Wednesday night, with $41.2 million of that coming from the three-day weekend.Not adjusted for inflation, it\'s Spielberg\'s best opening in a decade following "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull," which launched with $100.1 million in 2008. Aside from "The BFG," Spielberg has lately favored smaller historical dramas instead of the big-scale blockbusters of his heyday.Based on Ernest Cline\'s popular novel and chock-full of references to 1980s pop culture, including some nods to Spielberg\'s own films, "Ready Player One" is a return to the popcorn filmmaking that he became known for. With that includes a reportedly hefty $175 million price tag, which does not account for marketing costs.Audiences gave the film an A- CinemaScore, and reviews have been warm, too (it\'s sitting at a 76 percent on Rotten Tomatoes). Those who turned out this weekend were mostly male (59 percent) and over the age of 25 (56 percent)."It\'s great to be in the Steven Spielberg business," said Jeff Goldstein, Warner Bros.\' president of domestic distribution. "We always believed that this movie itself would carry the day and that\'s really what happened. We\'ve seen all around the globe that the word of mouth is really propelling it."Goldstein said while advance ticket sales were solid, the walk-up business was particularly robust on Friday and Saturday.Internationally, the film exceeded the studio\'s expectations with $128 million from 62 territories, including $61.7 million from China (the biggest-ever opening in the country for Warner Bros.). Globally it grossed $181.3 million.ComScore senior media analyst Paul Dergarabedian said the performance of "Ready Player One" should be judged in the context of the marketplace, which is down significantly (24.1 percent) from last March and has seen nearly every film since "Black Panther" open in the "middling to good range.""None of them have set the world on fire," Dergarabedian said. "We\'re living in a world where a $52.3 million gross for the first four days is a really good number.""Tyler Perry\'s Acrimony" took second place. Driven by an overwhelmingly female audience, the film starring Taraji P. Henson grossed $17.1 million over the 3-day weekend, followed by "Black Panther" in third place with $11.3 million.With $650.7 million in domestic grosses, "Black Panther" is poised to pass "Jurassic World\'s" $652 million to become the fourth highest grossing domestic release of all time.A batch of faith-based films also competed for attention leading up to the Easter holiday, including "I Can Only Imagine," which scored again with $10.8 million to take fourth place. It outshined "Paul, Apostle of Christ," which earned $3.5 million in weekend two and the new opener, "God\'s Not Dead: A Light in Darkness," which stumbled with $2.6 million. Even Wes Anderson\'s "Isle of Dogs," playing in only 165 locations, beat "God\'s Not Dead 3" with $2.8 million."Pacific Rim Uprising" rounded out the top five with $9.2 million, down 67 percent from last weekend\'s No. 1 opening.The year is still down nearly 4 percent, too, but there are some superheroes on the horizon."The cavalry is on the way in \'Avengers: Infinity War,\'" Dergarabedian said.Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to comScore. Where available, the latest international numbers for Friday through Sunday are also included. Final domestic figures will be released Monday.1."Ready Player One," $41.2 million ($128 million international).2."Tyler Perry\'s Acrimony," $17.1 million.3."Black Panther," $11.3 million ($7.7 million international).4."I Can Only Imagine," $10.8 million ($200,000 international).5."Pacific Rim Uprising," $9.2 million ($31.4 million international).6."Sherlock Gnomes," $7 million ($2.5 million international).7."Love, Simon," $4.8 million ($1.6 million international).8."Tomb Raider," $4.7 million ($12 million international).9."A Wrinkle in Time," $4.7 million ($4.8 million international).10."Paul, Apostle of Christ," $3.5 million.___Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and Canada), according to comScore:1. "Ready Player One," $128 million.2. "Peter Rabbit," $32.1 million.3. "Pacific Rim Uprising," $31.4 million.4. "Baaghi 2," $15.2 million.5. "Tomb Raider," $12 million.6. "Gonjiam: Haunted Asylum," $8.5 million.7. "Black Panther," $7.7 million.8. "Nothing to Lose (Part 1)," $7.1 million.9. "Red Sparrow," and "Blockers," $5 million.10. "A Wrinkle in Time," $4.8 million.___Universal and Focus are owned by NBC Universal, a unit of Comcast Corp.; Sony, Columbia, Sony Screen Gems and Sony Pictures Classics are units of Sony Corp.; Paramount is owned by Viacom Inc.; Disney, Pixar and Marvel are owned by The Walt Disney Co.; Miramax is owned by Filmyard Holdings LLC; 20th Century Fox and Fox Searchlight are owned by 21st Century Fox; Warner Bros. and New Line are units of Time Warner Inc.; MGM is owned by a group of former creditors including Highland Capital, Anchorage Advisors and Carl Icahn; Lionsgate is owned by Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.; IFC is owned by AMC Networks Inc.; Rogue is owned by Relativity Media LLC.___

BERRYVILLE, Va.  For more than a month now, the questions have ricocheted down this Main Street culled from a Norman Rockwell dreamscape  past the dueling barbershops and the outdoor broom sale and the mural with the horse  quietly at first, when the Florida massacre was still fresh, and then not so quietly.Why would this time be different? Why should it be?Every time something happens, everybodys hollering, Garland Ashby, 77, the owner of an estimated 75 guns, said of the recent protests over gun control, rubbing at his cigarette stub from a park bench in this town of 4,200. A couple of months its in the news, and then its gone.More than a week has passed since some 800 student-led marches pulsed through the country and abroad  more than a week for momentum to build, or stall out, or morph into something beyond anyones control. And in this tossup congressional district, a short drive from the demonstrations nexus in Washington, and in other House battlegrounds nationwide, a consensus has formed on at least this much: Both sides think they are being underestimated. Both insist their adversaries will tire eventually, punching themselves out.Itll go away, Mr. Ashby predicted, grinding the cigarette into the mud. Like all the other times.Theyre looking for us to get bored, said Rosie Banks, 17, a high school junior about 40 miles east in Sterling, Va., whose bedroom includes the Am I Next? sign she hauled across the capital last month and a fish named Malcolm X. Were not going to get bored.This has certainly not happened yet. Both before and after the march, high school students have shown themselves eager to hatch longer-term plans, with some plotting together last week through their spring breaks.In this stretch of Northern Virginia, students are trying to organize a town hall with Representative Barbara Comstock, one of the most vulnerable Republicans in Congress, recognizing that her support from the National Rifle Association could be a drag in a district that preferred Hillary Clinton in 2016.New voter registration pushes, steered by teenagers, are well underway. Students are consulting with established (and adult-run) groups like Everytown for Gun Safety, founded and financed by Michael R. Bloomberg, and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence  with plans to discuss how to host their own candidate events before November or start clubs at their schools.Even less politically active students in Virginias 10th Congressional District have learned Ms. Comstocks name. They know who she is, said Paige Thimmesch, 16, Ms. Bankss classmate in Sterling, Va., who is hoping to arrange the forum with the congresswoman. They dont know every single policy. They do know that she is pro-gun.Looking to history, fledgling activists are researching Vietnam-era student protests for context and inspiration. They are using words like intersectional. They are quoting favored lyrics from Hamilton: This is not a moment, its the movement.That movement, though, will hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout among young Americans  translating sound and fury into the long, slow work of lasting change.In the 2014 midterm elections, less than 20 percent of voters between the ages of 18 and 29 turned out to cast ballots, compared to more than 40 percent of voters between 45 and 59, according to an analysis of survey data by the United States Elections Project, which is run by Michael P. McDonald, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida. Recent polling suggests the gap could close, at least somewhat, this fall. A Quinnipiac University survey released in late February found that 54 percent of those 18 to 34 said they were more motivated than usual to vote, outpacing every other age group.While youth-driven movements in recent years, like Black Lives Matter and Occupy Wall Street, have installed themselves as forces in Democratic politics and the national discourse, their effects at the ballot box have been uncertain.Gun owners, mindful that flurries of mass activism have often dissipated on their own after past shootings, are still taking no chances. Some efforts have been unsavory: Survivors of the Parkland, Fla., massacre in February have been the subject of internet conspiracy theories and bizarre fictions. More civic-minded supporters of gun rights are discussing counter-rallies this month to demonstrate their collective might.All these calls for gun control are only making gun owners snap to attention, said Philip Van Cleave, the leader of the Virginia Citizens Defense League, a gun rights group. This is not a one-way movement by any means.Then there is the N.R.A., whose track record includes few political losses in recent memory  its power derived less from direct donations than a fine-tuned electioneering machine primed to mobilize voters with a letter-grade system for assessing candidates and tens of millions of dollars in campaign ads and voter-guide mailings. Shortly after the Parkland shooting, President Trump expressed support for gun restrictions opposed by the N.R.A., scolding fellow Republicans for kowtowing to the group. It did not take long, after an Oval Office meeting with N.R.A. officials, for the president to reverse himself.Yet even in corners of the country unaccustomed to dissent on gun issues, supporters of restrictions sense an opening. In Maines Second Congressional District, a region that includes both small cities and parcels of land so rural they are officially called unorganized territory, school walkouts and satellite March for Our Lives protests have specked the map, powered by students and Democratic activists.Though gun owners have betrayed little immediate concern  If they hang around, well still be here, and if they dont, well still be here, said Todd Tolhurst, the president of Gun Owners of Maine  students seem comfortable with their odds in any war of attrition.Well outlive them, said Sean Monteith, 17, a junior at Lewiston High School, adding that he hoped his peers would be able to outvote them, too. His cellphone includes a list of action items and reminders: connect with city council, draft legislation, do not go on assumptions.Back in Washington, a handful of Republicans seem attuned to at least two of those directives, hedging their positions in recent weeks to accommodate the post-Parkland moment. Several vulnerable members signed on to a Democratic bill authorizing federal research into gun violence. Two of them, Brian Mast and Carlos Curbelo, both Republicans from Florida, have endorsed an assault weapons ban.Activists appear determined to make others pay a professional price for declining to engage. In Colorados Sixth District, where Representative Mike Coffman is widely considered one of the most endangered Republican incumbents, organizers with Never Again Colorado, a new group advocating gun control, are planning a forum to discuss guns with or without Mr. Coffman. The district includes Aurora, where a gunman killed 12 people in a movie theater in 2012.We have a lot of momentum right now, said Ian Gaskins, 17, a high school junior who is helping to plan the event. I dont want people to stop caring about this until the next mass shooting.For Democrats, the zeal for gun control has at once presented an uncommon opportunity and an occasion to revisit plans for midterm messaging. After Mr. Trumps election, his opponents did not necessarily expect a gun reckoning to be central to their 2018 strategy.Last summer, as the party strained to communicate its own agenda in the Trumpian haze, Democrats chose Berryville as the backdrop to introduce a broad-strokes platform of economic populism. Their top leaders in Congress, Senator Chuck Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi, and progressive stars like Senator Elizabeth Warren schlepped 65 miles outside Washington to deliver their message in the same park where Mr. Ashby, the gun owner, flicked away his cigarette on a recent afternoon.Eight months later, it is gun violence, more than any fiscal issue, that has galvanized a new generation of prospective Democrats, some not yet old enough to vote.In Virginia, the party had already long targeted Ms. Comstock, casting her as a poor fit for a district that includes some rural pockets, like Berryville, but also left-leaning Washington suburbs and vast reserves of more moderate voters repelled by Mr. Trump. Barbara Bump-Stock, said Candy Baracat-Donovan, 34, from Leesburg, Va., whose morning routine now includes a round of phone calls to the offices of representatives like Ms. Comstock.A spokesman for Ms. Comstock, Jeff Marschner, said the congresswoman was committed to a multipronged effort to prevent gun violence, citing her support for additional mental health funding and narrow, N.R.A.-backed legislation improving reporting to the national background check database, among other measures.It is not clear if she will agree to a town hall with students. They seem to understand the calculation.High school students are scary, said Jay Falk, 18, a senior in Virginia who co-founded Students Demand Action DMV, a gun control group with over 100 members. We are not cynical yet.
