Beijing has a strong grip on banks, the news media and politics, and it seems willing to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system.
There are ways to make life harder for American companies in China that need not be formal, or widely publicized.
British shares rose on Thursday as the threat of a trade war between the United States and China appeared to fade and a   relief rally spread from Wall Street and Asia to Europe. 
President Trump said he would consider tariffs on $100 billion more in Chinese goods in retaliation for Beijing’s plan to set levies on American products.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Quotation of the Day for Thursday, April 5, 2018.
While Washington figures out its stance on Syria, American forces on the ground are building up their front-line positions.
American companies want a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. China wants to build its industries into sophisticated global competitors. This week, both countries demonstrated a willingness to escalate trade tensions to defend the...
The trade dispute rumbling between China and the U.S. has raised the possibility consumers in Beijing may end up paying higher prices for American beef, liquor and tobacco if Beijing goes ahead with hikes on tariffs for such products.
The U.S. trade deficit increased to a near 9-1/2-year high in February, with both imports and exports rising to record highs in a sign of strong domestic and global demand.
European stocks jumped to their highest level in more than two weeks on Thursday as investors bought back into risky assets as concerns over trade tensions ebbed.
The United States is willing to negotiate with China on trade, but only if talks are serious, as previous attempts produced little progress, a senior U.S. official told Reuters late on Thursday as trade tensions between the two nations escalated.
President Donald Trump is off, way off, on the U.S. trade deficit with China. He repeatedly uses an inflated number for the trade gap as the world's two largest economies escalate their dispute over imports and exports.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit U.S. President Donald Trump on April 27, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday, as differences over a nuclear deal with Iran and trade cast a shadow over the transatlantic relationship.
On trade, Trump doesn’t know what he wants, except what he can’t get.
The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):
President Donald Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify tariffs on $100 billion (&#163;71.3 billion) more Chinese imports, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world's two largest economies...
After months of stalemate, American negotiators are eager for quick progress on the North American trade deal.
The United States and China, the world's two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other's goods.
White House trade adviser Peter Navarro on Thursday defended U.S. trade action toward China, saying it ultimately would lead to free trade after imbalances are corrected and that the Trump administration would help American farmers who could take ...
The U.S. trade deficit rose for the sixth straight month in February, reaching the highest level since October 2008 and defying President Donald Trump's efforts to rebalance America's lopsided trade with the rest of the world.
Brazil's agriculture minister Blairo Maggi said on Thursday that the country has yet to evaluate if there will be any benefits to its exports due to the trade dispute between the United States and China.
President Donald Trump, engaged in an escalating confrontation with Beijing over trade, will urge Latin American leaders next week to work with the United States - not China - on trade, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday.
South Korea's finance minister said on Thursday the trade tussle between the United States and China was being closely watched and that the country had prepared measures for various scenarios.
The Trump administration's recent trade actions toward China were not intended to punish any industries or the markets, but Beijing should shoulder the blame for any hit to the U.S. economy, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Thursd...
German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to diversify production of their sports utility vehicles (SUVs) outside of the United States as a result of Washington's growing trade tensions with China.
Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year i...
President Donald Trump is hoping to counter Chinese efforts to bolster its economic influence in the Americas during his inaugural trip to Latin America next week amid an escalating trade fight and his harsh rhetoric on immigration.
Switching from a white-collar position to learning a trade is a path that is getting more traction these days.
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Thursday said he expects the United States and China to work out their trade differences over time and that trade barriers likely "will come down on both sides."    
If the tariffs stand, along with China’s retaliatory moves, they could damage industries that have relied on a global supply chain for their recovery.
A North Carolina man says he captured some unique images of a Civil War-era shipwreck off the coast.
American farmers worry that the president’s plans to penalize Chinese trade practices will result in retaliation against U.S. agriculture. Beijing has proposed just that.
The peace agreement, which brought the breakaway I.D.C. back to the mainstream fold, was just the first step in a plan to take back control of Albany.
The potential $6 billion purchase of Russia’s S-400 missile defense system comes as the United States is trying to cultivate military ties with India.
President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods on Thursday in a dramatic escalation of the trade dispute between the two countries.
Most Asian stock markets turned higher Friday as investors brushed off initial worries about the Trump administration's latest threats of yet more tariffs on Chinese imports, indicating concerns were easing about a brewing trade battle between the...
Nobody wins a trade war, International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde said in March. But for some European companies, a bit of friction couldn't hurt.
Oil prices fell on Friday along with equities as U.S. President Trump's threat of new tariffs on China reignited fears of a trade war between the world's two biggest economies.
U.S. stock futures fell more than 1 percent late on Thursday after U.S. President Donald Trump said he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China. 
Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Thursday:
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Mr. Dimon’s annual letters have fed the chatter that he would run for president, but could his views ever find a home in this politically polarized environment?
Tossing his "boring" prepared remarks into the air, President Donald Trump on Thursday unleashed a fierce denunciation of the nation's immigration policies, calling for tougher border security while repeating his unsubstantiated claim that "millio...
As a stock rebound on Thursday put the S&amp;P 500 on track for its strongest three-day performance since 2016, a look at the recent performance of most of the index's components paints a different picture, illustrating signs of weakness in Wall S...
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said on Thursday he had accepted the resignation of his justice secretary, the eighth member of his cabinet to leave since last year, and had picked the heads of the country's security forces.

Bulgaria's authorities reported an outbreak of the highly pathogenic H5N8 bird flu virus on a duck farm in the southeastern region of Yambol, the food safety agency said on Thursday.
U.S. President Donald Trump said in a statement on Thursday that he has instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China "in light of China's unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. tariff actions.
For more than a year, Wall Street has largely ignored the unpredictability and chaos that has plagued Donald Trump's administration, confident that the businessman-turned-president's policies would juice the economy and that a team of mainstream a...
President Donald Trump's promise to use the National Guard to secure the U.S.-Mexico border isn't a new concept and is something the U.S. has done in the past for varying reasons.
U.S. stock futures slid and the yen rose against the dollar on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump proposed additional tariffs on China, aggravating trade tensions and smothering a revival in broader investor risk appetite.
Like a good thriller, you can't be sure where the stock market is headed these days until the very end.
China's commerce ministry said on Thursday it has initiated a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute resolution procedure over U.S. tariffs on its import of steel and aluminum. 
Sierra Leone's new president, Julius Maada Bio, on Thursday called on the rival he defeated in an election run-off to drop a legal challenge against the result, and hinted he might offer him a role in government.
U.S. President Donald Trump continued his attacks on Amazon.com on Thursday, targeting the newspaper, owned privately by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, as the company's "chief lobbyist" in a Twitter post.
Friends say Israel Ogunsola was a bubbly young man with a knack for making people laugh.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
This is no way to run a country, unless your intention is to run it into the ground.
China has sought consultations with the United States, the first step in a WTO dispute, over its announced tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese imports on grounds of alleged theft of U.S. intellectual property, the World Trade Organization said...
The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the effects of recent tariff increases on April 12, its chairman said on Thursday.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
German industrial orders rose less than expected in February due to weak domestic demand, data showed on Thursday, but the economy ministry said demand should pick up later this year as the world economy remains on a growth path.
Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.
A former New York City planner offers suggestions to ameliorate the situation.
As the trade dispute between the United States and China was gaining steam last month, a half-dozen Chinese dancers and a person in a panda bear suit paraded across a stage inside a hotel lobby in the heart of Argentina's wine country.
Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani will meet U.S. President Donald Trump on April 10 in Washington, the state news agency QNA reported on late Thursday.
The United States, Mexico and Canada are "moving forward in a significant way" at talks to modernize the NAFTA trade pact, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday.
An airline trade group says it's setting safety standards for pets shipped on planes.
Former first lady Michelle Obama is in Boston to address a forum devoted to empowering women to become leaders in their fields.
We unearthed thousands of internal documents that help explain how the Islamic State stayed in power so long.
Long-term U.S. mortgage rates fell this week, benefiting potential homebuyers with the spring buying season underway.
The Russian Foreign Ministry on Thursday said it wanted the United States to immediately halt all military activity on the Korean Peninsula, the RIA news agency reported.
Our guide to new art shows and some that will be closing soon.
A weakening currency and rising inflation rate have made the Philippine equity market Asia's worst performer so far this year, and a rash of downgrades in earnings forecasts could prolong that underperformance.
Global stock indexes kept climbing Thursday as investors around the world grew more optimistic that a trade dispute between the U.S. and China, the two largest economies in the world, will resolve without too much damage. In the U.S., banks and re...
Norwegian oil firm DNO has again increased its stake in Britain's Faroe Petroleum, it said on Thursday, boosting its holding to 27.7 percent the day after it bought its first shares.
South Korea has designated the city of Gunsan an 'industrial crisis zone', expanding its support for the area following plans by General Motors to shut down a plant as well as the closure of a shipyard last year.
The United Kingdom opened a permanent military base in Bahrain on Thursday, Bahrain's state news agency BNA reported.
Avengers star Mark Ruffalo says his dual roles as Dr. Bruce Banner and the Hulk in the upcoming "Avengers: Infinity War" shows the duality of anger.
The foreign ministers of Russia and China jointly denounced what they described Thursday as the unilateralism of the United States, criticism that underlined their growing rapport on global issues.
China's plan to slap tariffs on some U.S.-made planes will hit demand for Gulfstream and Boeing business jets but benefit Canada's Bombardier and other rivals seeking a larger share of Asia's biggest market, jet brokers and analysts said.
JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon complimented the administration of President Donald Trump in an annual letter to shareholders on Thursday, saying tax cuts and deregulatory efforts were helping his bank make more money.
The Latest on the escalating trade dispute between China and the United States (all times local):
A federal bankruptcy judge approved a settlement on Wednesday between Philadelphia Energy Solutions and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency allowing the refiner to shed a significant portion of financial obligation under the nation's biofuel ...
The U.S. Commerce Department said on Thursday it had determined that tool chests and cabinets made in China and Vietnam were being dumped in the U.S. market, and announced prospective import duties on the products ranging up to 327 percent.
Societe Generale is talking with Gulf governments about potential issues of euro-denominated bonds, with the region's first bond expected within the next 12-18 months, executives for the bank told Reuters.
An oil portrait believed to have been painted by Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler of a little-known former lover will go under the hammer next week with an asking price of 60,000 euros ($74,000), a German auction house said on Thursday.
The prime minister’s granddaughter frequently accompanied him on vacations and now offers lectures about his life on tours of France and England.
The historian John Lewis Gaddis, whose new book is “On Grand Strategy,” finds train videos relaxing: “I especially recommend the six-hour run from Omsk to Novosibirsk, on which nothing happens.”
The ink was barely dry on his contract when Ryan Donato played his first professional game.
A U.S. District Court judge in California refused to issue an order blocking Qatar and one of its lobbyists from disseminating emails and other documents that top Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy has alleged in a lawsuit were stolen in a hack ...
Amazon is spending millions of dollars on lobbying as the global online retailer seeks to expand its reach into a swath of industries that President Donald Trump's broadsides haven't come close to hitting.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government faced criticism on Thursday, after his defense minister said the army last year found activity logs from a controversial 2004 to 2006 deployment to Iraq, but had failed to report them to his predeces...
A major European carmaker could be brought "to its knees" by carbon dioxide emissions fines, allowing a Chinese buyer to step in with its own electric vehicle technology, Peugeot maker PSA Group's chief executive said.
Shares in Turkey's majority state-owned Halkbank rose as much as 18 percent on Thursday after U.S. prosecutors sought a 20 year jail term for a Halkbank executive convicted of helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions.
A reader wonders if a fair trade clothing company crosses the line.
China's HNA Group Co Ltd, the heavily indebted aviation-to-financials conglomerate, plans to sell some or all of its $6.3 billion stake in Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc, underlining its need to shed assets and tackle a cash crunch.
An Indian court jailed Bollywood star Salman Khan for five years for poaching on Thursday, lawyers said, a sentence likely to derail the career of one of the country's most popular actors.
Buyout giant Carlyle Group LP will buy Australia's Accolade Wines from a local private equity firm for A$1 billion (&#163;546.8 million), triple what the Australians paid seven years ago and underscoring the investment appeal of China's wine marke...
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week. His appearance comes as authorities around the world investigate allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 8...
Libya are hoping a three-day visit by a FIFA delegation will lead to a lifting of the ban on hosting international football matches in the strife-torn country.
Russia's ambassador to Britain, Alexander Yakovenko, said on Thursday he was happy to hear that Yulia Skripal, the daughter of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal, was recovering after she was poisoned a month ago in England.
Mexican politicians put aside differences Thursday to condemn U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to deploy National Guard troops to the border.
Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.
The buzzy debut of Spotify Technology SA on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday drew retail investors across generations, not just the Millennials who make up the largest proportion of the music streaming service's customer base, retail brokera...
Britain opened its first permanent military base in the Middle East in more than four decades on Thursday in the Persian Gulf country of Bahrain, giving the U.K. an expansive presence along key international shipping routes.
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Thursday sharply rebuked Donald Trump over his plan to send National Guard troops to the border, joining with opponents to tell the U.S. leader not to vent his domestic political "frustration" on Mexico.
His knee injury is a big blow to Boston, which had hopes of contending for the championship. That now seems highly unlikely.
A lobbying group for the tech companies calls for perspective, and readers discuss the issue of privacy.
Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.
Asset managers must assess each year how much value for money they offer investors, Britain's markets watchdog said on Thursday, stopping short of tougher measures called for by critics of the 8 trillion pound ($11 trillion) sector.
Lebanon hopes to secure billions of dollars for infrastructure this week at an international donor conference in Paris, as it grapples with low growth and soaring debt.
Corey Johnson, the City Council’s speaker, is following tradition by decorating his office with art from a city museum — in this case the Whitney, which is seeking city financing.
The remains of an Air Force officer lost for almost 50 years after he was shot down over Southeast Asia finally came home Thursday to North Carolina, where he was greeted by his three children and a mile-long procession of roaring, flag-fluttering...
Active shooter trainings, security cameras and “behavioral threat assessment teams” try to avoid or mitigate office attacks like the one at YouTube.
Two men who pleaded guilty to assaulting protesters during a 2017 visit by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Washington were sentenced to a year and a day in jail on Thursday, authorities said.
Venezuela said on Thursday it was halting commercial relations with Panamanian officials and companies, including regional airline Copa, for alleged involvement in money laundering, prompting both countries to recall their ambassadors. 
The niece of Sergei Skripal, a former Russian spy poisoned in Britain with his daughter, says she plans to travel to England and try to bring back Yulia, Skripal's daughter, to Russia.     
Former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal remains critically ill in hospital more than a month after he was poisoned with a nerve agent in the southern English city of Salisbury.
Sierra Leone's former ruling party intends to challenge the results of the presidential runoff vote in court, the losing candidate announced after the opposition party won for the first time in a decade.
Heavy snow slowed activity in Europe's dominant service industry last month but with growth still relatively strong, policy expectations for the European Central Bank and Bank of England are unlikely to change.
Three years after bottoming out, the Buffalo Sabres found a way to achieve a new low.
China's threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.
Facebook's acknowledgement that most of its 2.2 billion members have probably had their personal data scraped by "malicious actors" is the latest example of the social network's failure to protect its users' data.
Mick Mulvaney, President Donald Trump's appointee to oversee the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has given big pay raises to the deputies he has hired to help him run the bureau, according to salary records obtained by The Associated Press.
In nearly a decade as general manager of the Washington Nationals, Mike Rizzo has proved adept at wheeling and dealing, at drafting and developing, to the tune of four NL East titles in the past six years.
A spate of deadly drive-by shootings targeting Muslim clerics and preachers has sparked panic and fear in Yemen's southern port city of Aden, prompting some imams to quit and abandon their mosques while dozens have fled the country.
A court acquitted Yuri A. Dmitriev, who discovered a mass grave with 9,000 bodies, of what he had called politically motivated charges.
The capital of New Jersey, a postindustrial city mired in bad news for decades, is enjoying a bit of a cultural renaissance.
The U.S. military has canceled a training exercise off the coast of Djibouti and paused air operations from the country after two air mishaps this week raised questions about the state of military readiness, U.S. officials said on Thursday.
Even as President Donald Trump mulls a U.S. pullout from Syria, insisting that the Islamic State group is "almost completely defeated," the extremist group is showing signs of a revival.
The head of Britain's military research center said on Tuesday it was unable yet to say whether the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned a Russian double-agent last month had been produced in Russia.
The United States military is spending about $1 million to secure several makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid.
Israel on Wednesday released from detention a small group of African migrants who had been awaiting deportation after the collapse of an international deal to send them to Rwanda.
Achieving lasting peace requires the removal of roadblocks for ex-combatants who want to leave the war behind.
“Both of them are instinctively more concerned about the American economy and things at home,” said Robert S. Ford, the last American ambassador to Syria.
Fines paid by the U.S. Department of Energy to Idaho for missing a deadline to get radioactive liquid waste out of underground storage tanks have surpassed $3.5 million and the money could be used for enhanced monitoring of a huge aquifer beneath ...
During her long life, Terez Majsztrovics has never left her small village, hidden at the end of an asphalt track amid the rolling hills of the Hungarian lowlands.
The New York Police Department has agreed not to conduct surveillance based on religion or ethnicity and to listen to Muslims as it develops new training materials as part of a deal to settle claims it illegally spied on Muslims for years after th...
A U.N. rights watchdog called on Hungary on Thursday to crack down on hate speech by politicians against Roma, Muslims and other minorities, and to repeal a law allowing migrants to be deported without a chance to seek asylum.
The rival Koreas held preparatory talks Thursday for a summit later this month between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in amid a global diplomatic push to resolve tensions over the North's nuclear program.
When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn't on the line.
Our guide to film series and special screenings.
Facebook isn't just a company. It's a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.
Forty-three Cambodians arrived in Phnom Penh, Cambodia's capital, on Thursday after being deported from the United States under a law allowing the repatriation of immigrants who have committed felony crimes and have not become U.S. citizens.
Thursday: A backlash against Trump emission rules, institutionalizing the homeless, more rain, and a Frank Gehry-Wolfgang Puck collaboration.
Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.
Israel defended the lethal tactics used last week. Hamas said demonstrators would be unarmed at Friday’s protest, but prepared piles of tires to burn.
Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.
The daughter of a former Russian spy poisoned by a nerve agent said Thursday in her first public comment that she's recovering even as the international furor over the attack intensified, with Russia warning Britain it is "playing with fire."
With 29 suits filed, the federal government and California are engaged in “bloody combat” over issues like immigration, the environment and the census.
The Times’s Miami bureau chief shares what it was like reporting on Marjory Stoneman Douglas students as they put together their yearbook.
As part of the settlement, the Police Department agreed to make efforts to expunge information it had gathered on New Jersey communities.
A rare painting by a 16th century Dutch master was recently discovered hidden for decades in a storeroom in Iowa. It could be worth millions.
President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don't call it a "timeline."
Israeli fire killed a Palestinian at the Gaza border on Thursday and another died of wounds suffered several days ago, health officials said, bringing to 19 the number of Palestinian dead from a week of frontier protests.
She personified the counterculture in the Off Broadway run of “Hair” in the ’60s and in films like “Five Easy Pieces” and “Play It Again, Sam” in the ’70s.
The president’s decision to send National Guard troops to the nation’s southern border is rooted more in xenophobia than in facts.
Mr. Williamson’s hiring last month led to outrage on the left, which in turn sparked outrage on the right. Now he is no longer a columnist at The Atlantic.
Over nearly 70 years, a Brooklyn-born entrepreneur introduced French brands to Americans and cultivated Rhone Valley vines in a West Coast winery.
The political divide in the United States now separates people by how open or closed their minds are.
Emma González and Rose McGowan, ‘Black Panther’ and ‘Billions’ — shaved heads make a statement, intentional or not.
A star pitcher in high school, Scheib had never seen a major league baseball game. But in 1943, at 16, he began playing for the Philadelphia A’s.
I thought I’d figured out a key riddle in “2001: A Space Odyssey.” The actor who played the scene wasn’t so sure.
At risk in Britain is not only a free flow of students but also an international back-and-forth crucial that is to scholarly work.
An American cameraman and filmmaker who died in December in a jail in the Philippines suffered blunt-force trauma, and his body had markings inconsistent with the official account by Philippine authorities that he hanged himself, a private U.S. pa...
Paige has seen blood on her mother’s hands before. But never quite like this.
The designation remains the most coveted political prize around the world. Don’t award it to strongmen.
An American cameraman and filmmaker who died in December in a jail in the Philippines suffered blunt-force trauma, and his body had markings inconsistent with the official account by Philippine authorities that he hanged himself, a private U.S. pa...
Video creators, including Nasim Aghdam, have been complaining for months about YouTube’s pulling their ads. Then one of them went to company headquarters with a gun.
“The Handmaid’s Tale” and “Westworld” are back, along with a fresh crop of promising new drama, comedy and sci-fi series.
Suggested reading from critics and editors at The New York Times.
Our roundup of the news stories and features about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com.
Many colleges and universities are facing a gloomy picture, painted by polls, politics and population shifts that are forcing an overhaul of campuses across the country.
Every month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for April.
