Good Friday. Heres what were watching: Investors should get ready to feel a little pain. Is the inflation scare over? Hiring slowed in March. The U.S.-China trade fight is getting hotter. The Treasury Department sanctioned Russian mogul Oleg Deripaska.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.President Trump has supported combative trade policies for years, and in recent months, his administration has begun to pursue them. The actions have weighed on the stock prices of large international corporations, and if implemented, could hurt their bottom lines.But global companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trumps trade policies. Will that now change? With first-quarter earnings imminent, and tensions with China escalating, shareholders may want companies to make specific disclosures. The companies may be tempted to say little. After all, Mr. Trumps trade restrictions have merely been threatened, and may not occur if deals are struck. But in the past, companies have refreshed their outlooks in the face of circumstantial economic and geopolitical events, like the Gulf War. And investors will likely press firms to estimate the impact of a trade war and describe the measures they will take to protect their businesses.Boeing, Apple and General Motors are among the companies that will come under the spotlight. All do considerable sales in China. Apple and G.M. rely on manufacturing facilities in the country. Investors will have plenty of questions. How much might revenue and profits fall in a trade war? What would you do if your supply chains got interrupted? What sort of contingency measures are you readying? What would you do if you became the target of campaigns that aimed to stop Chinese consumers buying your products, like the one last year directed at South Korean products?Executives will no doubt have good arguments for why their businesses wont be hurt much. Chinas airlines will remain reliant on a steady supply of Boeings aircraft for a long time. The facilities in China that make G.M. and Apple products are big employers. And since the proposed tariffs most likely wont be in effect by the time first-quarter earnings are announced, companies will probably be able to get away with some generalities.Still, the prospect of a trade war raises questions about the adequacy of corporate disclosure. Those of G.M., contained in its latest annual report, seem quite detailed. They offer quite specific warnings about the risks of doing business in China, and the company even mentions the possibility of trade agreements falling apart. But financial reports from Boeing and Apple arguably have less on potential problems in China and trade disputes.Boeings annual report did mention tariffs and embargoes as threats. But the report, released in February, also sounded a bullish note on the global economy that now almost sounds like it was from a different era:Will such language remain in Boeings reports?- Peter EavisFor years, investors had a singular focus on the Federal Reserve and its plans to raise rates.Any indication that the Fed could move more aggressively than expected to tighten monetary policies and stocks would pull back.Now the Fed has company in sending jitters through the market: Trade.A one-two punch from the White House and the Fed pushed stocks on Wall Street down Friday. The S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both finished off more than 2 percent.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trumps threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China. Investors took little comfort in statements from the administrations top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants.Comments from Mr. Powell in the early Friday afternoon added to the unease. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell highlighted the strength of the United States economic recovery and gave little indication that the Fed planned to deviate from its gradual path of lifting interest rates.President Trump, in a radio interview that was taped on Thursday and aired on Friday, acknowledged his approach to China could cause a little pain to financial markets but that it would be worth it in the long run.On WABC Radios Bernie & Sid in the Morning show, Mr. Trump said:The president also took to Twitter to defend his approach to trade policy. Mr. Trump, in a tweet, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.Some context here: The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trumps decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of Americas aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.In response to a potential new set of U.S. tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese goods, Beijing said in a briefing on Friday that it would immediately fight back with a major response.More from what a representative for Chinas Ministry of Commerce said:The briefing  amid a Chinese holiday  signals the latest instance of saber-rattling between the U.S. and China on trade. But was Mr. Trumps announcement on Thursday just a bluff? Even his advisers arent sure.The Chinese official said that the two sides cant negotiate under the current conditions. And in an interview with Bloomberg on Friday, Larry Kudlow  who has been national economic adviser for just under a week  said he could not predict when talks would begin. He added:But China has reasons to think it could win a trade war. (Worth noting: U.S. tariffs wouldnt bite until after a two-month comment period.)More companies, like Cargill, are getting jumpy. Some fear the tensions could kill Qualcomms bid for NXP Semiconductor. Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chases international business, is worried, too: He said the hostilities could be the greatest danger to the world economy, but arent at a war level yet. The Economist says that the presidents comments do not suggest he is ready to sue for peace.Meanwhile, the White House hopes to announce a preliminary Nafta deal this month after revising some of its more aggressive demands.Reaction of the day, from Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska:Earlier this year, stocks sold off after the jobs report for January showed a 2.9 percent annual increase in wages, a relatively strong rise. Investors feared that a sustained increase in earnings could prompt consumers to buy more goods and services, pushing up prices in the process. Concerns receded after Februarys report showed a 2.6 percent jump in wages, and Marchs rise of 2.7 percent is not likely to stir up more worries.But as they gauge wage pressures, analysts also pay close attention to the forces that indirectly affect wages. One of those is, of course, the number of additional jobs the economy is creating. Marchs gain of 103,000 jobs was below economists forecasts and about half the monthly average this year. That weakness will no doubt reduce inflation fears still further.The March report contained data that could do even more to quell investors nerves over inflation. While the report revised Februarys gain higher to 326,000 jobs from 313,000, it sharply reduced the January figure to 176,000 from 239,000. The January revision prompted Jim Vogel, of FTN Financial, to write: Peter EavisThe United States added jobs for its 90th straight month in March, an unprecedented run of growth for the economy, but at a much slower pace than in March.The headline numbers  103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. Estimates of Februarys job growth were revised upward, but Januarys figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.The takeaways Wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sectors rebound in the months ahead. Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster February report was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people.Theres a lot to quote from Anthony Scaramuccis meal with Edward Luce of the FT  held at the Hunt and Fish Club, the Midtown Manhattan restaurant that the onetime investor owns, naturally. So well have to limit ourselves to just a few selections: Michael de la MercedProminent among the Russian oligarchs and businesses sanctioned by the Treasury Department on Friday is Oleg Deripaska, the billionaire known for his jet-setting, his consistent presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos  and his ties to Vladimir Putin (and, before a falling out, Paul Manafort).Mr. Deripaska is associated with aluminum producers like EN+ Group, which went public in London late year, and Rusal, as well as the commercial vehicle maker GAZ Group and energy producer EuroSibEnergo. All those companies were also sanctioned for being controlled or owned directly or indirectly by Mr. Deripaska.Heres what the Treasury Department said about the move against the businessman: Michael de la MercedAndrews take: A favorite Wall Street parlor game is whether the JPMorgan Chase C.E.O. would run for president in 2020. Mr. Dimons latest annual letter increased that chatter, touching on immigration and political polarization. He praised some of President Trumps policies (on tougher trade negotiations, on taxes). But his stances on deregulation and on social issues likely mean that he would have to run as an independent  and history hasnt been kind to third-party candidates.Peter Eavis adds: The JPMorgan chief also homed in on regulations of bank liquidity, or access to cash and equivalents. He contended that liquidity requirements are higher now  which he favors  but are also more rigid and could impinge on lending. But the argument is flawed, in part because banks that have less liquidity arent in a position to lend.The investment behemoths plan to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. (And with $6.3 trillion under management, the firms actions carry enormous weight.) The products include: A new exchange-traded fund that focuses on favorable environmental, social and governance (E.S.G.) standards and excludes firearms-related companies. BlackRock will update other E.S.G. funds to exclude them, too. A bond-focused E.T.F. excluding gun-related companies. New strategies available through 401(k) plans that track five major indexes, including the S.&P. 500, but screen out firearms sellers and makers.Walmart, Kroger and Dicks Sporting Goods, all of whom have now set some limits on gun sales, will still count as gun-related.Critics corner: Rob Cox of Breakingviews writes, By getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws  who it hopes will be customers for decades to come  that it has something for them.Heres the DealBook tally of financial firms that have announced concrete moves addressing gun control: Citigroup, Amalgamated, BlackRock. (Have we missed one? Let us know.) President Trumps attacks on Amazon arise from his anger at Jeff Bezos, unnamed people close to the White House say. (WSJ) The president dispensed with a boring speech on tax to denounce immigration. (NYT) E.P.A. officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs after raising concerns about Scott Pruitt, unnamed sources said. Senior White House officials say the agency chiefs fate is uncertain given ethical questions about his housing (he reportedly fell behind on a lease from a lobbyist), staffing and travel expenses. Mick Mulvaney has complained that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau engages in wasteful spending  but gave his hires big raises. (NYT) Mr. Trump denied knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to Stormy Daniels. (WaPo) The administration and California officials are expected to try to settle a fight over car emissions standards. (NYT) At an NYT event, Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, said Mr. Trump was breaking democratic norms. (NYT)If users wanted to opt out of data-driven advertising, they would have to pay, Sheryl Sandberg told NBC in one of many interviews yesterday. (They cant, as yet.) Still, Ms. Sandberg told Bloomberg that some advertisers had cut spending and admitted that the network faced a challenge in reassuring them.The California public pension fund CALSTRS also wants more detail on how Facebook is protecting user data. (Its investment chief has deleted his account.)Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that Facebook would apply tough new E.U. data-protection rules worldwide.But some analysts say that the worst may be over for investors.Elsewhere in Facebook: The company has put on hold a request for hospitals to share anonymized patient data for a research project. It has been accredited by the Media Ratings Council for the first of three rounds of ad impression auditing. Civic groups in Myanmar said Mr. Zuckerberg had exaggerated what Facebook was doing to stop incitement of violence there. Teslas Model 3 impressed Jim Stewart. Will it win over enough other consumers to lift the carmakers fortunes? (NYT) Google promised to increase office security in the wake of the YouTube shooting, and changes may come to other Silicon Valley campuses. (NYT) Didi Chuxing is open for business  and taking on Uber  in Mexico. (Reuters) Delta said that a cyberattack on the company that ran its websites chat function may have compromised thousands of customers credit card data. (WSJ)Cryptocurrency corner: South Korean prosectors detained the heads of Coinnest and another exchange, on accusations of embezzling from customers. Coinbase is going into venture capital. The former C.E.O. of Mt. Gox, the first big failed Bitcoin exchange, is no longer a believer.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has met with a slew of companies during his U.S. tour, including Amazon and the augmented-reality start-up Magic Leap. But the movie business was a focus.Entertainment is the new oil for Saudi Arabia, the head of the kingdoms entertainment authority told the WSJ. (Diversifying away from the old oil is the crown princes stated mission.)AMC Entertainment has announced plans to open the kingdoms first movie theater in over 30 years. The crown prince is hoping for a Disney theme park, too. The Information has more, and says the Saudis are largely following a Chinese playbook. Nine West, the U.S. shoe seller, reportedly could file for bankruptcy protection as soon as today, with a plan to sell its main brand to Authentic Brands Group. (Reuters) Blackstone plans a $2.3 billion bid for the Spanish hotelier Hispania. (Reuters) The investment firm Kimmeridge Energy Management has built an 8.1 percent stake in Carrizo Oil & Gas and wants the driller to consider selling itself, or at least some assets. (WSJ) Domo, a Utah-based business software company, is reportedly preparing to file confidentially for an I.P.O. (Recode) Instacart has raised another $150 million from existing investors like Coatue Management. (Axios) Takeda Pharmaceutical might bid for Shire, its C.E.O., Christophe Weber, told some analysts at a meeting last week. I investors and the media werent invited. (Bloomberg) Steve Jurvetson appears to have founded a new venture capital firm, Future Ventures, after resigning from DFJ after reportedly lying about an unidentified matter. (Recode) Deutsche Banks co-head of investment banking and global head of markets, Garth Ritchie, is reportedly considering leaving. And Matt Zames, formerly JPMorgans chief operating officer, has reportedly been contacted about becoming the German lenders next C.E.O. Skadden named 14 new partners, including in its M.&A., litigation and antitrust practices. (Skadden) WageWorks, a provider of employee-benefits services, replaced its C.E.O., Joseph L. Jackson, C.F.O. and general counsel, and said it needed to restate financial results from the past two years. (WSJ) Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, has been dabbling in the film business and has a credit in Al Pacinos latest movie. (NYT) Target agreed to revise hiring guidelines at its stores, after complaints that it considered old or very minor criminal records in a way that disproportionately affected black and Hispanic applicants. (NYT) I.S.S. and Glass Lewis are recommending that G.E. address accounting issues by firing K.P.M.G., its auditor of 109 years. (WSJ) Solar panels are everywhere, but renewable energy still accounts for barely 12 percent of electricity consumed globally. (NYT) The fashion industry, which employs an overwhelmingly female staff and focuses on female consumers and audiences, reported one of Britains worst gender pay gaps. (NYT) Memories of a long-distant boom have left Japan with a peculiarly potent version of 1980s nostalgia. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON  President Trump defended his pugnacious approach to trade policy on Friday and the Treasury secretary warned there could be a trade war with China, as Mr. Trump doubled down on a White House plan to punish Beijing by threatening to levy tariffs on an additional $100 billion in imports.There is the potential of a trade war, Steven Mnuchin said in an interview with CNBC. There is a level of risk that we could get into a trade war.Mr. Mnuchin said he was hopeful that negotiations with his Chinese counterparts could avert a damaging escalation of retaliatory, tit-for-tat tariffs but declined to elaborate on the status of talks and whether he thought an agreement could be reached.Financial markets continued to drop on Friday as the potential for a damaging trade dispute  which had begun to fade on Wednesday and early Thursday as other top White House advisers tried to soothe markets  reared its head amid comments by Mr. Trump, Mr. Mnuchin and Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, suggesting the United States would not back down.In a radio interview that aired on Friday, Mr. Trump acknowledged that his approach to China could cause a little pain to financial markets but said that it would be worth it in the long run.Now we could  the easiest thing for me to do would be just to close my eyes and forget it, Mr. Trump said on WABC Radios Bernie & Sid in the Morning show.If I did that, Im not doing my job. So, Im not saying there wont be a little pain, but the markets gone up 40 percent, 42 percent  so we might lose a little bit of it  but were going to have a much stronger country when were finished. And thats what Im all about. We have to do things that other people wouldnt do.Mr. Mnuchin said on Friday that a correction was normal after such a long stretch of rising stock prices. He insisted that Mr. Trumps trade policy would be good for economic growth and that he was not concerned about daily declines in stocks.I think these are all long term positive things that the president is willing to defend our interests, Mr. Mnuchin said.He added that he continued to be optimistic that a mutually beneficial agreement could be worked out.I think this could be good for us and good for them, he said.Mr. Trump, in a tweet on Friday, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trumps decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of Americas aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.The presidents criticism of the World Trade Organization is not new  many of his top advisers have complained that its process for reviewing and resolving trade disputes has put the United States and Western countries at a disadvantage.But the United States has said it will take its complaint about Chinese trade practices, including the tactics it uses to gain access to American intellectual property, to the global body as part of the sweeping trade action the White House announced last month. That White House investigation found that China cheats the United States out of $50 billion annually through pressure and other coercive measures aimed at gaining access to American technology.On Friday morning, the White House issued an additional statement defending the presidents actions.Year after year, China continues to distort global markets and harm U.S. businesses and consumers with unfair trade practices, the press office said.The president is for free trade, but it must also be fair trade. Addressing unfair trade practices and ensuring that global trade is free, fair, and reciprocal will have a significant positive long-term impact on the U.S. economy, the statement said.But the approach has come under swift and stinging criticism from lawmakers of both parties, as well as industries whose businesses depend on access to Chinas markets.Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat from North Dakota, called Mr. Trumps actions reckless, saying in a tweet that 60% of her states exports to China are agricultural products. Chinas unfair trade policies need to be reined in but this isnt the way to do it.In his statement on Thursday, Mr. Trump said he had instructed the agriculture secretary to implement a plan to protect farmers and agricultural interests. It is unclear what that plan could entail, but Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said that if the president chose to subsidize farmers, he could spark a wider conflict with countries beyond China, which would object to unfair competition from American agriculture.White House trade advisers have described the tariff threats as a long overdue action against a pernicious cheater in global trade, saying China has long engaged in pressure, coercion and outright theft to gain access to valuable intellectual property. Yet the escalating threat of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies has unnerved many American businesses that depend on China as a source for goods or as a market for their own products.Global markets were cautiously lower on Friday, following a volatile week in which markets plunged on the presidents initial trade threats, then recovered as his advisers said the trade move was mostly a negotiating tool and might not even go into effect.China was celebrating a national holiday Friday and did not immediately announce any concrete action against the presidents threat of an additional $100 billion in tariffs. A spokesman said the Chinese Ministry of Commerce had taken note of the White Houses statement, adding that the Chinese position has been made very clear. We do not want to fight, but we are not afraid to fight a trade war.If the United States follows through with its threats, the Chinese will follow suit to the end and will not hesitate to pay any price, he said, arguing that the United States initiated the conflict.In the meantime, the trade measures ignited a swift response from manufacturers, retailers and politicians from states whose economies depend on agriculture. Although China exports far more to the United States than it imports, China is still the United States third largest export market after Canada and Mexico, a vital destination for American-made goods like Boeing airplanes, luxury automobiles and soybeans.Hopefully, the president is just blowing off steam again, but if hes even half-serious, this is nuts, Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, said on Thursday. Lets absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this.The National Retail Federation criticized the new round of tariffs as a dangerous game of chicken ending with the United States on the losing end of a trading relationship that has benefited American companies and consumers.This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start. We are on a dangerous downward spiral, and American families will be on the losing end, Matthew R. Shay, the president and chief executive of the retail group, said in a statement. We urge the administration to change course and stop playing a game of chicken with the nations economy.
CERNOBBIO, Italy   A trade war triggered by U.S. tariffs would cause a global recession - and the mere fear of one is already hurting the economy, European Central Bank board member Benoit Coeure said on Friday.Investors have been wondering whether an economic slowdown, aggravated if not caused by global trade tensions, could delay the end of the ECB\'s exit from its aggressive monetary stimulus, aimed at boosting inflation in the euro zone.Coeure said the prospect of a trade war was not being discussed by the ECB and its effects on inflation would only become visible in the long term.But he added that expectations of escalating tit-for-tat trade actions between the United States and their partners were already hurting borrowers and investors."Falls in equity prices in response to the U.S. announcement to impose a tariff on steel and aluminum, and prevailing uncertainty on the scope of any retaliatory measures, have already contributed to tighter financial conditions," Coeure said at an event in Cernobbio, Italy.Citing an ECB simulation, he said a 10 percent tariff on all U.S. imports and exports would cause the global economy to shrink by 1 percent in the first year, with the United States among the worst hit and the euro zone suffering a less severe decline.With euro zone inflation hovering just below 1.5 percent, the ECB is widely expected to wind down its 2.55 trillion-euro bond-buying program this year and raise interest rates in mid-2019.But declines in stocks and weaker economic data, including some surveys of euro zone activity, have got some investors wondering whether Frankfurt will stick to this path.Coeure said trade wars were not part of the ECB\'s policy deliberations and reaffirmed the bank\'s message that its policy stance will remain easy."That is not a discussion that we are having today," Benoit Coeure told CNBC Television when asked whether the ECB would act in anticipation of a trade war."There is very broad agreement in the Governing Council of the ECB that the high degree of accommodation will remain needed, and that (is) irrespective of a trade war," he added.(Reporting By Mark Bendeich, writing by Francesco Canepa in Frankfurt; editing by Larry King)
(Reuters) - Currency market moves as a result of the trade dispute between the United States and China have more or less run their course and only a flare-up in the conflict will change the outlook significantly, a Reuters poll of strategists suggests."While the prospect of a trade war has leapt to the number one risk for global investors following China\'s swift retaliation to U.S. tariffs, FX markets have taken on the role of a casual observer," said Viraj Patel, FX strategist at ING."This cold trade conflict will most likely need to heat up in order to spill over into the currency arena."Global equities have taken a beating over the past month on fears a wider fallout from the Sino-U.S. trade row could harm the global economy, which was already showing signs of shifting into a lower gear.While little short-term movement was predicted in the latest Reuters poll of over 60 foreign exchange strategists, taken April 3-5, the dollar was forecast to weaken over the coming year, unchanged from last month\'s survey.For now though, financial markets have calmed down as Washington has expressed a willingness to negotiate - after proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese goods prompted swift retaliation from Beijing.That pushed the dollar to a two-week high on Thursday.But the latest poll forecast the greenback to weaken in a year, leaving the euro <EUR=> at $1.28, up 4 percent from around $1.23 on Thursday. Those expectations were similar to predictions made in a March poll.Strategists have held on to a weak dollar outlook in Reuters polls since the start of last year. The greenback fell 10 percent in 2017 and is down a little over 2 percent so far this year."For weak dollar expectations to be credibly broken, either we need the U.S. data screaming out that the economic cycle will be much longer than anyone is currently anticipating, or we need to see the trade deficit narrow significantly," said Patel."But we do not expect either of that to happen, which means predictions for the dollar to weaken are set in stone for currency markets for a while now."Thirty of 55 strategists who answered an extra question said their view on the dollar\'s performance this year had not changed based on the tit-for-tat trade war.While 16 respondents said the trade row will weaken the dollar further, the remaining nine said they had changed their view in favor of the U.S. currency.Net short bets or bets against the dollar were trimmed by currency speculators in the latest week from their highest since August 2011 prior to that, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data."Relative to the start of 2017 or the end of 2016, the markets are a lot more short on the dollar now and that is something which will offer the dollar some protection on the downside," said Jane Foley, head of FX strategist at Rabobank.Half the 34 strategists who answered a separate question said the current level of net short dollar positions was just about right. While 10 respondents said they were too high the remaining seven said they were too low.After nearly a decade of ultra-easy monetary policy, expectations are for major central banks to be moving in the same direction - toward policy tightening.That will likely push the euro and other major currencies to make further modest gains against the dollar over the coming year. But the strength of the euro, up over 2 percent against the dollar this year, appears to have curbed growth somewhat in recent months.A private survey showed signs of a slowdown in the euro zone business activity were widespread, with growth in the bloc\'s big four economies as well as Ireland all moderating.Sterling forecasts were at their highest since Britons voted to leave the European Union, in part as progress in divorce talks alongside solid expectations for an interest rate rise next month drove optimism. [GBP/POLL](Reporting by Rahul Karunakar and Hari Kishan; Polling and analysis by Manjul Paul and Indradip Ghosh; Editing by Ross Finley and Andrew Roche)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A legal challenge for Spain, questions in Britain and the long arm of Turkey. Heres the latest: Spain faces a new obstacle in its political battle against the Catalan separatist movement after a German court ruled that Carles Puigdemont, Catalonia's former leader, cannot be extradited on a charge of rebellion.In a boon to his supporters, Mr. Puigdemont was released on bail while the court decides whether he can be handed over on a corruption charge. The ruling throws a wrench into the Spanish governments efforts to recover and prosecute Catalan leaders who fled to other European nations.Meanwhile, Spaniards are aghast over footage, above, of what appears to be a rare public spat between Queen Sofa and her daughter-in-law, Queen Letizia._____ Getting closer to a trade war. President Trump threatened to hit China with an additional $100 billion in tariffs, further escalating a trade standoff that could have global economic ramifications.While Chinese leaders say they are not afraid of a trade war, our correspondent says China is more vulnerable than officials admit.Heres a blow-by-blow account of the conflict so far. And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers worry about the implications for U.S. agriculture._____ This is some kind of theater of the absurd.That was Russias ambassador to the United Nations, who is leading an aggressive campaign to discredit Britain over the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian spy, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia, above, which the British authorities have attributed to Moscow.Russias latest salvo: a recording, said to be of Yulia, claiming that both Skripals are healthy, contradicting Britains public case for international retaliation.Separately, British universities are growing increasingly nervous about the potential loss of E.U. funding and students as Brexit negotiations lurch along._____ The French government appears poised to expel one of Frances most radical  and long-tolerated  Muslim preachers.El Hadi Doudi, above, has for decades berated Jews, women and the modern world, yet the French authorities occasionally cultivated him as an ally.The move signals that President Emmanuel Macron is willing to use his broad powers to pressure Muslim clerics and, in some cases, to deport them.By expelling the imam, Mr. Macron also looks tough as his government struggles to battle radical Islam and counter far-right accusations of weakness._____ Turkish secret agents in 18 countries seized 80 Turkish citizens who the government claims are linked to a group it has accused of plotting a failed coup in 2016. Above, Turkish government supporters in Istanbul on the anniversary of the coup in July.The scope of the arrests conjured up comparisons to the Central Intelligence Agencys covert seizures and imprisonments of suspects after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.The admission by the Turkish deputy prime minister followed reports that Kosovo had deported six Turks, provoking a political uproar that prompted the Kosovar prime minister to dismiss high-ranking officials. Looking terrible. Britains push to end the gender pay gap has revealed that some major fashion and beauty companies, which largely employ and market to women, pay men more money. Among the worst offenders: Victorias Secret, Burberry and Cond Nast. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. A judge has made the settlements public. Bumble and Tinder, two of the worlds most popular dating apps, are at war. U.S. stocks were up. Heres a snapshot of global markets. President Trump denied knowing about a $130,000 hush payment his lawyer made to the porn actress Stormy Daniels, above, his first public remarks on the matter. [The New York Times] He also criticized the E.U.s trade policies as very solidly against us, despite the fact that the bloc was the top export market for American-made goods in 2016. [Politico] The Danish inventor charged with sexually assaulting and killing the Swedish journalist Kim Wall has psychopathic traits and showed no remorse about dismembering Ms. Walls body, according to a report read out in court. [The Guardian] Zero tolerance: Frances defense minister vowed to root out sexism in the military, following reports that women were forced to drop out of an elite military academy by ultranationalist male recruits. [BBC] The European Court of Human Rights rejected the complaint of a man convicted in Germany of posting a photo of Heinrich Himmler, the Nazi war criminal, wearing an SS uniform bearing a swastika. Nazi symbols are illegal in Germany. [Deutsche Welle]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: This weekend, plan to make a batch of one-pot meatballs and sauce. Can coffee rev up your workout? Distracted by Facebook Messenger, or just worried about its intrusions into your phone? Heres how to uninstall. Sumo wrestling forbids women to enter the ring  even to save a life. The rule led to an outcry in Japan after women, including a nurse, were shooed away from helping a politician who had collapsed.Were doing an open casting call for the new season of our animated video series on parenting, Conception. We want to hear from parents around the world and across the political spectrum about the issues affecting your families. Were interested in stories from those who have chosen not to become parents, too. Check your closet: An old painting found in an Iowa storeroom turned out to be by Otto Van Veen, a 16th-century Dutch master. Its worth millions.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary, above, claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Correction: Thursdays briefing misstated Arthur Murrays birthday. It was April 4, 1895, not April 5.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
(Reuters) - Currency market moves as a result of the trade dispute between the United States and China have more or less run their course and only a flare-up in the conflict will change the outlook significantly, a Reuters poll of strategists suggests."While the prospect of a trade war has leapt to the number one risk for global investors following China\'s swift retaliation to U.S. tariffs, FX markets have taken on the role of a casual observer," said Viraj Patel, FX strategist at ING."This cold trade conflict will most likely need to heat up in order to spill over into the currency arena."Global equities have taken a beating over the past month on fears a wider fallout from the Sino-U.S. trade row could harm the global economy, which was already showing signs of shifting into a lower gear.While little short-term movement was predicted in the latest Reuters poll of over 60 foreign exchange strategists, taken April 3-5, the dollar was forecast to weaken over the coming year, unchanged from last month\'s survey.For now though, financial markets have calmed down as Washington has expressed a willingness to negotiate - after proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese goods prompted swift retaliation from Beijing.That pushed the dollar to a two-week high on Thursday.But the latest poll forecast the greenback to weaken in a year, leaving the euro <EUR=> at $1.28, up 4 percent from around $1.23 on Thursday. Those expectations were similar to predictions made in a March poll.Strategists have held on to a weak dollar outlook in Reuters polls since the start of last year. The greenback fell 10 percent in 2017 and is down a little over 2 percent so far this year."For weak dollar expectations to be credibly broken, either we need the U.S. data screaming out that the economic cycle will be much longer than anyone is currently anticipating, or we need to see the trade deficit narrow significantly," said Patel."But we do not expect either of that to happen, which means predictions for the dollar to weaken are set in stone for currency markets for a while now."Thirty of 55 strategists who answered an extra question said their view on the dollar\'s performance this year had not changed based on the tit-for-tat trade war.While 16 respondents said the trade row will weaken the dollar further, the remaining nine said they had changed their view in favour of the U.S. currency.Net short bets or bets against the dollar were trimmed by currency speculators in the latest week from their highest since August 2011 prior to that, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data."Relative to the start of 2017 or the end of 2016, the markets are a lot more short on the dollar now and that is something which will offer the dollar some protection on the downside," said Jane Foley, head of FX strategist at Rabobank.Half the 34 strategists who answered a separate question said the current level of net short dollar positions was just about right. While 10 respondents said they were too high the remaining seven said they were too low.After nearly a decade of ultra-easy monetary policy, expectations are for major central banks to be moving in the same direction - towards policy tightening.That will likely push the euro and other major currencies to make further modest gains against the dollar over the coming year. But the strength of the euro, up over 2 percent against the dollar this year, appears to have curbed growth somewhat in recent months.A private survey showed signs of a slowdown in the euro zone business activity were widespread, with growth in the bloc\'s big four economies as well as Ireland all moderating.Sterling forecasts were at their highest since Britons voted to leave the European Union, in part as progress in divorce talks alongside solid expectations for an interest rate rise next month drove optimism. [GBP/POLL](Other stories from the global foreign exchange poll:)(Reporting by Rahul Karunakar and Hari Kishan; Polling and analysis by Manjul Paul and Indradip Ghosh; Editing by Ross Finley and Andrew Roche)

1947 Where Now Begins By Elisabeth Asbrink Translated by Fiona Graham 280 pp. Other Press. $25.95The Swedish journalist  Asbrinks 1947 is an extraordinary achievement. Careening around Europe and the Middle East as well as South Asia and the United States through a singular year, she deliberately juxtaposes the intimate and the ephemeral with immensely consequential political and diplomatic developments. New inventions like the Soviet engineer Mikhail Kalashnikovs assault rifle, the French couturier Christian Diors resplendent New Look, the American Navy admiral Grace Hoppers virtuoso development of computer language, Thelonious Monks and Billie Holidays musical genius and the Polish lawyer Raphael Lemkins coinage of the term genocide jostle with the United Nations efforts to find a workable resolution for Palestine, gruesome rapes during the partition of India, anti-Semitic riots in England and the Nazi Einsatzgruppen trial at Nuremberg. These, in turn, are nestled alongside evocative accounts of the ardent physicality of Simone de Beauvoirs love for Nelson Algren, the struggles of George Orwell working on 1984 and ships filled  variously  with fugitive Nazis or displaced Jews. Amid all these gleaming fragments are meditations on the nature of historical time, the mysteries of human motivation, the endless riddle of causation and the heart-rending loss of once-possible alternatives.Asbrink is throughout attentive to the complex dynamic produced by the Holocausts multiple aftermaths, the urgently necessary and terrifyingly confusing process of decolonization and the consolidation of the Soviet bloc. Her constant intercutting of the world-shaking with the quotidian  including her father as a child navigating post-Nazi Budapest  underscores a challenge to more mainstream genres of history writing. The year 1947 did mark a tipping point between the savagery of the immediate past and the tentative stirrings of postwar potentialities. Ultimately most compelling is 1947s relationship to our present. A chilling recurrent subplot involves the remarkably rapid regrouping of undeterred ex-Nazis, already inventing denialism, networking transnationally and dreaming up a renewed pan-fascist future.MISCHKAS WAR A Story of Survival From War-Torn Europe to New York By Sheila Fitzpatrick 313 pp. I. B. Tauris. $29.50.This well-researched tribute provides unconventional but persistently intriguing perspectives on the major totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. It concerns Fitzpatricks husband, the theoretical physicist Michael Danos (the Mischka of the books title, he died in 1999), and his mother, Olga, whom Fitzpatrick never knew. At the books center are a cache of documents from the 1930s through the early 1950s: diaries of son and mother, letters between them and from others and papers relating to their status as postwar displaced persons. Added to these are retrospective missives Mischka wrote to Fitzpatrick in the 1990s, not planning that his historian wife might someday quote them in this book.Only after Mischkas death did Fitzpatrick learn that the father of her Latvian husband had been Jewish. This fact would appear in hindsight to have made it even riskier for Mischka to choose, as he did, to become an exchange student in Nazi Germany in 1944. What we glean over time, however, is that for those who did not understand themselves to be Jewish, existence in the Third Reich seemed by far a less awful fate than what awaited them in the Soviet Union.Mischkas War contains riveting disclosures. One focuses on Mischkas harrowing and unparalleled aboveground eyewitness account of the firebombing of Dresden. Another involves Olgas audacious ingenuity in protecting Jewish laborers from the Riga ghetto in her tailoring atelier. In a remarkable connection across what is otherwise the traditional divide of 1945, a Jewish man Olga rescued would later sponsor her and Mischkas emigration to the United States. And there is a heart-stopping sequence where Mischka observes with horror as families of Christian Latvians take the occasion of Easter Sunday, 1943, to go on an afternoon excursion several kilometers through the snow  to sight-see at the mass graves of Jews who had been slaughtered there.WHAT YOU DID NOT TELL A Russian Past and the Journey Home By Mark Mazower 379 pp. Other Press. $25.95.This beautiful book by Mazower, a historian at Columbia University, revolves around his grandfather Maxs enigmatic postwar silences. Max had been a brilliant and leading organizer of the Yiddish Bund, a humane form of non-Communist leftism that attracted tens of thousands of adherents in prerevolutionary Russia, Lithuania and Poland. Hunted by czarist police, the Bundists would be crushed not by their enemies but by the far smaller band of jealous, self-interested Bolsheviks, who had other ideas about how to pursue a revolution.An organizer in Vilna and Lodz, Max renounced his activism and settled in a quiet suburb of London. There he raised a family and provided sanctuary for often traumatized emigrants. Soon, however, Mazowers narrative opens out onto an expansive, branching cast of characters that includes family members as well as numerous icons of 20th-century Jewish history (from Emma Goldman to Walter Benjamin). These stories are remarkable, if often devastating. Maxs Bundist associate Shmuel Zygielboym persuades the BBC to report on the gassings of Polish Jewry, only to commit suicide in guilt over having left his wife and child behind in the Warsaw Ghetto. Maxs long-ago lover is a Menshevik firebrand named Sofia Krylenko, the sister of Lenins much-feared peoples commissar for justice, while the siblings and cousins of Maxs deeply adored wife, Frouma, later became ensnared in Stalins Terror.Mazowers family saga may begin as an effort to recover a way of being Jewish that is often now lost from memory. Yet it is imbued throughout with perceptive asides about what we can learn from historys losers, about solidarity across political divisions and about the tremendous tolls taken by the destabilizing uncertainty of not knowing, under repressive regimes, whether and how loved ones have died. What You Did Not Tell is, in the end, a profound testament to the saving grace of a sense of rootedness in place and home.
Rising tensions between China and the United States pummeled stocks again on Friday, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trumps threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China, and the sell-off gained steam as the day progressed. A new report on hiring that showed the pace of job growth slowing in March  103,000 jobs were added in the month  did little to buoy investors.Investors took little comfort in statements from the administrations top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants. On CNBC, Mr. Mnuchin emphasized that the United States was willing to negotiate with China, but he acknowledged that there was potential for a trade war.And investors found few bright spots in afternoon comments from Jerome H. Powell, the new chairman of the Federal Reserve. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell gave little indication that he planned to deviate from the Feds gradual path of lifting interest rates. He also suggested after his speech that he was unsure how the new tariffs imposed by the United States and China would affect the economy.By the time markets closed, both the Standard & Poors 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen more than 2 percent.Mr. Trump, who had been a cheerleader for the rising stock market, acknowledged in a radio interview that was aired on Friday that the trade friction could take a toll on the market. The S.&P. 500 is now down 2.6 percent for the year and more than 9 percent from its late January peak.Im not saying there wont be a little pain, Mr. Trump said. He added: But were going to have a much stronger country when were finished.Mr. Powells comments underscored the shaky position stock investors are in, buffeted almost daily by conflicting announcements from the White House and by tariff announcements from Beijing that have strained one of the worlds most important economic relationships. A deep trade freeze between the two countries could chill global growth.So far, though, there is little evidence of a slowdown. And without one, the Fed, as Mr. Powell suggested, will probably keeping raising rates, which traditionally is viewed as a drag on stocks.The losses on Friday were especially heavy for American companies reliant on global trade. The aircraft maker Boeing tumbled 3 percent, and Caterpillar, which sells lots of construction and mining equipment in China, sank 3.5 percent.With China tailoring its tariffs toward American agricultural products, investors also dumped stocks tied to the sector. The fertilizer giants CF Industries and Mosaic each fell more than 3 percent, as did Deere, the farm equipment maker.The gloomy trading day in the United States followed a mixed day elsewhere.Japans Nikkei 225 closed down 0.4 percent, while Hong Kongs Hang Seng ended up 1 percent. Major European benchmarks like Frances CAC-40, Germanys DAX and Britains FTSE 100 were all lower. (Mainland Chinese markets were closed on Friday.)On Thursday, Mr. Trump said he had instructed his top trade officials to determine whether additional tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese imports were warranted and, if so, to identify the products upon which to impose such tariffs.The comments were part of a roller-coaster week that has whipsawed investors.People have started to feel like this is a bit of the childrens game. Somehow the markets havent really gotten any actual sense of whether this will be true, said Vincent Chan, head of China equity research for Credit Suisse, the investment bank.Tariffs on $100 billion of Chinese products is a big thing, but the market thinks its a bit of a childish move, he added. The market doesnt know how to react.On Monday, China announced tariffs on $3 billion in American goods in response to steel and aluminum tariffs that Washington imposed last month. Then on Tuesday, American officials detailed plans for tariffs on roughly $50 billion in Chinese goods. China responded hours later by announcing tariffs on a similar amount of American goods.Should Mr. Trump impose more tariffs, the impact could be significant. Capital Economics, a research firm, estimated that doing so could shave up to half a percentage point from Chinas economic growth rate. A change of that size could be felt around the world, as China is a major force in global growth. Last year, its economy grew 6.9 percent.The stomach-churning volatility in the stock market in recent months hasnt spread to other markets.There has been no panicked rush to the safety of United States government bonds. And while companies are having to pay slightly more to borrow in the bond markets, the interest rates havent risen to levels that could threaten the economy.We havent really, in a way, seen anything that has us too worried yet, said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase.Others arent quite so confident.In a note to clients on Friday, Barclays analysts cited the intensifying trade tensions as a reason for investors to move out of stocks and into the safety of bonds.At this juncture, we think it is wise for market participants to take a break from risk, they wrote.
NEVER REMEMBER Searching for Stalins Gulags in Putins Russia By Masha Gessen Photographs by Misha Friedman 160 pp. Columbia Global Reports. $27.99.Human beings have long slaughtered each other with gusto, but almost always choose mass victims from a group defined as alien. The Nazis killed about six million Jews; Japanese invaders massacred millions of Chinese; European settlers in the Americas enslaved millions of Africans; the list goes on. But the striking thing about Joseph Stalins Soviet Union, as the Russian-American journalist Masha Gessen observes in her new book, Never Remember, is that Russians exerted the force of state terror against themselves.  The millions who died anonymously in the Gulag were not necessarily members of ethnic or religious minorities, or even homosexuals: The population of the camps largely corresponded to the population of the country.Although at times the dictators venom did target particular groups, like Ukrainians, Crimean Tatars and, at the very end of his life, Jews, this is largely true. The mass deaths at Soviet execution sites or in labor camps were a self-inflicted genocide: Russians had no other nation to blame for their nightmare. When, as Gessen adds, every museum, indeed every country, ultimately aims to tell a story about the goodness of its people, how, then, do you remember a system that led to the outright execution of somewhere around a million people and the deaths by starvation or exposure in the Gulag of an unknown additional number, generally reckoned far into the millions? The answer, in Vladimir Putins Russia, is hardly at all.This wasnt always so. In 1991, I lived in Russia for five months, working on a book about how Soviets were coming to terms with the Stalin era. There was still some exhilaration in the air at how, under Mikhail Gorbachev, you could now discuss and explore things that had been off limits for some 70 years. I met dozens of researchers studying that dark era, including an imaginative high school history teacher who staged a mock trial of Stalin in his class and people who were digging up mass graves (at one in Siberia I could see the bullet hole in each earth-stained skull). Activists in Moscow put on an evening of poetry and music performed by, or in honor of, Gulag survivors. Museums displayed prison camp artifacts. In the Kolyma region of Russias far northeast I visited the most desolate place I have ever seen, Butugychag, a barren, rocky valley streaked with snow even in June, where thousands of prisoners had been worked to death mining tin and uranium, their bodies thrown down unused mine shafts. But the man with me from the Memorial Society, a human rights group, eagerly talked about how places like this could be turned into remembrance sites with lessons for today, as has happened at Auschwitz and other Nazi death camps.Gessen and Misha Friedman, who took the grainy, haunting photographs for this book, also visited Butugychag, but found no memorials there. Virtually the only place in Russia where this has happened is a former labor camp outside of Perm, in the Urals, carefully restored over some years. But then something occurred that was never anticipated. Under Putin  whose motto might as well be Make Russia Great Again  Stalins rule is now remembered as a time of glory and order. Scores of new books and films portray the era in glowing colors, and vintage secret police uniforms are on sale. The husband-and-wife team who spearheaded the restoration at Perm lost their jobs, and the rebuilt camp has now become a site of pilgrimage for those who want to celebrate the old days. It is a grim reminder that once again, as in the 1930s, all over the world authoritarian strongmen are riding high.
SHANGHAI  At the heart of the intensifying trade dispute between the United States and China is a fundamental question: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries.China has embarked on an aggressive and expensive plan to retool its economy for the future as it moves to dominate in robotics, aerospace, artificial intelligence and more. President Trump has said Chinas approach relies on unfair and predatory practices, and on stolen American technology. And even as Chinese leaders say they want to avoid a trade war, they are staunchly defending their plans and showing little sign of backing down.Mr. Trumps threat to sharply escalate the administrations tariffs on Chinese imports  a threat he reiterated on Friday  shows that neither side has yet gone far enough to persuade the other to compromise. Bigger and broader tariffs may be necessary to get Chinas attention.The administration, if its serious, better be prepared for much more, said Derek Scissors, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.Chinas $300 billion plan for government assistance, Made in China 2025, calls for helping cutting-edge industries by providing low-interest loans from state-controlled banks, guaranteeing large market shares in China and offering extensive research subsidies. The goal is to help Chinese firms acquire Western competitors, develop advanced technology and construct immense factories with considerable economies of scale.It is an agenda that China would probably go to great lengths to protect. We will not start a war  however, if someone starts a war, we will definitely fight back, Gao Feng, the commerce ministry spokesman, said at a news conference in Beijing on Friday. No options will be ruled out.For the United States, victory in such a war would be difficult to verify, much less achieve.China could say it plans to ease back on government support. But that could be difficult to quantify because of the countrys opaque political system and the states control of information.China could back off from rules that favor local competitors and require American companies to share technology if they want access to the Chinese market. For example, foreign automakers face pressure to transfer electric-car technology to their local partners, and foreign technology companies are increasingly required to submit to security reviews. Foreign businesses have long complained that many of the rules they must follow are unwritten.Chinas government-financed campaign is already paying off in some ways. Drive into downtown Shanghai from Pudong International Airport and you pass a seemingly endless series of huge hangars and vast, glass-walled design centers, all part of the countrys effort to create a commercial aircraft manufacturing giant to rival Boeing or Airbus. Travel to factory districts in Shanghai and on the outskirts of many other Chinese cities and you see enormous, newly built factories ready to churn out electric cars, the batteries they use and other components.Proving that the Chinese government unfairly supports the effort could be difficult, however.The United States could press its argument with the World Trade Organization, which oversees global trading rules and prohibits big loans from government-controlled banks at artificially low interest rates. But the W.T.O. requires many contracts and government documents to prove cases, evidence that can be hard to get in a tightly controlled country like China.Even when the W.T.O. rules against China, persuading the country to comply can be challenging. One such ruling, involving Chinas restrictions on foreign electronic payment systems, was issued nearly six years ago. China is still mulling how it will comply  despite numerous complaints from the Obama administration and more recent nudges from the Trump administration.So the United States has turned to tariffs. That means it is using a 1980s tool to address an industrial policy issue that is already shaping the 21st century.Mr. Trumps top trade official, Robert Lighthizer, was a deputy United States trade representative under President Ronald Reagan. The tariffs that Mr. Lighthizer threatened against Japan in those days are among the same ones he is wielding now. But the two periods differ in two big ways.One is that Japan depended on the United States in the 80s for military protection from the Soviet Union. China, by contrast, is an increasingly assertive global rival, sending naval vessels to the Baltic Sea and building a naval base in East Africa.The second major difference between then and now is that the European Union deeply resented the tariffs of the 1980s, and Mr. Trumps use of them could make it difficult to persuade European officials to present a united front. In response to American tariffs, Beijing could simply shift business from American companies like Boeing and Ford to European rivals like Airbus and Daimler.Chinese officials dispute the American accusations about their unfair trade practices. They say Mr. Trumps tariffs violate W.T.O. rules, and they dispute claims that China forces American companies to hand over technology. As for Made in China 2025, Chinese officials say the plan is only guidance, not a government directive  and that foreign companies are free to participate, too.In Chinas current industrial policy, the Trump administration sees an extension of how the country has already come to dominate one major industry of the future: solar power.Mr. Trump himself is no fan of solar panels. He has spoken enthusiastically about coal, not renewable energy, throughout his campaign and his presidency. But the solar power industry is one of the biggest success stories so far in Chinas efforts involving advanced industries.The United States played a central role in developing solar panels and manufacturing them until a decade ago. Around then, the Chinese government decided to finance a lavish expansion of the sector. State-controlled banks lent tens of billions of dollars at low interest rates despite the high-profile bankruptcies of solar manufacturers.Chinese firms now produce three-quarters of the worlds solar panels. Most American and European companies have closed factories, and many have become insolvent. Chinas success in producing solar panels has given Beijing a blueprint for seizing the lead in a long list of other high-tech industries.Many foreign companies are caught between Chinas industrial ambitions and Washingtons efforts to stop them, including major aerospace companies and carmakers. The conflict may spread: Made in China 2025 could create major competitors to General Electric and Intel, and to companies outside the United States like Siemens and Samsung.Tariffs could hurt such companies if the United States and China follow through on their plans. They also risk losing their competitiveness if Beijing succeeds in subsidizing the creation of large Chinese rivals in their industries.Boeing, for example, could be hit by American tariffs on civilian aircraft parts it buys from Avic, a state-controlled Chinese military and aviation company  required purchases if the company, which is based in Chicago, wants to sell planes in China. China, in turn, is pushing a consortium that includes Avic to become a Boeing rival. Boeing, like other multinational companies, has refrained from endorsing or criticizing the tariffs.Although our members are unhappy with retaliatory tariffs being used, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, there is a belief that greater pressure has to be brought to bear on China.
BEIJING   China's Ministry of Commerce said it would take new comprehensive measures to safeguard the country's interests if the United States sticks to its protectionist behavior, after  President Donald Trump threatened an extra $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese imports.In a statement on its website on Friday, the ministry reiterated that it did not want a trade war, but was not afraid of one, and said that the trade conflict had been provoked by the United States.(Reporting by Tom Daly; Editing by Kim Coghill)
WASHINGTON   Unwilling to yield, President Donald Trump and China\'s government escalated their trade clash Friday, with Beijing vowing to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.Trump made his out-of-the-blue move when China threatened to retaliate for the first round of tariffs planned by the United States. But for someone who has long fashioned himself as a master negotiator, Trump left it unclear whether he was bluffing or willing to enter a protracted trade war pitting the world\'s two biggest economies against each other, with steep consequences for consumers, businesses and an already shaken stock market."They aren\'t going to bully him into backing down," said Stephen Moore, a former Trump campaign adviser who is now a visiting fellow at the Heritage Foundation. He said the Chinese "are going to have to make concessions  period."The White House sent mixed signals on Friday as financial markets slid from investor concern about a significant trade fight. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told CNBC he was "cautiously optimistic" that the U.S. and China could reach an agreement before any tariffs are implemented but added, "there is the potential of a trade war."White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters the U.S. was "not in a trade war," adding, "China is the problem. Blame China, not Trump."Trump\'s latest proposal intensified what was already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle for more than a half century. The U.S. bought more than $500 billion in goods from China last year and now is planning or considering penalties on some $150 billion of those imports. The U.S. sold about $130 billion in goods to China in 2017 and faces a potentially devastating hit to its market there if China responds in kind.Global financial markets have fallen sharply as the world\'s two biggest economies squared off  the Dow Jones industrial average sank 572 points Friday.Trump told advisers Thursday he was unhappy with China\'s decision to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods.Rather than waiting weeks for the U.S. tariffs to be implemented, Trump backed a plan by Robert Lighthizer, his trade representative, and was encouraged by Peter Navarro, a top White House trade adviser, to seek the enhanced tariffs, upping the ante.White House chief of staff John Kelly and Mnuchin concurred with the move, as did Kudlow, who traveled with the president to West Virginia.China said negotiations were impossible under the circumstances but Trump officials said the president and his team remained in contact with President Xi Jinping and expressed hope to him of resolving the dispute through talks. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the two sides remained in "routine contact."In Beijing, a Commerce Ministry spokesman said China doesn\'t want a trade war  but isn\'t afraid to fight one."If the U.S. side announces the list of products for $100 billion in tariffs, the Chinese side has fully prepared and will without hesitation counterattack with great strength," spokesman Gao Feng said. He gave no indication what measures Beijing might take.Trump has also pushed for a crackdown on China\'s theft of U.S. intellectual property, and he criticized the World Trade Organization, an arbiter of trade disputes, in a tweet Friday for allegedly favoring China. Trump asserted the WTO gives the Asian superpower "tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S."U.S. officials have played down the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. But economists warn that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could keep growing. Worry is intensifying among Republicans, who traditionally have favored liberalized trade."The administration needs to be thinking about the unintended consequences and what are those ripple effects, those domino effects, and what are the retaliatory actions that are likely to be taken," said South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the Senate\'s No. 3 Republican, in an interview with KDLT-TV in Sioux Falls.The standoff over the trade penalties began last month when the U.S. slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. China countered by announcing tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. products. The next day, the United States proposed the $50 billion in duties on Chinese imports, and Beijing lashed back within hours with a threat of further tariffs of its own.Further escalation could be in the offing. The U.S. Treasury is working on plans to restrict Chinese technology investments in the United States. And there\'s talk that the U.S. could also put limits on visas for Chinese who want to visit or study in this country.Kudlow told reporters the U.S. may provide a list of suggestions to China "as to what we would like to have come out of this," and those issues were under discussion."Negotiations are better than tariffs," Kudlow said. "A solution in the next three months would be better than anything. I think that\'s eminently doable." He added: "But Trump is not just using tariffs as a negotiating card. He said that to me."For Trump, the dispute runs the risk of blunting the economic benefits of his tax overhaul, which is at the center of congressional Republicans\' case for voters to keep them in power in the 2018 mid-term elections. China\'s retaliation so far has targeted Midwest farmers, including growers of soybeans, corn and wheat. That could specifically harm core Trump supporters."With respect to the Trump administration, its political success will rise and fall with the economy," Kudlow said. "And the economy is doing rather well now and I expect it to do even better."___Associated Press writers Gillian Wong and Henry Hou in Beijing, and Jill Colvin, Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak in Washington contributed to this report.__
NEW YORK   Crude oil and global equity markets tumbled on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump upped the ante in a trade dispute with China, reviving investor jitters about the impact a tariff war could have on the world economy.MSCI\'s gauge of worldwide equity markets fell more than 1 percent and stocks on Wall Street skidded more than 2 percent after Trump threatened late on Thursday to add another $100 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods.China warned it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on Trump\'s latest threat.The U.S. equity rout picked up during a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell in Chicago on the U.S. economy. Powell said it was too early to tell if the threatened tariffs would materialize or the effect they might have."What Powell is signaling to market participants is that the Fed is not swayed or rattled by equity market volatility at this point. That\'s the reason for the additional selling pressure," said Chad Morganlander, a portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors in Florham Park, New Jersey."The Fed has the intestinal fortitude to wait until it creeps into credit conditions and causes financial stress," he said.The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index, which closed before Powell\'s speech, fell 0.4 percent but ended the week 1.15 percent higher.The STOXX Europe index of companies in 17 European countries fell 0.35 percent, with the trade-exposed auto sector the leading sectoral loser, down 1.7 percent.Earlier in Asia, Japan\'s Nikkei nudged down slightly  to regain a measure of calm after an initial knee-jerk reaction to Trump\'s latest tariff proposal.Defensive stocks such as utilities or telecoms were among a handful of European sectors to end the day in higher.MSCI\'s all-country index of stock performance in 47 countries fell 1.2 percent, led lower by Apple, Microsoft, Amazon.com and JPMorgan - the same as on the benchmark S&P 500 index.On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 572.46 points, or 2.34 percent, to 23,932.76. The S&P 500 lost 58.37 points, or 2.19 percent, to 2,604.47 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 161.44 points, or 2.28 percent, to 6,915.11.The market\'s decline is due more to its current vulnerable state than the prospect of a trade war, said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at The Leuthold Group in Minneapolis."It\'s got higher values; financial liquidity is contracting. You came into the year with a little too much optimism. You got rising rates going on, you got rising inflation fears," he said.Powell said the U.S. central bank will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control.A weak U.S. unemployment report, which nonetheless highlighted underlying labor market strength, helped push U.S. Treasury prices higher as the economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March.Oil prices tumbled, with U.S. crude falling more than 2 percent.Brent crude futures fell $1.22 to settle at $67.11 a  barrel, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled down $1.48 at $62.06.U.S. Treasury and euro zone government bond yields dipped as   the trade spat raised the prospect of a full-blown trade war between the world\'s two largest economies.The yield on 10-year German government debt, the euro zone benchmark, dipped 2.7 basis points in late trading to 0.494 percent, erasing much of Thursday\'s rise.Benchmark 10-year notes last rose 15/32 in price to push yields down to 2.7753 percent.Mike Terwilliger, portfolio manager of Resource Liquid Alternatives for the Resource Credit Income Fund, said nearly every news event seems to register on the market\'s Richter scale, though investors have been dealing with some relatively weighty challenges this year."The recent decline in Treasuries is largely \'Tweet related\' versus some fundamental shift in the view of inflation or economic growth," he said.The dollar index fell 0.37 percent, with the euro up 0.36 percent to $1.2282. The Japanese yen firmed 0.45 percent at 106.90 per dollar.U.S. gold futures for June delivery settled up 0.6 percent at $1,336.10 an ounce.(Reporting by Herbert Lash; additional reporting by April Joyner in New York; Editing by Dan Grebler)
NEW YORK   Oil prices fell about 2 percent on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump threatened new tariffs on China, reigniting fears of a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies that could hurt global growth.Trump said on Thursday he had ordered U.S. trade officials to consider tariffs on an extra $100 billion of imports from China, escalating tensions with Beijing.China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on Trump\'s threat."The heightened possibility of an outright tariff war is conjuring up images of slowed economic growth that could curtail the strong oil demand that has helped to revive a strong pricing environment during the past couple of months," Jim Ritterbusch, president of Ritterbusch and Associates, said in a note.Brent crude futures settled down $1.22 at $67.11 a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures fell $1.48 to $62.06 a barrel, a 2.3 percent loss.Brent crude dropped 2.8 percent in the week while U.S. crude fell 4.4 percent, the biggest weekly decline since early February.U.S. stock indexes also fell on trade war jitters, which weighed on oil prices. Crude futures have recently tracked with equities.OPEC member Libya\'s oil output is at around 1.05 million barrels per day despite a continuing outage since February at its 70,000 bpd El Feel oilfield, a Libyan oil source told Reuters on Friday.U.S. drillers added 11 oil rigs in the week to April 6, bringing the total count up to 808, the highest level since March 2015, General Electric Co\'s Baker Hughes energy services firm said in its closely followed report on Friday.The Permian basin in Texas is leading the way as U.S. oil production has reached an all-time high, but the prolific output is causing bottlenecks as pipelines transporting the crude have filled up more quickly than expected, depressing prices in the region.Some market participants are still optimistic on the oil sector."We\'re cautiously bullish here," said Dan Hussey, a market strategist at RJO Futures in Chicago. "It\'s the fundamentals."U.S. crude inventories unexpectedly fell last week, data showed on Wednesday.Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said that an arrangement under which Moscow cooperates with the OPEC oil group could become indefinite once a current deal to curb oil production expires at the end of the year.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other large oil producers led by Russia have agreed to curtail their combined output by around 1.8 million barrels per day until the end of 2018 to smooth out bloated oil inventories.OPEC and its allies should keep the cuts to ensure healthy price levels as a way to boost investment in the industry and avoid a supply and price shock in the long run, Qatar\'s energy minister said.Asian oil traders are stumped by how Saudi Arabia derived its official selling prices (OSP) for May after the world\'s top oil exporter unexpectedly raised the price for its flagship Arab Light crude sold to Asian refiners.(Additional reporting by Shadia Nasralla in London, Jane Chung in Seoul and Koustav Samanta in Singapore; Editing by  Will Dunham and Tom Brown)
LONDON   Euro zone government bond yields dipped as a trade dispute between the U.S. and China flared up again.Government bonds in major developed economies, considered a safe investment in uncertain times, have seesawed this week as U.S. President Donald Trump wrangles with Beijing over tariffs, raising prospects of a full-blown trade war between the world\'s two largest economies.An apparent easing in tensions earlier in the week pushed euro zone yields higher as investors shed safe-haven assets. That move reversed on Friday after Trump directed U.S. trade officials to identify options for tariffs on $100 billion more of Chinese imports.Beijing warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States followed through, adding that no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances.The news benefited euro zone borrowing costs, which dropped 2-4 basis points on the day.The yield on 10-year German government debt, the euro zone benchmark, dipped 2.7 basis points in late trades to 0.494 percent, erasing much of Thursday\'s rise <DE10YT=RR>."Yesterday, yields were rising on hopes that China and the U.S. will find a solution, but with the change in sentiment, yields are retracting," DZ Bank strategist Sebastian Fellechner said. "But the bigger picture is that the market is pricing in trade tensions, if you look at where Bund yields are now."European Central Bank board member Benoit Coeure said on Friday that fears of a trade war triggered by U.S tariffs are already raising borrowing costs and pushing down share prices, and have "contributed to tighter financial conditions".Persistently low inflation and a scaling back of  expectations for European economic growth are also fuelling demand for euro zone bonds.German 10-year yields are about 30 basis points below the high they reached in February, and most other euro zone yields are similarly below equivalent highs, hit on expectations the European Central Bank would tighten policy.The Bank of Italy urged the ECB on Friday to be cautious in tightening monetary policy, warning of the risks of a sudden end to asset buying or sharp rises in interest rates.Elsewhere, U.S. Treasury prices gained on Friday after employers added fewer jobs than expected in March.The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries was 5.5 bps lower at 2.7789 percent in European trade, and the gap over the German equivalent was 228 bps, just a few basis points below the one-year high in March.The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as the boost from mild temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market.(Reporting by Abhinav Ramnarayan; Additional reporting by Fanny Potkin; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
NO TURNING BACK Life, Loss, and Hope in Wartime Syria By Rania Abouzeid 378 pp. W.W. Norton & Company. $26.95.In early February of this year, a Syrian rebel group with historic links to Al Qaeda shot down a Russian fighter jet near the small town of Saraqeb. A few days later, the journalist Rania Abouzeid posted a message on Twitter from someone suffering there beneath the relentless Russian and Syrian government retaliation:The airstrikes are beyond what u can imagine, beyond what u can believe, beyond what seems possible. Everything is gone, but we still persist & we still know how to laugh & cry. There is no one here except the men of the town. We will not leave.Few people in the wider world have ever heard of Saraqeb, but those who read Abouzeids No Turning Back will come to know who those men are. Year after year, Abouzeid followed one of them as he became a warrior and his children grew up under fire, then in exile and then as he made forlorn efforts to return to his home and rebuild. He and his family are part of the story Abouzeid set out to tell about how a country unraveled one person at a time.Her narrative of the unending Syrian war from 2011 through 2016 and into 2017 offers page after page of extraordinary reporting and many flashes of exquisitely descriptive prose. But it is the characters around whom the story is built who make the book unforgettable, as Abouzeid threads together their stories of hope and loss in a country where the dead are not merely nameless, reduced to figures. They are not even numbers. Even the United Nations quit counting more than four years ago, although the death toll has been estimated at well over 500,000.Abouzeid follows civilian activists caught up in the fervor of the ill-fated Arab Spring who were thrown into the Assad regimes gruesome dungeons  and jihadists who were released from them as part of a cynical ploy to polarize the conflict. She introduces us to a college student who wrote poetry in Arabic (raised in Australia by Lebanese parents, Abouzeid is fluent). The poet becomes, almost by default, a commander in a storied militia, only to see his unit devastated by Syrian government attacks, then obliterated by internal divisions and competing foreign interests.In another corner of the conflict, Abouzeid tells the story of an Alawite perfume merchant whose wife and eldest daughter are murdered, and whose other children are taken hostage by a jihadist faction. Then she interviews the unrepentant former emir of one of the factions involved, whom she has known for years.There is no sympathy for the savage Syrian regime established by Hafez al-Assad in 1970, and ruled by his son, Bashar, since 2000, but there is context. The Assads greatest attribute was, and remains, ruthless patience. Threats, conspiracies, sanctions and wars come and go. They stay.The long struggle between the Assads and the extremists who denounce the Assads Alawite sect as heretical and who claim to represent the majority Sunni population of Syria is described briefly but with balance and restraint. In 1979, Abouzeid notes, a breakaway faction of the Muslim Brotherhood attacked an artillery school and slaughtered 83 Alawite cadets after separating them from their Sunni comrades. About a year later, two grenades were thrown at the elder Assad. He kicked one away, a bodyguard dove on the other, and Assad survived. The next day his brother Rifaat al-Assad slaughtered hundreds of political prisoners at Tadmor prison near Palmyra. In February 1982, somewhere between 10,000 and 30,000 people  perhaps more, perhaps less, nobody knows, gunmen and civilians alike  were exterminated by Assad forces in and around the city of Hama.The Assads created a pervasive apparatus where every ministry could be a ministry of fear, and multiple intelligence and security agencies  known generically as the mukhabarat  spied on and intimidated one another as well as the general population: Assads Syria was a mukhabarat state whose intelligence agents didnt bother with the pretense of discretion, Abouzeid writes. They didnt need to.The blood that was shed so profusely in the early 1980s would color the conflict that erupted 30 years later. The ghosts of those massacred lived on, and some of the children and grandchildren of the slaughtered would bide their time, waiting to fight once again. But they were not the ones who started the uprising in 2011.Revolution is an intimate, multipart act, Abouzeid writes. First, you silence the policeman in your head, then you face the policemen in the streets. In early 2011, as she tells us, the Middle East was electrified by an indigenous democratic fervor, and many Syrians were caught up in it.When Bashar al-Assads response was mass arrests and the repeated slaughter of protesters, people felt they had to resist with weapons as well as chants and banners. Soon the Syrian landscape became a mosaic of groups that called themselves battalions.Part of the Assad strategy was a calculated gamble. For years, the regime had operated on both sides of the terror chessboard, simultaneously fighting and facilitating the murderous designs of extremists. As Abouzeid mentions in passing and others have confirmed independently, the United States rendition program turned over several suspects to the grotesque ministrations of Syrias interrogators. Yet at the height of the American occupation of neighboring Iraq, Assad encouraged Syrian jihadists to go martyr themselves by killing Americans.In May 2011, as the peaceful uprising was gathering momentum, Assad declared an amnesty that released virtually all the Islamic extremists in his prisons. Now he had another use for them, which they understood perfectly well. If they took up arms, as one partisan of Al Qaeda told Abouzeid, this would allow the regime to say to the world, Look at the terrorists. In the years that followed, Assad got his wish. He and his Russian and Iranian backers relentlessly portrayed their fight as their own war on terror while setting out to slaughter any moderate forces that did not fit that description. This was a recipe for chaos, and such was the fractious, fractured nature of the conflict that over time even the hardened, disciplined fighters linked to Al Qaeda fought among themselves.Abouzeid navigated this increasingly treacherous terrain with legendary courage as she wrote for Foreign Affairs and other publications, building the stories of the people in this book around long, repeated interviews and, often, long days and nights under fire alongside them. The result is a tremendous sense of intimacy with the victims and the violence that surrounds them.In Saraqeb, Abouzeid focuses on Ruha, a little girl of 9 when the war begins and a woman much older than her 14 years when the book ends. We are children of now, not children of before, Ruha says in the closing pages.Some readers may be surprised at the relatively brief treatment given to events that have made huge headlines around the world. In August 2013, the Assad regime used sarin gas in a Damascus suburb and President Barack Obama hesitated to enforce the red line he had declared against chemical weapons. Eventually a deal cut with the Russians led to the destruction of most of Assads chemical arsenal, but that was limited comfort to the people of Saraqeb, who had been hit with sarin months earlier without persuading anyone in the international community to do anything to help.A year later, in August 2014, Obama launched limited operations against ISIS in Iraq, and in the following month, after ISIS had beheaded the American journalist James Foley, the still-limited American war expanded into Syria. Abouzeid notes, Many Syrians wondered why the United States waited until Islamic State was at the height of its power to attack it.But this is not a policy book. Indeed, while the depiction of feckless American actions is clear, the alternatives at each stage in this grim history are not so obvious, nor does this book present us with a plan for the future. Many of Abouzeids central characters have left Syria, and are building new lives in Europe.In Saraqeb, the bombs continue to fall. Today there is, as Abouzeids title tells us, no turning back, and one reads the books final pages with no hope of a happy ending. But one also reads them with the conviction that Abouzeids remarkable journalistic and literary work has given us, at last, a book worthy of the enormous tragedy that is Syria.
WASHINGTON   Higher prices. Slower growth. Farmers losing access to their biggest foreign market.Even President Donald Trump is warning that Americans might have to accept "a little pain" before they enjoy the fruits of his escalating trade fight with China.On the pain part, if not necessarily on the "little" part, most economists agree with the president: The tariffs the United States and China are preparing to slap on each other\'s goods would take an economic toll.For now, optimists are clinging to tentative signals from the Trump administration that it may be prepared to negotiate with Beijing and avert a trade war.But Wall Street is getting increasingly nervous. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 572 points Friday after being down as much as 767."There are no winners in trade wars," said Nathan Sheets, chief economist at PGIM Fixed Income. "There are only losers."On Thursday, Trump ordered the U.S. trade representative to consider imposing tariffs on up to $100 billion worth of Chinese products. Those duties would come on top of the $50 billion in products the U.S. has already targeted in a dispute over Beijing\'s sharp-elbowed drive to supplant America\'s technological supremacy.China has proposed tariffs of $50 billion on U.S. products that will squeeze apple growers in Washington, soybean farmers in Indiana and winemakers in California. And Beijing warned Friday that it will "counterattack with great strength" if the United States ups the ante.Of course, it may not come to that."We\'re absolutely willing to negotiate," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Friday on CNBC, adding, "I\'m cautiously optimistic that we\'ll be able to work this out."At the same time, Mnuchin warned, "There is the potential of a trade war."Economists are already calculating the potential damage if talks collapse and give way to the biggest trade dispute since World War II.The dueling tariffs could shave 0.3 percentage points off both U.S. and Chinese annual economic growth, according to estimates by Gregory Daco, head of U.S. economics for the research firm Oxford Economics.In the United States, Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody\'s Analytics, said the dispute could wipe out half the economic benefits of the tax cut Trump signed into law with great fanfare in December."There\'s lots of different channels through which this hurts the economy," Zandi said. "The most obvious is, it raises import prices. If American consumers have to spend more on Chinese imports, they have less to spend on everything else."In the first $50 billion in planned tariffs, the Trump administration was careful to limit the impact on American consumers, sticking mostly to industrial products such as robots and engine parts.But if the administration tries to triple the tariffs, they will be more likely to hit the low-price Chinese products that American households have come to rely on, namely electronics, toys and clothing.The administration appears to be betting that China will back down because it has more to lose. It sent $375 billion in goods to the U.S. last year, while the United States sent only $130 billion worth of products to China.But China has other ways to retaliate. It could cancel aircraft orders from Boeing. It could meddle with U.S. supply chains by disrupting shipments from Chinese factories to American companies. Or it could raise U.S. interest rates by selling Treasury bonds or buying fewer of them.The Chinese appear confident they can withstand more pain than Americans can. In a democracy like the U.S., "if people start to hurt, they\'re going to complain," said Sheets, who was undersecretary for international affairs in the Obama administration Treasury Department.They\'re complaining already.Zippy Duvall, president of the American Farm Bureau Federation lobbying group, warned that the dispute has "placed farmers and ranchers in a precarious position.""We have bills to pay and debts we must settle, and cannot afford to lose any market, much less one as important as China," Duvall said.Last year, the United States sold $12.4 billion in soybeans to China  nearly 60 percent of all U.S. soybean exports.Trump, who received overwhelming support in rural America in the 2016 presidential election, has directed Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue "to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests." But a move to support American farmers could widen the trade dispute."Farmers in countries like Australia, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and Europe would now find it difficult to compete with newly subsidized U.S. agriculture," said Chad Bown, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "As a result, they might demand retaliation against U.S. exports or subsidies of their own."___AP Business Writer Marcy Gordon in Washington contributed to this report.___
(Reuters) - George Soros's $26 billion hedge fund is planning to trade cryptocurrencies, Bloomberg reported on Friday, months after the billionaire investor called the virtual currency a bubble.Adam Fisher, who oversees macro investing at the New York-based Soros Fund Management, got internal approval to trade digital assets in the last few months, though was yet to make a wager, the report https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-04-06/george-soros-prepares-to-trade-cryptocurrenceis said, citing people familiar with the matter.A Soros representative declined to comment.The financial world has been divided about betting on bitcoin <BTC=BTSP>, a digital token.Billionaire Warren Buffett and JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon have said they will not invest in cryptocurrencies, while Wall Street banks Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs have been open to clearing bitcoin futures.Last year, Soros's hedge fund took an 8.99 percent stake in  Overstock.com Inc to become the third-largest shareholder in the online retailer. The shares of the company surged when its unit held an initial coin offering.(Reporting by Aishwarya Venugopal in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)
NEW YORK   "Don\'t overreact," President Donald Trump\'s chief economic adviser told investors on Wednesday, when U.S. stocks were deep in the red over worries about the administration\'s plan for $50 billion of import duties aimed at China.Wall Street seemed to take heart from National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow\'s calming words in a Fox Business Network interview during his first week on the job, and the market turned itself around. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied more than 700 points from the day\'s low.That trust looked misguided a day later, when Trump - seemingly unbeknown to Kudlow - said he had instructed an additional $100 billion of tariffs to be imposed on Chinese goods. Equities swooned again, with the Dow dropping roughly 600 points.It wouldn\'t be the first time that traders and investors got caught out by a seeming 180-degree turn on Trump policy, but Wall Street may have to get far more selective in terms of which statements, and from whom, they listen to."More typically, there\'s a lot more cohesion in the messaging between the White House and the markets," said  Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research. "Certainly this administration is taking an entirely different tack. It\'s been much more volatile in trying to understand what they\'re trying to tell us."With rapid turn-about in the White House a regular occurrence, investors have made costly decisions based on the words of a rotating door of advisers and policy makers.Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville, Virginia, said there was some "good cop, bad cop action" between the President and advisers."Obviously you listen to them both and you hope cooler heads eventually prevail," said Tuz. "It makes you sit on your hands a little bit more and not make any decision that might come back to bite you should these tariffs really sink in."A similar to-and-fro has played out with the dollar. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in January that he welcomed a weaker currency, Trump said he wanted to see a strong dollar, and then Kudlow in March said he would like the greenback a "wee bit stronger than it is currently." The dollar got whipsawed.NOISE BEGETS VOLATILITYWhile long-term investors may be finding navigation tricky, the higher volatility that the remarks on trade have produced could be benefiting those traders that have short-term positions on higher volatility."I don\'t think you really want to rearrange portfolios based on this type of volatility," said Paul Nolte, Portfolio Manager At Kingsview Asset Management In Chicago. "This is a trader market and not an investor market."Wall Street\'s main gauge of volatility, the CBOE VIX index, has spiked back above the closely watched 20 level."Any investment style that relies on volatility should now be roaring back to life, whether you\'re an options trader, a momentum driven hedge fund, you need volatility to make money and you have it now," said Colas.As the trade rhetoric escalates, investors are trying to work out whether the endgame is a full-on trade war or just rhetoric that leads to negotiations - and that is causing some investor inaction.If comments from China\'s Commerce Ministry on Friday are an indication, then escalation could be in order: the ministry said that under the current conditions, the two sides could not conduct any negotiations.Ive never subscribed to the theory that this is some position to get a better negotiating stance," said Oliver Pursche, vice chairman and chief market strategist, Bruderman Asset Management in New York, who is not changing investment strategy on the basis of the recent rhetoric. "I\'ve looked at it a little more critically and warily than that."Trump himself seems resigned to the notion that all the trade talk could put a serious dent in a stock market rally he\'s touted since his election in November 2016.In a WABC Radio interview Friday, he said: "I\'m not saying there won\'t be a little pain but the market\'s gone up 40-42 percent, so we might lose a little bit of it, but we\'ll have a much stronger country when we\'re finished."Most U.S. equity indexes are grinding through choppy corrections after falling 10 percent or more from their record highs earlier in the year. The S&P 500 remains about 9.5 percent lower.Most investors are standing pat, though, despite the noise. John Surplice, pan-European fund manager at Invesco Perpetual in London, said he also had not changed portfolio positions even if policy clarity is lacking."It\'s quite difficult to have a definitive view," Surplice said. "Trying to pick winners is a bit tricky because if a trade war really takes hold it will lead to lower global growth which is negative for pretty much all companies."(Reporting by Megan Davies, Lewis Krauskopf, April Joyner, Sinead Carew in New York and Helen Reid and Abhinav Ramnarayan in London; Editing by Dan Burns and Susan Thomas)
OVERLAND PARK, Kan.   U.S. lawmakers and the farm industry were skeptical of the Trump administrations promise to shield farmers from the rapidly escalating trade dispute between the United States and China,  concerned about the lack of details in protecting the U.S. agricultural export sector now embroiled in the back-and-forth.Major farming states supported U.S. President Donald Trump in big numbers in the 2016 election, but lawmakers from those states were harsh in their criticism on Friday of proposed tariffs that have unsettled both the industry and agricultural trading markets.It is unclear what types of options exist to protect the sector, though expectations were that the omnibus farm bill, the U.S. government\'s main food and agricultural policy tool, could include crop insurance and potentially other subsidies that could address the concerns. That bill is up for renewal this year."This is not a good situation. It just isn\'t," said U.S. Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee.However, no specific proposals for protecting farmers have been suggested, and farming industry representatives were leery of tariff relief."We have heard no specific proposals and haven\'t offered any," said Will Rodger, director of policy communications at the American Farm Bureau Federation, the largest farm lobby group in the nation. "Our preferred outcome is a negotiated solution so that neither China nor the U.S. actually imposes tariffs."Beijing rattled markets on Wednesday by threatening extra levies on U.S. goods including soybeans, the most valuable U.S. farm export to China, in retaliation for earlier U.S. trade actions. Fears later eased as many cited China\'s reliance on U.S. soybeans.But on Friday, China warned it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" if the United States follows through on Trump\'s latest threat on Thursday to impose tariffs on an extra $100 billion in Chinese goods.White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the dispute might be resolved in a matter of months but that Trump\'s threat was not a bluff. U.S. stocks tumbled on Friday as investors worried about an escalating trade war.The administration has said it would find a way to protect farmers, but U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary Bill Northey told Reuters on Thursday there were no specific plans yet. "There\'s a lot of different options out there," he said.U.S. Senator Jerry Moran of Kansas, a Republican, said on the sidelines of a commodities conference in Kansas on Friday that he would support help for farmers, even though taxpayers would have to foot the bill for additional support for agriculture. Kansas was the nation\'s largest producer of wheat and sorghum in 2016, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.He added that the "better way to handle this is not to put the farmer in the damaging position in the first place."On Thursday, before Trump threatened extra tariffs, Roberts said the trade conflict created a background of uncertainty for negotiating the farm bill. The current bill was passed in 2014 and was expected to cost $489 billion over five years; it expires at the end of 2018."Farmers have to have some degree of predictability and stability," he said on the sidelines of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission conference in Kansas. "This kind of environment certainly doesn\'t provide that."U.S. farmers  particularly those who grow commodity grains and oilseeds, such as corn and soybeans  already benefit from a number of government-backed programs. These include subsidized premiums for federal crop insurance, which helps protect farmers against weather and insect damage and against low prices for their crops.But whatever options the White House chooses, they could cause more problems than they solve, said Chad P. Bown, a trade expert with the Peterson Institute for International Economics. He said tariff-specific subsidies to U.S. farmers could incentivize them to produce more goods at a time when global grain supply is at near-historic highs.In the previous century, farm bills subsidized farmland and grain purchases, a practice that was eventually ended.The question is: What kind of support would he have in mind? Bown said, referring to Trump.Soybean futures have dropped 1.5 percent over the last five days as the dispute has heated up."If (farmers) are worried about the price that theyre going to get eventually, theyre going to invest less, theyre less likely to spend on fertilizer and seed, though most of those decisions have been made already," said Jonas Oxgaard, senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co."It is my hope the Trump Administration will reconsider these tariffs and pursue policies that enhance our competitiveness, rather than reduce our access to foreign markets," U.S. Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa said in a statement.Iowa is the No. 2 U.S. agriculture state in terms of farm cash receipts, led by corn, hogs, soybeans, cattle and dairy products. Its soybean production was valued at nearly $6 billion in 2016, according to the USDA.(Reporting by Tom Polansek in Overland Park, Kansas; P.J. Huffstutter and Karl Plume in Chicago, Ayenat Mersie in New York and Richard Cowan in Washington; Writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Susan Thomas and Matthew Lewis)
SANTA ROSA, Calif./CHICAGO   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead.But as global stocks fell on jitters over escalating U.S.-China trade tensions, Powell merely said it was too soon to know if the trade issue would take a toll on the U.S. economy, which has been steadily strengthening.For his part, San Francisco Fed President John Williams, whose appointment to head the Fed\'s New York branch means he will also be vice chair of the Fed\'s policy-setting committee and a permanent voter on the committee, did not mince words.Williams said that although the rhetoric on tariffs so far has been more extreme than the actions taken, he loses sleep over the prospect of an actual trade war, which he warned could result in slower growth, an inflationary spike and lower productivity."My concern here is not who loses more or what happens specifically. Its that if this path goes to one where all of us are pulling away from being open, I think those implications are negative," Williams told reporters, after a speech here. Still, he said, "I havent seen that kind of change yet."The remarks by the two came as the United States and China exchanged new threats on the trade front. China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods. [nL4N1RJ1A5]Williams downplayed the leverage that some believe China\'s vast holdings of U.S. debt give it in trade negotiations, saying he believes it is unlikely China would dump U.S. Treasuries and would do itself great damage if it did.China as of the end of January held around $1.7 trillion of Treasuries, making it the No. 2 overall owner of U.S. government bonds after the Federal Reserve. [nL2N1RH1RX]But Williams said some sectors of the U.S. economy, such as farming, are particularly vulnerable if proposed tariffs on crops like soybeans go into effect. Soybeans are the top U.S. agricultural export to China."It\'s definitely something we are paying close attention to," he said. "The global economy is built on trading with each other, and if we were to try to unwind all of that it would be extremely disruptive and very costly, both for the U.S. and the world."CLOSE TO FULL EMPLOYMENTPowell, in his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank in early February, said the labour market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rise toward the Fed\'s 2 percent objective in the coming months."As long as the economy continues broadly on its current path, further gradual increases in the federal funds rate will best promote these goals," Powell said at an event in Chicago.Powell said the risks to the U.S. economic outlook appeared "roughly balanced."Earlier on Friday the Labor Department reported the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent for a sixth straight month in March as 103,000 jobs were created, the lowest amount in six months. [nLNS6FEEAC]The Fed has been slowly raising interest rates since 2015, most recently in March when policymakers signalled they expected to increase borrowing costs two or three more times in 2018. Prices for interest rate futures have suggested that investors expect the Fed to do just that.Williams\' comments on the economy were similarly rosy, and he suggested he supports continued gradual rate hikes through 2020, by which time rates should be around 3.5 percent.(Reporting by Jason Lange in Chicago and Ann Saphir in Santa Rose, Calif.; Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Editing by Leslie Adler)
SANTA ROSA, Calif./CHICAGO   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead.But as global stocks fell on jitters over escalating U.S.-China trade tensions, Powell merely said it was too soon to know if the trade issue would take a toll on the U.S. economy, which has been steadily strengthening.For his part, San Francisco Fed President John Williams, whose appointment to head the Fed\'s New York branch means he will also be vice chair of the Fed\'s policy-setting committee and a permanent voter on the committee, did not mince words.Williams said that although the rhetoric on tariffs so far has been more extreme than the actions taken, he loses sleep over the prospect of an actual trade war, which he warned could result in slower growth, an inflationary spike and lower productivity."My concern here is not who loses more or what happens specifically. Its that if this path goes to one where all of us are pulling away from being open, I think those implications are negative," Williams told reporters, after a speech here. Still, he said, "I havent seen that kind of change yet."The remarks by the two came as the United States and China exchanged new threats on the trade front. China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.Williams downplayed the leverage that some believe China\'s vast holdings of U.S. debt give it in trade negotiations, saying he believes it is unlikely China would dump U.S. Treasuries and would do itself great damage if it did.China as of the end of January held around $1.7 trillion of Treasuries, making it the No. 2 overall owner of U.S. government bonds after the Federal Reserve.But Williams said some sectors of the U.S. economy, such as farming, are particularly vulnerable if proposed tariffs on crops like soybeans go into effect. Soybeans are the top U.S. agricultural export to China."It\'s definitely something we are paying close attention to," he said. "The global economy is built on trading with each other, and if we were to try to unwind all of that it would be extremely disruptive and very costly, both for the U.S. and the world."CLOSE TO FULL EMPLOYMENTPowell, in his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank in early February, said the labor market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rise toward the Fed\'s 2 percent objective in the coming months."As long as the economy continues broadly on its current path, further gradual increases in the federal funds rate will best promote these goals," Powell said at an event in Chicago.Powell said the risks to the U.S. economic outlook appeared "roughly balanced."Earlier on Friday the Labor Department reported the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent for a sixth straight month in March as 103,000 jobs were created, the lowest amount in six months.The Fed has been slowly raising interest rates since 2015, most recently in March when policymakers signaled they expected to increase borrowing costs two or three more times in 2018. Prices for interest rate futures have suggested that investors expect the Fed to do just that.Williams\' comments on the economy were similarly rosy, and he suggested he supports continued gradual rate hikes through 2020, by which time rates should be around 3.5 percent.(Reporting by Jason Lange in Chicago and Ann Saphir in Santa Rose, Calif.; Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Editing by Leslie Adler)



SINGAPORE   Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are confident of their economic growth outlook despite rising global trade tensions, Singapore Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat said on Friday.Heng\'s comments at the end of a meeting of the region\'s finance ministers and central bank governors come against the backdrop of tit-for-tat trade disputes between the world\'s two biggest economies - the United States and China - which has the potential to disrupt supply chains around the world."We sounded the warning about the risk of rising protectionism and the possibility of trade disputes deteriorating," Heng said."But at the same time we had very detailed briefings from the IMF, the World Bank, and...the assessments done by many private sector economists have been quite consistent that the growth momentum for 2018, into 2019, is likely to be maintained.""That gives us confidence that the central scenario remains valid."Singapore, a key trading hub and financial centre, is often seen as a bellwether for the global economy because its exports equate to around 200 percent of its GDP.China warned on Friday it would fight back "at any cost" with fresh trade measures if the United States continues on its path of protectionism, hours after President Donald Trump threatened to slap an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods.The ASEAN region - which includes Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam - grew 5.2 percent in 2017. In a joint statement, ASEAN said it expects that growth momentum to be sustained in 2018.(Reporting by John Geddie; Editing by Kim Coghill)
NEW YORK   The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4 p.m.Another flare-up in trade tensions between the U.S. and China sent the stock market sharply lower for the second time this week.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 572 points Friday, having traded down as much as 767. It fell modestly for the week.Caterpillar dropped 3.5 percent, the most in the Dow. Caterpillar and other industrial companies rely heavily on overseas sales and could suffer if commerce is curtailed by rising trade barriers.The latest market swing came after President Donald Trump proposed tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.The Dow recovered some of its worse losses to end down 2.3 percent at 23,932.The S&P 500 fell 58 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604. The Nasdaq composite dropped 161 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.___2 p.m.Stocks are falling sharply again as trade tensions heat up between the U.S. and China.The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 620 points in afternoon trading Friday, its latest big swing this week.Aerospace giant Boeing fell the most in the Dow, dropping 3.4 percent. Boeing and other industrial companies rely heavily on overseas sales and could suffer greatly if global commerce is curtailed by rising trade barriers.Technology companies and banks also fell. Apple lost 2 percent and JPMorgan Chase gave up 2.9 percent.The Dow fell 588 points, or 2.4 percent, at 23,909.The S&P 500 fell 56 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,607. The Nasdaq composite dropped 139 points, or 2 percent, to 6,937.___11:45 a.m.Stocks are falling again as trade tensions heat up between the U.S. and China.Technology companies, banks and industrial stocks were falling the most in midday trading Friday. Apple lost 1.4 percent and Boeing fell 2.6 percent.The market has been on a bumpy ride this week as traders try to get a sense of whether a trade dispute between the two nations will escalate. President Donald Trump has proposed more tariffs on Chinese goods.The S&P 500 fell 27 points, or 1 percent, to 2,635. The index is now down for the week.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 346 points, or 1.4 percent, to 24,158. The Nasdaq composite declined 59 points, or 0.9 percent, to 7,016.The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.78 percent.___9:35 a.m.Stocks are opening lower after President Donald Trump proposed more tariffs on Chinese goods.Industrial companies were especially hard hit by the escalation in trade tensions Friday. Aerospace giant Boeing fell 1.1 percent.There wasn't much for investors to like in the government's latest jobs report either. Employers added 103,000 jobs last month, the weakest showing in months, and January and February's numbers were also revised lower.The S&P 500 fell 11 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,651.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 152 points, or 0.6 percent, to 24,347. The Nasdaq composite declined 20 points, or 0.3 percent, to 7,056.Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.80 percent.
WASHINGTON   Washington and Beijing are slapping each other with tit-for-tat tariff threats, with U.S. President Donald Trump proposing another escalation of the dispute late on Thursday.Here is a timeline of events.March 8Trump announces import tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent for aluminum, but exempts Canada and Mexico and offers the possibility of excluding other allies.March 18Forty-five U.S. trade associations representing some of the largest companies in the country urge Trump not to impose tariffs on China, warning it would be "particularly harmful" to the U.S. economy and consumers. The group includes the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Retail Federation and the Information Technology Industry Council.April 1China increases tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, from frozen pork and wine to certain fruits and nuts, escalating the dispute in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel. The tariffs were slated to take effect on April 2.April 3Trump raises the stakes, proposing 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices. The products represent about $50 billion of estimated 2018 imports.April 4China announces it will impose additional tariffs of 25 percent on 106 U.S. goods including soybeans, autos, chemicals, some types of aircraft and corn products and other agricultural goods. The products targeted by the tariffs were worth $50 billion in 2017, according to a separate statement from the commerce ministry.In Washington, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders notes the tariffs did not go into effect immediately and says she hopes China will change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that will avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs.April 5The World Trade Organization says China sought consultations with the United States, the first step in a WTO dispute, over Washington\'s announced tariffs on the $50 billion worth of Chinese imports.The notification to the Geneva-based watchdog triggers a 60-day deadline for the two sides to settle the complaint or face litigation at the WTO by a neutral panel of arbitrators.Trump says he has instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China. In a statement, he announces the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."(Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Peter Cooney)
OVERLAND PARK, Kansas   The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is looking to find ways to shield farmers from the growing trade conflict between the United States and China, a department official said Thursday evening, without providing details of options under review."There\'s a lot of different options out there" to protect farmers, said USDA Farm Production And Conservation Under Secretary Bill Northey, speaking to Reuters after a commodity conference in Kansas.Northey was speaking after President Donald Trump ordered officials to come up with an additional round of tariffs directed at China.China responded to an initial U.S. salvo by targeting numerous goods, including agricultural staples like soybeans, the most valuable U.S. agricultural export to China.Northey says the USDA needs to "see the reaction of what tariffs will be and what the reaction of markets are".In terms of how the Trump Administration could shield farmers, Northey said there were no specific proposals yet, but "there certainly are discussions".(Reporting by Tom Polansek; writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell)
DES MOINES, Iowa   Iowa ethanol and biodiesel producers warned President Donald Trump on Friday that imposing restrictions on biofuels production "would be viewed as a declaration of war on rural America."The Iowa Renewable Fuels Association, a group representing the state\'s 43 ethanol and 12 biodiesel refineries, wrote a letter to Sens. Charles Grassley and Joni Ernst on Friday. It called on them to tell Trump that limiting biofuel production would be a "complete abdication of his repeated promises" to protect the renewable fuel standard, a federal law that mandates a minimum volume of biofuels to be mixed in the nation\'s gasoline and diesel fuel supply.The group said it has heard that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt will push Trump on Monday for a proposal advocated by Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas that would significantly reduce demand for biofuels.The EPA and the White House did not immediately respond to messages seeking confirmation of a meeting.Cruz has tried to get Trump to waive some of the requirements in the federal Renewable Fuel Standard law that would ease gasoline and diesel refiners\' volume mandates. That would reduce demand for the biofuels and violate the RFS, the biofuels producers said.The biofuels producers allege that Pruitt already has taken action to lift some of the mandated blending requirements through secretive waivers to some petroleum refiners exempting them from compliance and destroying more than a billion gallons of biofuels demand."Since taking the helm at the EPA, Pruitt has repeatedly and relentlessly sought ways to subvert the President\'s RFS promises and to undermine, if not destroy, the effectiveness of the program. His anti-RFS actions must be put to an end because today Scott Pruitt is essentially making a liar out of President Trump," the group said.Trump gained early support in Iowa during his presidential campaign in part of emphasizing his support for the decades-old RFS program, which is managed by the EPA.Corn, soybeans and animal fat are used in the production of biofuels and farmers rely heavily on markets for their products created by the fuel additives.Farmers already are stinging from Trump\'s tariff fight with China which has affected pork exports and prices and the export of ethanol to China. The next round of tariffs could impact exports of soybeans for which prices already have fallen in anticipation of Chinese tariffs.Pruitt was closely aligned with the oil and gas industry as an elected Republican official in his home state of Oklahoma. He proposed modest cuts last summer to production quotas for ethanol and other biofuels, despite promises from Trump to leave the RFS alone."EPA is chipping away at the Renewable Fuel Standard by issuing secret \'hardship\' waivers to oil refining corporations making billions of dollars in profits," Grassley said in a statement, adding further erosion of the RFS would "deal a massive blow to rural America."Ernst said in a statement that she and Grassley have had countless meetings with Trump and the administration on ethanol and she is "fully committed to protecting the RFS and will not support anything that will harm the 88,000 farms in Iowa or the 50,000 jobs tied to the renewable fuels industry."The American Petroleum Institute, a trade group for the oil and natural gas industry, said it continues to work with leaders in Congress to come up with a comprehensive approach "to fixing the outdated and broken ethanol mandate.""We appreciate the president elevating this important consumer issue and support efforts to seek a legislative overhaul of the RFS," the group said in a statement.___
CHICAGO  Jerome H. Powell used his inaugural speech as Federal Reserve chairman on Friday to highlight the strength of the United States economic recovery, and told a questioner that a potential trade war would have no immediate effect on the Feds plans to continue gradually raising interest rates this year.Mr. Powell, in a speech before the Economic Club of Chicago, said the economy continued to experience tailwinds. Referring to the Feds policymaking body, he added that the labor market has been strong, and my colleagues and I on the Federal Open Market Committee expect it to remain strong.Later, in a question-and-answer session with Mellody Hobson, who heads the economic club, he said it was too early to say how tariffs imposed by the United States and China might affect growth and inflation.The discussion about tariffs is at a relatively early stage, and we talked about this at the F.O.M.C. meeting a couple of weeks ago now, Mr. Powell said. And people really dont see yet any implications in the near term for the outlook, because we dont know the extent to which the tariffs will actually come into effect and, if so, how big will that effect be and what will the timing of it be.Mr. Powell also said, in the question session, that he saw little evidence that regulations were holding back the performance of American banks, or that immigration levels were weighing on wage growth in the United States.In his speech, Mr. Powell said the Fed saw other signs of economic strength in the United States, citing steady income gains, rising household wealth and elevated consumer confidence, which he said would continue to support consumer spending.Business investment improved markedly last year following two subpar years, and both business surveys and profit expectations point to further gains ahead, he said. The recently enacted tax cuts and spending increases are helping to lift investment, Mr. Powell said, adding that strong global growth has boosted U.S. exports.Mr. Powells remarks made no mention of President Trumps series of trade measures against China, including a directive late Thursday that the United States trade representative consider tariffs on an additional $100 billion of imported Chinese products.Mr. Powell only glancingly addressed the March employment report, released Friday by the Labor Department, which showed job growth slowing significantly from January and February and the unemployment rate holding steady at 4.1 percent. The labor market added 103,000 jobs in March  though the monthly average for the year remains above 200,000  and showed wage growth ticking up slightly.Mr. Powell ticked off several indicators that support the idea that the economy is running near so-called maximum employment, which economists generally consider to be the lowest unemployment rate that does not spur rapid inflation. But he said other indicators, such as labor-force participation that remains depressed by historical standards, suggest that the economy has not yet reached that point. He particularly noted still-lagging wage growth. I will be looking for an additional pickup in wage growth as the labor market strengthens further, he said.Fed officials raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point at their most recent meeting, in March, to a range of 1.5 percent to 1.75 percent. Officials indicated that they considered the economy and labor market to be healthy, and that they expected to raise rates twice more this year and three times in 2019.Mr. Powell, like his predecessor, Janet L. Yellen, cast that gradual series of increases as a carefully planned strategy to ensure that the Fed will not need to raise rates abruptly in the event of a steep rise in inflation. The F.O.M.C.s patient approach has paid dividends and contributed to the strong economy we have today, he said.He closed his prepared remarks by cautioning that events could force the central bank to change course. Our views about appropriate monetary policy in the months and years ahead will be informed by incoming economic data and the evolving outlook, Mr. Powell said. If the outlook changes, so will monetary policy. Our overarching objective will remain the same: fostering a strong economy for all Americans  one that provides plentiful jobs and low and stable inflation.Analysts said Friday that they did not see anything in the latest jobs report that would cause the Fed to deviate from its current path.The Fed will look beyond these temporary disruptions, said Beth Ann Bovino, chief United States economist at S & P Global Ratings.Analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Friday that other factors, including subdued inflation data and rising geopolitical risks, could cause Mr. Powell to sound more cautious in his outlook.
JERUSALEM   Thousands of Palestinians on Friday took part in a mass protest along Gaza\'s volatile border with Israel, the second large-scale demonstration in what is expected to be a steady turnout over the coming weeks.Nearly 30 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire in two mass protests over the past eight days.Gaza\'s Hamas rulers, who are orchestrating the demonstrations, say the protests are against a decade-old border blockade by Israel. But Israel accuses the Islamic militant group of using the protests as cover for trying to infiltrate the border and attack Israelis. It has warned that anyone approaching the border fence is risking their lives.Here\'s a closer look at how the sides reached this point:THE HAMAS TAKEOVERIsrael captured Gaza, a thin strip of land along the Mediterranean coast, from Egypt in the 1967 Mideast war and occupied the area for nearly four decades before withdrawing all troops and settlements in 2005. Hamas, a militant group sworn to Israel\'s destruction, won legislative elections the following year and in 2007 seized control of Gaza from the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority, headed by President Mahmoud Abbas.Israel and Egypt have maintained a blockade on Gaza in an attempt to weaken the group. Since then, Israel and Hamas have fought three wars, while attempts at internal Palestinian reconciliation have repeatedly failed, in large part because of Hamas\' continued refusal to disarm.Israel has defended the wars as a response to intense rocket fire from Hamas-ruled Gaza, and notes the group\'s history of suicide bombings and other deadly attacks, especially during the second Palestinian uprising early last decade. But the wars have left several thousand Palestinians dead, more than half of them civilians, drawing heavy international criticism.WHY NOW?The blockade, wars, international isolation and failed attempts at reconciliation have left Gaza\'s economy in tatters.Unemployment is approaching 50 percent, according to official Palestinian figures. Gaza\'s 2 million residents receive only a few hours of electricity each day, tap water is undrinkable and the coastline has been polluted by tons of untreated sewage. The Israeli-Egyptian blockade greatly restricts the movement of people and goods in and out of the small territory of barely 360 square kilometers (139 square miles) making it difficult to do business or travel abroad for work, school or family reasons.Hamas says the demonstrations are meant to draw attention to the harsh conditions in Gaza. But with public discontent rising, it also appears to be an attempt by the group to shake up the situation after other options failed.Hamas can also capitalize on any hatred of Israel among Gazans, over half of whom are descendants of refugees from what is now Israel.WHY DOESN\'T ISRAEL EASE THE BLOCKADE?Israel says its blockade is aimed only at Hamas, and it has no quarrel with Gaza\'s civilians. It has been careful to allow the continued flow of humanitarian goods and construction materials into Gaza, and says it will ease the blockade further based on security assessments.But international organizations like the World Bank and United Nations say the blockade continues to stifle the economy. They have repeatedly urged Israel to ease the restrictions significantly.Israel says it has no choice, accusing Hamas of trying to smuggle weapons and materials that can become weapons into the territory. It also has asked the international community, which already funnels hundreds of millions of dollars a year into Gaza, to increase aid.WHY HAVE THE PROTESTS TURNED VIOLENT?While thousands of Palestinians have gathered for what are billed as nonviolent protests, dozens of young men have approached the border and thrown stones, firebombs and burning tires toward the border fence. Israel has mobilized snipers and other special forces on the other side of the fence.The Israeli military says Hamas has been using the demonstrations as cover for attacks, and says militants have attempted to carry out shootings, plant bombs and infiltrate the fence in order to attack inside Israel.Military officials say they have used live fire only as a last resort when all other alternatives, including warning shots and rubber bullets, have failed to stop the demonstrators from reaching the fence. It says it has targeted only main "instigators" trying to carry out attacks.But witness accounts and amateur videos have shown some demonstrators appeared to be unarmed or far from the fence when they were shot. The United Nations and European Union have called for an independent investigation and urged all sides to show restraint.WHAT\'S NEXT?Hamas has called for a series of demonstrations in the coming weeks, culminating on May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel\'s establishment. Palestinians mark the date as their "naqba," or catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands were forced or fled from their homes.Friday\'s demonstrations were smaller, and the death toll was lower than last week\'s demonstrations, suggesting the protests could be weakening.But Hamas\' top Gaza official, Yehiyeh Sinwar, made a surprise visit to one of the protests and appeared to issue a new threat. "Wait for our great move, when we breach the borders and pray at Al-Aqsa," referring to the major Muslim shrine in Jerusalem.With Israeli communities lying just a few hundred meters away from the border, Israel has made clear that it will not accept any breach.Sinwar\'s threat could set the stage for another serious round of violence in the coming weeks.
TOKYO   More than six decades after the troops died for their country, the repatriation of the remains of thousands of U.S. military personnel missing in action and presumed dead from the Korean War may finally get a boost now that President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are expected to hold the first-ever summit between their countries.Nearly 7,800 U.S. troops remain unaccounted for from the Korean War. About 5,300 were lost in North Korea.Efforts to recover and return the remains have been stalled for more than a decade because of the North\'s development of nuclear weapons and U.S. claims that the safety of recovery teams it sent during the administration of President George W. Bush was not sufficiently guaranteed.There are indications, however, that Trump may raise the issue directly with Kim when they meet. There is also a chance Kim might return some remains even before the summit. The location and date of the summit have yet to be announced, though officials have suggested the meeting should take place by May."Hopefully, the North Koreans will turn over some remains as a goodwill gesture before the summit," said Bill Richardson, a former U.N. ambassador and New Mexico governor who secured the return of six sets of remains from North Korea in 2007. "This would help enormously to diffuse some tension."Frank Metersky, a Korean War veteran and a leading advocate of efforts to recover the remains with Korea Cold War Families of the Missing, one of three main support groups for families of service personnel missing in action, said he has been told by administration officials dealing with the matter that it is tentatively high on the summit agenda."The MIA issue, recovery of remains from the Korean War is the third item on the list if they get to it," he said by phone from New York. "If the meeting takes place and they get past the nuclear and missile issues, it\'s the third item on the agenda."Trump\'s decision to meet Kim has come under criticism amid skepticism over whether he will be able to negotiate a nuclear deal with the North.An agreement from Kim to return remains or allow future search missions would allow Trump to claim a concrete success. Hopes are high that Kim might also be willing to release three Americans of Korean descent it is now holding in custody for what it calls "anti-state" activities.According to the Pentagon\'s Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency , most of the missing Americans died in major battles or as prisoners of war. Others died along the wayside or in small villages. Many of the losses from aircraft crashes also occurred near battle zones or roads connecting them.North Korea and the United States remain technically at war because the 1950-53 fighting ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty. But between 1996 and 2005, joint U.S.-North Korea military search teams conducted 33 joint recovery operations and recovered 229 sets of American remains.Washington officially broke off the program because it claimed the safety of its searchers was not guaranteed, though the North\'s first nuclear test, in 2006, was likely a bigger reason. Critics of the program also argued the North was using the deal to squeeze cash out of Washington, calling it "bones for bucks."The total cost to the U.S. to carry out the joint missions was $19.5 million.Talks to restart recovery work resumed under President Barack Obama in 2011, only to fall apart after North Korea launched a rocket condemned by the U.S. as a banned test of ballistic missile technology. There has been essentially no government-to-government progress since.Richard Downes, president of the Coalition of Families of Korean and Cold War POW/MIAs, said the North had expressed a willingness to return remains as recently as 2016, when he traveled to Pyongyang as a private citizen with a non-profit headed by Richardson."If progress is made, even without the remains issue being raised, windows may open sometime afterward," he said in an email to The Associated Press.The passage of time is making recovery efforts more difficult.In 2016, the AP visited a site about 160 kilometers (100 miles) north of Pyongyang were villagers have buried what they claimed to be dozens of sets of remains that were unearthed during the construction of the Chongchon River No. 10 Hydroelectric Power Station.The villagers collected the remains that had been dug up, put them in large burlap bags and buried them in three separate places on a nearby hill overlooking a valley that was to be flooded as part of the construction project. Whether the remains are actually of Americans, of course, can\'t be determined until they are recovered, separated and probably DNA tested.But the U.S. government has estimated as many as 270 sets of American remains are likely recoverable in the area, which is now called Kujang County. Searching for them was one of the top priorities when the U.S. missions were still going to North Korea. Nearly a dozen joint searches were conducted in the area from 1998-2000.___Talmadge, currently in Tokyo, is the AP\'s Pyongyang bureau chief. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram: @EricTalmadge
Pacemakers and artificial joints. Defibrillators. Dental fillings. Birth-control pills and vaccines. All are made in China, and all could be subject to new tariffs.Dozens of drugs and medical devices are among the Chinese products and ingredients that the Trump administration targeted for a potential 25 percent tariff in a proposal this week. The list includes some products that are in dangerously short supply, like epinephrine, used to treat allergic reactions, and others, like insulin, whose rising prices have driven public outrage in the United States.The proposed tariffs have unsettled the medical device and supply industries, given that a growing number of products, as well as their components, are now manufactured in China. In recent years, as trade groups have noted, Chinese manufacturing of medical equipment has undergone a major shift from throwaway items like surgical gloves to more complicated products like magnetic resonance imaging scanners.Chinas medical device industry has been expanding rapidly. An International Trade Commission report in January said the fastest growth was in sales of implantable orthopedic devices, plates and screws, mostly made of titanium and used for surgery and sports medicine. One analyst estimates that about 12 percent of medical devices imported into the United States come from China, amounting to $3 billion a year.Several companies, including Medtronic and Zimmer Biomet, have orthopedic device factories in China that export goods to the United States.In 2012, Medtronic, considered the worlds leading medical-device maker, bought China Kanghui Holdings, a major provider of orthopedic devices in China. Any products shipped from those operations to the United States would be subject to the tariffs. Medtronic declined to comment, saying it was still reviewing the proposal.And a report this week by RBC Capital Markets estimated that if the proposed 25 percent tariffs took effect, the move could cost the medical device industry up to $1.5 billion each year. Some of the higher costs would undoubtedly result in increased prices for those devices, affecting baby boomers, who are now among the biggest recipients of hip and knee replacements.Brandon Henry, a medical device analyst for RBC Capital Markets, said some of the bigger medical technology companies were surprised to find their products on the list.Greg Crist, a spokesman for AdvaMed, the trade group for device members, said its members were disappointed because this action threatens to affect the health and well-being of American patients and those around the world.How much would be passed on to consumers remains unknown.The impact of this orthopedic device tariff isnt a straight line, said David A. Halsey, president of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, in an email, adding that the group was working to assess the possible effects.It is still unclear whether the tariffs will be enacted: Companies have until May to lobby the administration for changes. But on Friday, President Trump ratcheted up the pressure by threatening to levy tariffs on an additional $100 billion in imports, provoking China to respond that it would strike back yet again.Indeed, stocks of drug manufacturers remained largely unruffled after the unveiling of the list on Tuesday, but by Friday, the major medical device company stocks had dipped along with the overall market. Medtronic shares were 2.7 percent lower for the week, and Zimmer Biomet was down 2.4 percent.It was unclear whether the tariffs would have a substantial effect on the drug industry, analysts said, even though China is a leading exporter of raw pharmaceutical ingredients. We dont see much impact, Umer Raffat, a pharmaceutical industry analyst for Evercore ISI, said in a note to investors on Tuesday.That is because many generic drugs that contain Chinese ingredients are manufactured in countries like India, meaning they would not be subject to the tariffs. And brand-name drugs made in the United States are frequently so expensive that the list price often has little connection to the products manufacturing cost.Nevertheless, at least one trade group sounded the alarm on the tariffs, warning that they could exacerbate the already contentious issue of health care costs, just when the Trump administration has pledged to take action to lower drug prices.We are concerned that the proposed tariffs may lead to increased costs of manufacturing for generics and biosimilars and thus higher prescription drug prices for patients in the U.S., said Jeffrey K. Francer, senior vice president and general counsel at the Association for Accessible Medicines, which represents generic-drug companies. The generic business has  been struggling with falling prices even as brand-name drug prices have risen.Several major manufacturers, including Pfizer, Merck and the generic-drug makers Mylan and Teva Pharmaceutical declined to comment.The cynic in me thinks this is another way for companies to say they need to raise their prices, said Erin R. Fox, a drug-shortage expert at the University of Utah.Ms. Fox said she suspected that the tariffs could exacerbate shortfalls of generic injectable drugs  decades-old products that are mainstays in hospitals and have been in short supply for years because of manufacturing problems and supply disruptions.While many pill forms of generic drugs are manufactured overseas, most generic injectable drugs are made in the United States, using raw ingredients acquired from overseas. But because many companies do not disclose where those raw ingredients come from  saying the information is proprietary  it is hard to know the impact of the proposed tariffs, Ms. Fox said.Two drugs on the  list of 1,300 Chinese exports are epinephrine and lidocaine, which are both in short supply in their sterile injectable form.Things are so bad right now with the injectables, we dont need anything else to pile on, to possibly make things worse, Ms. Fox said.Heather Zoumas Lubeski, a spokeswoman for Par Pharmaceutical, a major manufacturer of injectable epinephrine, said the companys raw ingredients were imported from Europe and that the proposed tariffs would not have an impact on Par or its parent company, Endo International.Even for some widely used products, it is unclear how American consumers would be affected. While insulin is on the list, all three major companies that sell insulin in the United States  Eli Lilly, Sanofi and Novo Nordisk  said they did not import insulin from China. (Novo Nordisk said that one rarely used insulin product, the NovoPen Echo, does come from China, but that the company was committed to keeping it accessible to consumers.)Some analysts and trade lawyers pointed out that the list was an early draft and that many different industries and groups would be lobbying the government in the coming months so that their products would not be punished.
LONDON   Britain\'s financial watchdog said on Friday that firms offering services linked to cryptocurrency derivatives must meet all relevant rules in the regulator\'s handbook or could face sanctions.The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) does not currently regulate cryptocurrencies.But it said that dealing or arranging transactions in, advising on or providing other services related to derivatives referencing cryptocurrencies or tokens issued through an initial coin offering (ICO), would likely require its authorisation.This includes cryptocurrency futures, cryptocurrency contracts for differences (CFDs) and cryptocurrency options, it said.The FCA warned consumers last September that ICOs were high risk and speculative.Europe\'s top markets watchdog warned in November that new crypto coins could turn out to be worthless.Demand for cryptocurrencies has pushed up prices for currencies such as bitcoin to a record high of more than $19,000 in 2017, before concerns that regulators may step in sent markets tumbling.In March, financial policymakers from the world\'s 20 leading economies called on national regulators to monitor the development of crypto-assets and their risks, but stopped short of coordinated action due to a lack of consensus.The FCA\'s move follows an announcement last month by finance minister Philip Hammond, who said Britain would set up a task force both to manage the risk around cryptoassets and exploit the underlying blockchain technology.In its statement, the FCA said: "It is firms\' responsibility to ensure that they have the appropriate authorisation and permission to carry on regulated activity.""If your firm is not authorised by the FCA and is offering products or services requiring authorisation it is a criminal offence. Authorised firms offering these products without the appropriate permission may be subject to enforcement action."Jake Green, regulation partner at law firm Ashurst, said: "To some degree this (FCA statement) clears up a small degree of academic uncertainty. Regardless, it must be the correct decision and shouldnt come as a shock to many."(Editing by Adrian Croft)
JOHANNESBURG  Just weeks after falling from power, Jacob Zuma, South Africas former president, made a brief appearance in court on Friday in a corruption case that emphasized the political upheaval that has recently swept the country.A judge in the High Court in Durban adjourned the case, which is related to a multibillion-dollar arms deal from the 1990s, until June 8. Mr. Zuma, who made no comment in court, had tried for years to avoid prosecution in the case.The brevity of his appearance did not detract from the powerful image of Mr. Zuma, a commanding figure just a few months ago, sitting as a defendant in court. Mr. Zuma was stripped of the presidency in February after losing a battle with his rival and eventual successor, President Cyril Ramaphosa.On Friday, national prosecutors, as well as Mr. Zumas lawyers, asked for the postponement to prepare the case.Starting a battle on another front, Mr. Zumas lawyers also said that they planned to challenge the decision of the national prosecutors to charge him in this case  a move that could indefinitely postpone the opening of the trial.Last month, national prosecutors announced that corruption charges related to the arms deal would be reinstated against Mr. Zuma almost a decade after they were dropped.After his court appearance, a pugnacious Mr. Zuma addressed thousands of supporters gathered near the courthouse. Flanked by religious leaders on a stage, Mr. Zuma, speaking only in the Zulu language, said he was being charged purely for political reasons.He also talked about the struggle of black people worldwide and said that he had been targeted because he championed their economic empowerment.Mr. Zuma faces 16 charges in the arms case, including corruption, fraud, racketeering and money laundering. Lawyers representing Mr. Zuma, who used legal maneuvers and the power of the presidency to avoid prosecution, had hewed to a strategy of delaying his trial as long as possible  what analysts have called the Stalingrad strategy.Mr. Ramaphosa has said that, according to a longstanding agreement between party leaders and Mr. Zuma, who will turn 76 next week, the state will pay for his legal fees because the case relates to actions taken when he was in government.Mr. Ramaphosa has said that, under the agreement, Mr. Zuma will have to reimburse the state if he eventually loses the case. But the deal effectively gives Mr. Zuma unlimited access to legal representation and raises the possibility that his case will be tied up in the courts for years.Opposition parties are suing to force Mr. Zuma to pay back his legal fees, and to block the government from paying future ones. The government says it has already spent $1.3 million on Mr. Zumas legal defense, though opposition parties say the real amount is several times more.The dispute over the fees represents a larger problem for the governing party, the African National Congress, or A.N.C., which must determine how strongly to back Mr. Zuma during his corruption trial. Mr. Ramaphosa and his allies have made fighting corruption a priority before national elections scheduled for 2019.But they cannot afford to completely jettison Mr. Zuma, who remains popular among many A.N.C. followers, especially in his home province, KwaZulu-Natal. The former leader was recently deployed to KwaZulu-Natal, the province with the biggest number of A.N.C. supporters, to drum up support during a voter-registration drive.At the same time, national party leaders explicitly discouraged members from wearing party uniforms while showing support for Mr. Zuma in his court appearance  a directive that was roundly defied on Friday. Supporters began gathering in Durban the night before, carrying A.N.C. flags and wearing party clothing.Groups representing churches, women and youth were among the thousands of backers. Some held posters stating 100 percent behind Zuma.On Friday morning, Mr. Zuma and his supporters said prayers outside the court before he entered the building, flashing a thumbs-up gesture. At a recent church appearance, Mr. Zuma said: People are free, but I am not. They are still after me.To his supporters, it was clear that they meant his political enemies. Mr. Zumas backers have long argued that, while other A.N.C. officials implicated in the arms deal were never charged, Mr. Zuma was singled out for political reasons.Mr. Zuma was initially charged in 2007 while his greatest political rival, Thabo Mbeki, was president  charges that nearly derailed his ambitions to succeed Mr. Mbeki.His supporters say he is again being singled out after losing a power struggle to Mr. Ramaphosa. The arms deal totaled 30 billion rand, or $2.5 billion at current exchange rates, and led to what is considered the single biggest instance of public corruption in the history of post-apartheid South Africa.The purchase of naval vessels, submarines, fighter jets and other equipment from European nations  made by the government of Nelson Mandela in the mid-to-late 1990s  was meant to modernize the South African military.Mr. Zuma was the leader of the A.N.C. and the nations deputy president when the arms deal was finalized in 1999. The chief prosecutor dropped the charges against him in 2009 after accusing his own officials of political interference.That successfully resurrected Mr. Zumas bid to become president. But the main opposition party, the Democratic Alliance, challenged the decision to set aside the charges, and in 2016, it was judged irrational by the High Court  a ruling that the Supreme Court upheld last year.
WASHINGTON   White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Friday it was possible that an escalating trade dispute with China could be resolved within three months, but he said President Donald Trump\'s threat to impose tariffs was not a bluff.Kudlow, speaking to reporters at the White House, said the United States and China were not in a trade war while acknowledging that foreign policy "can go awry."(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Editing by Frances Kerry)
SEOUL   South Korea said on Friday it has notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) that it seeks to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods worth $480 million, in response to U.S. measures against South Korean imports.U.S. President Donald Trump slapped a steep tariff on imported washing machines and solar panels in February to protect American manufacturers, prompting a fierce backlash from South Korea and China.South Korea's trade ministry said in a statement that it has informed the WTO Council for Trade in Goods that its plan to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods, which are equal in value to the South Korean washing machines and solar panels affected by U.S. tariffs.The trade ministry said it plans to produce details on which U.S. products will be subject to the suspension closer to when it takes effect. Under the WTO framework, a country's right of suspension on concessions of a trading partner cannot be exercised for up to three years from when the trading partner's safeguards take effect.U.S. President Trump has stepped up trade protectionist actions by raising tariffs to guard U.S. manufacturing. Amid escalating fears of a trade war, Trump said on Thursday he had ordered an additional $100 billion new tariffs on China.He has also taken issue with U.S. trade imbalances with South Korea. In March, the two countries agreed to revise an existing bilateral trade agreement in principle, with Seoul giving more market access to U.S. autos, while Korean steelmakers avoided hefty steel tariffs.(Reporting By Jane Chung and Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Sam Holmes)
BEIJING   Chinese state media on Friday slammed Donald Trump\'s threat of more trade action against China as "ridiculous" after the U.S President called for an additional $100 billion of tariffs, escalating an already high-stakes trade dispute between the two nations."This latest intimidation reflects the deep arrogance of some American elites in their attitude towards China," the state-run Global Times said in an editorial.Trump said on Thursday he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world\'s two biggest economies.In making the call for extra tariffs, Trump wanted to vent his anger with a "bomb-like" statement, the newspaper said, adding that whether the tariffs are actually put into effect and what the consequences will be "are secondary to him."Washington on Tuesday proposed $50 billion in duties on Chinese goods aimed at forcing Beijing to address what the United States says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies.China hit back within hours with its own threatened tariffs on U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals.The widely read Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Partys official Peoples Daily, although its stance does not necessarily reflect Chinese government policy.Financial markets have been unnerved for days by the trade fight and Trump\'s management of it, with the president\'s latest salvo sending U.S.  stock futures tumbling and pushing up the safe-have yen.Earlier on Friday, the People\'s Daily described the U.S. trade action against China as akin to "climbing a tree to catch fish."Washington\'s attempts at reducing its trade deficit by engaging in a trade war were compounding its mistakes, it added."History and reality have repeatedly proved that economic globalization has provided a strong impetus for the development of international trade and economics," the newspaper said, adding that the United States was "one of the biggest beneficiaries" of this.Instead of asking China to reduce its exports to address the trade imbalance, the United States should increase its own exports, the editorial said, adding that Washington was already restricting its exports to China, especially of high-tech products.In Moscow on Thursday, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi also accused the United States of picking the "wrong target" with its tariffs against China."The United States thought that it would be cheaper to engage in protectionism and it was a miscalculation," he said, according to comments posted on the Chinese foreign ministry\'s website."China and the United States are both big countries in the world and should respect each other and treat each other as equals," he added.(Reporting by Tom Daly and Min Zhang; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on a U.S. trade dispute with China (all times local):3:15 p.m.Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell says some business executives have begun to express concerns to Fed officials about the impact of a possible trade war with China.In an appearance before the Economic Club of Chicago, Powell says the issue was discussed at the Fed\'s March meeting. He said while business executives were saying that rising trade tensions had become a bit of a risk to the economic outlook, Fed officials felt it was too early to determine what the impact will be in such areas as inflation.In response to a question, Powell said "tariffs can push up prices but ... it is too early I think to really say whether that is going to be something that happens or not"___2:35 p.m.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says the Trump administration is talking with Chinese officials and is willing to negotiate to resolve the trade dispute. But he says President Donald Trump will remain steadfast on protecting U.S. economic interests.Mnuchin tells CNBC, "We\'re absolutely willing to negotiate." Mnuchin says in the interview that U.S. officials are in communication with the Chinese. But he adds, "On the other hand, the president is absolutely prepared to defend our interests." He says those interests include protecting U.S. farmers.The treasury secretary acknowledges that the escalation of tensions between the two countries has brought "the potential of a trade war." But he says the current standoff is not the beginning of a trade war, and that he\'s "cautiously optimistic that we\'ll be able to work this out."___10:40 a.m.The top White House economic adviser is saying, "Blame China, don\'t blame Trump," for any trade fight.Larry Kudlow said President Donald Trump means "enough is enough" and is demanding that China stop "stealing" American intellectual property.Kudlow spoke Friday outside the White House. He dismissed the notion that a trade war is inevitable, stressing that it\'s just a proposal to raise U.S. tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.Trump tweeted moments later, criticizing the World Trade Organization and suggesting it\'s "unfair" to the U.S.Kudlow started his job as director of the national economic council this week. He says he hopes differences can be mended through negotiations. But China said earlier Friday that that it would "counterattack with great strength."___9:45 a.m.China\'s government says it will "counterattack with great strength" if President Donald Trump goes ahead with plans to raise U.S. tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.A Commerce Ministry spokesman said Friday that negotiations were impossible after Trump responded to Beijing\'s protests about his earlier plan to raise duties on $50 billion of Chinese goods by announcing still more possible tariff hikes.The spokesman, Gao Feng, said at a news conference: "If the U.S. side announces the list of products for $100 billion in tariffs, the Chinese side has fully prepared and will without hesitation counterattack with great strength."Gao gave no details of what measures Beijing might take.Gao said, "under these circumstances, the two sides cannot possibly conduct any negotiations about this issue."___8:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is pleased that that aluminum prices are down after he imposed new tariffs. He tweets, "People are surprised, I\'m not!"Trump tweeted Friday: "Despite the Aluminum Tariffs, Aluminum prices are DOWN 4%. People are surprised, I\'m not! Lots of money coming into U.S. coffers and Jobs, Jobs, Jobs!"In March, Trump imposed tariffs on imported steel and aluminum but exempted most major countries except China and Japan.The trade dispute between the U.S. and China has escalated in recent days.Trump spoke about the clash in an interview with the "Bernie and Sid" radio show on 77 WABC Radio that was taped Thursday and aired Friday. He said there "could be a little pain." But he added, "We\'re going to have a much stronger country when we\'re finished."___1:30 a.m.China\'s commerce ministry says Beijing is prepared to fight the U.S. "at any cost" as a trade dispute between the world\'s two largest economies escalated with President Donald Trump ordering the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods.The ministry said in a statement Friday that if Washington persisted in what Beijing describes as protectionism, China would "dedicate itself to the end and at any cost and will definitely fight back firmly."Trump\'s surprise directive Thursday came a day after Beijing announced plans to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.___1 a.m.President Donald Trump has instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese goods.The move comes a day after China issued a $50 billion list of U.S. goods including soybeans and small aircraft for possible tariff hikes in an escalating and potentially damaging dispute.The White House says Trump has instructed the Office of the United States Trade Representative to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate under section 301 and, if so, to identify which products they should apply to.He\'s also instructed his secretary of agriculture "to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests."Trump argues China\'s trade practices have led to the closure of American factories and the loss of millions of American jobs.
MILAN   European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.The pan-European STOXX 600 fell 0.5 percent by 07.58 GMT, erasing part of Thursday\'s 2.4 percent gain. It remained on track for a weekly advance of 0.9 percent. Germany\'s exporter-heavy index DAX fell 0.7 percent.Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify another $100 billion of tariffs on Chinese imports, escalating a confrontation between the world\'s two largest economies. However, investors remained doubtful that a full-blown trade war would break out."Markets will now watch both the rhetoric from Trump\'s cabinet members and China\'s response to assess whether risk of a trade war is materially higher," Credit Suisse said. "We continue to see a trade war as unlikely".Caution still dominated, boosting defensive stocks. French utility Suez led the sector higher, up 2.8 percent, further boosted by a bullish broker note.Elsewhere among top movers, Dufry rose 3.5 percent after the Swiss retailer proposed a higher-than-expected dividend and announced a share buyback.UK\'s Marks & Spencer fell 3.3 percent and Next lost 2.1 percent after Citi downgraded both stocks, among other retailers.Telecom Italia rose 2.2 percent after Italian state lender CDP said it would buy a stake of up to 5 percent in the telecoms company.Chip makers like Infineon fell after losses overnight by Samsung Electronics shares. The South Korean tech giant was hit by growing concern that a semiconductor boom is about to end.The trade-exposed auto sector was the leading sectoral loser, down 2 percent.Later in the day, the focus will turn to the U.S. jobs report for more clues on how fast monetary policy will normalise in the United States.That could affect the outlook for the dollar, whose weakness has pushed up the euro, clouding prospects for European earnings. According to the Thomson Reuters IBES data, first- quarter earnings growth for the STOXX is seen at 3.4 percent, compared with 18.5 percent for the S&P 500.(Reporting by Danilo Masoni, editing by Larry King)
WASHINGTON   When Liu He, Chinese President Xi Jinping\'s top economic adviser, came to Washington in late February, he was expected to make arrangements for restarting trade talks that President Donald Trump had put on ice.But just as Liu arrived, the Trump administration announced  global steel and aluminum tariffs aimed at punishing China for what Washington says is its overproduction of steel that hurts U.S. steel makers. The announcement came a day ahead of a meeting planned with Trump\'s economic point men, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and then White House adviser Gary Cohn.Pessimistic Trump officials had said the Liu meeting would probably go nowhere. "People expect that whatever the Chinese offer it will be insufficient," a White House official told Reuters just hours ahead of the meeting.The timing of the announcement, whether deliberately aimed at embarrassing Liu or not, was emblematic of the Trump administration\'s more confrontational approach to what the United States has long viewed as China\'s unfair trade practices.It was the opening salvo in a pattern of escalation that continued this week as Trump slapped first $50 billion in tariffs on China and then said he would seek $100 billion more after Beijing struck back.(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2GXE9qr)The rapid tit-for-tat escalation, which has brought the world\'s two biggest economies to the edge of a trade war, is being driven by anti-China economist Peter Navarro and U.S trade negotiator Robert Lighthizer, who cut his teeth in trade deals with Japan in the 1980s.Navarro has moved from the sidelines to center stage following the departure of Trump\'s economic adviser Cohn, who quit in protest over the punitive steel tariffs on China. While Cohn shared Navarro\'s view that China\'s unfair trade practices must end, he had instead advocated enlisting help from Europe and Japan to pressure Beijing, sources said.Cohn failed to persuade Trump to that point of view. One White House official said that Navarro is now the dominant voice in the room on China trade. "Once they (Navarro and Lighthizer) get his (Trump\'s) ear, it\'s hard to walk him back to a more reasonable place," said one person close to the White House.Trump does not need much convincing. He has long criticized China\'s trade practices and it was a recurrent theme in his 2016  election campaign. With Cohn and other moderating voices now gone from his administration, White House officials say he now feels more able to keep his campaign promises.Trump\'s negotiating style, honed in his years as a real estate developer, is to take extreme positions to force concessions from his opponents. So far that approach has had mixed results at home and abroad.\'WE CAN\'T JUST TRUST\'While the Trump administration has signaled it is open to negotiating with China to avoid a trade war, it is no mood for talks that produce vague promises but no verifiable results."We can\'t just trust. We need to verify and we need to make sure that if we do get into a negotiation situation where China is making commitments, they have to be commitments that we know that theyre going to follow through on," an administration official told Reuters on Thursday."We cant simply just take, \'Dont worry well stop,\' as an acceptable outcome any more, said the official, who could not be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.U.S. trade officials now largely echo Trump\'s view that as the importer, the United States holds the whip hand in any talks, citing Chinese exports to the U.S. of $500 billion a year versus American exports to China of just $130 billion.With tempers running hot on both sides, there is little imminent prospect of getting Washington and Beijing to the negotiating table.China\'s Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, on Friday called the punitive steps by the United States as "extremely mistaken," threatened a "fierce counter strike" and said no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances.While Beijing claims that Washington is the aggressor and is spurring global protectionism, China\'s trading partners have complained for years that it abuses World Trade Organization rules and propagates unfair policies at home that lock foreign firms out of some sectors as domestic champions are being nurtured.\'SPIRALING DOWNWARDS\'Along with Navarro, Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, is also pushing for a more combative approach to  toward China.A veteran trade lawyer who built dozens of steel industry anti-dumping cases against Chinese producers, he has been plotting a trade confrontation with China for years. In 2010, he argued in testimony before a congressional commission that some WTO rules may need to be ignored to "force change" in China\'s practices."Wringing our hands and hoping for the best is not the answer. We need strong leaders who are prepared to make tough decisions, and who will not be satisfied until this crisis has been resolved," he said at the time.Lighthizer has adopted a similarly tough stance in talks to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, one of the world\'s biggest trade pacts that spans the United States, Canada and Mexico. He has relentlessly pushed for tough concessions. But in six months of talks, little or no progress has been made.Mexico and Canada have blamed Lighthizers hardline negotiating stance for the lack of progress. They say he has  repeatedly told them to swallow tough concessions on autos, investor protection and other issues. Lighthizer has said he is determined to rebalance NAFTA trade to restore lost U.S. manufacturing jobs. The worry is that these negotiating tactics may not work with China, now the worlds second largest economy and one that is not as easy for Washington to sway as its neighbors and longstanding NAFTA allies."The relationship is spiraling downwards, and the risk of a miscalculation or accident is only increasing," the Council on Foreign Relations Asia studies director Elizabeth Economy wrote.(This story corrects Cohn\'s name in seventh paragraph)(Writing by David Chance; Additional reporting by Ginger Gibson, Chris Sanders and Lesley Wroughton; Editing by Ross Colvin)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump first tried to disarm Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago with smooth talk and hospitality. A year later, he\'s resorted to hardball and found that Xi is willing to throw it back.The growing acrimony over trade is deepening mistrust between the two governments and roiling global markets. But at least for now, it is unlikely to spill over into sensitive national security issues, former U.S. officials and China experts say.China has no interest in escalating the dispute over tariffs and wants to reach a trade compromise with the U.S., they say. The White House also says it hopes differences can be mended through negotiations. But when Trump on Thursday doubled down on his threat to tax Chinese imports, the path to resolution appeared to narrow. China vowed Friday to "counterattack with great strength" and said negotiations were impossible under current conditions.So far, both sides have outlined plans for $50 billion in tariffs on each other\'s exports. On Thursday, Trump said he had instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider imposing $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese goods, despite opposition from some of his supporters who could be hit hard by a trade war."The Chinese have to assume that Trump is willing to go through with this," said Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, "but at the same time, a lot of it just seems he\'s trying to get leverage to force the Chinese to give him a better deal" to dramatically reduce the U.S. trade deficit with China.The barrage of tough rhetoric belies a personal rapport forged between Trump and Xi when they met at his Florida resort last April 6-7, when Trump sought Xi\'s help on North Korea and on trade.China has cooperated to an unexpected degree on North Korea by agreeing to and applying international sanctions to punish its wayward ally for developing nuclear weapons. Trump has often praised Xi for that  rhetoric that is welcomed in China\'s authoritarian political system, where great importance is vested in leadership ties.But in recent months, Washington has adopted an increasingly adversarial stance toward Beijing, and not just on trade. That trend could be intensified as Trump replaces moderates in his administration with hawks such as incoming national security adviser John Bolton, who has advocated a tougher approach toward China."The relationship is spiraling downwards, and the risk of a miscalculation or accident is only increasing," wrote Elizabeth Economy, director for Asia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.In December, the Trump administration adopted a national security strategy that identified China, along with Russia, as a "revisionist power" intent on challenging American interests. The U.S. has ruffled Beijing\'s feathers by stepping up the tempo of naval operations in the South China Sea. And Trump signed legislation last month that calls for Cabinet-level official visits to Taiwan, a self-governing island that Beijing regards as part of Chinese territory.Doug Paal, who handled Asian affairs at the White House under the Republican administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, said China views this as a gambit by Trump to exact concessions on trade. Speaking earlier this week, Paal said it hasn\'t undermined China\'s belief that Trump, who has avoided criticizing China on human rights, is someone they can work with.But Daniel Russel, who was President Barack Obama\'s point man on Asia, said Trump\'s trade gambit was playing into the Chinese perception of the U.S. as a malevolent rival bent on containing China\'s rise as a world power."The Chinese know how to play this game and have had abundant time to prepare a counterstrike strategy. It includes grabbing the moral high ground and getting other countries to look at China as a victim, not the offender, and as the defender of the international trading system," he said. "It is a ridiculous turn of events."Under Obama, the U.S. exacted an agreement from China that reduced  but did not halt  cybertheft of U.S. commercial secrets. The U.S failed to narrow the trade deficit with China, which hit a record $337.2 billion last year."We chose not to blow up the relationship," said Russel, now at the New York-based Asia Society Policy Institute. "We chose not to put the global economy at risk through some sort of suicide-vest type of challenge."Compromise on the trade dispute remains possible. The U.S. tariffs won\'t take effect for about two months, and China says it is waiting to see what Washington does."What we are seeing so far, although it\'s ugly and it\'s confrontational, it\'s still posturing," said Yun Sun, China expert at the Stimson Center think tank. "We have not yet seen the ax falling."She said the differences go beyond the level of import taxes: It\'s also about ascendancy in the high-technology economy, where China seeks global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields."Trump has made clear he wants to strike deals, but the bar is so high that the Chinese don\'t know whether they can meet it," Yun said.
BEIJING/WASHINGTON   China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.Trump, in light of what he called China\'s "unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade actions, had upped the ante on Thursday by ordering U.S. officials to identify extra tariffs, escalating a tit-for-tat confrontation with potentially damaging consequences for the world\'s two biggest economies.China\'s Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, calling the U.S. action "extremely mistaken" and unjustified, said the spat was a struggle between unilateralism and multilateralism and that no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances."The result of this behavior is to smash your own foot with a stone," Gao told a news briefing in Beijing. "If the United States announces an additional $100 billion list of tariffs, China has already fully prepared, and will not hesitate to immediately make a fierce counter strike."The dueling trade threats rattled Wall Street on Friday, ending a volatile week with major indexes closing down more than 2 percent on the day. The dollar also fell, while safe havens such as the Japanese Yen and gold futures rose.The week started with China imposing $3 billion of tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts, wine and pork, and rapidly escalated to threats that could seriously curtail hundreds of billions of dollars in trade between the world\'s two largest economies.While U.S. officials said they were prepared to talk the issues through with China, there was no clear path to negotiations. Both Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Trump economic advisor Larry Kudlow were on television to promote the idea of talks, with Mnuchin telling CNBC "we are in communication regularly".Gao\'s comments came shortly after Trump defended his proposed tariffs, saying the move might cause "a little pain" but the United States would be better off in the long run.Asked in an interview with New York radio station WABC about the effect on U.S. stock markets, Trump said the market has gone up (since he took office) "so we might lose a little bit of it.""So we may take a hit and you know what, ultimately we\'re going to be much stronger for it."Kudlow told Bloomberg Television Trump and America\'s top trade official Robert Lighthizer were "thinking about submitting a list of suggestions to the Chinese."On Wednesday, China unveiled a list of 106 U.S. goods including soybeans, whiskey, frozen beef and aircraft targeted for tariffs, just hours after the Trump administration proposed duties on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products.Washington called for its initial $50 billion in extra duties after it said an investigation had determined Chinese government policies are designed to transfer U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies and allow them to seize leadership in key high-technology industries of the future.China said it was not afraid of a trade war, even though it did not seek one, and accused the United States of provoking the conflict. Gao said comments from U.S. officials about ongoing talks about trade issues were incorrect."Under these conditions, the two sides cannot conduct any negotiations on this issue," Gao said, without elaborating.Kudlow, who has repeatedly sought to soothe markets with mention of possible talks, told Bloomberg Television there were always ongoing bilateral discussions on trade but that negotiations on tariffs had not begun.Seeking to tamp down alarm, he told reporters outside the White House, "so nothing\'s happened. Nothing\'s been executed ... There\'s no \'there\' there yet, but there will be."CHINA\'S ROLEWhile Beijing calls Washington the aggressor and says it is spurring global protectionism, China\'s trading partners have complained for years that it abuses World Trade Organization rules and propagates unfair policies that lock foreign firms out of some sectors. China has promised repeatedly to open up sectors such as financial services.President Xi Jinping is expected to unveil reform measures next week and his country\'s opening up while attending the Boao Forum, China\'s equivalent of Davos, in the southern island province of Hainan.So far, U.S. information technology products from mobile phones to personal computers have largely escaped the ire of Beijing, as well as telecoms equipment and aircraft larger than the equivalent of a Boeing 737.Among sectors most affected by a trade war could be technology, particularly chipmakers. The U.S. semiconductor industry relies on China for about a quarter of its revenue.It also remains to be seen if the dispute would trigger a nationalistic backlash. When ties between Beijing and Seoul chilled, Chinese tourism to South Korea plummeted and Chinese consumers shunned Made-in-South-Korea products.On Chinese social media on Friday, among the most searched phrases were "China hasn\'t grown up afraid" and "China will follow through to the end."The China Chamber of International Commerce said the Chinese business community would firmly support government efforts to counter "irrational and erroneous" U.S. words and actions, the official Xinhua news agency reported, and urged Washington not to go "further and further down the wrong path."DAMAGING CONSEQUENCESAnalysts at Oxford Economics, referring to the fact that  the tariffs are not yet in effect, said in a note to clients that, "Importantly, these threatened tariffs will be subject to negotiation, and therefore shouldn\'t be considered as final."However it added a full-blown trade war "would have a more pronounced effect. The U.S. and China would suffer significant slowdown in real GDP growth  a cumulative loss around 1.0 percentage point." It cut global economic growth to 2.5 percent in 2019 from 3.0 percent in its baseline scenario."This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start," said National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay."We are on a dangerous downward spiral and American families will be on the losing end," Shay added in a statement, urging Trump "to stop playing a game of chicken with the U.S. economy."(Reporting by Tom Daly, Michael Martina and Min Zhang in BEIJING and Steve Holland, David Lawder and Doina Chiacu in WASHINGTON; Additional writing by Ryan Woo, Alex Richardson, Lindsay Dunsmuir and David Chance; Editing by Frances Kerry and James Dalgleish)
LONDON   The latest salvo in a trade row between the U.S. and China weighed on Britain\'s FTSE 100 on Friday, though the damage was limited as mining and bank stocks fell while utilities made gains.President Donald Trump upped the ante by directing U.S. officials to consider tariffs on a further $100 billion of Chinese imports.The blue chip FTSE 100 index ended the session down 0.2 percent at 7,183.64 points, but outperformed the broader European equity market slightly.The dip hardly dented Thursday\'s 2.4 percent gains, posted after Sino-U.S. tensions appeared to have eased, and the index stayed near a three-week high, suggesting investors are growing more confident that a full-blown trade war can be averted.Likewise Friday\'s comments from White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow that there are ongoing talks on trade between the United States and China helped soothe investor nerves.Mining and financials stocks, which have been especially sensitive to trade concerns, led losses once again.Antofagasta, Glencore, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Anglo American all fell, as did     HSBC and Barclays.Retailers were among the worst performers on the FTSE 100 as downgrades from Citi sent Marks & Spencer and Next shares down 1.8 and 1 percent respectively.Strategists at the U.S. bank downgraded Next to a "sell" and M&S to "neutral". In general retail, they said "investors should buy online over offline, Europe over UK and brands over retailers".Deutsche Bank shifted to a more positive view on general retail, arguing the strengthening of the pound would boost the European sector, which makes a quarter of its sales in Britain.Investors favoured defensive stocks such as utilities, tobacco companies and telecoms, sought after in volatile markets due to their solid cash-flow and dividends.United Utilities, SSE and Centrica gained 1.3 to 2.3 percent. British American Tobacco was up 0.6 percent, while BT shares rose 1 percent.Becoming the latest investment house to be relatively more positive on British stocks, UBS closed its overweight in euro zone equities relative to UK equities on Friday."Year-to-date euro zone equities have outperformed their UK counterparts by more than 4 percentage points, and we no longer see the catalysts for further outperformance," wrote UBS Wealth Management\'s Chief Investment Officer Mark Haefele.On Thursday Citi had upgraded UK equities to "overweight", saying recent underperformance and cheap valuations made the market attractive.(Reporting by Helen Reid and Kit Rees; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
NEW YORK   Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. The latest drop came as the White House proposed tripling the amount of goods from China that will be subject to tariffs.The stock market changed direction again and again this week as investors tried to get a sense of whether the trade dispute between the world\'s two largest economies will escalate. On Friday technology companies, banks, industrial and health care stocks sank. The market didn\'t get any help from a March jobs report that was weaker than expected.With administration officials sounding conciliatory one day and hostile the next and the president quick to fire off yet another tweet, investors simply don\'t know what the U.S. wants to achieve in its talks with China, said Katie Nixon, chief investment officer for Northern Trust Wealth Management."The process itself seems to be quite chaotic," she said. "We\'re not quite sure what the long-term strategy is."The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76. It\'s down 10 percent from its record high in late January.The S&P 500, which many index funds track, lost 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47. The Nasdaq composite slid 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks dipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.President Donald Trump\'s administration spent the past few days reassuring investors that it\'s not rushing into a trade war, and China\'s government has done the same. But late Thursday, Trump ordered the U.S. Trade Representative to consider tariffs on another $100 billion in Chinese imports. China said it would "counterattack with great strength" if that happens.Each nation proposed tariffs $50 billion in imports from the other at the start of this week. Stocks plunged on Monday, but they rallied over the next few days as officials from both countries said they were open to talks and that the tariffs might never go into effect.The Dow average, which contains numerous multinational companies including industrial powerhouses Boeing and Caterpillar, swung dramatically this week, with almost 1,300 points separating its lowest point Monday afternoon from its high late Thursday. It fell 0.7 percent for the week.On Friday Caterpillar, a construction equipment maker, slid $5.14, or 3.5 percent, to $142.99 and Boeing, an aerospace company, lost $10.28, or 3.1 percent, to $326.12. Among technology companies, Apple gave up $4.42, or 2.6 percent, to $168.378 and PayPal shed $3.09, or 4 percent, to $73.86.Jason Pride, chief investment officer for Glenmede\'s private client business, said Trump\'s latest order caught investors off guard."It shows a willingness to go to the mat on this and fight it out," he said. Still, Pride said all of the proposed tariffs add up to a pretty small fraction of trade between the U.S. and China, and overall, they wouldn\'t affect the nation\'s economy that much if they do go into effect.Nixon, of Northern Trust, said businesses also support the idea of making changes in America\'s trade relationship with China. Even though investors are optimistic about the state of the global economy and company profits continue to grow, Nixon said the administration is creating the thing investors hate the most: uncertainty.The government reported that U.S. employers added 103,000 jobs in March, a weaker pace than the last few months. The Labor Department also said fewer jobs were added in January and February that it initially estimated. The unemployment rate remained low and the job market looks fundamentally healthy, but it\'s possible some employers are struggling to find workers.Benchmark U.S. crude dropped $1.48, or 2.3 percent, to $62.06 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost $1.22, or 1.8 percent, to $67.11 per barrel in London. Oil prices fell almost 5 percent this week as investors wondered if an increase in trade tensions will reduce demand for oil by slowing down the global economy.Bond prices rose, sending yields lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.77 percent from 2.83 percent. The lower yields mean banks can\'t make as much money from lending, and that sent bank stocks lower.In other energy trading, wholesale gasoline dipped 3 cents to $1.95 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.96 a gallon. Natural gas rose 3 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.Gold rose $7.60 to $1,336.10 an ounce. Silver edged up 1 cent to $16.36 an ounce. Copper fell 2 cents to $3.06 a pound.The dollar fell to 106.85 yen from 107.12 yen. The euro rose to $1.2285 from $1.2256.Germany\'s DAX was down 0.5 percent while France\'s CAC-40 fell 0.3 percent lower. The FTSE 100 in Britain lost 0.2 percent.Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index dipped 0.4 percent while South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.3 percent but Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng rose 1.1 percent after trading resumed following a holiday as investors caught up with the previous day\'s global gains.____AP Markets Writer Marley Jay can be reached at http://twitter.com/MarleyJayAP . His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/marley%20jay
Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. That came with the U.S. considering duties on an additional $100 billion in goods imported from China.On Friday:The S&P 500 index gave up 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47.The Dow Jones industrial average shed 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76.The Nasdaq composite tumbled 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11.The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks slipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.For the week:The S&P 500 lost 36.40 points, or 1.4 percent.The Dow fell 170.35 points, or 0.7 percent.The Nasdaq skidded 148.33 points, or 2.1 percent.The Russell 2000 declined 16.13 points, or 1.1 percent.For the year:The S&P 500 is down 69.14 points, or 2.6 percent.The Dow is down 786.46 points, or 3.2 percent.The Nasdaq is up 11.72 points, or 0.2 percent.The Russell 2000 is down 22.21 points, or 1.4 percent.
LONDON   Following are five big themes likely to dominate the thinking of investors and traders in the coming week, and the Reuters stories related to them.1/THE POWER OF EARNINGSThe earnings season that kicks off in earnest next week will be the first to reflect President Donald Trump\'s tax cuts, and pundits have been falling over themselves to up their forecasts. Earnings growth is tipped to be the highest in seven years - Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S sees Q1 at 18.4 percent (back in January forecasts were for 12.2 percent), helping cushion markets from ongoing trade tensions. Credit Suisse reckon a third of Q1 earnings growth will be down to the tax cuts. And already three- quarters of S&P500 firms to report Q1 have beaten forecasts (around 64 percent is the norm per quarter).Next week seven SPX firms report, including BlackRock, JP Morgan, Citigroup and Wells Fargo, while over 60 reports are due the following week.The downside to all this? If earnings hopes are propping up stocks, the scope for disappointment is high. And sharp negative surprises could turn the recent market volatility into a rout.High stakes, high expectations as U.S. earnings season heats up(GRAPHIC: Big first quarter seen for Corporate America https://reut.rs/2q8lxdE)2/INFLATION - MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING?A scary U.S. inflation print in February sent shares sliding and raised fears of four, rather than three, interest rate rises in 2018. Since then though, inflation has failed to spook markets the same way; worries about trade and Big Tech regulation have instead come to the fore. Next week, with U.S. CPI data due, markets may find themselves back thinking about price rises and wondering if those February fears were justified.There is no sign yet of those fears resurfacing. Latest jobs data showed the United States created the fewest jobs in six months, even if higher wage gains signalled tight labour markets. Bond markets\' inflation expectations gauge --  10-year inflation breakeven rates -- extended a recent drop.CPI next week is expected to be up 0.2 percent, the same as its as-consensus rise in February. That could soothe volatile stocks -- if earnings hold up and trade tensions abate.U.S. jobs gains slowest in six months, wage growth picks upU.S. TIPS breakeven rates extend fall as payrolls disappoint(GRAPHIC: U.S. inflation https://reut.rs/2qc8gQG)3/AFTER YOU!Next week\'s March trade data from China will probably show the economy extending its impressive run-up in exports: it\'s too early to see any impact from the tit-for-tat tariff salvos the Trump administration and Beijing have been firing off in recent days. China\'s Feb exports rose 44.5 percent versus year-ago levels -- well above the forecast 13.6 percent gain -- and another strong print may evoke fresh ire from Trump.Global stocks have been volatile but on the whole, seem to believe all this is just noise. Discerning equity investors with shares in Chinese tech giants Baidu, Tencent or Alibaba also know the Sino-U.S. trade balance vastly overstates China\'s direct stake in those exports, which include components from Taiwan, Korea and elsewhere in Asia. Which means that U.S. tariffs on Chinese telecoms and electronics are negative for Asia as a whole.In a worst-case scenario, trade wars may affect Japanese markets more than China if they boost the safe-haven yen and depress the Nikkei.- BREAKINGVIEWS-China brings a gun to its U.S. trade gunfight - China Feb exports surge most in 3 years as global trade war fears build(GRAPHIC: Emerging Asia\'s trade with China and the United States https://reut.rs/2IxkyKO)4/MIND THE GAP, TURKEYAfter another week in which the Turkish lira plumbed record lows against the dollar <TRY=>, investors are awaiting current account data to see just how big a hole the economy is in.January\'s current account deficit was $7.096 billion, worse than forecast, highlighting how dependent Turkey is on foreign capital. Higher interest rates could help fix that by luring overseas flows and reducing inflation, which is in the double digits. But there are fears President Tayyip Erdogan -- a self-declared "enemy" of interest rates -- is escalating his campaign for lower borrowing costs.The lira has already fallen 6 percent to the dollar this year and a bigger current account gap than expected could tip it lower still. The central bank has little firepower to support it. Its next rate-setting meeting on April 25 could become even more crucial after next week.Turkish Jan current account deficit $7.096 billionTurkish lira touches record low on interest rate concernTurkey\'s economic troubles in five charts(GRAPHIC: Turkish current account gap and lira https://reut.rs/2GGti52)5/NOT SO STERLINGIt has been a testing week for sterling bulls and next week promises to be no better. Positioning data indicates that net long sterling bets are near the highest in more than three years; forecasters predict more gains for the currency which is up 4.3 percent this year and is tipped by a recent Reuters poll to rise to $1.44 in the next 12 months (it\'s currently at $1.41). But risks may be growing.Heavy snow - brought by the "Beast from the East" cold weather bout - and weak consumer demand weighed on services in March, with the IHS Markit/CIPS services Purchasing Managers\' Index (PMI) tumbling to 51.7 from February\'s reading of 54.5.Next week will offer industrial output and manufacturing data for February, all key inputs for the Bank of England. Though market expectations for a May rate hike are nearly a done deal, further weakness in data or any escalation in the trade war rhetoric could cause some unwinding in sterling bets.UK economy sags under weight of snow in March - IHS MarkitSterling forecasts at post-Brexit high on BoE, negotiation hopes(GRAPHIC: Sterling positions and GBP https://reut.rs/2uPo1Cx)(Reporting by Megan Davies and Lewis Krauskopf in New York; Vidya Ranganathan in Singapore; Claire Milhench and Saikat Chatterjee in London; Compiled by Sujata Rao; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a speech on the economic outlook that did not address the economic risks of rising trade tensions.In his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank on February 5, Powell said the labor market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rebound in the coming months.KEY POINTS:* Fed\'s Powell says he and his colleagues believe U.S. economy will require further gradual interest rates increases* Powell: risks to economic outlook are roughly balanced* Powell makes no mention of trade tensions in speech* Powell: inflation could rise to unwelcome levels if Fed waited for inflation and employment to hit its goals; sees 12-month inflation readings moving up notably this springCOMMENTS:CHAD MORGANLANDER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, WASHINGTON CROSSING ADVISORS, FLORHAM PARK, NEW JERSEY(Powell)\'s going to ignore (trade tensions between the U.S. and China) until it affects the financial system overall. If that was to happen, then he would walk back the rhetoric and signal a more patient view not only for rate hikes but balance sheet readjustment. Yes, the current trade dispute does have a risk, but it doesn\'t have an immediate economic impact, hence the reason he\'s continuing a steady drum beat of rates going higher.Investors are holding on to the hope that the Fed will shift in a rapid manner. What Powell is signaling to market participants is that the Fed is not swayed or rattled by equity market volatility at this point. That\'s the reason for the additional selling pressure. The Fed has the intestinal fortitude to wait until it creeps into credit conditions and causes financial stress. It used to be that any time there was volatility that the Fed would come to the rescue of the system. This looks like a subtle message to market participants that they\'re willing to accept much more volatility within equity markets.CHARLIE RIPLEY, SENIOR INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, ALLIANZ INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, MINNEAPOLIS:He\'s sticking to the script in terms of further gradual rate hikes or the pace of rate hikes remaining the same. Obviously the market has been somewhat alluding to his fourth hike this year which is not quite in the Fed\'s forecast yet. For the most part Powell and the Fed are holding that back for the time being until we see a further trend of inflation moving up. I think he\'s somewhat alluded to that by saying later this spring we should see inflation numbers pick up. If they do change their stance on how many hikes we see this year, we\'ll see that in June or later this year.The whole trade thing in our view is really, you know they obviously will have an impact if these tariffs go into place, but nothing has been put in place yet and a lot of it is headlines talking back to each other. Hopefully we\'ll see some more formal talks between China and the U.S. and get some progress there. But I think in large part this is kind of seeing who is going to back down first. We haven\'t seen any of the tariffs put in place. There is some uncertainty to that and I think equities are reflecting that. Until we can get some of those issues resolved, I think the markets, in general, are going to remain jittery for the time being.ALAN LANCZ, PRESIDENT, ALAN B. LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC., IN TOLEDO, OHIO.It wasnt negative. He said were not going to have four increases, were going to see how it goes, and I think thats reassuring for investors. But I dont think thats on their mind right now.I think it will be this trade talk until maybe earnings. I think that is going to be the dominant factor in the markets.As we approach the weekend, people want to reduce exposure just for what else might come over the weekend as far as on the tweet front or across the headlines. I dont think (the speech) was a big catalyst on the market movement even though it kind of filtered back down since then. I think it is more people unwinding positions and not wanting to go long for the weekend more than what Jay Powell said.RICK MECKLER, PRESIDENT OF INVESTMENT FIRM LIBERTYVIEW CAPITAL MANAGEMENT IN JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY"I don\'t think Powell\'s statement helps because higher rates are ultimately competition for equity investments. However, he\'s been incredibly consistent and there\'s really no surprise in what he said. Maybe some people thought the weak numbers this morning would cause some reflection but the Fed has been on this path and there\'s been no deviation.""On Friday\'s there\'s always concern about what can happen over the weekend. If the market is down it often tends to accelerate on Friday. Investors don\'t want to take the risk of coming in Monday after having something happen over the week."This administration puts out so many controversial statements. The market seemed to ignore for a while but more recently, I don\'t know if its a cumulative effect, investors have become more concerned by it."KARL SCHAMOTTA, DIRECTOR OF GLOBAL PRODUCT AND MARKET STRATEGY, CAMBRIDGE GLOBAL PAYMENTS, TORONTO."It seems like a wait and see approach. I am not seeing a big shift in language here. It certainly confirms market expectations going in. Not really seeing a real change in  strategy. As far as currencies are concerned we are not seeing a lot of momentum in either direction.""The Fed is very committed to looking through current market volatility and to really taking that careful, gradual approach to determining what trade war risks might do to the U.S. economy. That sort of touches on the press conference that followed the last decision during which he was very much emphasizing that trade risks could impact business confidence, but that was difficult to see from a monetary policy perspective. There wasnt anything the Fed could do to model that impact. I think what they are trying to do is really ignore all of that and focus on whats happening from a fundamentals perspective.""Couple of weeks ago we saw a lot of concerns in the market about volatility spiking and the Fed very much looked through that and looked through to the conditions impacting the real economy. And so there hasnt been an elevated level of concern about that either."JIM PAULSEN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, THE LEUTHOLD GROUP, MINNEAPOLIS:The market wouldnt be acting nearly as negative to all the news in general if it (were not) in a vulnerable state already. Last year, we had bad company news, Trump tweets, threats of this and that, the market just went right up. This year, every bit of news is impacting the market, good or bad. Its moving it all over. It really says that the market has a lot more vulnerabilities this year. Its got higher values, financial liquidity is contracting, you came into the year with a little too much optimism, you got rising rates going on, you got rising inflation fears. Its more about that than it is about the trade war.JUAN PEREZ, CURRENCY TRADER, TEMPUS CONSULTING, WASHINGTON: "It is currently a bipolar market for currencies. On the one hand, Powell is saying that the U.S. economy is doing well and we\'re getting these rate increases, even though they\'re at a gradual pace, but the FX market is simply ignoring him. The reason for this is that the FX market is more focused on the trade dispute with China, which has a far greater chance of derailing U.S. growth when you think about the consequences on the economy."JOHN CANAVAN, MARKET STRATEGIST, STONE & MCCARTHY RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, NEW YORK:From a market perspective, there isnt really anything new. He read the party line: further rate hikes are coming and what is the optimum path. They dont want to go too fast or too slowly. Another item he pointed out is that the year-over-year inflation figures will be moving higher later this year from one-off factors. I think he is preparing the market the idea of a bit higher inflation. I think he wants to do it so the market wont over-react to it."There is a great deal of uncertainty with trade. There is no clear direction from the President here. So far nothing has been in place yet. It might be weeks or months before it happens. Also there is also time for negotiation. So it might not be the time (for Powell) to address the issue around tariffs. The trade comments from the U.S. and China are being taken by markets with a bit more grain of salt than a week ago. The individual threats are not as big of a factor. From a fixed income perspective barring any new jawboning on tariffs, supply and inflation data may play a bigger role next week.MARK VITNER, SENIOR ECONOMIST, WELLS FARGO, CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA:"The speech is in the middle of the fairway. There is no question the labor market is improving and the current pace of job growth will reduce the unemployment rate along to what the Fed has been expecting. The big decision is whether the Fed will go three times or four times this year. It\'s a real close call. A lot hangs on the trade discussion. If it ends well, the market will quickly rebound. There won\'t be slower global economic growth. We might end up with faster economic growth."SUBADRA RAJAPPA, HEAD OF U.S. RATES STRATEGY, SOCIETE GENERALE, NEW YORK:"It seems like from reading the headlines that there aren\'t any major changes in the outlook from the Fed\'s perspective. It\'s clearly not overheating or concerns about wage pressures. He seems to be affirming a gradual, steady approach to tightening monetary policy."It\'s a contrast between what Treasury Secretary Mnuchin said that the (stock) selloff is not necessarily on trade wars but more on economic fundamentals, and Powell seems to be suggesting the opposite that they are taking a very even handed approach to monetary policy normalization. It\'s gradual, things are progressing slowly but surely towards the potential for continued rate hikes in a gradual fashion. To me there are really no surprises here."He\'s done a beautiful job both in his press conference as well as in this speech today in not saying anything that\'s going to rattle the market. From that perspective I think he gets high marks."MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: S&P 500 extended losses to the day\'s low; last down about 1.8 pctBONDS: U.S. Treasury yields lower but little changed from earlier levels; 2s <US2YT=RR> at 2.278 pct; 10s <US10YT=RR> 2.783 pct; 2-10 spread flattens to 50.6 basis pointsFOREX: The U.S. dollar index drops to the day\'s lowRATE FUTURES: December fed fund futures contract <FFZ8> gains 1 basis point; implied yield 2.07 pct
___Workers benefit as US businesses struggle to fill jobsWASHINGTON (AP)  More American employers are struggling to find enough workers to fill jobs, which might have contributed to slower hiring last month. And workers are benefiting in the meantime: More people who had given up looking for work are renewing their job hunts, more employees are confident enough to quit to look for other jobs and pay is gradually picking up. U.S. employers added just 103,000 jobs in March, the Labor Department said Friday, the fewest in six months.___Powell says Fed expects to stick with gradual rate hikesCHICAGO (AP)  Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade fight with China could affect the U.S. economy.___Stocks dive as US proposes more China tariffs; Dow falls 572NEW YORK (AP)  Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. That came with the U.S. considering duties on an additional $100 billion in goods imported from China.___China vows to 'counterattack' US as trade spat worsensWASHINGTON (AP)  China vows to 'counterattack with great strength' if President Donald Trump hikes tariffs on an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating trade dispute between the world's two largest economies. Trump's surprise directive for the U.S. trade representative to consider more tariffs came a day after Beijing announced planned increases in duties on U.S. soybeans, aircraft and other items in response to American tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.___Did Cambridge Analytica get your data? You'll know soonNEW YORK (AP)  Facebook will begin alerting users whose private data may have been compromised in the Cambridge Analytica scandal starting Monday. All 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice with a link to information on which Facebook apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. In addition, 87 million users whose data might have been shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of that fact.___Nine West files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protectionNEW YORK (AP)  Nine West Holdings Inc. has become the latest retailer to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in an attempt to restructure its debt. The shoe chain says the move was made to help with the sale of its Nine West and Bandolino footwear and handbag business and so it can focus more on its profitable businesses, which include One Jeanswear Group, The Jewelry Group, the Kasper Group and Anne Klein.___Boss buzzing you after hours? NYC might let you say buzz offNEW YORK (AP)  Technology that offered the promise of freedom from the confines of an office has instead become a ball and chain in its own right, blurring the lines between work hours and well, any other hours. A New York City Council member wants to put a stop to that with a proposal that would bar employers from requiring employees to check and respond to non-emergency electronic communications sent outside of regular work hours.___US consumer debt rose a slight 3.3 percent in FebruaryWASHINGTON (AP)  US consumers increased their debt by just 3.3 percent in February, the weakest monthly change in nearly seven years despite an otherwise healthy economy. The Federal Reserve said Friday that consumer borrowing rose $10.6 billion in March to nearly $3.9 trillion. The gains have slowed sharply from a 10.3 percent jump in debt levels in November. February's increase was the smallest since August 2011, when consumer credit levels declined.___Foreign worker saves 7 lives as Hawaii fishing boat sinksHONOLULU (AP)  A federal contractor who was aboard the fishing vessel Princess Hawaii when it sank off the Big Island credits a Vietnamese crewman with saving his life. Khanh Huynh was acting as the de facto captain of the doomed fishing boat. The 28-year-old fisherman is one of hundreds of foreigners who work aboard American-owned fishing vessels in Hawaii. The workers lack visas and live on the boats for the duration of their contracts  often for years at a time.___The Standard & Poor's 500 lost 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76. The Nasdaq composite slid 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks dipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.Benchmark U.S. crude dropped $1.48, or 2.3 percent, to $62.06 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost $1.22, or 1.8 percent, to $67.11 per barrel in London. In other energy trading, wholesale gasoline dipped 3 cents to $1.95 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.96 a gallon. Natural gas rose 3 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.
CHICAGO   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade fight with China could affect the U.S. economy.In his first speech as Fed leader, Powell noted that the central bank raised its key rate by a quarter-point at its March meeting, just the sixth increase since late 2015. He depicted that rate hike as "another step in the ongoing process of gradually scaling back" the ultra-low rates it employed to lift the economy out of the Great Recession.This "patient approach has paid dividends and contributed to the strong economy we have today," Powell said in remarks to the Economic Club of Chicago.He said the Fed will continue to balance the risks of moving too slowly in raising rates and running the risk that inflation gets out of control and moving too quickly, which could hurt growth.Asked during a question and answer session about the economic impact of higher trade tariffs, Powell said the issue was discussed at the Fed\'s meeting last month. Fed officials noted that business executives around the country were expressing concerns."People really don\'t see yet any implications in the near term for the outlook because we don\'t know the extent to which the tariffs will actually go into effect," Powell said. "Tariffs can push up on prices, but again, it is too early, I think, to really say whether that is going to be something that happens or not."Powell spoke on a day when stock prices were tumbling because of new worries about a trade war with China after the Trump administration announced late Thursday that it was considering imposing tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese goods. The Chinese government pledged it would "counteract with great strength" should broader tariffs be imposed.In a separate appearance in California, John Williams, who has been tapped to take over as president of the Fed\'s New York regional bank, said that the "right direction for monetary policy" includes "three to four rate increases this year and further gradual rate increases over the next two years."Williams, currently the president of the Fed\'s San Francisco regional bank, will take over as head of the New York bank in June.Powell, who was tapped by President Donald Trump to succeed Janet Yellen as Fed leader, took over on Feb. 5. He presided over his first Fed meeting last month when the central bank boosted its key rate to a still-low level of 1.5 percent to 1.75 percent.At the meeting, the Fed signaled that it expected to raise rates a total of three times this year, matching the number of rate hikes it approved in 2017.Many private economists believe that the economic stimulus stemming from $1.5 trillion in tax cuts and increased government spending will ultimately prompt the Fed to raise rates at a slightly faster pace.But Powell did not give any indication Friday that the central bank felt a need to accelerate its pace. He stressed that if economic conditions changed, the Fed would be ready to respond to those changes."As long as the economy continues broadly on its current path, further gradual increases in the federal funds rate will best promote these goals," Powell said, noting that the central bank seeks to pursue policies to achieve maximum employment and stable prices, which it defines as inflation rising at 2 percent annually.After his speech, Powell toured mHub, a facility that seeks to boost manufacturing in the Chicago area by giving start-up companies access to equipment. He was asked by a reporter if he would elaborate on the tariff battle with China. He declined to answer.___Crutsinger reported from Washington.
TOKYO   Japan\'s longest run of economic expansion since the 1980s asset bubble may be entering a turning point, with data out on Friday  suggesting consumption will fail to drive growth if trade frictions undermine exports.Household spending shrank 0.9 percent in February from a year earlier, the biggest drop since a 1.4 percent fall in April last year, while inflation-adjusted real wages fell for a third straight month in February, undercutting consumer buying power.A slowdown in consumption would be an additional headache for Japanese policymakers, who fret the yen\'s recent rises and fears of a trade war hurt the export-reliant economy."External demand and consumption aren\'t very strong, so economic growth may have ground to a halt in the first quarter," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute."The strong yen could hurt exporters\' earnings. That\'s a concern because companies won\'t raise wages, which means consumption won\'t fire up."Unusually cold weather kept consumers at home and heavy snow led to a spike in vegetable prices, which discouraged households from spending on non-necessities in February, analysts say.The drop in spending confounded a median market forecast for a 0.3 percent gain and followed a 1.9 percent rise in January.Separate data showed real wages fell for the third straight month in February, reinforcing the view the Bank of Japan\'s 2 percent inflation target will remain a distant goal and keep the bank from dialling back stimulus any time soon.COST PRESSURES RISINGFriday\'s string of data comes in the wake of a BOJ survey that showed business sentiment souring for the first time in two years, suggesting the strong yen and escalating U.S.-China trade frictions are taking their toll on confidence.Consumption has been a soft spot in an otherwise robust recovery, hampering the BOJ\'s efforts to achieve its inflation target as firms remain wary of raising prices for fear of scaring away cost-sensitive households."The pick-up in consumption seems to be stalling," a government official told a briefing, offering a gloomier view than last month when the government said consumption was recovering.Some companies are raising prices at the cost of losing consumers, as they face rising raw material costs and a labour shortage that is pushing up temporary workers\' pay.Restaurant chain operator Matsuya Foods hiked prices for its "gyudon" beef-bowls - known as an affordable meal for households and a symbol of Japan\'s deflation - by 10 percent this month, citing higher costs.Part-time workers\' hourly pay rose 2.4 percent last year, much more than a 0.3 percent gain for regular workers\' wages, and grew 1.9 percent in February, the wage data showed.As the overall income of part-time workers remains low compared with that of permanent employees, the rise in their pay has not translated into stronger consumption, analysts say.Japanese households\' confidence on the economy worsened in March for the first time in over a year as they saw themselves worse off due to higher fuel and vegetable prices, a BOJ survey showed on Thursday.Japan\'s economy expanded an annualised 1.6 percent in the October-December quarter, marking the eighth straight quarter of gains, on robust global demand and capital spending.But core consumer inflation stood at 1.0 percent in February, well below the BOJ\'s 2 percent target, as slow wage growth keeps consumers from increasing their spending.Some analysts say the central bank could be forced to cut  its rosy inflation forecasts again when it conducts a quarterly review of its projections at a rate review on April 26-27.(Reporting by Leika Kihara; Additional reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer)
TOKYO   Japan\'s longest run of economic expansion since the 1980s asset bubble may be entering a turning point, with data out on Friday  suggesting consumption will fail to drive growth if trade frictions undermine exports.Household spending shrank 0.9 percent in February from a year earlier, the biggest drop since a 1.4 percent fall in April last year, while inflation-adjusted real wages fell for a third straight month in February, undercutting consumer buying power.A slowdown in consumption would be an additional headache for Japanese policymakers, who fret the yen\'s recent rises and fears of a trade war hurt the export-reliant economy."External demand and consumption aren\'t very strong, so economic growth may have ground to a halt in the first quarter," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute."The strong yen could hurt exporters\' earnings. That\'s a concern because companies won\'t raise wages, which means consumption won\'t fire up."Unusually cold weather kept consumers at home and heavy snow led to a spike in vegetable prices, which discouraged households from spending on non-necessities in February, analysts say.The drop in spending confounded a median market forecast for a 0.3 percent gain and followed a 1.9 percent rise in January.Separate data showed real wages fell for the third straight month in February, reinforcing the view the Bank of Japan\'s 2 percent inflation target will remain a distant goal and keep the bank from dialling back stimulus any time soon.COST PRESSURES RISINGFriday\'s string of data comes in the wake of a BOJ survey that showed business sentiment souring for the first time in two years, suggesting the strong yen and escalating U.S.-China trade frictions are taking their toll on confidence.Consumption has been a soft spot in an otherwise robust recovery, hampering the BOJ\'s efforts to achieve its inflation target as firms remain wary of raising prices for fear of scaring away cost-sensitive households."The pick-up in consumption seems to be stalling," a government official told a briefing, offering a gloomier view than last month when the government said consumption was recovering.Some companies are raising prices at the cost of losing consumers, as they face rising raw material costs and a labour shortage that is pushing up temporary workers\' pay.Restaurant chain operator Matsuya Foods hiked prices for its "gyudon" beef-bowls - known as an affordable meal for households and a symbol of Japan\'s deflation - by 10 percent this month, citing higher costs.Part-time workers\' hourly pay rose 2.4 percent last year, much more than a 0.3 percent gain for regular workers\' wages, and grew 1.9 percent in February, the wage data showed.As the overall income of part-time workers remains low compared with that of permanent employees, the rise in their pay has not translated into stronger consumption, analysts say.Japanese households\' confidence on the economy worsened in March for the first time in over a year as they saw themselves worse off due to higher fuel and vegetable prices, a BOJ survey showed on Thursday.Japan\'s economy expanded an annualised 1.6 percent in the October-December quarter, marking the eighth straight quarter of gains, on robust global demand and capital spending.But core consumer inflation stood at 1.0 percent in February, well below the BOJ\'s 2 percent target, as slow wage growth keeps consumers from increasing their spending.Some analysts say the central bank could be forced to cut  its rosy inflation forecasts again when it conducts a quarterly review of its projections at a rate review on April 26-27.(Reporting by Leika Kihara; Additional reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer)
LINZ, Austria   Swiss engineering group ABB hopes the U.S. government will make some concessions on its plan to slap tariffs on steel imports from China, its chief executive told Reuters on Friday.A tit-for-tat escalation of tariff announcements between the United States and China has stirred fears that the two countries will spiral into a trade war that has the potential to disrupt supply chains around the world.The United States and China are ABB\'s two largest markets with around 20,000 employees in each country. The industrial drive and power transmission company operates more than 60 production sites in the United States where it has ramped up its presence in recent years with a string of acquisitions.For its local production of certain transformers and electric engines, ABB needs special steel of a certain quality that is not available in the required amount in the United States, Chief Executive Ulrich Spiesshofer told Reuters on the sidelines of an event in the Austrian city of Linz."We are in discussions with the (U.S.) government on how to deal with this special situation," Spiesshofer said."Our priority is to expand our local footprint in our different markets ... and we hope to fall on understanding ears for our arguments, that ... an exception is needed if the raw material is not available locally."Asked why he expected the U.S. government to support a Swiss company, he said: "We are one of the largest copper and steel buyers in the world, we buy very, very much, and that is why we are listened to."(Reporting by Kirsti Knolle, editing by David Evans)

The Labor Department released its official hiring and unemployment figures for March on Friday morning, providing the latest snapshot of the American economy. 103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. The Labor Department revised its estimate of Februarys job growth upward, but Januarys figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.Februarys report was a barnburner: Companies added jobs at the strongest pace since 2015, and the labor force gained hundreds of thousands of workers. The report for March wasnt as strong, but still extended a remarkable run in the job market.March was the 90th consecutive month of job growth, by far the longest streak on record. Employers have added an average of just over 200,000 jobs per month so far in 2018, a pace that has held relatively steady for the past two years. The unemployment rate hasnt budged since October, but remains at its lowest level since 2000.The fundamentals still remain solid, said Dan North, chief economist for Euler Hermes North America.The slowdown in March wasnt a surprise. Februarys job growth was probably inflated by a surge in hiring in construction and the retail sector that reflected unseasonably warm weather in much of the country. Both sectors slumped in March as winter storms blew through the eastern United States.Weve had such unsustainably strong results in January and February that it was largely expected that we were due for some payback, said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist for Morgan Stanley. The weak number in headline payrolls does not change the fact that trend job growth is strong.The one dull spot in Februarys report was wage growth, which slowed from January. That figure was revised up slightly on Friday, and earnings rebounded further in March, rising 2.7 percent from a year earlier. Economists caution against reading too much into the month-to-month data on wages, which is volatile and prone to distortions.The bigger picture is that wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. Economists have proposed a long list of possible explanations, from globalization to weak productivity growth. Most still expect employers to have to raise pay eventually to attract and retain workers. But so far, employers are resisting.Its a standoff, almost, on wages, said Jason Guggisberg, a vice president at the staffing firm Adecco. Whos going to go first?The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sectors rebound in the months ahead.President Trump announced late Thursday that he would consider imposing tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese products, escalating the rapid-fire exchange of trade actions by the two countries. It isnt yet clear what impact the tariffs could have on the economy. But the threat alone could disrupt some companies plans, economists said.Whether trade tensions and threats come to fruition or not, even if theres not follow-through, the lingering uncertainty and the market volatility that it creates will start to permeate business decisions and household decisions, Ms. Zentner said. Already, she said, there are signs that upper-income households are becoming less confident, a sentiment that could affect consumer spending.Investors and policymakers alike are watching the job market closely for signs that the economy could be starting to overheat. Markets tumbled after a report of unexpectedly strong wage growth in January led to fears of inflation, and the interest-rate hikes it could bring.The market reaction to Fridays report was more muted. The uptick in wages was sufficient to suggest that the job market remains healthy, but probably not big enough to force the Federal Reserve to reconsider its policy of gradual rate increases, said Michelle Meyer, head of United States economics for Bank of America.Indeed, in a speech in Chicago on Friday, the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, suggested his view of the economy had changed little in recent weeks.The labor market remains strong, and my colleagues and I on the Federal Open Market Committee expect it to remain strong, Mr. Powell told the Economic Club of Chicago, according to prepared remarks released by the central bank. He added that he would be looking for an additional pickup in wage growth as the labor market strengthens further.Mr. Powells prepared remarks made no mention of the looming threat of a trade war with China. But Ms. Meyer said the added uncertainty surrounding trade could tend to make policymakers more cautious.The risks have increased given some of the headlines around trade, Ms. Meyer said.Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster report for February was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people. Beyond such monthly gyrations, however, the labor force has been growing gradually, an impressive feat given the ongoing retirement of the baby-boom generation.With available workers increasingly scarce, companies are going to greater lengths to find potential employees. Some are hiring people with criminal records or loosening hiring requirements. Others are trying to entice people previously on the economys sidelines, like at-home parents and recent retirees.Ive had more conversations about retirees in the last month than I have in the last year, said Becky Frankiewicz, president of ManpowerGroup, a staffing firm. Thats an ideal population because theyre still highly skilled and theyre experienced.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to back up his claim."China, which is a great economic power, is considered a Developing Nation within the World Trade Organization. They therefore get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.," Trump wrote on Twitter.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to back up his claim."China, which is a great economic power, is considered a Developing Nation within the World Trade Organization. They therefore get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.," Trump wrote on Twitter.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
MEXICO CITY   An agreement between Canada, the United States and Mexico on a revamped North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is within reach, a senior official with Mexico\'s economy ministry said on Friday."I\'m very convinced and have a good expectation that we will reach an agreement on the free trade agreement very, very soon," said Rogelio Garza, Mexico\'s deputy minister for industry and commerce.Top U.S., Mexican and Canadian trade officials are meeting on Friday in Washington to discuss prospects for a deal to update NAFTA, under pressure from the United States to reach a quick agreement despite several unresolved issues.(Reporting by Anthony Esposito; Editing by Susan Thomas)
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: The U.S. is considering tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese products, President Trump said on Thursday, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.It was the latest volley in a back and forth between the worlds two largest economies. Heres how we got to this point. Beijing  is trying to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system. Our correspondent there explains why China is confident it would win a trade war.Washington imposed sanctions on some of Russias richest men and top officials today, punishing President Vladimir Putins inner circle for Russian aggressions.The move is intended to penalize some industrialists who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putins increasingly authoritarian administration. They grow out of an oddly disjointed policy: While President Trump continues to call for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years. At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency were sidelined in the past year after raising concerns about spending and management by the agencys administrator, Scott Pruitt.Among Mr. Pruitts requests, some of which were declined: a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership, a bulletproof security desk, a 20-person protective detail and the use of lights and sirens to speed his motorcades trips through Washington (including to a trendy French restaurant).The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the officials reassignments and their objections were related. We dispute the veracity of the accusations, an agency spokesman said. Senior White House officials say Mr. Pruitts fate is uncertain as he confronts a growing series of ethical questions. In his first public comments about the matter, President Trump said on Thursday that he didnt know about a $130,000 payment to a pornographic film actress who claims to have had a sexual relationship with him.Asked why Michael Cohen, his personal lawyer, had made the payment, Mr. Trump said, Youll have to ask Michael Cohen.Mr. Trumps remarks came after an appearance in West Virginia in which he literally tossed out his boring speech to renew his criticism of U.S. immigration law and to assert that millions voted illegally in the 2016 election. Some of his claims dont add up. It was a presidential corruption scandal that exposed entrenched ties between South Koreas government and huge conglomerates like Samsung.Park Geun-hye, the countrys former president, was sentenced today to 24 years in prison. She and a longtime friend were accused of collecting or demanding large bribes from three big businesses. Almost all of South Koreas presidents have seen their reputations tarnished by corruption scandals involving them, their relatives or their aides. The shooting at YouTube headquarters this week highlighted security risks in the workplace. Many companies are similarly exposed, as an open-door policy pervades corporate America. The U.S. added 103,000 jobs in March, down from Februarys pace but strong enough to extend a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained 4.1 percent. Your briefing writer remembers the 1980s fondly. So does Japan, where mild new prosperity has rekindled nostalgia for the last time the countrys economy truly boomed. U.S. stocks were up on Thursday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Can coffee rev up your workout? Heres how to uninstall Facebook Messenger. Recipe of the day: This weekend, make one-pot meatballs and sauce.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:As police shootings continue to draw headlines, the noted conservative writer and lawyer David French weighs in. He draws on his 2007 deployment in Iraq to ask: Shouldnt police at home exhibit at least as much discipline as soldiers at war?While noting that many police shootings are lawful and justifiable, he writes, many others would be surprising to see in a war zone, much less in the streets of Americas cities.  [National Review] Lynda Richardson, senior staff editor, TravelThe Ides of March may have passed, but this history of Julius Caesar is still a fascinating and relevant read.Plus it contains good advice like two very good friends could make up for a lot of enemies.  [The New York Review of Books] Julie Bloom, deputy national editor The week in good news is backWere happy to report that our column rounding up some of the weeks uplifting and inspiring stories has returned. Quiz time!Did you keep up with this weeks news? Test yourself. Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critic says after watching the horror film A Quiet Place that youll leave elated or Ill eat my words.We also review Chappaquiddick, a retelling of the 1969 car crash involving Ted Kennedy, and break down nine film festivals in New York City this month.Here are 11 TV shows well be talking about, and 11 new books we recommend.The calendar might say April, but winter hasnt fully released its grip on New York. We went in search of spring, starting with the annual Orchid Show in the Bronx.If youre in the city, we also recommend 10 plays, 15 pop, rock and jazz concerts, 22 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids. Save the datePrince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry in less than six weeks. We have answers to everything you ever wanted to know  and some things you didnt. Best of late-night TVFacebook is under investigation in Australia, where, Jimmy Fallon noted, Facebooks stock actually goes down the toilet in a counterclockwise direction. Quotation of the dayI cant imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets. Jeffrey Fagan, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School, on the fatal shooting of a mentally ill Brooklyn man by plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a call of a man brandishing what was thought to be a gun. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
TOKYO   Japan\'s top government spokesman said on Friday it is important for the United States and China to build a relationship that leads to global economic growth."It is important for the world\'s largest economy, the U.S., and the second-biggest economy, China, to construct a relationship that leads to stable growth and development of the global economy not only for Japan but for Asia and the world as a whole," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference.He made the comment when asked about the impact on Japan from a trade spat between the United States and China. Suga said Japan will closely monitor the situation.The United States is willing to negotiate with China on trade, but only if talks are serious, as previous attempts produced little progress, a senior U.S. official told Reuters late on Thursday as trade tensions between the two nations escalated.(Reporting by Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Chris Gallagher)

NEW YORK   The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as the boost from mild temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labor market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further this year.March\'s job growth of 103,000 was below the 193,000 forecast. Average hourly earnings rose 0.3 percent, above a consensus of 0.2 percent.COMMENTS:PAUL ASHWORTH, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, CAPITAL ECONOMICS, TORONTO:"The upshot is that even though March was weaker than we were expecting, there is still evidence of an acceleration in the underlying pace of employment growth. The Fed will be primarily focused on the 0.3 percent month-on-month increase in average hourly earnings, which pushed the annual growth rate up to 2.7 percent, from 2.6 percent. As with core inflation, the annual rate is still muted, but there is clear evidence of an acceleration over the past few months in the monthly gains. Overall, looking through the volatility, employment growth is trending higher and wage growth is starting to heat up."SEAN LYNCH, CO-HEAD OF GLOBAL EQUITY STRATEGY, WELLS FARGO INVESTMENT INSTITUTE, OMAHA NEBRASKA"There\'s nothing alarming. Its a dangerous day for data to be released with the tariff news overnight and earnings coming up. But hourly earnings seem to be in line - up a little but not a break away. We\'re not seeing a meaningful slowing in jobs.""It\'s a little below expectations but on the heels of a strong February, and February was revised higher, its a little reversion to the mean and evening out the strong February data.""We get a couple of back to back months of weaker reports and that starts to send some signals to the market. I don\'t think anything out of this will sway the market. They\'ll go back to focusing on tariffs. That\'s the big news today. That may continue through next week until we get the earnings reports then folks may focus on the fundamentals again.""That\'s not showing us wage inflation where the Fed would have to step in. This seems to be a natural improvement. The wage number is important and as important as the jobs number but this month it isn\'t causing us too much concern."MICHAEL ARONE, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, STATE STREET GLOBAL ADVISORS, BOSTONCertainly the headline came in a little light and January and February were quite strong and have been revised a bit lower. Still, those numbers were much better than expected, the unemployment rate stuck at 4.1 percent, thats been a number of months in a row. And average hourly earnings, which is the figure thats most important to these reports these days, ticked up a little bit but not anything that would spook the market in terms of wage inflation.I dont know that this report will change the Feds thinking for their current path of rate hikes this year. Whats happened here this morning is certainly the jobs report is taking a back seat to the trade discussion and back and forth between the U.S. and China, as we know Trump again, think of it as a game of poke and hes raising the stakes a little bit. Thats primarily moving markets and the jobs report is a bit of an afterthought. But that said, the jobs report indicates an economy that continues to add jobs with a low unemployment rate without much in the way of wage gains and that isnt likely to impact the Feds direction all that much."AARON KOHLI, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORKIt was a bit of a mixed read. Average hourly earnings were up in line with consensus, thats probably positive. There is maybe a little bit of a seasonal effect there, we didnt see a big drop off in hours worked, thats a positive sign as well that the gains were real, they werent just optical because of a drop in the amount of time that employees were at work. The disappointing parts of the report, aside from the headline, which could have been a bit of a payback from last months outperformance, was really the drop in the participation rate and the lack of a drop in the unemployment rate. I think its those combinations that made this a disappointing report, but just slightly so.It seems that there is some risk that youll move from political rhetoric to an actual fully blown trade war. I think if that happens youre likely to see many more instances of spot inflation, where you have prices rising due to shortages, but not necessarily for what wed call the right reasons, which is that demand is very strong. So the issues with it are essentially that it forces the Fed into a posture where they have to be more aggressive just to fight inflation and at the same time it depresses long term global economic output.JOSEPH LAVORGNA, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AMERICAS, NATIXIS, NEW YORKIts definitely a little bit softer than expected, the job number and then the downward revision, the fact the unemployment rate didnt fall. To me thats all on the softer side of things. The job weakness is broad-based, the general trend is still decent, youre generating 202,000 (jobs) on the three-month moving average.The economys still good, the issue is what happens in June and is the Fed going to move in June. I do not see any evidence of the economy overheating, and therefore I believe the Fed should allow the economy to run hot which would argue for less hikes, not more hikes. While we focus so much on the trade issues and thats been the dominant news of the last few weeks, to me investors are missing sight of the bigger picture which is the tightening of monetary policy, which is lifting the risk-free rate and the fact liquidity is coming out of the market, and that to me is the real story.GUY LEBAS, CHIEF FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT, PHILADELPHIA:The headline payroll numbers were all weak, while hourly earnings were about in line with expectations. Knee-jerk reaction was buying in the rates markets, but the size of the buying wasn\'t that significant. There are two reasons for the relatively quiet reaction: one, there\'s an easy excuse for weakness in the bout of winter weather that hit during payrolls data collection week. Two, there\'s more attention being paid to the tariff situation, including a briefing on the matter from Chinese officials immediately after the payrolls data release.MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: Stocks added to losses, but then pared losses, with S&P futures last down 0.7 percent.BONDS:  Benchmark yields fell, then retraced, with the ten-year last at 2.8137.FOREX:  The dollar fell, then rebounded, with the dollar index against a basket of currencies last trading flat.(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didnt help matters  it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says theres a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russias richest oligarchs  and 17 top government officials. Its the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian trolls ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trumps chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitts success in achieving items on the presidents agenda  including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations  may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.He likes the work product, she said of Mr. Trump.____4. Were doing it for the kids.That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trumps plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women  many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills  to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Heres how the visas work.)We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted, said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.____6. Park Geun-hye, South Koreas impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the countrys government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last weeks, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israels blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says its changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genres orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing  mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well  against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.What I am doing, he once explained, is creating a language. A different American language.____10. Finally, as the hit show Fixer Upper ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didnt have high hopes for President Trumps trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, Wait, theres more than one America? What is this?On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, Invasion of Privacy.Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
On April 28, 1945  73 years ago  Italians hung the corpse of their former dictator Benito Mussolini upside down next to a gas station in Milan. Two days later, Adolf Hitler committed suicide in his bunker beneath the streets of war-ravaged Berlin. Fascism, it appeared, was dead.To guard against a recurrence, the survivors of war and the Holocaust joined forces to create the United Nations, forge global financial institutions and  through the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  strengthen the rule of law. In 1989, the Berlin Wall came down and the honor roll of elected governments swelled not only in Central Europe, but also Latin America, Africa and Asia. Almost everywhere, it seemed, dictators were out and democrats were in. Freedom was ascendant.Today, we are in a new era, testing whether the democratic banner can remain aloft amid terrorism, sectarian conflicts, vulnerable borders, rogue social media and the cynical schemes of ambitious men. The answer is not self-evident. We may be encouraged that most people in most countries still want to live freely and in peace, but there is no ignoring the storm clouds that have gathered. In fact, fascism  and the tendencies that lead toward fascism  pose a more serious threat now than at any time since the end of World War II.[Get more of the biggest debates of the day right in your inbox by signing up for the Opinion newsletter.]Warning signs include the relentless grab for more authority by governing parties in Hungary, the Philippines, Poland and Turkey  all United States allies. The raw anger that feeds fascism is evident across the Atlantic in the growth of nativist movements opposed to the idea of a united Europe, including in Germany, where the right-wing Alternative fr Deutschland has emerged as the principal opposition party. The danger of despotism is on display in the Russia of Vladimir Putin  invader of Ukraine, meddler in foreign democracies, accused political assassin, brazen liar and proud son of the K.G.B. Putin has just been re-elected to a new six-year term, while in Venezuela, Nicols Maduro, a ruthless ideologue, is poised to triumph in sham balloting next month. In China, Xi Jinping has persuaded a docile National Peoples Congress to lift the constitutional limit on his tenure in power.Around the Mediterranean, the once bright promise of the Arab Spring has been betrayed by autocratic leaders, such as Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt (also just re-elected), who use security to justify the jailing of reporters and political opponents. Thanks to allies in Moscow and Tehran, the tyrant Bashar al-Assad retains his stranglehold over much of Syria. In Africa, the presidents who serve longest are often the most corrupt, multiplying the harm they inflict with each passing year. Meanwhile, the possibility that fascism will be accorded a fresh chance to strut around the world stage is enhanced by the volatile presidency of Donald Trump.If freedom is to prevail over the many challenges to it, American leadership is urgently required. This was among the indelible lessons of the 20th century. But by what he has said, done and failed to do, Mr. Trump has steadily diminished Americas positive clout in global councils.[To read more about the threat of authoritarianism around the world, read Roger Cohen on Eastern Europe.] Instead of mobilizing international coalitions to take on world problems, he touts the doctrine of every nation for itself and has led America into isolated positions on trade, climate change and Middle East peace. Instead of engaging in creative diplomacy, he has insulted United States neighbors and allies, walked away from key international agreements, mocked multilateral organizations and stripped the State Department of its resources and role. Instead of standing up for the values of a free society, Mr. Trump, with his oft-vented scorn for democracys building blocks, has strengthened the hands of dictators. No longer need they fear United States criticism regarding human rights or civil liberties. On the contrary, they can and do point to Mr. Trumps own words to justify their repressive actions.At one time or another, Mr. Trump has attacked the judiciary, ridiculed the media, defended torture, condoned police brutality, urged supporters to rough up hecklers and  jokingly or not  equated mere policy disagreements with treason. He tried to undermine faith in Americas electoral process through a bogus advisory commission on voter integrity. He routinely vilifies federal law enforcement institutions. He libels immigrants and the countries from which they come. His words are so often at odds with the truth that they can appear ignorant, yet are in fact calculated to exacerbate religious, social and racial divisions. Overseas, rather than stand up to bullies, Mr. Trump appears to like bullies, and they are delighted to have him represent the American brand. If one were to draft a script chronicling fascisms resurrection, the abdication of Americas moral leadership would make a credible first scene.Equally alarming is the chance that Mr. Trump will set in motion events that neither he nor anyone else can control. His policy toward North Korea changes by the day and might quickly return to saber-rattling should Pyongyang prove stubborn before or during talks. His threat to withdraw from the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement could unravel a pact that has made the world safer and could undermine Americas reputation for trustworthiness at a critical moment. His support of protectionist tariffs invites retaliation from major trading partners  creating unnecessary conflicts and putting at risk millions of export-dependent jobs. The recent purge of his national security team raises new questions about the quality of advice he will receive. John Bolton starts work in the White House on Monday.What is to be done? First, defend the truth. A free press, for example, is not the enemy of the American people; it is the protector of the American people. Second, we must reinforce the principle that no one, not even the president, is above the law. Third, we should each do our part to energize the democratic process by registering new voters, listening respectfully to those with whom we disagree, knocking on doors for favored candidates, and ignoring the cynical counsel: Theres nothing to be done.Im 80 years old, but I can still be inspired when I see young people coming together to demand the right to study without having to wear a flak jacket.We should also reflect on the definition of greatness. Can a nation merit that label by aligning itself with dictators and autocrats, ignoring human rights, declaring open season on the environment, and disdaining the use of diplomacy at a time when virtually every serious problem requires international cooperation?To me, greatness goes a little deeper than how much marble we put in our hotel lobbies and whether we have a Soviet-style military parade. America at its best is a place where people from a multitude of backgrounds work together to safeguard the rights and enrich the lives of all. Thats the example we have always aspired to set and the model people around the world hunger to see. And no politician, not even one in the Oval Office, should be allowed to tarnish that dream.
WASHINGTON   U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on Friday that U.S. officials including himself are in regular communication with China as a tariff dispute escalates between the two countries."We are willing to negotiate. We are in communication with them regularly," Mnuchin said in an interview with CNBC. "I am in communications.""On the one hand, we absolutely are willing to negotiate and not get into trade wars but on the other hand, the president is perfectly willing to defend interests."(Reporting by Lindsey Dunsmuir and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
MOSCOW   Russia's government will discuss measures to protect Russian companies from U.S. trade tariffs on steel and aluminum in the coming days, Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said on Friday.Russia said in March it will likely prepare a list of restrictions on imported products from the United States in response to the U.S. tariffs.(Reporting by Anastasia Lyrchikova; Writing by Jack Stubbs; Editing by Maria Kiselyova)
MOSCOW/KIEV   In a corner of the departures area at Rostov airport in southern Russia, a group of about 130 men, many of them carrying overstuffed military-style rucksacks, lined up at four check-in desks beneath screens that showed no flight number or destination.When a Reuters reporter asked the men about their destination, one said: "We signed a piece of paper  we\'re not allowed to say anything. Any minute the boss will come and we\'ll get into trouble."You too," he warned.The chartered Airbus A320 waiting on the tarmac for them had just flown in from the Syrian capital, Damascus, disgorging about 30 men with tanned faces into the largely deserted arrivals area. Most were in camouflage gear and khaki desert boots. Some were toting bags from the Damascus airport duty-free.The men were private Russian military contractors, the latest human cargo in a secretive airlift using civilian planes to ferry military support to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in his six-year fight against rebels, a Reuters investigation of the logistical network behind Assad\'s forces has uncovered.The Airbus they flew on was just one of dozens of aircraft that once belonged to mainstream European and U.S. aviation companies, then were passed through a web of intermediary companies and offshore firms to Middle Eastern airlines subject to U.S. sanctions  moves that Washington alleges are helping Syria bypass the sanctions.The flights in and out of Rostov, which no organization has previously documented, are operated by Cham Wings, a Syrian airline hit with U.S. sanctions in 2016 for allegedly transporting pro-Assad fighters to Syria and helping Syrian military intelligence transport weapons and equipment. The flights, which almost always land late at night, don\'t appear in any airport or airline timetables, and fly in from either Damascus or Latakia, a Syrian city where Russia has a military base.The operation lays bare the gaps in the U.S. sanctions, which are designed to starve Assad and his allies in Iran\'s Revolutionary Guard and the Hezbollah militia of the men and materiel they need to wage their military campaign.It also provides a glimpse of the methods used to send private Russian military contractors to Syria  a deployment the Kremlin insists does not exist. Russian officials say Moscow\'s presence is limited to air strikes, training of Syrian forces and small numbers of special forces troops.Reuters reporters staked out the Rostov airport, logged the unusual flights using publicly available flight-tracking data, searched aircraft ownership registries and conducted dozens of interviews, including a meeting at a fashionable restaurant with a former Soviet marine major on a U.S. government blacklist.Asked about the flights and the activities of Russian private military contractors in Syria, a spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin referred Reuters to the Defence Ministry  which didn\'t reply to the questions. The Syrian government also didn\'t reply to questions.In response to detailed Reuters questions, Cham Wings said only that information on where it flies was available on its website.The flights to Rostov aren\'t mentioned on the site. But the journeys do appear in online flight-tracking databases. Reporters traced flights between the Rostov airport and Syria from Jan. 5, 2017, to March 11, 2018. In that time, Cham Wings aircraft made 51 round trips, each time using Airbus A320 jets that can carry up to 180 passengers.The issue of military casualties is highly sensitive in Russia, where memories linger of operations in Chechnya and Afghanistan that dragged on for years. Friends and relatives of the contractors suspect Moscow is using the private fighters in Syria because that way it can put more boots on the ground without risking regular soldiers, whose deaths have to be accounted for.Forty-four regular Russian service personnel have died in Syria since the start of the operation there in September 2015, Russian authorities have said. A Reuters tally based on accounts from families and friends of the dead and local officials suggests that at least 40 contractors were killed between January and August 2017 alone.One contractor killed in Syria left Russia on a date that tallies with one of the mysterious nighttime flights out of Rostov, his widow said. The death certificate issued by the Russian consulate in Damascus gave his cause of death as "haemorrhagic shock from shrapnel and bullet wounds."TRYING TO CHOKE OFF ASSAD\'S ACCESS TO AIRCRAFTTo sustain his military campaign against rebels, Assad and his allies in Russia, Iran and the Hezbollah militia need access to civilian aircraft to fly in men and supplies. Washington has tried to choke off access to the aircraft and their parts through export restrictions on Syria and Iran and through Treasury Department sanctions blacklisting airlines in those countries. The Treasury Department has also blacklisted several companies outside Syria, accusing them of acting as middlemen."These actions demonstrate our resolve to target anyone who is enabling Assad and his regime," John E. Smith, director of the Treasury Department\'s Office of Foreign Assets Control, said in testimony to a congressional committee in November.In recent years, dozens of planes have been registered in Ukraine to two firms, Khors and Dart, that were founded by a former Soviet marine major and his onetime military comrades, according to the Ukraine national aircraft register. The planes were then sold or leased and ended up being operated by Iranian and Syrian airlines, according to the flight-tracking data.One of the companies, Khors, and the former marine major, Sergei Tomchani, have been on a U.S. Commerce Department blacklist since 2011 for allegedly exporting aircraft to Iran and Syria without obtaining licenses from Washington.But in the past seven years, Khors and Dart have managed to acquire or lease 84 second-hand Airbus and Boeing aircraft by passing the aircraft through layers of non-sanctioned entities, according to information collated by Reuters from national aircraft registers. Of these 84 aircraft, at least 40 have since been used in Iran, Syria and Iraq, according to data from three flight-tracking websites, which show the routes aircraft fly and give the call sign of the company operating them.In September, the U.S. Treasury Department added Khors and Dart to its sanctions blacklist, saying they were helping sanctioned airlines procure U.S.-made aircraft. Khors and Dart, as well as Tomchani, have denied any wrongdoing related to supplying planes to sanctioned entities.The ownership histories of some of the aircraft tracked by Reuters showed how the U.S. restrictions on supplies to Iranian and Syrian airlines may be skirted. As the ownership skips from one country to the next, the complex paper trail masks the identity of those involved in Syria\'s procurement of the planes.One of the Cham Wings Airbus A320 jets that has made the Rostov-Syria trip was, according to the Irish aircraft register, once owned by ILFC Ireland Limited, a subsidiary of Dublin-based AerCap, one of the world\'s biggest aircraft-leasing firms.In January 2015, the aircraft was removed from the Irish register, said a spokesman for the Irish Aviation Authority, which administers the register. For the next two months, the aircraft, which carried the identification number EI-DXY, vanished from national registers before showing up on the aircraft register in Ukraine.The Ukrainian register gave its new owner as Gresham Marketing Ltd, which is registered in the British Virgin Islands. The owners of the company are two Ukrainians, Viktor Romanika and Nikolai Saverchenko, according to corporate documents leaked from the Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca. Ukrainian business records show they are managers in small local businesses. Contacted by phone, Romanika said he knew nothing and hung up. Saverchenko couldn\'t be reached by phone and didn\'t respond to a letter delivered to the address listed for him.In March 2015, Gresham leased EI-DXY to Dart, according to the Ukrainian aircraft register. The identification number was changed to a Ukrainian number, UR-CNU. On Aug. 20, 2015, Khors became the aircraft\'s operator, the register showed.A representative of the Ukraine State Aviation Service said the register was not intended as official confirmation of ownership but that there had been no complaints about the accuracy of its information.From April that year, the aircraft was flown by Cham Wings, according to data from the flight-tracking websites.Gillian Culhane, a spokeswoman for AerCap, the firm whose subsidiary owned the plane in 2015, didn\'t respond to written questions or answer repeated phone calls seeking comment about what AerCap knew about the subsequent owners and operators of the plane. Dart and Khors didn\'t respond to questions about the specific aircraft.Four lawyers specializing in U.S. export rules say that transactions involving aircraft that end up in Iran or Syria carry significant risks for Western companies supplying the planes or equipment. Even if they had no direct dealings with a sanctioned entity, the companies supplying the aircraft can face penalties or restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, the lawyers said.The lawyers, however, said that the legal exposure for aircraft makers such as Boeing and Airbus was minimal, because the trade involves second-hand aircraft that are generally more than 20 years old, and the planes had been through a long chain of owners before ending up with operators subject to sanctions.Two of the lawyers, including Edward J. Krauland, who leads the international regulation and compliance group at law firm Steptoe & Johnson, said U.S. export rules apply explicitly to Boeing aircraft because they\'re made in the United States. But they can also apply to Airbus jets because, in many cases, a substantial percentage of the components is of U.S. origin.Boeing said in a statement: "The aircraft transactions described that are the subject of your inquiry did not involve The Boeing Company. Boeing maintains a robust overall trade control and sanctions compliance program." An Airbus spokesman said, "Airbus fully respects all applicable legal requirements with regard to transactions with countries under U.N., EU, UK and U.S. sanctions."WAR-ZONE FLIGHTSWhen Reuters sent a series of questions to Khors and Dart about their activities, Tomchani, the former marine major, called the reporter within minutes.He said he was no longer a shareholder in either firm but was acting as a consultant to them, and that the questions had been passed on to him. He invited the reporter to meet the following day at the high-end Velyur restaurant in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital.In the 90-minute meeting, he denied providing aircraft to Iran or Syria. Instead, he said, Khors and Dart had provided aircraft to third parties, which he did not identify. Those third parties, he said, supplied the planes on to the end users."We did not supply aircraft to Iran," Tomchani, a man of military bearing in his late 50s, said as he sipped herbal tea.  "We have nothing to do with supplying aircraft to Cham Wings."Neither Dart nor Khors could have sold or leased aircraft to Cham Wings because they were not the owners of the aircraft, he said.Tomchani used to serve in a marine unit of the Soviet armed forces in Vladivostok, on Russia\'s Pacific coast. In 1991, after quitting the military with the rank of major, he set up Khors along with two other officers in his unit. Tomchani and his partners made a living by flying Soviet-built aircraft, sold off cheap after the collapse of the Soviet Union, in war zones.Khors flew cargoes in Angola for the Angolan government and Defence Ministry and aid agencies during its civil war. Tomchani said his companies also operated flights in Iraq after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, transporting private security contractors.Ukraine\'s register of business ownership showed that Tomchani ceased to be a shareholder in Khors after June 2010 and that he gave up his interest in Dart at some point after April 2011. He told Reuters he sold his stakes to "major businessmen," but declined to name them.He did say, however, that the people listed at the time of the interview in Ukraine\'s business register as the owners of the two companies were merely proxies. One of the owners in the register was a mid-ranking Khors executive, one was an 81-year-old accountant for several Kiev firms, and another was someone with the same name and address as a librarian from Melitopol in southeast Ukraine.According to the business register, the owner of 25 percent in Khors is someone called Vladimir Suchkov. The address listed for him in the register is No. 33, Elektrikov Street, Kiev. That\'s the same address as the one listed in Ukrainian government procurement documents for military unit No. A0515, which comes under the command of the Ukrainian Defence Ministry\'s Main Intelligence Directorate.Tomchani said he and Suchkov were old acquaintances. "He wasn\'t a bad specialist," Tomchani said. "A young lad, but not bad." He said he believed Suchkov was living in Russia.Reuters was unable to contact Suchkov. A telephone number listed for him was out of service. The Ukrainian Intelligence Directorate\'s acting head, Alexei Bakumenko, told Reuters that Suchkov doesn\'t work there.Reuters found no evidence of any other link between the trade in aircraft and Ukraine\'s broader spy apparatus. Ukrainian military intelligence said it has no knowledge of the supply of aircraft to Syria, has no connection to the transport of military contractors from Russia to Syria, and hasn\'t cooperated with Khors, Dart or Cham Wings.On Jan. 9 this year, Dart changed its name to Alanna, and listed a new address and founders, according to the Ukrainian business register. On March 1, a new company, Alanna Air, took over Alanna\'s assets and liabilities, the register showed.CONTRACTORS COME BACK IN CASKETSAlthough Moscow denies it is sending private military contractors to Syria, plenty of people say that\'s untrue. Among them are dozens of friends and former colleagues of the fighters and people associated with the firm that recruits the men  a shadowy organization known as Wagner with no offices, not even a brass plaque on a door.It was founded by Dmitry Utkin, a former military intelligence officer, according to people interviewed during this investigation. Its first combat role was in eastern Ukraine in support of Moscow-backed separatists, they said. Reuters was unable to contact Utkin directly. The League of Veterans of Local Conflicts, which according to Russian media has ties to Utkin, declined to pass on a message to him, saying it had no connection to the Wagner group.Russia has 2,000 to 3,000 contractors fighting in Syria, said Yevgeny Shabayev, local leader of a paramilitary organization in Russia who is in touch with some of the men. In a single battle in February this year, about 300 contractors were either killed or wounded, according to a military doctor and two other sources familiar with the matter.A Russian private military contractor who has been on four missions to Syria said he arrived there on board a Cham Wings flight from Rostov. The flights were the main route for transporting the contractors, said the man, who asked to be identified only by his first name, Vladimir. He said the contractors occasionally use Russian military aircraft too, when they can\'t all fit on the Cham Wings jets.Two employees at Rostov airport talked to Reuters about the men on the mysterious flights to Syria."Our understanding is that these are contractors," said an employee who said he assisted with boarding for several of the Syria flights. He pointed to their destination, the fact there were no women among them and that they carried military-style rucksacks. He spoke on condition of anonymity, saying he wasn\'t authorized to speak to the media.Reuters wasn\'t able to establish how many passengers were carried between Russia and Syria, and it is possible that some of those on board were not in Syria in combat roles. Some may have landed in Damascus, then flown to other destinations outside Syria.Interviews with relatives of contractors killed in Syria also indicate the A320 flights to Rostov are used to transport Russian military contractors. The widow of one contractor killed in Syria said the last time she spoke to her husband by phone was on Jan. 21 last year  the same day, according to flight-tracking data, that a Cham Wings charter flew to Syria."He called on the evening of the 21st ... There were men talking and the sound of walkie-talkies. And by the 22nd he was already not reachable. Only text messages were reaching him," said the woman, who had previously visited her husband at a training camp for the contractors in southern Russia.After he was killed, she said, his body was delivered to Russia. She received a death certificate saying he had died of "haemorrhagic shock from shrapnel and bullet wounds."The widows of two other contractors killed in Syria described how their husbands\' bodies arrived back home. Like the first widow, they spoke on condition of anonymity. They said representatives of the organization that recruited their husbands warned of repercussions if they spoke to the media.The two contractors had been on previous combat tours, their widows said. The women said they received death certificates giving Syria as the location of death. Reuters saw the certificates: On one, the cause of death was listed as "carbonization of the body"  in other words, he burned to death. The other man bled to death from multiple shrapnel wounds, the certificate said.One of the widows recounted conversations with her husband after he returned from his first tour of duty to Syria. He told her that Russian contractors there are often sent into the thick of the battle and are the first to enter captured towns, she said.Syrian government forces then come into the town and raise their flags, he told her, taking credit for the victory.((Additional reporting by Christian Lowe, Anton Zverev, Gleb Stolyarov and Denis Pinchuk in Moscow and Joel Schectman and Lesley Wroughton in Washington; editing by Kari Howard and Richard Woods))
MOSCOW/KIEV   In a corner of the departures area at Rostov airport in southern Russia, a group of about 130 men, many of them carrying overstuffed military-style rucksacks, lined up at four check-in desks beneath screens that showed no flight number or destination.When a Reuters reporter asked the men about their destination, one said: "We signed a piece of paper  we\'re not allowed to say anything. Any minute the boss will come and we\'ll get into trouble."You too," he warned.The chartered Airbus A320 waiting on the tarmac for them had just flown in from the Syrian capital, Damascus, disgorging about 30 men with tanned faces into the largely deserted arrivals area. Most were in camouflage gear and khaki desert boots. Some were toting bags from the Damascus airport duty-free.The men were private Russian military contractors, the latest human cargo in a secretive airlift using civilian planes to ferry military support to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in his six-year fight against rebels, a Reuters investigation of the logistical network behind Assad\'s forces has uncovered.The Airbus they flew on was just one of dozens of aircraft that once belonged to mainstream European and U.S. aviation companies, then were passed through a web of intermediary companies and offshore firms to Middle Eastern airlines subject to U.S. sanctions  moves that Washington alleges are helping Syria bypass the sanctions.The flights in and out of Rostov, which no organisation has previously documented, are operated by Cham Wings, a Syrian airline hit with U.S. sanctions in 2016 for allegedly transporting pro-Assad fighters to Syria and helping Syrian military intelligence transport weapons and equipment. The flights, which almost always land late at night, don\'t appear in any airport or airline timetables, and fly in from either Damascus or Latakia, a Syrian city where Russia has a military base.The operation lays bare the gaps in the U.S. sanctions, which are designed to starve Assad and his allies in Iran\'s Revolutionary Guard and the Hezbollah militia of the men and materiel they need to wage their military campaign.It also provides a glimpse of the methods used to send private Russian military contractors to Syria  a deployment the Kremlin insists does not exist. Russian officials say Moscow\'s presence is limited to air strikes, training of Syrian forces and small numbers of special forces troops.Reuters reporters staked out the Rostov airport, logged the unusual flights using publicly available flight-tracking data, searched aircraft ownership registries and conducted dozens of interviews, including a meeting at a fashionable restaurant with a former Soviet marine major on a U.S. government blacklist.Asked about the flights and the activities of Russian private military contractors in Syria, a spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin referred Reuters to the Defence Ministry  which didn\'t reply to the questions. The Syrian government also didn\'t reply to questions.In response to detailed Reuters questions, Cham Wings said only that information on where it flies was available on its website.The flights to Rostov aren\'t mentioned on the site. But the journeys do appear in online flight-tracking databases. Reporters traced flights between the Rostov airport and Syria from Jan. 5, 2017, to March 11, 2018. In that time, Cham Wings aircraft made 51 round trips, each time using Airbus A320 jets that can carry up to 180 passengers.The issue of military casualties is highly sensitive in Russia, where memories linger of operations in Chechnya and Afghanistan that dragged on for years. Friends and relatives of the contractors suspect Moscow is using the private fighters in Syria because that way it can put more boots on the ground without risking regular soldiers, whose deaths have to be accounted for.Forty-four regular Russian service personnel have died in Syria since the start of the operation there in September 2015, Russian authorities have said. A Reuters tally based on accounts from families and friends of the dead and local officials suggests that at least 40 contractors were killed between January and August 2017 alone.One contractor killed in Syria left Russia on a date that tallies with one of the mysterious nighttime flights out of Rostov, his widow said. The death certificate issued by the Russian consulate in Damascus gave his cause of death as "haemorrhagic shock from shrapnel and bullet wounds."TRYING TO CHOKE OFF ASSAD\'S ACCESS TO AIRCRAFTTo sustain his military campaign against rebels, Assad and his allies in Russia, Iran and the Hezbollah militia need access to civilian aircraft to fly in men and supplies. Washington has tried to choke off access to the aircraft and their parts through export restrictions on Syria and Iran and through Treasury Department sanctions blacklisting airlines in those countries. The Treasury Department has also blacklisted several companies outside Syria, accusing them of acting as middlemen."These actions demonstrate our resolve to target anyone who is enabling Assad and his regime," John E. Smith, director of the Treasury Department\'s Office of Foreign Assets Control, said in testimony to a congressional committee in November.In recent years, dozens of planes have been registered in Ukraine to two firms, Khors and Dart, that were founded by a former Soviet marine major and his onetime military comrades, according to the Ukraine national aircraft register. The planes were then sold or leased and ended up being operated by Iranian and Syrian airlines, according to the flight-tracking data.One of the companies, Khors, and the former marine major, Sergei Tomchani, have been on a U.S. Commerce Department blacklist since 2011 for allegedly exporting aircraft to Iran and Syria without obtaining licences from Washington.But in the past seven years, Khors and Dart have managed to acquire or lease 84 second-hand Airbus and Boeing aircraft by passing the aircraft through layers of non-sanctioned entities, according to information collated by Reuters from national aircraft registers. Of these 84 aircraft, at least 40 have since been used in Iran, Syria and Iraq, according to data from three flight-tracking websites, which show the routes aircraft fly and give the call sign of the company operating them.In September, the U.S. Treasury Department added Khors and Dart to its sanctions blacklist, saying they were helping sanctioned airlines procure U.S.-made aircraft. Khors and Dart, as well as Tomchani, have denied any wrongdoing related to supplying planes to sanctioned entities.The ownership histories of some of the aircraft tracked by Reuters showed how the U.S. restrictions on supplies to Iranian and Syrian airlines may be skirted. As the ownership skips from one country to the next, the complex paper trail masks the identity of those involved in Syria\'s procurement of the planes.One of the Cham Wings Airbus A320 jets that has made the Rostov-Syria trip was, according to the Irish aircraft register, once owned by ILFC Ireland Limited, a subsidiary of Dublin-based AerCap, one of the world\'s biggest aircraft-leasing firms.In January 2015, the aircraft was removed from the Irish register, said a spokesman for the Irish Aviation Authority, which administers the register. For the next two months, the aircraft, which carried the identification number EI-DXY, vanished from national registers before showing up on the aircraft register in Ukraine.The Ukrainian register gave its new owner as Gresham Marketing Ltd, which is registered in the British Virgin Islands. The owners of the company are two Ukrainians, Viktor Romanika and Nikolai Saverchenko, according to corporate documents leaked from the Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca. Ukrainian business records show they are managers in small local businesses. Contacted by phone, Romanika said he knew nothing and hung up. Saverchenko couldn\'t be reached by phone and didn\'t respond to a letter delivered to the address listed for him.In March 2015, Gresham leased EI-DXY to Dart, according to the Ukrainian aircraft register. The identification number was changed to a Ukrainian number, UR-CNU. On Aug. 20, 2015, Khors became the aircraft\'s operator, the register showed.A representative of the Ukraine State Aviation Service said the register was not intended as official confirmation of ownership but that there had been no complaints about the accuracy of its information.From April that year, the aircraft was flown by Cham Wings, according to data from the flight-tracking websites.Gillian Culhane, a spokeswoman for AerCap, the firm whose subsidiary owned the plane in 2015, didn\'t respond to written questions or answer repeated phone calls seeking comment about what AerCap knew about the subsequent owners and operators of the plane. Dart and Khors didn\'t respond to questions about the specific aircraft.Four lawyers specialising in U.S. export rules say that transactions involving aircraft that end up in Iran or Syria carry significant risks for Western companies supplying the planes or equipment. Even if they had no direct dealings with a sanctioned entity, the companies supplying the aircraft can face penalties or restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, the lawyers said.The lawyers, however, said that the legal exposure for aircraft makers such as Boeing and Airbus was minimal, because the trade involves second-hand aircraft that are generally more than 20 years old, and the planes had been through a long chain of owners before ending up with operators subject to sanctions.Two of the lawyers, including Edward J. Krauland, who leads the international regulation and compliance group at law firm Steptoe & Johnson, said U.S. export rules apply explicitly to Boeing aircraft because they\'re made in the United States. But they can also apply to Airbus jets because, in many cases, a substantial percentage of the components is of U.S. origin.Boeing said in a statement: "The aircraft transactions described that are the subject of your inquiry did not involve The Boeing Company. Boeing maintains a robust overall trade control and sanctions compliance program." An Airbus spokesman said, "Airbus fully respects all applicable legal requirements with regard to transactions with countries under U.N., EU, UK and U.S. sanctions."WAR-ZONE FLIGHTSWhen Reuters sent a series of questions to Khors and Dart about their activities, Tomchani, the former marine major, called the reporter within minutes.He said he was no longer a shareholder in either firm but was acting as a consultant to them, and that the questions had been passed on to him. He invited the reporter to meet the following day at the high-end Velyur restaurant in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital.In the 90-minute meeting, he denied providing aircraft to Iran or Syria. Instead, he said, Khors and Dart had provided aircraft to third parties, which he did not identify. Those third parties, he said, supplied the planes on to the end users."We did not supply aircraft to Iran," Tomchani, a man of military bearing in his late 50s, said as he sipped herbal tea.  "We have nothing to do with supplying aircraft to Cham Wings."Neither Dart nor Khors could have sold or leased aircraft to Cham Wings because they were not the owners of the aircraft, he said.Tomchani used to serve in a marine unit of the Soviet armed forces in Vladivostok, on Russia\'s Pacific coast. In 1991, after quitting the military with the rank of major, he set up Khors along with two other officers in his unit. Tomchani and his partners made a living by flying Soviet-built aircraft, sold off cheap after the collapse of the Soviet Union, in war zones.Khors flew cargoes in Angola for the Angolan government and Defence Ministry and aid agencies during its civil war. Tomchani said his companies also operated flights in Iraq after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, transporting private security contractors.Ukraine\'s register of business ownership showed that Tomchani ceased to be a shareholder in Khors after June 2010 and that he gave up his interest in Dart at some point after April 2011. He told Reuters he sold his stakes to "major businessmen," but declined to name them.He did say, however, that the people listed at the time of the interview in Ukraine\'s business register as the owners of the two companies were merely proxies. One of the owners in the register was a mid-ranking Khors executive, one was an 81-year-old accountant for several Kiev firms, and another was someone with the same name and address as a librarian from Melitopol in southeast Ukraine.According to the business register, the owner of 25 percent in Khors is someone called Vladimir Suchkov. The address listed for him in the register is No. 33, Elektrikov Street, Kiev. That\'s the same address as the one listed in Ukrainian government procurement documents for military unit No. A0515, which comes under the command of the Ukrainian Defence Ministry\'s Main Intelligence Directorate.Tomchani said he and Suchkov were old acquaintances. "He wasn\'t a bad specialist," Tomchani said. "A young lad, but not bad." He said he believed Suchkov was living in Russia.Reuters was unable to contact Suchkov. A telephone number listed for him was out of service. The Ukrainian Intelligence Directorate\'s acting head, Alexei Bakumenko, told Reuters that Suchkov doesn\'t work there.Reuters found no evidence of any other link between the trade in aircraft and Ukraine\'s broader spy apparatus. Ukrainian military intelligence said it has no knowledge of the supply of aircraft to Syria, has no connection to the transport of military contractors from Russia to Syria, and hasn\'t cooperated with Khors, Dart or Cham Wings.On Jan. 9 this year, Dart changed its name to Alanna, and listed a new address and founders, according to the Ukrainian business register. On March 1, a new company, Alanna Air, took over Alanna\'s assets and liabilities, the register showed.CONTRACTORS COME BACK IN CASKETSAlthough Moscow denies it is sending private military contractors to Syria, plenty of people say that\'s untrue. Among them are dozens of friends and former colleagues of the fighters and people associated with the firm that recruits the men  a shadowy organisation known as Wagner with no offices, not even a brass plaque on a door.It was founded by Dmitry Utkin, a former military intelligence officer, according to people interviewed during this investigation. Its first combat role was in eastern Ukraine in support of Moscow-backed separatists, they said. Reuters was unable to contact Utkin directly. The League of Veterans of Local Conflicts, which according to Russian media has ties to Utkin, declined to pass on a message to him, saying it had no connection to the Wagner group.Russia has 2,000 to 3,000 contractors fighting in Syria, said Yevgeny Shabayev, local leader of a paramilitary organisation in Russia who is in touch with some of the men. In a single battle in February this year, about 300 contractors were either killed or wounded, according to a military doctor and two other sources familiar with the matter.A Russian private military contractor who has been on four missions to Syria said he arrived there on board a Cham Wings flight from Rostov. The flights were the main route for transporting the contractors, said the man, who asked to be identified only by his first name, Vladimir. He said the contractors occasionally use Russian military aircraft too, when they can\'t all fit on the Cham Wings jets.Two employees at Rostov airport talked to Reuters about the men on the mysterious flights to Syria."Our understanding is that these are contractors," said an employee who said he assisted with boarding for several of the Syria flights. He pointed to their destination, the fact there were no women among them and that they carried military-style rucksacks. He spoke on condition of anonymity, saying he wasn\'t authorised to speak to the media.Reuters wasn\'t able to establish how many passengers were carried between Russia and Syria, and it is possible that some of those on board were not in Syria in combat roles. Some may have landed in Damascus, then flown to other destinations outside Syria.Interviews with relatives of contractors killed in Syria also indicate the A320 flights to Rostov are used to transport Russian military contractors. The widow of one contractor killed in Syria said the last time she spoke to her husband by phone was on Jan. 21 last year  the same day, according to flight-tracking data, that a Cham Wings charter flew to Syria."He called on the evening of the 21st ... There were men talking and the sound of walkie-talkies. And by the 22nd he was already not reachable. Only text messages were reaching him," said the woman, who had previously visited her husband at a training camp for the contractors in southern Russia.After he was killed, she said, his body was delivered to Russia. She received a death certificate saying he had died of "haemorrhagic shock from shrapnel and bullet wounds."The widows of two other contractors killed in Syria described how their husbands\' bodies arrived back home. Like the first widow, they spoke on condition of anonymity. They said representatives of the organisation that recruited their husbands warned of repercussions if they spoke to the media.The two contractors had been on previous combat tours, their widows said. The women said they received death certificates giving Syria as the location of death. Reuters saw the certificates: On one, the cause of death was listed as "carbonisation of the body"  in other words, he burned to death. The other man bled to death from multiple shrapnel wounds, the certificate said.One of the widows recounted conversations with her husband after he returned from his first tour of duty to Syria. He told her that Russian contractors there are often sent into the thick of the battle and are the first to enter captured towns, she said.Syrian government forces then come into the town and raise their flags, he told her, taking credit for the victory.((Additional reporting by Christian Lowe, Anton Zverev, Gleb Stolyarov and Denis Pinchuk in Moscow and Joel Schectman and Lesley Wroughton in Washington; editing by Kari Howard and Richard Woods))
MOSCOW   Russian state companies included on a new list of U.S. sanctions will receive additional government support, Russian Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov was cited by the Interfax news agency as saying on Friday.The United States imposed new sanctions against Russian businessmen, companies and government officials on Friday in one of Washington's most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for a range of activities, including alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election.Manturov said Russian companies that refused to cooperate with firms included on the sanctions list would be punished, Interfax reported.(Reporting by Gabrielle Ttrault-Farber; Writing by Jack Stubbs; Editing by Gabrielle Ttrault-Farber)
CHICAGO   It is too early to say how the prospect of tariffs could impact the U.S. economic outlook, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said on Friday."The discussion about tariffs is at a relatively early stage...people really don\'t see yet any implications in the near term for the outlook because we don\'t know the extent to which the tariffs will actually come into effect and, if so, how big that effect will be," Powell said following a speech in Chicago."It really is too early to say," he added.China warned on Friday it could respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.(Reporting by Jason Lange and Lindsay Dunsmuir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)

SPOKANE, Wash.   Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year in farm products, is also certain of the result."It\'s a strategy that\'s working," he said.If farmers are worried, so are Republican politicians, who depended on small-town America to hand them control of Congress and know how quickly those voters could take it away. Just seven months before the 2018 midterm elections, Trump\'s faceoff with China over trade has exposed an unexpected political vulnerability in what was supposed to be the Republican Party\'s strongest region: rural America.The clash with China poses a direct threat to the economies in both red and blue states, from California\'s central valley to eastern Washington through Minnesota\'s plains and across Missouri and Indiana and into Ohio.They are regions in which the GOP\'s quest to retain its House and Senate majorities this fall is tied directly to Republican voters\' views about their pocketbooks and Trump\'s job performance. The signs of fear and frustration about both are easy to find.In southwestern Minnesota, soybean farmer Bill Gordon says the volatility in the markets makes it harder for farmers like him to market their crop and lock in profitability. The state is the country\'s fourth-largest exporting state, and the state\'s top farm export market is China.A Trump voter, Gordon said right now he\'s disappointed, not angry, over what\'s happening. But the trade tensions could affect his vote in the open race for the region\'s congressional seat, where the farm vote is significant."I vote for the people who represent rural America," he said. "It\'s not a party line."Trump says he\'s simply fighting against unfair business practices with a geopolitical rival.After the Trump administration announced plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports Tuesday, China lashed back within hours, matching the American tariffs with plans to tax $50 billion of U.S. products, including soybeans, corn and wheat.Trump escalated the standoff further on Thursday by asking the U.S. trade representative to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, which had previously released plans to impose retaliatory tariffs on frozen pork, nuts and wine in response to Trump\'s intent to apply duties to imported aluminum and steel.The soybean industry, perhaps more than any other, illustrates the potential harm to Republican candidates in the fall.Soy production is concentrated in the Midwest. Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Indiana and Missouri account for over half of all soy produced in the United States. And more than 60 percent of U.S. soy exports have been sent to mainland China in recent years.Trump won 89 percent of America\'s counties that produce soy, according to an Associated Press analysis of Agriculture Department and election data. In those counties, on average, two out of three voters supported Trump in 2016.Many Republican candidates who represent rural areas Trump won in 2016 are being forced to choose between his trade policies and community interests. Vulnerable Republicans are walking a tightrope.In eastern Washington, seven-term Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers had already found herself in an unexpectedly tight race. She has urged the White House to "reverse course" on the Chinese tariffs in recent days.Jared Powell, a spokesman for McMorris Rodgers, said her office had asked the Trump administration for clarification on the effects of the tariffs."She is doing what she can to speak out publicly," Powell said.Overall, an estimated 2.1 million jobs could be affected by the trade dispute nationally, with a majority coming from counties that Trump won, according to an analysis by Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution."We\'re in kind of a farm crisis," said Bob Worth, who grows soybeans, corn and spring wheat with his son on 2,200 acres (3.4 square miles) near Lake Benton in southwestern Minnesota. He wouldn\'t say how he voted in 2016, but he offered kind, if measured, words for Trump."I\'m going to believe in the man," added Worth, who\'s also on the board of the Minnesota Soybean Growers Association. "He\'s doing this for business reasons only. I don\'t know if he knows how much he\'s hurting agriculture."Matt Aultman, a grain salesman and feed nutritionist in Greenville, Ohio, west of Columbus, said farmers there are keeping a close watch on the talk in Washington. Farmers pay attention to two things: prices and weather. And a trade fight that affects prices won\'t go unnoticed."It directly affects our pocketbooks and the way we plan for the following years," he said. "Are we going to pay all the bills this year? Are we going to buy a new piece of equipment? Do you get your kids a couple new pair of shoes?"In California\'s central valley, Republican Rep. Jeff Denham has avoided the issue altogether in recent days. His opponent, Democrat and longtime family farmer Michael Eggman, said Trump\'s trade policies would shatter his community.The district is home to Blue Diamond Almonds, among smaller nut producers, who send much of their product to China and suddenly face the prospect of 15 percent tariffs."We all know how hard it is to make ends meet as a small family farmer, and Trump is not making it easier," Eggman said. "Jeff Denham, who claims to be a local farmer, hasn\'t said one word about it. Where\'s the outrage?"Denham, through a spokeswoman, did not address the president\'s moves directly but said the congressman supports "free and fair trade" and a plan that\'s "carefully thought out."___Peoples reported from New York. Karnowski reported in Minneapolis. AP data journalist Larry Fenn in Seattle contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON/OTTAWA   The United States, Mexico and Canada still have to resolve major issues around NAFTA, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Friday, casting doubt that the quick deal sought by Washington would materialize.Freeland met with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo for several hours on Friday but made clear there was a lack of consensus on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)."We had some constructive conversations both yesterday and today ... and that intensive pace of work, which has been happening over the last couple of weeks, will continue in the days to come," she told reporters outside the Washington building where the talks took place."We are going to keep on working until we get a good deal," she added, saying negotiations would continue at the level of officials.Lighthizer, citing the need to reach a deal an agreement before the Mexican presidential election on July 1, says he wants the outlines of a deal soon to update the regional trade agreement.A brief statement from Lighthizer\'s office said the talks had been positive and added that "we will continue working to achieve an agreement that benefits our three countries."Mexico\'s economy ministry said the three countries agreed on Friday that their negotiating teams should press on with technical work in coming days and try to find "the balance that enables the process to move forward in its entirety."Mexican business lobby CCE said in a statement that it would accompany the country\'s negotiating team."The continuation of the meetings is a positive sign, and  there is a window of opportunity to advance substantially toward an agreement," Juan Pablo Castan, president of the business lobby, said in the statement.U.S. President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly threatened to walk away from the $1.2 trillion pact unless major changes are made, on Thursday said the three nations should have something to announce fairly soon.Unveiling the outlines of a deal -- which Canadian and Mexican officials had initially suggested might happen at a regional summit in Peru next week -- would allow leaders to claim a political victory while leaving officials to work out the precise details in the months to come.It would also enable Trump and his trade team to focus on a widening trade dispute with China that could hurt the world\'s two biggest economies.But there are major challenges to overcome, in particular a contentious U.S. demand that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA countries be increased to 85 percent from 62.5 percent."We continue to work in that area and to make some good progress and advances," said Freeland, who gave no details.Insiders say the issue of automotive content has to be nailed down before an agreement in principle can be struck."We are dealing in black and white. You can\'t leave things gray," said one source with direct knowledge of the talks, citing the huge complexity of the industry."The last thing you want to do is to be making something that isn\'t compliant and to be told in an audit, \'You\'re not NAFTA compliant and you owe duties,\'" said the source, who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation.Talks to modernize NAFTA started last August but have made little progress, prompting the United States to suggest at the end of the seventh formal round last month that the three nations aim in the first instance for a deal in principle.The lack of clarity over the pact\'s future has hit the Canadian and Mexican currencies in recent months as well as worried financial markets, which are on edge about possible damage to the highly integrated North American market.The chief executive of Royal Bank of Canada, Dave McKay, on Friday said uncertainty over the pact was a concern for customers of the bank, Canada\'s biggest lender, but he remained hopeful a deal would be reached.(Additional reporting by Sharay Angulo and Anthony Esposito in Mexico City, Matt Scuffham in Toronto; Editing by Leslie Adler and Sandra Maler)
SARAJEVO   Edmond Offermann\'s dream turned to reality after 20 years on Friday when the landmark Sarajevo cable car, destroyed early in Bosnia\'s 1990s war, resumed services up Mount Trebevic above the capital.The brand new gondola brought joy to young and old alike and not least to Offermann, a wealthy Dutch-born American businessman and philanthropist who was a driving force behind the restoration project."This is a special feeling," Offermann told Reuters aboard the cable car, peering down at the rugged, sometimes snow-capped scenery around and trying to recognize places he remembered from his last ride up in 1991, just before the war broke out."I am thrilled with this whole experience. I thought in 1998, when I first visited Sarajevo after the war, that a cable car had to come back."The cable car first went into operation nearly 60 years ago, ranking Sarajevo among the few cities where one could reach pine forests in just 10 minutes from an urban city center.But during the 1992-95 war, when nationalist Serb forces besieged Sarajevo, often with artillery fire from the slopes of Trebevic, the once favored destination for recreation turned into a source of fear and terror.For years after the war, fear of lingering land mines and a lack of usable roads meant that few Sarajevans dared to return to Trebevic for the walks, picnics and winter sports they enjoyed before the conflict. Trebevic, in fact, was the venue for the bobsleigh course in the 1984 Winter Olympics.But more recently, after the last mines were removed, roads rebuilt, and new hotels, restaurants and a leisure park opened, demand for a restoration of the cable car surged.On Friday, scores of people queued to ride up the mountain."This cable car was opened in 1959, when I was born, so both of us are of the same age," joked Jasmin Geljo, a Bosnian actor who now lives in Canada. "I am so glad it will run again and people will experience what my generation and others did - to have in just 10 minutes the whole city lying beneath your feet."New York-based Offermann\'s Sarajevo-born wife inspired him to do something for Sarajevo\'s recovery from the war, and in 2008 he began looking into how to resurrect its famed cable car.In 2012, with funding from the Swiss Embassy in Bosnia, he organized the transport of a dismantled cable car from Switzerland to Sarajevo and offered his own donation of $4 million to reassemble and launch it. But city authorities expressed little interest at the time and the project stalled.Only after the election of Mayor Abdulah Skaka last year was the project dusted off and Offermann\'s donation snapped up, according to his wife, Maja Serdarevic Offermann."I can\'t believe this is happening, it took us an eternity," she said, rejoicing at seeing the cable car running again just as during her childhood when it would have whisked her whole family up Mount Trebevic for a picnic.Skaka, 34, who grew up during the war in the vicinity of the cable car\'s starting station, said the project became a priority for him after he took office and fulfilled a childhood dream."This is a great day for the city of Sarajevo," Skaka said at the opening ceremony. "We have renovated the last destroyed symbol of Sarajevo. We are removing an invisible border line today. This is a monument to love."(Reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic; Editing by Ivana Sekularac and Mark Heinrich)
NEW YORK   Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily on Friday:Synchrony Financial Inc., down 99 cents to $33.81Financial companies declined Friday as interest rates turned lower.Lockheed Martin Corp., down $11.99 to $334.66Another increase in trade tensions between the U.S. and China sent the market, and industrial companies, downward on Friday.WD-40 Co., down $4.35 to $128.65The maintenance and cleaning product maker said higher commodity prices and other increased costs are hurting its profits.Incyte Corp., down $19.05 to $64.02The company said an experimental cancer drug did not work in a clinical trial and the study is being stopped.MGM Resorts Ltd., down $1.44 to $34.13The New York Post reported that MGM is interested in buying rival Wynn Resorts.Urban Outfitters Inc., down 1 cent to $38.54The retailer said the CEO of its Anthropologie business will leave the company.WageWorks Inc., down $1.65 to $43.40The employee benefits company said it overstated its revenue in 2016, named a new CEO and said several executives resigned.Best Buy Co., down $1.63 to $70.49The retailer warned that some of its customers' payment information may have been compromised in a data breach.
(Reuters) - A sports technology company sued the internet arm of Major League Baseball on Thursday, alleging that executives of the service reneged on a three-year, multimillion-dollar deal and misappropriated its pitch-tracking system.SportsMEDIA Technology claims patent infringement, theft of trade secrets and breach of contract in the 92-page lawsuit against MLB Advanced Media, which was filed in U.S. District Court in New York."Over its 30-year history, SMT has never encountered an executive leader(ship) of a major us sports league behaving as if the rules of civility, professional conduct, us contract law and us patent law did not apply to their actions and behavior," the company said in its legal papers.Representatives for Major League Baseball could not be reached by Reuters for comment on Thursday evening.The lawsuit centers on a contract signed by MBLAM and Sportvision, which was acquired by SMT in 2016, to provide Sportvision\'s exclusive PITCHf/x pitch-tracking system for three full baseball seasons.SMT alleges that MLBAM disregarded that agreement by finding third parties to provide the same services, refused to perform its contractual obligations and misappropriated its patented technology.(Reporting by Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Editing by Peter Cooney)
(Reuters) - A civil rights group and some consumer groups said on Friday they would file a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) alleging that Facebook Inc\'s use of facial recognition techniques threaten users\' privacy.The social media company has come under fire after it was disclosed that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump\'s presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of up to 87 million Facebook users.Facial recognition techniques are used by Facebook to help users tag their friends in photos on the social media platform."The scanning of facial images without express, affirmative consent is unlawful and must be enjoined," Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) said. (https://bit.ly/2GXGWQF)People can choose whether or not to allow this technology and they can change their mind at any time. When someone has their setting turned off, we don\'t use this technology to identify them in photos, Facebook Deputy Chief Privacy Officer Rob Sherman said.In 2011, Facebook had settled privacy-related charges with the FTC, which were brought about by EPIC\'s complaints. (https://bit.ly/1U44BfY)EPIC and the consumer groups said on Friday that Facebook\'s use of facial recognition tools also violates terms of the 2011 settlement.(Reporting by Muvija M in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)
BERLIN   German industrial output fell by the most in more than two years in February and the sector is losing momentum, the Economy Ministry said, as factories in Europe\'s largest economy throttle back in the face of the rising threat of protectionism.Output fell by 1.6 percent after rising by a revised 0.1 percent in January, data from the Economy Ministry showed. February\'s drop was the biggest since August 2015 and compared with a Reuters consensus forecast for a rise of 0.3 percent.A breakdown of the data showed a big slump in the production of capital goods, down 3.1 percent on the month, with output of consumer goods falling 1.5 percent and intermediate goods down 0.7 percent. Construction activity was also weaker overall.UniCredit economist Andreas Rees said the weakness across industries suggested a wave of flu might have hit production. The ministry said industry was losing some of its drive."Industrial production has lost momentum. However, the good orders situation and the positive mood among companies suggest the industrial sector will remain on an upward path," the ministry said in a statement. "Growth momentum is nonetheless likely to be weaker than in the previous year."Official data released on Thursday showed industrial orders rose less than expected in February because of weak domestic demand.The DIHK Chambers of Commerce and Industry struck a cautionary note, saying escalation of a dispute between China and the United States over import duties could harm the global economy and weaken demand for German goods and services."On the demand side, the main question is how the current trade conflict develops," said Sophia Krietenbrink at the DIHK."If the duties cut or hinder global value chains, this could also affect the sales opportunities of German companies in the medium term," she said.German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to shift production of their sports utility vehicles out of the United States as a result of Washington\'s tensions with China.In March, German business confidence deteriorated for a second straight month, dropping to its lowest level in nearly a year, as managers in Europe\'s largest economy became more concerned about the rising threat of protectionism.German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit U.S. President Donald Trump on April 27, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday, as differences over trade and a nuclear deal with Iran cast a shadow over the transatlantic relationship.Merkel\'s trip, three days after French president Emmanuel Macron\'s state visit to the U.S. capital, will come just before the expiry of an exemption for the European Union from U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium.The visits will give the EU\'s two leading national leaders an opportunity to lobby for the bloc to be exempted permanently from the steel and aluminium tariffs. The tariffs are suspended for the EU until May 1.(Additional reporting by Rene Wagner, editing by Larry King)
TOKYO   Japanese anime film director and writer Isao Takahata, co-founder of Japan\'s Studio Ghibli, has died, the studio said on Friday. He was 82.Takahata was most famous for "The Grave of the Fireflies", an award-winning 1988 film about the suffering of a young brother and sister separated from their parents in World War Two.The film was based on Takahata\'s experience as a nine-year-old boy, fleeing a U.S. air raid, barefoot and in pyjamas, amid piles of dead bodies in Okayama, western Japan, in 1945."The Tale of the Princess Kaguya", his last film and made in 2013, was nominated for an Oscar for Best Animated Feature.Takahata worked on a number of TV anime series with Studio Ghibli co-founder Hayao Miyazaki, tackling social issues, encompassing war and the environment.He was made an Officer of the French Order of Arts and Letters in 2015."It\'s very regrettable," broadcaster NHK quoted Toshio Suzuki, of Studio Ghibli, as saying. "There were lots of things he wanted to do."Takahata died of lung cancer on Thursday, the studio said.(Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Nick Macfie)
COLUMBIA, S.C.   South Carolina debated seceding from the Union more than 150 years ago ahead of the Civil War. Now, the topic has come up again, amid a national debate over firearms and gun rights.A trio of state House Republicans on Thursday introduced a bill that would allow lawmakers to debate seceding from the U.S. if the federal government confiscates legally purchased firearms in the state.The measure has no real chance of passage this session. The deadline for bills to move from one chamber to the other is April 10.
PARIS   France said on Friday it would provide Lebanon 550 million euros (480.7 million pounds) to support economic reforms in a country struggling from the impact of the war in neighbouring Syria.International donors are looking to hold Lebanon to promises of badly needed reforms at a Paris conference on Friday where the Beirut government hopes to win support for a $16 billion capital investment plan.Lebanon has billed the conference as a show of international backing for a country hosting 1.5 million Syrian refugees and an economy hit by the fallout of Syria\'s seven-year-old war."France will announce a substantial effort of 400 million euros in concessionary loans and 150 million euros in donations to match its ambitions for Lebanon," Jean-Yves Le Drian told the opening of the conference.Lebanon, which has one of the highest levels of state debt in the world, is hoping to secure support for the first phase of the capital investment plan, costed at $10 billion, to revamp infrastructure. Projects include roads, power generation capacity and public transport."We are a little country facing enormous political, economic and security challenges and these challenges are exacerbated by the war in Syria and the crisis of displaced Syrians in Lebanon," Lebanon\'s Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri said, calling for substantial financial support from the international community."Lebanon\'s recovery must start ... the challenge today is to reverse the (negative) trend in terms of growth, poverty and unemployment and the government must play the main role."Lebanon seeks one third of the support from private sector investment and the rest from grants and concessional funding.But donors want to see Beirut follow through on reforms to curb levels of public debt that economists see as unsustainable. The Paris conference, convening 50 countries and organisations, including Saudi Arabia, United States, Russia and Qatar, is expected to set up a follow-up mechanism to track progress.($1 = 0.8183 euros)(Reporting by John Irish; Editing by Richard Lough, William Maclean)
Former Senator Daniel K. Akaka, a Democrat who represented Hawaii for 36 years in Congress and successfully fought for the belated recognition of Asians and Asian-Americans who had fought for the United States in World War II, died on Friday in Honolulu. He was 93.Jon Yoshimura, the senators former communications director, confirmed the death, saying Mr. Akaka had been hospitalized for several months, The Associated Press reported.A World War II veteran, Mr. Akaka sponsored legislation in 1996 that led to a re-evaluation of the service records of Asian-Americans who had fought in the 442nd Regimental Combat Team and the 100th Division during the war.As a result, almost two-dozen Medals of Honor, the militarys highest award, were ultimately bestowed belatedly, some posthumously, on Asian-American veterans, most of them of Japanese heritage. Only one had been awarded during the war itself.After a White House awards-presentation ceremony  led by President Bill Clinton in 2000, Senator Akaka said the medals had dispelled apparent wartime discrimination against Asian-American military personnel.The most prominent recipient was Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Mr. Akakas much better-known colleague  and Hawaiis senior senator  for 22 years in the Senate. Mr. Inouye, who died in 2012, had lost his right arm while serving with the 442nd in Europe.Senator Akaka also successfully pursued legislation that provided onetime compensation for members of the Phillipine Scouts, an American-led unit of mostly Filipino and Filipino-American recruits who fought alongside United States troops but did not qualify for Veterans Administration benefits.And he secured a formal apology for the United Statess role in the overthrow of Queen Liliuokalani of Hawaii in 1893 as well as a transfer of land that the federal government had taken.But he failed in repeated legislative efforts to have native Hawaiians recognized as an indigenous people so that they might receive federal benefits similar to those provided to American Indians and natives of Alaska.During his Senate years Mr. Akaka had stints as chairman of its Committee on Veterans Affairs and of its Committee on Indian Affairs.Mr. Akaka was an outspoken critic of the war in Iraq. On March 17, 2003, three days before the United States attacked that country, he warned the Senate:If we pursue our current path, we will have a war lacking in many things essential to achieving complete success. It will be a war without broad international support, without sufficient planning for post-conflict reconstruction and stability, without a definite exit time and strategy, and without a firm price tag.Moreover, he continued, it will be a war with serious ramifications for our long-term readiness capabilities for homeland security and for managing other crises.A steadfast liberal on most issues, he was known as a champion of federal workers, complaining that his Senate colleagues too often denigrated them and cheerfully froze their pay.He chaired a Senate subcommittee on the federal work force and was the chief sponsor of the 2012 Whistleblower Protection Act, which provided safeguards against retaliation to federal workers who report waste, fraud and abuse.Daniel Kahikina Akaka was born in Honolulu on Sept. 11, 1924, the youngest of eight children. His father was of Chinese and Hawaiian descent; his mother was Hawaiian. He attended public schools.After service with the Army Corps of Engineers, he graduated from the University of Hawaii in 1952 with a degree in education and taught music, social studies and math in elementary, middle and high schools. He later became a school principal and earned a masters degree.After Hawaii was admitted into the union in 1959, he was an official in the states Department of Education and was named director of the Hawaii Office of Economic Opportunity, an antipoverty program.Mr. Akaka was first elected to the House in 1976 and easily re-elected afterward. In 1990 he was appointed to fill a Senate vacancy caused by the death of Spark Matsunaga. He was elected that fall and re-elected in 1994, 2000 and 2006. He announced in March 2011 that he would not run again in 2012.Mr. Akaka, who lived in Honolulu, is survived by his wife, Mary Mildred Chong, whom he married in 1948; a daughter, Millannie Akaka Mattson; four sons, Daniel Jr., Gerard, Alan and Nicholas; and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.While he was never known as a key lawmaker, Mr. Akaka was familiar to watchers of C-Span: his name came first whenever the Senate roll was called and, in his early years, he relished presiding over that body, a duty many of his colleagues regarded as tedious.In 1992, the Senate presented him with its Golden Gavel Award for presiding for at least 100 hours.I really was proud of being able to chair the Senate floor over the years and really looked forward to it, he said in a 2011 interview for this obituary.Even in his final years, he left instructions with the Democratic cloakroom that he would preside in a pinch, saying, Any time you cant find somebody, call me.
WASHINGTON   The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as a boost from milder temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to further raise interest rates this year.Nonfarm payrolls increased by 103,000 last month, with construction and retail sectors shedding jobs, the Labor Department said on Friday. That was the smallest gain since last September and followed a 326,000 surge in February, which was the largest in more than two years.Temperatures returned to normal in March, with snowstorms in some parts of the country. The pullback in job gains is likely  temporary as layoffs are at historic lows and other independent labour market indicators were strong in March."Inclement weather was the primary culprit for the slowdown in the pace of job growth in March," said Joseph Song, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.Employment gains averaged 202,000 jobs per month in the first quarter, highlighting underlying labour market strength. The economy needs to create roughly 100,000 jobs per month to keep up with growth in the working-age population.The unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent for a sixth straight month. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the economy adding 193,000 jobs in March and the unemployment rate dropping to 4.0 percent.A broader measure of unemployment, which includes people who want to work but have given up searching, and those working part time because they cannot find full-time employment, fell two-tenths of a percentage point to 8.0 percent last month.With labour market slack diminishing, wage growth picked up a bit in March. Average hourly earnings rose eight cents or 0.3 percent last month after edging up 0.1 percent in February.The gain lifted the annual increase in average hourly earnings to 2.7 percent from 2.6 percent in February. Annual wage growth is inching closer to the pace of at least 3 percent economists say is needed to lift inflation towards the Fed\'s 2 percent target.Fed Chairman Jerome Powell told the Economic Club of Chicago on Friday that lack of robust wage gains suggested the labour market was not "excessively tight" and that he would be "looking for an additional pickup in wage growth as the labour market strengthens further."The U.S. central bank increased borrowing costs last month and forecast two more interest rate hikes this year."In sum, no change in the Fed\'s trajectory," said Steven Blitz, chief U.S. economist at TS Lombard in New York. "If anything, the wage data are beginning to strengthen the argument for three more hikes this year."The step-down in employment gains combined with mounting trade tensions between the United States and China to undercut stocks on Wall Street and the dollar.Beijing warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if Washington followed through with President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.U.S. stocks tumbled, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 650 points, or 2.6 percent. The dollar weakened against a basket of currencies and U.S. Treasury prices <US10YT=RR> rose.MODEST ACCELERATION FOR THE ECONOMYEconomists do not see an impact on hiring in the near term from the stock market selloff, which has caused a tightening in financial conditions.While the weather dampened hiring last month, it did not have an impact on hours worked. The average workweek held at 34.5 hours. That together with the modest job gains and increase in average hourly earnings boosted a proxy for take-home pay."This morning\'s figures may suggest a little less momentum heading into the second quarter, but taken with other data, the continued expansion in total hours worked points to a modest acceleration in activity this quarter, provided we manage to avoid shooting ourselves in the foot on trade policy," said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan in New York.The economy appears to have slowed in the first quarter, with gross domestic product growth estimates mostly below a 2 percent annualised rate. Growth in the January-March period tends to be weak for seasonal reasons.The economy grew at a 2.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter. Growth this year is seen bolstered by a $1.5 trillion income tax cut package and increased government spending, which economists say will offset some of the impact from the stock market\'s gyrations.The unemployment rate has hovered at 4.1 percent since October as people piled into the labour market. The labour force participation rate, or the proportion of working-age Americans who have a job or are looking for one, slipped one-tenth of a percentage point to 62.9 percent in March after rising to a five-month high of 63.0 percent in February.The return of cold weather and a shortage of skilled workers weighed on hiring at construction sites in March. Payrolls in the sector fell 15,000, the first drop since last July, after surging 65,000 in February.Manufacturing employment increased 22,000. The retail sector shed 4,400 jobs after adding 47,300 positions in February.Temporary help, seen as a harbinger of future permanent hiring, slipped by 600. Leisure and hospitality employers added only 5,000 jobs last month, the least since September. Government payrolls rose by 1,000 in March.(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON  At an event on Thursday billed as a round-table discussion on tax overhaul, President Trump aired a litany of familiar  and often inaccurate  grievances on immigration, trade and voter fraud.He suggested he had been vindicated by reports about the perils of immigration, particularly for women, and referred to a caravan of hundreds of Central American migrants traveling through Mexico, some headed toward the United States border.Remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower when I opened, Mr. Trump said at the discussion, in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., referring to comments he made in 2015 during a speech announcing his candidacy for president. Everybody said, Oh, he was so tough, and I used the word rape.Mr. Trump continued, And yesterday, it came out where, this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before.The risks of crossing the United States border are well documented. But The New York Times has been unable to find any news reports of rape in the caravan that has so captured the attention of Mr. Trump and the right-wing news media  whether by smugglers or cartels or even among the migrants themselves.A White House spokesman did not directly respond to a question about what the president meant when he seemed to indicate new information about such instances of rape had been released on Wednesday. Instead, the spokesman said Mr. Trump was referring to sexual violence inflicted on migrants by smugglers, citing articles from 2009 and 2014 as evidence of those claims.Hours after Mr. Trumps speech, Rodrigo Abeja, one of the caravan organizers, said he was unaware of any accusations of rape against the migrants.You guys heard of a case? Mr. Abeja asked reporters in Matas Romero, Mexico. Neither have we.Others also disputed Mr. Trumps assertion.Ive been with the caravan for 12 days and havent seen or heard of anyone being raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before, Adolfo Flores, a reporter who is following the migrants for BuzzFeed News, wrote in a Twitter post.Eric L. Olson, the deputy director of the Latin American program at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, agreed that migrants faced dangers but said there was no reliable data on rates of sexual abuse. He said he had not heard that members of the caravan had experienced violence at the hands of smugglers or cartels in recent days.In fact, this is why the caravan formed: to protect themselves from abuse from Mexican authorities and criminal groups and unscrupulous people, Mr. Olson said. No criminal is so stupid and do something like that while everyones eyes are trained on them.The comment about rape was not the only inaccurate or misleading claim that Mr. Trump made during his speech. A partial list follows: They used to call it tax reform. And for 40 years, they couldnt pass anything and they didnt know why. False. Tax cuts were passed under Presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Read more here. We had a trade deficit of almost $500 billion last year with China.This is exaggerated. The American trade deficit with China was closer to $400 billion in 2017. Read more here. In many places, like California, the same person votes many times. You probably heard about that. They always like to say, Oh, thats a conspiracy theory. Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people, and its very hard because the state guards their records.This is false. There have been no credible allegations of fraudulent voting at anything close to this scale during the 2016 election. Read more here.  The suspect in a truck attack last year in Manhattan brought a lot of people with him. They say 22 people. Twenty-two people. So this guy, because hes here, now can get the mother and the father and the grandmother and the cousins and the brothers and the siters and the aunts and the uncles. This is implausible. American green card holders can only sponsor their spouses and unmarried children for permanent residence. Sayfullo Saipov, the suspect in the attack in October, is married with three children. Under the law, he would not be able to sponsor his extended family to come to the United States. And there is no known evidence that he tried. Read more here.  We have very weak laws because of the Democrats, the president said, adding, We had very, very weak laws. We have the worst laws  you ever think catch-and-release, which were terminating very quickly.False. Mr. Trump is referring to a practice, not a law, where detained immigrants are released until court proceedings because of legal and logistical constraints. It has occurred under Republican and Democratic administrations alike, including under Mr. Trump. Read more here.
FRANKFURT   Two retailers have expanded their boycott of Nestle products, according to media reports, raising pressure on the Swiss group in a pricing stand-off with several European supermarkets.Germany\'s largest supermarket group Edeka has written to its stores recommending that they drop more Nestle products in an escalation of a pricing row between the world\'s biggest packaged food maker and European retailers, a trade journal reported.Swiss retailer Coop, one of the country\'s largest food chains, has also boycotted a further 59 products, including well-known Maggi seasonings, according to Swiss paper Blick.Nestle has for several months been facing off with AgeCore, a Geneva-based group representing six European retailers, including Edeka and Coop, which is seeking better supply terms.The spat is the latest sign of tension between retailers and suppliers at a time of changing consumer tastes and new online competition.Nestle, which in February reported its weakest annual sales growth in at least two decades, is under heavy shareholder pressure to boost sales and profit margins.German trade journal Lebensmittel Zeitung cited a letter that Edeka had sent its 5,900 supermarkets suggesting that they stop ordering more Nestle products including KitKat chocolate bars, Vittel drinks and Wagner frozen pizza.The boycott had, so far, affected 163 Nestle products, equal to around 20 percent of the revenue that Edeka generates from Nestle products, the magazine reported late on Thursday.That figure will rise to 30 percent with the expanded measures, the magazine said, without saying how many products would be affected.Edeka declined to comment.A Coop spokesman told website 20 Minuten that the chain\'s boycott currently affected over 200 products, but the group later declined to comment on ongoing negotiations to Reuters.In February, Coop said it had stopped orders of more than 150 Nestle products, including Cailler Perle chocolate, Nescafe Azera coffee and pizza brand Buitoni La Fina, demanding better supply conditions.A Nestle spokesman referred to comments the company\'s Chief Executive Mark Schneider made to a newspaper last week, while declining to provide further information.Schneider had told Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview that Nestle was still negotiating with Agecore to end the spat and hoped to find a sensible solution."This aggressive approach, coordinated across Europe, (of withdrawing products from supermarket shelves to enforce price reductions) is new in particular for Switzerland," Schneider said.Major consumer goods groups like Nestle, Unilever and Procter & Gamble are grappling with slower sales as consumers migrate toward healthier food and independent brands.They try to offset that by selling more higher-priced items, but the retailers are reluctant to put up prices as they face their own battle with changing shopping habits and online players like Amazon.com.In March last year, Britain\'s Tesco supermarket chain stopped selling several Heineken beers, and in October 2016, Unilever and Tesco had a row dubbed "Marmitegate" by the British press after the spread disappeared from some shelves.(Reporting by Riham Alkousaa; Additional reporting by Michael Shields, Oliver Hirt and Brenna Hughes Neghaiwi in Zurich and Tom Kaeckenhoff in Duesseldorf. Editing by John Miller and Adrian Croft)
Jacqueline Winspear was mired in London gridlock back in 2001 when her fictional detective, Maisie Dobbs, popped into her head. Stoplights were at red as far as I could see, the novelist remembers. In my minds eye I saw a woman walk up the old wooden escalator at the Warren Street underground station, dressed in the garb of the mid-1920s. She spoke to the newspaper vendor, then made her way along the street to a building, where she took an envelope with two keys from her bag ... I was shaken out of my daydream by honking from cars stuck behind me. I could not wait to get home to start writing. Maisie Dobbs  nurse turned private eye  now has a devoted following (Hillary Clinton is a fan), and the 14th book in the series, To Die but Once, debuts at No. 5 on the fiction list.Winspear, who sets the books largely in the period between the two world wars, was drawn to that era from a young age. As a small child, I was aware my grandfather had difficulty breathing, that he would often be in pain  and we had to be quiet around him, she recalls. My questions were always met with the same answer: Granddad was wounded in the Great War. Not injured. Not hurt. He was wounded, and there was something in the word that seemed to suggest something deeper, a wounding that went to the very soul of a person.As she grew older, Winspear says, I became more and more interested in the war to end all wars and its impact on ordinary people, especially the women of that generation. Her research led back to her grandparents. I have always wondered how it might have felt for my grandfather, wounded at the Battle of the Somme in 1916, to see his sons joining the army in World War II, and my grandmother, partially blinded in a munitions factory explosion, when her children were called up for military service. I wanted to move my characters through time to explore that experience, all underpinned by a mystery, that archetypal journey through chaos to resolution.Winspear doesnt outline before she writes. When she began the first Maisie Dobbs book, she stuck three huge Post-its on the wall. On one I marked the major landing points in the story. On another I kept track of characters and on the third I noted anything I didnt know but needed to know to develop the story, she says. I have kept to that system ever since. My landing points give me direction, yet leave room to dance with the moment  permission to go down an unplanned byway if I am inspired to do so.
(Reuters) - Former Senator Daniel Akaka, the first native Hawaiian in the U.S. Senate, who strove for recognition of Filipino veterans  who fought with the United States during World War Two, died on Friday at age 93."Our state mourns the loss of this man of upright character," Hawaii Governor David Ige said in a statement."While we celebrate his military service and dedication to our nations veterans, his advocacy of the Hawaiian language and culture and his work in Congress to recognize Filipino veterans, he was first and foremost a family man," Ige said.Ige ordered Hawaii\'s state flag and the U.S. flag to be flown at half-staff in honor of Akaka.Akaka, an educator turned Democratic politician, served more than three decades in the U.S. Congress. He held various committee positions including as chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs.He served in the U.S. Army from 1945 to 1947 and was deployed to the Pacific Ocean theater at the end of World War Two. He chaired the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs from 2007 through 2010.In a 2008 interview with PBS Hawaii, Akaka said he was an effective lawmaker and highlighted his legislation to provide U.S. benefits to Filipino veterans who fought during World War Two, when the Philippines were a U.S. territory.He was praised online by U.S. Representative Tulsi Gabbard, a Democrat from Hawaii, and others for embodying the spirit of "aloha," a Hawaiian word used to express warmth and sincerity.While in the Senate, Akaka repeatedly introduced a bill to pave the way for native Hawaiians to gain political sovereignty and self-governance. Known as the Akaka Bill, it was most recently introduced in 2009 but never won passage.Akaka was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1976 to represent Hawaii and held the seat until 1990, when he was appointed to the Senate to replace Spark Masayuki Matsunaga, who died. Akaka won re-election multiple times before retiring in January 2013."Daniel K. Akaka was beloved by everyone in Hawaii, and his colleagues of both parties in Washington D.C.," Hawaii Senator Brian Schatz, a Democrat, said on Twitter. "A pure heart, a determined warrior for native Hawaiians, and a true public servant."(Reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis in Los Angeles)
Two comedic actors take on much darker roles in 6 Balloons. And watch a new series depicting the Trojan War. MY NEXT GUEST NEEDS NO INTRODUCTION on Netflix. Jay-Z has been startlingly honest and introspective over the past year, whether on his wrenching album 4:44 or in a wide-ranging interview with The New York Times. He vents and ponders his past once again with David Letterman, who nowadays is far more prone to play therapist than crack wise. In this interview, Jay-Z recalls crying from happiness after his mother came out to him and his favorite moments with his daughter, Blue Ivy. He also discusses his favorite rappers, like Snoop Dogg and Eminem.6 BALLOONS on Netflix. You might be confused if youre expecting comedy from the two normally hilarious leads of 6 Balloons, Abbi Jacobson and Dave Franco  the stars of Broad City and 21 Jump Street. But they take on much bleaker roles in this new film by Marja-Lewis Ryan. Based on a true story, the movie follows a relapsing heroin addict (Mr. Franco) and his sister (Ms. Jacobson) over the course of one night, as she drives him and his 2-year-old daughter through the underbelly of Los Angeles in search of a detox center.SETH ROGENS HILARITY FOR CHARITY on Netflix. Seth Rogen has a knack for getting a ton of famous comics together in the same room, whether at The Roast of James Franco or at a fictional house party in This Is the End. The lineup of this special, which will raise money for Alzheimers disease research and care, includes Tiffany Haddish, Sacha Baron Cohen, Kumail Nanjiani, Sarah Silverman and both members of the Oh, Hello duo, Nick Kroll and John Mulaney. And look out for a cameo from a perplexed Jeff Goldblum.TROY: FALL OF A CITY on Netflix. Its honestly surprising that this era of Peak TV would last so long without a rousing and high-budget depiction of Homers epic war tale. This eight-part series from the BBC revels in sex, blood, elaborate costuming and rousing monologues to tell the story of the two countries that went to war over the most beautiful woman in the world. The reviews have mostly been strong.VICE 11 p.m. on HBO. The sixth season of this documentary series dives into the United States juvenile-justice system. The episode centers on Michael Kenneth Williams, most famous for playing the stickup man Omar on The Wire, who has a personal connection to the subject: his nephew Dominic DuPont is serving a 25-year-to-life sentence at Rikers Island. Mr. Williams visits him and other inmates in prison, examining the systems cruelties as well as the steps communities are taking to reduce the incarceration rates of youths.
PARIS   Franck Bauer, a French radio broadcaster who transmitted coded messages to underground networks in France during the Nazi occupation, has died at 99.His son, French singer Axel Bauer, said on Twitter that his father had been the last living announcer of a radio broadcast in French by the BBC in London from 1940 to 1944. He died Friday.French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted that Bauer\'s voice "guided so many perilous operations that led to victory" during World War II.The broadcast that French citizens secretly listened to with wireless radios gave news from the free world, countered Nazi propaganda and transmitted coded instructions to resistance fighters."Ici Londres"  "This is London"  became a code word after Charles De Gaulle\'s appeal for armed resistance in June 1940.
PARIS   International donors pledged $11 billion in loans and grants Friday to help debt-ridden Lebanon at a conference in Paris that also sought to ensure the money is well spent in a country hit hard by the Syrian war next door.French President Emmanuel Macron praised the international community\'s "unprecedented mobilization" for Lebanon as crucial for building the conditions for a sustainable peace in the Middle East."At a time when the Levant probably lives one of the worst moments of its history ... it\'s more important than ever to preserve the most precious asset: a peaceful, diverse and harmonious Lebanon," Macron said.In total, donors committed $10.2 billion in loans and $860 million in gifts, France\'s ambassador to Lebanon Bruno Foucher said on Twitter.Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri outlined his country\'s grim situation, saying his nation\'s stability is at stake."It is not the stability of Lebanon alone. This is the stability of the region and, therefore, of our world," Hariri said, warning that a collapse in Lebanon could ricochet throughout the Middle East and Europe.Fears of economic collapse in Lebanon are mounting ahead of next month\'s parliamentary election, the first in nine years.French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian announced that France would provide 400 million euros ($489.3 million) in loans below market rates and would gift Lebanon another 150 million euros ($183.5 million).The European Union also contributed 150 million euros in loans.The meeting was not a classic donors\' conference, but meant to seek an investment plan around infrastructure, water and energy, delineate structural reforms, and mobilize the private sector, French officials have said.Hariri, pointing out the impact of seven years of war in Syria, said that growth in Lebanon has dived from 8 percent to barely 1 percent.Syria\'s war has hindered land exports to Jordan, Iraq and oil-rich Gulf Arab countries. Lebanon is also hosting 1.2 million refugees  accounting for nearly a quarter of the country\'s population.Rampant corruption has taken another kind of toll, hollowing out infrastructure and basic services, with frequent water and electricity cutoffs.Last week, Lebanon\'s parliament approved a budget  its second since 2005  with a fiscal deficit of $4.8 billion. The national debt at the end of 2017 stood at $80 billion, or more than 150 percent of gross domestic product.France has deep ties to Lebanon, a former protectorate.Another conference on April 25 in Brussels will aim to help Lebanon better cope with Syrian refugees.___Mroue reported from Beirut. Sylvie Corbet in Paris contributed to the story.
BEIRUT   The Syrian rebel group Jaish al-Islam does not want to close the door on negotiations with Russia to reach a peaceful settlement to the conflict over the town of Douma near Damascus, its political official Mohammad Alloush said on Friday."We don\'t want to close the door that can lead to sparing the blood of civilians and reaching a peaceful situation," he said in an interview with al-Hadath TV. Alloush also denied the group had shelled residential areas of Damascus.Separately, Jaish al-Islam military spokesman in Douma said the group\'s artillery and rocket brigade was targeting government forces in response to "the massacre committed by the Assad militias and their ally the Russian war planes".(Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by Angus MacSwan)
SEOUL   South Korea on Friday urged General Motors Co\'s local subsidiary and labor union to reach a wage deal swiftly, saying the government will be able to discuss support for the money-losing unit on condition of an agreement.GM, which in February announced it would shut one of its South Korean factories, said it will file for bankruptcy should the union refuse to make concessions by April 20. GM has also asked for financial support from the government.The latest comments, made by the industry minister during a meeting with GM Korea\'s chief executive officer (CEO), came as tension escalates after the automaker was unable to make bonus payments agreed last year and planned for Friday.Union members protested on Thursday, entering the CEO\'s office and removing and breaking chairs and desks, showed a CCTV video clip from broadcaster TV Chosun and verified by GM Korea."Should the industrial conflict seen yesterday and today happen again, it will be difficult for (GM Korea) to gain public support and government support," Paik Un-gyu, minister of trade, industry and energy, said in a statement.GM\'s union accepted the company\'s demand for a wage freeze and no bonuses for this year, but opposes a proposal to cut benefits as well as its plan to shut down the Gunsan plant."We appreciate the ministry\'s interest and encouragement," a GM Korea spokesman said.A union official did not have immediate comment, beyond saying talks with the minister and the union leader were ongoing.(Reporting by Hyunjoo JinEditing by Christopher Cushing)
NEW YORK   New York City has pledged to listen to suggestions by Muslim groups when it drafts new policies for investigating political activity, part of a settlement over police surveillance conducted after the 2001 World Trade Center attack.The agreement, announced on Thursday by both parties after two years of talks, also requires the NYPD to send high-ranking officials to meet with members of the New Jersey-based Muslim groups that brought the suit against the city.As part of the 11-page settlement, the NYPD pledged that it would conduct no investigations motivated by race, religion or ethnicity, in keeping with current regulations.The resolution of this case affirms and enhances the NYPDs commitment to conducting effective investigations to prevent crime and terrorism, Police Commissioner James ONeill said in a statement.The Muslim groups filed suit in U.S. District Court in Newark, New Jersey, nearly six years ago, demanding that the city police stop surveillance of mosques, businesses, college campuses and other gathering spots as part of its anti-terrorism campaign.Farhaj Hassan, the lead plaintiff in the suit, said in a statement that the settlement was "part of a broader effort to hold this country to account for its stated commitment and its obligation to uphold religious liberty and equality.The NYPD, which admitted no wrongdoing under settlement, had  pursued an aggressive surveillance program after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks that sent undercover officers into Muslim neighborhoods, organizations and mosques. Mayor Bill de Blasio ended the program shortly after he took office in 2014.The NYPD agreed to consider any proposed revisions suggested by the plaintiffs to new policy guidance now being drafted.The settlement has not yet been approved by U.S. District Court Judge William Martini, who has presided over the case, the parties said. But attorneys for the plaintiffs said they expected the judge to sign off on it.Under the agreement, the city also will pay the plaintiffs $75,000 in damages and $950,000 for legal fees.(Reporting by Peter Szekely; Editing by Susan Thomas)
NEW HOPE, Pa.   Tom Baldwin, a longtime journalist whose career included a stint as a Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, has died. He was 71.Baldwin, of New Hope, Pennsylvania, died Tuesday at an area hospital, his family said.He got his start in in journalism at The Press of Atlantic City in New Jersey, before moving on to the AP bureau in Philadelphia in 1973. He later transferred to the AP in New York and then to the Boston bureau, where he was editor.In 1980, Baldwin achieved a career goal by being named a foreign correspondent for the AP, reporting from the Middle East. His wife, Toni Donina, also worked there as a radio reporter.He reported on the assassination of Egyptian leader Anwar Sadat, the rise of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, the 1982 war in Lebanon and the Iran-Iraq War.He later transferred to Johannesburg, South Africa, where he reported on the apartheid regime.After leaving the AP in 1986, Baldwin continued his journalism career, working for a shipping newsletter and several newspapers in New Jersey, including The Trentonian and the Home News-Tribune.He was the author of a book, "Big Storm, Small Ship," about riding out a hurricane on a container ship in the Atlantic.He retired from the news business at the age of 67.Survivors include a brother, his former wife and two daughters.Baldwin\'s family said that donations can be made in his honor to the Buzzards Bay Coalition, which protects the water quality in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts, where he loved to sail.Funeral services will be private.
JOHANNESBURG   Former South African president Jacob Zuma goes on trial on Friday for alleged corruption and fraud in a large government arms deal in the late 1990s, charges denied by the 75-year-old who was ousted by his party in February.The trial is a rarity on the African continent, where political leaders - particularly heads of state - are seldom called to account for alleged wrongdoing.Below are some African leaders who have ended up in the dock:HISSENE HABRE, CHADFormer Chadian dictator Hissene Habre was sentenced in 2016 by a special international tribunal sitting in Senegal to life in prison for war crimes and crimes against humanity during his 1982-1990 rule. A special tribunal upheld the life sentence last year.FREDERICK CHILUBA, ZAMBIAFrederick Chiluba, Zambia\'s first democratically elected president, was charged with stealing nearly $500,000 of public funds after standing down in 2002. He was acquitted of all charges in 2009 and died in 2011.LAURENT GBAGBO, IVORY COASTFormer Ivory Coast president Laurent Gbagbo was brought before the International Criminal Court (ICC) for crimes allegedly committed during post-electoral violence in 2010 and 2011, when he refused to accept defeat by rival Alassane Ouattara.The trial in the Hague began in 2016 and is ongoing.CHARLES TAYLOR, LIBERIAFormer Liberian president Charles Taylor is serving a 50-year jail term in a British prison for war crimes in neighboring Sierra Leone.Taylor, a warlord who campaigned for election in 1997 on the slogan  "He killed my ma, he killed my pa, but I will vote for him", was convicted in 2012 by the U.N. Special Court for Sierra Leone.UHURU KENYATTA, KENYAKenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta was summoned to the ICC to answer questions about his indictment on charges of orchestrating a wave of deadly post-election violence that swept Kenya in 2007 and 2008.The ICC agreed to withdraw the charges against him in 2015.(Reporting by Alexander Winning, Editing by William Maclean)
JOHANNESBURG   Former South African president Jacob Zuma goes on trial on Friday for alleged corruption and fraud in a large government arms deal in the late 1990s, charges denied by the 75-year-old who was ousted by his party in February.The trial is a rarity on the African continent, where political leaders - particularly heads of state - are seldom called to account for alleged wrongdoing.Below are some African leaders who have ended up in the dock:HISSENE HABRE, CHADFormer Chadian dictator Hissene Habre was sentenced in 2016 by a special international tribunal sitting in Senegal to life in prison for war crimes and crimes against humanity during his 1982-1990 rule. A special tribunal upheld the life sentence last year.FREDERICK CHILUBA, ZAMBIAFrederick Chiluba, Zambia\'s first democratically elected president, was charged with stealing nearly $500,000 of public funds after standing down in 2002. He was acquitted of all charges in 2009 and died in 2011.LAURENT GBAGBO, IVORY COASTFormer Ivory Coast president Laurent Gbagbo was brought before the International Criminal Court (ICC) for crimes allegedly committed during post-electoral violence in 2010 and 2011, when he refused to accept defeat by rival Alassane Ouattara.The trial in the Hague began in 2016 and is ongoing.CHARLES TAYLOR, LIBERIAFormer Liberian president Charles Taylor is serving a 50-year jail term in a British prison for war crimes in neighboring Sierra Leone.Taylor, a warlord who campaigned for election in 1997 on the slogan  "He killed my ma, he killed my pa, but I will vote for him", was convicted in 2012 by the U.N. Special Court for Sierra Leone.UHURU KENYATTA, KENYAKenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta was summoned to the ICC to answer questions about his indictment on charges of orchestrating a wave of deadly post-election violence that swept Kenya in 2007 and 2008.The ICC agreed to withdraw the charges against him in 2015.(Reporting by Alexander Winning, Editing by William Maclean)
Today in HistoryToday is Friday, April 6, the 96th day of 2018. There are 269 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 6, 1968, 41 people were killed by two consecutive natural gas explosions at a sporting goods store in downtown Richmond, Indiana.On this date:In 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized by Joseph Smith in Fayette, New York.In 1862, the Civil War Battle of Shiloh began in Tennessee as Confederate forces launched a surprise attack against Union troops, who beat back the Confederates the next day.In 1896, the first modern Olympic games formally opened in Athens, Greece.In 1909, American explorers Robert E. Peary and Matthew A. Henson and four Inuits became the first men to reach the North Pole.In 1917, the United States entered World War I as the House joined the Senate in approving a declaration of war against Germany that was then signed by President Woodrow Wilson.In 1943, "Le Petit Prince" (The Little Prince) by Antoine de Saint-Exupery was first published by Reynal & Hitchcock of New York.In 1954, Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy, R-Wis., responding to CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow\'s broadside against him on "See It Now," said in remarks filmed for the program that Murrow had, in the past, "engaged in propaganda for Communist causes."In 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I, also known as the "Early Bird" communications satellite, into geosynchronous orbit.In 1971, Russian-born composer Igor Stravinsky, 88, died in New York City.In 1988, Tirza Porat, a 15-year-old Israeli girl, was killed in a West Bank melee. (Although Arabs were initially blamed, the army concluded Tirza had been accidentally shot by a Jewish settler.)In 1998, the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 9,000 points for the first time, ending the day at 9,033.23. Country singer Tammy Wynette died at her Nashville home at age 55.In 2014, actor Mickey Rooney, 93, died in North Hollywood.Ten years ago: Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama, speaking at a private fundraiser in San Francisco, spoke of voters in Pennsylvania\'s Rust Belt communities who "cling to guns or religion" because of bitterness about their economic lot; Democratic rival Hillary Rodham Clinton seized on the comment, calling it "elitist." President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin, meeting at the Black Sea resort of Sochi, failed to overcome sharp differences over a U.S. missile defense system as they closed their seven-year relationship.Five years ago: Iran and six world powers failed to reach agreement during talks in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on how to reduce fears that Tehran might use its nuclear technology to make weapons. Militants killed six Americans, including diplomat Anne Smedinghoff, 25, and an Afghan doctor in a pair of attacks in Afghanistan, the deadliest day for the United States in the war in eight months.One year ago: President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping (shee jihn-peeng) opened a two-day summit at Trump\'s Florida beach resort. The National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri, hosted a centennial observance of the day the U.S. entered the global conflict. Don Rickles, the big-mouthed, bald-headed "Mr. Warmth" whose verbal assaults endeared him to audiences and peers and made him the acknowledged grandmaster of insult comedy, died at his Beverly Hills home at age 90.Today\'s Birthdays: Nobel Prize-winning scientist James D. Watson is 90. Composer-conductor Andre Previn is 89. Actor Billy Dee Williams is 81. Actor Roy Thinnes is 80. Movie director Barry Levinson is 76. Actor John Ratzenberger is 71. Actress Patrika Darbo is 70. Baseball Hall of Famer Bert Blyleven is 67. Actress Marilu Henner is 66. Olympic bronze medal figure skater Janet Lynn is 65. Actor Michael Rooker is 63. Former U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., is 62. Rock musician Warren Haynes is 58. Rock singer-musician Frank Black is 53. Actress Ari Meyers is 49. Actor Paul Rudd is 49. Actor-producer Jason Hervey is 46. Rock musician Markku Lappalainen (mar-KOO\' lap-uh-LAN\'-en) is 45. Actor Zach Braff is 43. Actor Joel Garland is 43. Actress Candace Cameron Bure (buhr-RAY\') is 42. Actor Teddy Sears is 41. Jazz and rhythm-and-blues musician Robert Glasper is 40. Actress Eliza Coupe is 37. Folk singer-musician Kenneth Pattengale (Milk Carton Kids) is 36. Actor Bret Harrison is 36. Actor Charlie McDermott is 28.Thought for Today: "If fifty million people say a foolish thing, it is still a foolish thing."  Anatole France, French author and critic (1844-1924).

WASHINGTON   Apple Inc said on Friday it opposes any repeal by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of the Clean Power Plan, which is a priority of the agency\'s Administrator Scott Pruitt and would reverse an Obama-era program to curb greenhouse gases.Repealing the plan would jeopardize the country\'s position in the race for investments in clean energy, particularly its competition with China, Apple said. It was the first public comment by a company on the proposed repeal of the plan, which has never been implemented because of legal challenges."Repealing the Clean Power Plan will subject consumers like Apple and our large manufacturing partners to increased investment uncertainty," the California-based company said in a filing to the agency.Apple, which says it runs its U.S. operations fully on renewable energy such as wind and solar power, added that repeal of the plan would also threaten development and investments that have already been made in renewable power.Lisa Jackson, who was the EPA\'s chief from 2009 to 2013 under former President Barack Obama, runs Apple\'s program to address climate change through renewable energy and energy efficiency.The opposition from one of America\'s biggest and best known companies to Pruitt\'s planned repeal comes as the EPA head is battling allegations about his ethics, including that he leased a room in a Washington townhouse co-owned by the wife of energy industry lobbyist.Pruitt proposed last October to repeal the Clean Power Plan, a set of standards for U.S. states intended to cut pollution from power plants, the largest emitters of greenhouse gases, by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. In December, the EPA launched a comment period for a possible replacement of the plan.Under Pruitt, the EPA has said the Clean Power Plan was illegal and exceeded the agency\'s statutory authority. The plan never went into effect after it was suspended by the DC Circuit Court of Appeals. The EPA has not indicated whether or when it would propose a new rule to regulate the emissions.The proposed repeal is part of Trump\'s broader effort to support the coal, oil and natural gas industries and to boost exports of the resources to cut trade deficits.EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox said in a response to Apple\'s filing that the agency appreciates all public feedback and will be considering the comments as part of the rulemaking process.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner; Editing by Frances Kerry)
WASHINGTON   Online retail giant Amazon is ignoring Donald Trump\'s barrage of taunts and threats, focusing instead on expanding its reach into a swath of industries that the president\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting.Trump has hurled one charge after another at the company over the last week. He\'s assailed Amazon\'s contract with the U.S. Postal Service as a "scam," accused the company of not paying enough taxes, and declared that its large lobbying operation gives it an unfair advantage. Much of this isn\'t new for Trump, who suggested during the presidential campaign that Amazon could face antitrust scrutiny if he were elected.Trump\'s attacks have targeted what Amazon is best known for: rapidly shipping just about any product you can imagine to your door. But the company CEO Jeff Bezos founded more than two decades ago is now a sprawling empire that sells groceries in brick-and-mortar stores, hosts the online services of other companies and federal offices in a network of data centers, and even recently branched into health care.Amazon relies on a nearly 30-member in-house lobbying team that\'s four times as large as it was three years ago as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success. The outside roster includes a retired congressman from Washington state who was a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee when he stepped down."Amazon is just not on an even playing field," Trump told reporters Thursday aboard Air Force One. "They have a tremendous lobbying effort, in addition to having The Washington Post, which is as far as I\'m concerned another lobbyist. But they have a big lobbying effort, one of the biggest, frankly, one of the biggest."Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017. That\'s less than Boeing, Comcast and AT&T spent during the same period, according to the political money website Open Secrets.Amazon does not own the Post. Bezos does. He and the newspaper have previously declared that Bezos isn\'t involved in any journalistic decisions.Trump\'s charge that Amazon pays "little or no taxes" may have merit. Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the left-leaning Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, said in February that Amazon "has built its business model on tax avoidance." Amazon reported $5.6 billion of U.S. profits in 2017 "and didn\'t pay a dime of federal income taxes on it," according to Gardner.The company declined to comment on Trump\'s remarks or its lobbying operations.Amazon has grown rapidly since it launched in 1995 as a site that sold books. It has changed the way people buy paper towels, diapers or just about anything else. And its ambitions go far beyond online shopping: its Alexa voice assistant is in tablets, cars and its Echo devices; it runs the Whole Foods grocery chain; the company produces movies and TV shows and it designs its own brands of furniture and clothing.The company is in the midst of launching an independent business with JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway that is seeking to lower health care costs for employees at the three companies. Given the three players\' outsize influence the alliance has the potential to shake up how Americans shop for health care and the initiative sent a shudder through the industry when it was announced in January.Amazon Web Services is angling for a much larger share of the federal government\'s market for cloud computing, which allows massive amounts of data to be stored and managed on remote servers. The CIA signed a $600 million deal with Amazon in 2013 to build a system to share secure data across the U.S. intelligence community.A partner of Amazon Web Services, the Virginia-based Rean Cloud LLC, in February scored what appeared to be a lucrative cloud computing contract from the Pentagon. But the contract, initially projected to be worth as much as $950 million, was scaled back to $65 million after Amazon\'s competitors complained about the award.Lobbying disclosure records filed with the House and Senate show Amazon is engaged on a wide variety of other issues, from trade to transportation to telecommunications. The company also lobbied lawmakers and federal agencies on the testing and operation of unmanned aerial vehicles. Amazon has been exploring the use of drones for deliveries, but current federal rules restrict flying beyond the operator\'s line of sight.The $15.6 million Amazon spent on lobbying last year was $2.6 million more than in 2016, according to the disclosure records. The bulk of the money  $12.8 million  went for Amazon\'s in-house lobbying team. The nearly 30-member unit is led by Brian Huseman, who worked previously as chief of staff at the Federal Trade Commission and a Justice Department trial attorney.As most large corporations do, Amazon also employs outside lobbying firms  as many as 14 in 2017.In Amazon\'s corner is former Washington congressman Norm Dicks of the firm Van Ness Feldman. Dicks was serving as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee when he ended his 36-year congressional career in 2013. He represented the company on information technology matters and "issues related to cloud computing usage by the federal government," according to the records, which show Van Ness Feldman earned $160,000 from Amazon last year.___Associated Press writer Joseph Pisani in New York contributed to this report.___
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is considering ways to require imported automobiles to meet stricter environmental standards in order to protect U.S. carmakers, according to two sources familiar with the administration\'s thinking.White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said President Donald Trump "will promote free, fair and reciprocal trade practices to grow the U.S. economy and continue to (bring) jobs and manufacturers back to the U.S.Two U.S. automotive executives said Friday they believed the idea had been floated in White House talks last week by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, but said the auto industry had not asked for the changes or backed them.A Commerce Department spokesman referred a Reuters request for comment back to the White House, which has not responded.U.S. automakers have long urged removal of non-tariff barriers in Japan, South Korea and other markets that they believe unfairly hinder U.S. exports. There are also concerns that any new non-tariff U.S. barriers could violate WTO rules.The story was first reported Friday by the Wall Street Journal.Citing unnamed senior administration and industry officials, the Journal said Trump had asked several agencies to pursue plans to use existing laws to subject foreign-made cars to stiff emission standards.It appears such non-tariff barriers could have a greater potential effect proportionately on European automakers, which collectively import a greater percentage of cars from plants outside the United States, according to sales figures from Autodata.In comparison, Japanese and Korean brands made about 70 percent of the vehicles they sold last year in the United States  at North American plants. European brands built only 30 percent in North America.Foreign automakers operate 17 assembly plants in the United States, 12 of which are owned by Asian manufacturers. Virtually all of those are non-union plants, many of them in southern states.Imported vehicles accounted for about 21 percent of the 17.2 million sold last year in the United States, according to Autodata.The White House initiative was still in the planning stage, with officials at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency working to craft a legal justification for the policy, the paper said.The EPA and the Commerce Department, which the newspaper said was also involved in the effort, did not immediately respond to requests for comment from Reuters. Neither did representatives for Ford Motor Co and General Motors, nor for the United Auto Workers union, which represents workers at those automakers.(Additional reporting by Tim Ahmann and David Lawder in Washington and Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Frances Kerry and James Dalgleish)
The New Jersey Devils are back in the playoffs for the first time since 2012.Patrick Maroon set up second-period goals by Pavel Zacha and Miles Wood, and the Devils ended a five-year postseason drought with a 2-1 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Thursday night.Keith Kinkaid, the mainstay in goal since the end of January, made 31 saves as the Devils won their fourth straight and extended their points streak to eight games (7-0-1). He preserved the lead with a stop in close on Auston Matthews with just over seven minutes to play.New Jersey is 10-2-1 in its past 13 in going from the worst team in the Eastern Conference a year ago to one that will get a chance to start playing for the Stanley Cup next week.After it was over, the players went to center ice and saluted the fans, who were standing for much of the final minute.William Nylander scored on a power play in the first period for Toronto to ice his second straight 20-goal season. Frederik Andersen was outstanding, making 37 saves, including saves on breakaways by Taylor Hall and Michael Grabner in the big second period.The loss was only the fourth in 13 games (9-4) for the Maple Leafs, who will face either Boston or Tampa Bay in the first round of the playoffs.New Jersey will have to wait for its opponent to be decided.While the Devils had the majority of shots for the first 27-plus minutes, they fell behind 1-0 when Nylander scored from the right circle 12 seconds after Nico Hischier was called for tripping.Zacha didnt tie the game until 7:55 of the second period. He won a puck along the boards in center ice, worked a give-and-go with Maroon entering the Toronto zone and beat Andersen with a shot from the left circle just under the crossbar.Maroon, who was acquired in a trade deadline deal with Edmonton, did all the work on Woods 18th goal. He fended off Nazem Kadri carrying the puck from in front of his bench, all the way behind the net and then came out the other side and found Wood alone in front for a slam dunk.
BEIRUT   The Syrian government launched a fierce air and ground assault on the last rebel-held town in eastern Ghouta on Friday, killing at least 32 people in a bid to seal President Bashar al-Assad\'s biggest victory since 2016, a war monitor said.State TV showed thick clouds of smoke rising from the targeted area, the town of Douma, where the Jaish al-Islam rebel group is holding out after insurgents in other parts of eastern Ghouta accepted safe passage to other rebel areas.State TV said Republican Guard forces were pushing in.Jaish al-Islam said its rocket and artillery brigade were responding to what it described as a massacre by "the Assad militias and their ally the Russian warplanes". Jaish al-Islam\'s political official called for talks to spare civilian bloodshed.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the war, said the 32 dead in Douma included five children and the air strikes were likely carried out by Russian war palnes. State media said rebel shelling of Damascus had killed four people.Jaish al-Islam denied targeting residential areas.A commander in the regional military alliance that backs Assad said Jaish al-Islam\'s only option was to accept safe passage to rebel-held areas northeast of Aleppo as talks overseen by Russia had collapsed."The negotiations have ended with failure. As far as Douma is concerned, resolving it militarily is the solution," the commander told Reuters.State TV accused Jaish al-Islam of shelling a crossing out of eastern Ghouta and a residential area, saying this led to the air strikes. State TV reporters also said the rebels must release abducted soldiers and civilians they said the group was holding as one of the conditions for halting the assault.Defeated rebel groups in other parts of eastern Ghouta have accepted safe passage to opposition areas near the Turkish border. While several thousand wounded fighters and civilians from Douma have taken that option in recent days, the Jaish al-Islam official denied any of its fighters had left.Mohammad Alloush, the Jaish al-Islam political official, said the group wanted to continue negotiations. "We do not want to close a door that could lead to sparing the blood of civilians," he said in an interview with al-Hadath TV.But Alloush, who is based outside Syria, indicated Jaish al-Islam was sticking by the demand to stay in Douma - a demand the government has rejected."We are negotiating to remain, for our people to remain ... and for that which protects them to remain," he said. Otherwise they would be at risk from pro-Assad "sectarian militias", a reference to Iran-backed Shi\'ite groups such as Hezbollah.Tens of thousands of people are estimated to be sheltering in Douma.Russian-backed government forces launched their offensive against eastern Ghouta in February. The Observatory says the attack has killed more than 1,600 civilians.The conquest of Douma would underline Assad\'s unassailable position in the conflict that mushroomed out of protests against his rule seven years ago.(Reporting by Tom Perry and Laila Bassam in Beirut, Kinda Makieh in Damascus; Writing by Tom Perry; editing by Angus MacSwan)
(Reuters) - SoftBank Group Corp is exploring a sale of Brightstar Corp, a U.S. cellphone distributor that could be valued at more than $1 billion (714.08 million pounds), people familiar with the matter said, as the Japanese technology conglomerate seeks to shed lower growth assets.SoftBank Chief Executive Masayoshi Son has been reviewing the company's portfolio to pay down debt, which reached 15.8 trillion yen ($147 billion) as of the end of December. SoftBank said earlier this year that it plans to take its Japanese mobile phone unit public, with proceeds used to strengthen its balance sheet and boost growth.SoftBank has hired investment bank JPMorgan Chase & Co to help explore options for Brightstar, the sources said this week. These options including selling Brightstar outright, offloading a substantial stake, or divesting some of its units, one of the sources said.Brightstar has more than $10 billion in annual revenue, but runs a costly, low-margin business, and is expected to generate just $150 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization this year, another of the sources said.Brightstar could appeal to private equity firms, technology distribution companies or supply chain logistics companies in the United States or Asia, that same source added.The sources asked not to be identified because the matter is confidential. Brightstar did not respond to a request for comment. JPMorgan and SoftBank declined to comment.Brightstar is the exclusive provider of handsets to certain SoftBank affiliates. It also has a phone trade-in and cellphone insurance business. It was founded by Marcelo Claure, the CEO of U.S. wireless carrier Sprint Corp, which is now majority-owned by SoftBank.Claure launched Brightstar in 1997 in Miami as a small distributor of mobile devices that has now expanded to about 70 countries on six continents, according to its website.SoftBank acquired 57 percent of Brightstar in 2013 in a deal that valued the company at $2.2 billion. It later acquired more of the company.SoftBank has shifted its attention in the last 12 months to deploying some $93 billion it raised for its Vision Fund, the world's largest private equity fund. Its backers include Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund, Apple Inc and Foxconn, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry.(Reporting by Liana B. Baker and Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Tom Brown)
TBILISI   Georgia may increase its gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecast for this year, currently at 4.5 percent, as rising  exports and inflows of foreign investment help support the economy, the country\'s finance minister told Reuters.The former Soviet republic, which hosts pipelines carrying Caspian oil and gas to Europe, is recovering from a decline in exports and steep devaluations in the currencies of its main trading partners, including Russia, which have depressed economic growth in recent years.That recovery is gathering pace, with GDP increasing by 5.0 percent last year compared to the 2.2 percent growth seen in 2016. The economy expanded by 4.9 percent year-on-year in January-February this year."I think we may have a scenario when we will revise our own economic growth projection of 4.5 percent upwards," Finance Minister Mamuka Bakhtadze told Reuters in an interview late on Thursday. "The possibility of such a scenario is pretty high."Bakhtadze did not say what the forecast would be revised to, but explained that the main growth drivers would be tourism, construction, transport and logistics, as well as metals and agriculture exports.He said that the government expected to beat last year\'s record $3 billion revenue from the booming tourism sector this year.Bakhtadze also said the government was considering refinancing its 10-year Eurobonds worth $500 million next year and did not plan new issues this year or in 2019."We are now considering ways to refinance our existing Eurobonds issued in 2011 ... we will definitely have the final mechanism of how to refinance and will conduct it in 2019," he said.Bakhtadze said he expected the country to attract a similar amount of foreign direct investment (FDI) this year as in 2017, when that indicator hit a record $1.862 billion, or 11 percent of GDP."We expect that the FDI figure this year will not deviate from the figure which we have had in 2017," said Bakhtadze. "In coming years we hope to have the same amount of FDI that we have had in 2017."He added that free trade agreements with Europe and China had helped to attract foreign investors, while the amount of reinvestment rose by 130 percent in 2017.Bakhtadze said he expected total foreign debt at 43 percent of GDP to start declining significantly after 2021, when the country plans to complete a number of major infrastructure projects.He said the current account deficit was set this year to be similar or lower than the 8.7 percent of GDP reached in 2017, while fiscal deficit was expected to be around 3 percent.(The story corrects 2017 GDP figure in third paragraph to 5.0 percent from 4.8 percent)(Editing by Andrew Bolton)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHO\'S NOT TAKING MORE U.S. TARIFFS SITTING DOWNChina vows to fight the U.S. "at any cost" after President Trump proposed slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating trade dispute.2. AGENTS FACING NEW CIRCUMSTANCES AT MEXICAN BORDERThe U.S. National Guard faces a vastly different environment than it did on its last two deployments to the border with Mexico, with far fewer illegal crossings and more Central Americans than Mexicans coming.3. ASIAN LEADER GIVEN LONG PRISON TERM FOR GRAFTFormer South Korean President Park Geun-hye was formally convicted and sentenced to 24 years in prison and fined 18 billion won ($16.8 million) in a corruption scandal.4. RALLIES TO CONTINUE IN BIBLICAL LANDIsrael and Hamas geared up for another showdown on the Gaza-Israel border, amid concerns about renewed bloodshed.5. CHIEF OF STAFF GETTING COLD SHOULDER FROM COMMANDER IN CHIEFEmboldened in his job, President Trump has rebelled against John Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely.6. DOWNPOUR EXPECTED TO CHALLENGE OROVILLE DAMNorthern California is bracing for a major spring storm expected to dump several inches of rain, a possible first test of the partially repaired spillway at the nation\'s tallest dam.7. EDUCATORS\' WALKOUT MAY CONTINUE FOR DAYSA teachers strike in Oklahoma stretches into a fifth day and pending proposals to increase revenue may not be enough to stop it from extending into next week.8. NEW UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES ON THE HORIZONDid March provide another month of blowout hiring? Was pay growth healthy? Experts are looking for answers in the government\'s monthly jobs report.9. RAP STAR RELEASES FIRST ALBUMAnticipation around "Invasion of Privacy," Cardi B\'s debut, has been scorching hot.10. STRUGGLING BUT HOPEFUL IN AUGUSTATiger Woods plodded through an unspectacular opening round at the Masters, settling for a 1-over 73 that left him far off the lead but still feeling good about his chances.
PITTSBURGH   The oldest usher in the major leagues is calling it a career after 81 years on the job.The Pittsburgh Pirates announced Friday that 99-year-old Phil Coyne, who has been working home games for the organization since 1936, will not return this season. He turns 100 later this month.Coyne worked thousands of games for the Pirates through the decades, following along as the franchise moved from Forbes Field to Three Rivers Stadium to PNC Park. Coyne worked in sections 26 and 27 down the third base line at PNC Park. The team gave him a No. 99 jersey with his name on the back last summer and the Pittsburgh City Council designated Aug. 29, 2017, as "Phil Coyne Day."Pirates President Frank Coonelly thanked Coyne for serving fans with "with incredible grace and distinction" through the years. Coyne\'s only sabbatical came when he served in the armed forces in World War II.The team plans to throw a party for Coyne and his family and friends on April 27 to celebrate Coyne\'s 100th birthday.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
PRISTINA   Kosovo authorities said on Friday they had indicted 11 people, including a minister and lawmaker from the ruling party, for allegedly handing out state jobs to people based on their political affiliation.The case is based on wiretaps made in 2011 during an anti-corruption operation by the European Union police and justice mission (EULEX), set up after Kosovo\'s 1998-99 independence war to foster rule of law in the former Serbian province.EU officials say Kosovo\'s government, led by ex-guerrillas, has not done enough to purge ingrained corruption and organized crime, often cited as the main obstacle to foreign investment in the impoverished Balkan nation of 1.8 million people.Almost all of the indictees are members of the ruling Democratic Party of Kosovo (PDK), including Besim Beqaj, the minister for innovation and entrepreneurship, which is in power since 2007.Prosecutors said that defendants could be heard in wiretapped conversations offering party supporters jobs at state-financed agencies, among them the rail network, courts and universities, water, energy and health companies."The indictment has to do with the criminal activities of hiring, sharing official positions based on party affiliations and friendly connections," prosecutors said in a statement.(Reporting by Fatos Bytyci; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
WASHINGTON   U.S. law enforcement agencies have seized the sex marketplace website Backpage.com as part of an enforcement action by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, according to a posting on the Backpage website on Friday.Groups and political leaders working to end forced prostitution and child exploitation celebrated the shutdown of Backpage, a massive ad marketplace that is primarily used to sell sex. But some internet and free speech advocates warned the action could lead to harsh federal limits on expression and the press.The website posting said U.S. attorneys in Arizona and California, as well as the Justice Department\'s section on child exploitation and obscenity and the California and Texas attorneys general had helped shut down the website.The Justice Department said late on Friday that a court in Arizona ruled the case remains sealed, which puts any legal information under wraps. In the posting about the seizure, the department had originally said more information would be made public on Friday evening.A Phoenix FBI official said that there was "law enforcement activity" at the Sedona, Arizona home of Michael Lacey, one of the founders of Backpage, but referred further inquiries to the Justice Department.Reuters was unable to reach representatives of Backpage for comment."Today, Backpage was shutdown. It\'s a huge step. Now no child will be sold for sex through this website," tweeted Senator Heidi Heitkamp.Heitkamp helped draft legislation passed by the Senate last month that makes it easier for state prosecutors and sex-trafficking victims to sue social media networks, advertisers and others that fail to keep sex trafficking and exploitative materials off their platforms..President Donald Trump will sign the bill into law next week, said Heitkamp. The legislation, featured prominently in the popular Netflix documentary "I am Jane Doe," amends the Communications Decency Act, which has shielded website operators from state criminal charges or civil liability if they  facilitate sex ads or prostitution."Shutting down the largest online U.S. marketplace for sex trafficking will dramatically reduce the profitability of forcing people into the commercial sex trade, at least in the short term," said Bradley Myles, chief executive of Polaris, an international anti-slavery group that runs the National Human Trafficking Hotline.There would be "a dramatic shift in the marketplace starting tonight," he added.Backpage and advocacy groups say the ads are free speech protected by the U.S. Constitution.Backpage has affiliates across the country and around the world, and by 2014 brought in annual revenue of $135 million, the New York Times has reported.The Supreme Court in January 2017 refused to consider reviving a lawsuit against Backpage that was filed by three young women, who accused it of facilitating their forced prostitution.The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has told Congress that nearly three quarters of the cases submitted to the center relate to ads posted on the site. The state of California has said that 90 percent of the site\'s income were attributable to "adult ads."In 2016, Texas and California authorities raided the company\'s Dallas headquarters and arrested chief executive Carl Ferrer and other former company executives on pimping-related charges. The judge in the case ruled the website was protected by the First Amendment, and it was not liable for the speech of third parties.(Reporting by Sarah Lynch and Lisa Lambert, Additional reporting by David Schwartz in Phoenix and Justin Mitchell in Washington, Editing by Toni Reinhold and Rosalba O\'Brien)
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week, while an EU official plans to speak with Facebook\'s No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, over the company\'s data practices.Authorities around the world are investigating allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 87 million Facebook users to influence elections.Here\'s a look at the various investigations and requests for information.___IN THE UNITED STATES: CONGRESS: Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 in a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees and April 11 before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. This will be his first-ever testimony before Congress. Individual congressional members have also written Facebook seeking answers. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC\'s Bureau of Consumer Protection, says the agency\'s probe will include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC\'s probe may extend to Facebook\'s compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data. INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories have written a letter seeking details on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.___IN EUROPE: EUROPEAN UNION: The EU is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws. EU spokesman Christian Wigand says EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call next week with Sandberg. U.K. INFORMATION COMMISSION: Britain\'s information regulator has seized evidence from the London office of Cambridge Analytica. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way. U.K. PARLIAMENT: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, says his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He says Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." ITALY: Italy\'s competition authority has opened an investigation. Authority chairman Giovanni Pitruzzella told Sky News24 that the investigation will focus on Facebook\'s claims on its home page that the service is free, without revealing that it makes money off users\' data.___ELSEWHERE: AUSTRALIA: Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country\'s privacy law, which requires organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. INDIA: India\'s government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian users has been compromised. INDONESIA: The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology says it has asked the National Police to investigate possible violations.
NEW YORK   Facebook\'s No. 2 executive says the company should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg told NBC\'s "Today" show that at the time, Facebook received legal assurances that Cambridge Analytica had deleted the improperly obtained information."What we didn\'t do is the next step of an audit and we\'re trying to that now," she said.The audit of Cambridge Analytica is on hold, in deference to a U.K. investigation. But Facebook has been conducting a broader review of its own practices and how other third-party apps use data.In addition, Facebook announced on Friday that it will require advertisers who want to run not just political ads, but also or so called "issue ads" which may not endorse specific candidates or parties but discuss political topics to be verified.Facebook is trying to strengthen its system ahead of this year\'s U.S. midterm elections as well as upcoming elections around the world. Facebook has already required political ads to verify who is paying for them and where the advertiser is located. The issue ads requirement is new.Facebook will also require the administrators of pages with a "large number" of followers to also be verified. The company did not say what this number would be. The move is intended to clamp down on fake pages and accounts that were used to disrupt the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S.Facebook says page administrators and advertisers will be verified by being asked to provide a government-issued ID. To verify addresses, it will mail a postcard with a unique code that the recipient can then enter into Facebook. This is similar to how Airbnb and other services verify addresses.The company is facing a global backlash over the improper data-sharing scandal. Hearings over the issue are scheduled in the U.S., and the European Union is considering what actions to take against the company.Sandberg also told NBC that if users were able to opt out of being shown ads, "at the highest level, that would be a paid product." This does not mean the company is planning to let users do this. Zuckerberg has made similar statements in the past, but has added that Facebook remains committed to offering a free service paid for by advertising.Facebook users can opt out of seeing targeted ads, but can\'t shut off ads altogether. Neither can they opt entirely out of Facebook\'s data collection.Sandberg gave several interviews this week as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress next week, where the issue of elections meddling is almost certain to come up.Facebook is also facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in what\'s become its worst privacy crisis in its 14-year history.It started with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm, improperly accessed the private information of tens of millions of users to try to influence elections around the world. Over the past three weeks the scandal continued to spiral. For one, Facebook executives took nearly five days to respond to the Cambridge Analytica reports.Then, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting information about phone calls they made and text messages they sent. Facebook also acknowledged this week that nearly all of its 2.2 billion users may have had their public data scraped by "malicious actors" it did not name.
KUALA LUMPUR   Malaysia\'s Prime Minister Najib Razak announced on Friday the dissolution of parliament, paving the way for a general election in which he faces an unprecedented challenge from his former mentor turned opposition leader Mahathir Mohamad.Najib is under pressure to deliver a convincing victory for his undefeated Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition, as he grapples with financial scandals at a state-owned fund and a government palm oil agency, and with public anger over rising prices.Najib\'s coalition is still widely expected to win the election despite the scandals, but a significant loss of seats to the opposition could leave the prime minister open to a leadership challenge within his United Malay National Organisation (UMNO) party.Below is a summary of the electoral process and key facts about Malaysia:POLLING DATEThe Election Commission (EC) is expected to meet in the next few days to decide on the dates for the nomination of candidates and for polling across the country\'s 13 states.Polling must be held within 60 days of the dissolution of parliament, with a minimum of 11 days of campaigning.There are about 14 million registered voters. Polls are completed in one day with the result announced the following day.POLLING SYSTEMMalaysia adopted a Westminster parliamentary model after gaining independence from Britain in 1957. The government is elected through a first-past-the-post or simple majority system.The UMNO-led coalition has been undefeated since independence. The coalition contains parties representing the country\'s three main ethnic groups: majority Malays, most of whom are Muslim, ethnic Chinese and ethnic Indians.The opposition has accused the government of gerrymandering, rigging and propaganda through state-controlled media to secure a victory in every election. The government has denied those accusations.Critics have also said the Election Commission favors the ruling party. The commission has repeatedly denied that.CAMPAIGNINGCampaigning is usually restricted to about two weeks. It begins immediately after the process of nominating candidates is completed, and ends 24 hours before polling day.There are no publicly telecast debates between candidates. Campaigning is mostly through public gatherings, rallies and visits by candidates to towns and villages.NUMBERS GAMEThe general election is for all 222 seats of parliament\'s lower house, known as the Dewan Rakyat.Najib\'s ruling coalition won 133 seats to win the last general election, in 2013, despite losing the popular vote.The opposition coalition is hoping it can whittle down BN\'s seat count to gain at least 112 seats - which would give it the right to form a government.The 70 members of parliament\'s upper house, known as the Dewan Negara, are appointed, not elected.GEOPOLITICAL HOT SPOTMalaysia is a major exporter, its economy driven by oil and gas, palm oil and electronics.Part of the South China Sea lies between east and west Malaysia, a maritime region that falls within an area claimed by China, and delineated by a "nine-dash-line" on its maps.Malaysia - and several other countries in the region - have disputed China\'s claim over the South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion in trade passes annually.(Reporting by Joseph Sipalan; Editing by Robert Birsel)
LONDON   Sterling forecasts are at their highest since Britons voted to leave the European Union, a Reuters poll found, partly as a result of optimism driven by progress in divorce talks and expectations of another interest rate rise next month.But the main reason behind the move is more related to the outlook for the currency that sterling is quoted against, the U.S. dollar, whose path of least resistance remains down and is under even more pressure over a growing U.S.-China trade spat.While an economic recession predicted in the event of a "Leave" vote in the June 2016 referendum never materialised, partly because very few expected Britain\'s main trading partner to do so well, the expected slump in sterling did.At the start of 2016, when the "Remain" camp was expected to win, one pound would get you about $1.49. On Thursday, it was only worth about $1.40, having rallied approximately four percent this year as political fears weighed on the greenback.So, for the 10th consecutive monthly Reuters poll, the 12-month forecast was revised up and in the latest survey the outlook was for cable to be at $1.44 this time next year.In one month, cable is forecast at $1.40 and in six months at $1.42, all stronger than predicted in March, according to the April 3-5 poll of over 50 foreign exchange strategists. Seven contributors had forecasts of $1.50 or higher, the most since before the referendum."On the one hand, the Brexit negotiations should see some breakthrough ... and on the other hand it will depend on what the Bank of England will do in the coming months. We have a positive view on cable," said Roberto Mialich, currency strategist at UniCredit.Bets in favour of sterling rose to a multi-year high last week with the latest level of net long position not seen since July 2014, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.Sterling\'s fall in the aftermath of the June 2016 referendum sent inflation soaring above the BoE\'s two percent target. But in the months after the vote, the central bank cut borrowing costs to a record low 0.25 percent to support growth.That move was reversed little over a year later and with inflation at 2.7 percent in February, a separate March Reuters poll predicted the BoE would add another 25 basis points when policymakers meet in May. [ECILT/GB]Britain is set to leave the European Union on March 29, 2019, severing ties that helped define its national identity, its laws, and its international stature over 46 years of integration with European neighbours.But a transitional deal was agreed in principle with Brussels last month, effectively keeping Britain inside the EU single market until the end of 2020, calming anxious businesses and buying Prime Minister Theresa May more time to negotiate.Against the common currency the pound will tread a different path. On Thursday a euro was worth around 87.3 pence and in a year it will get you 88.0p, the poll found.((For other stories from the global foreign exchange poll:))(Polling by Indradip Ghosh and Manjul Paul)
NEW YORK   Jared Harris says watching his work can be like looking through a yearbook."You remember everything that happened while you were doing it," said the actor, who currently appears on AMC\'s limited series "The Terror.""The story of the shoot is very much present in your mind as well as the narrative of what you were doing."Harris says it takes him "maybe a decade" to watch his work "without feeling any kind of connection."Two of his most recent memorable onscreen moments were when his "Mad Men" character Lane Pryce hanged himself and playing the dying King George VI on Netflix\'s "The Crown." And, it\'s not a spoiler alert to say Harris will also meet his demise on "The Terror."He recalls what was really going on while filming the death scenes of the previous two characters:___ON \'MAD MEN\':"On \'Mad Men,\' I remember (creator) Matt (Weiner) was always so concerned with anything getting out and where we were in downtown L.A., it was possible that someone could see with a long lens if they wanted to. They had been trying to get pictures of January (Jones) or Christina (Hendricks). It\'s unlikely that they\'d be taking a picture of schmuck Jared Harris but they would if they could see that I had all that strange hanging makeup on me. I had like a little tent around me as I walked from makeup to the soundstage so nobody could see if they were trying to. He was absolutely devoted to the idea that no one would know anything about the story until they watched it. And then, you know, hanging from the door and I remember the reaction the first time that (the actors) saw me hanging from the door. They waited so they didn\'t see it until then. It was pretty weird. And it wasn\'t the last thing I shot, by the way. I shot other stuff on \'Mad Men\' so it wasn\'t my last day."___ON \'THE CROWN\':"On \'The Crown,\' that was actually a life-sized prosthetic in the bed. And so that wasn\'t me. (Executive producer) Stephen Daldry toyed with the idea of \'Let\'s switch you out and stick you in there and scare the hell out of everybody.\' Those are funny ideas but when it comes down to it the grind of getting your days you generally lose the opportunity for practical jokes. You\'re already behind from the moment you arrive on set."___ON \'THE TERROR\':Set in 1845, the show follows the true story of two ships named Erebus and Terror, sent on an exploration to find the Northwest Passage between the Atlantic and Pacific to shorten trade routes. They disappeared, creating a maritime mystery that still exists. The TV series begins with that same premise but imagines what would happen if the men encountered the supernatural."What attracted me to it was it\'s not a remake or a reboot or a sequel or a prequel. It\'s a completely fresh story, said Harris, who plays a captain of one of the ships.___Online: http://www.amc.com/shows/the-terror___Follow Alicia Rancilio on Twitter at @aliciar
MADRID   Spanish and Portuguese authorities announced Friday that they have taken down a criminal network that has been making large profits by smuggling glass eels to Asia.Authorities across the continent have been trying to tackle the smugglers, who take European glass eels to Asian countries, where they are raised into adults and their meat commands high prices for local delicacies.The trading of the European eel has been restricted since 2009 under the rules of the CITES convention for the international trade of endangered wildlife. The European Union has banned all exports outside the bloc and regulated internal sales, although an underground black market in eels has thrived in recent years.In the latest operation against the traffickers, four Chinese citizens, three Spaniards and three Moroccans were arrested in Spain in an operation coordinated by the European Union\'s police body, Europol.Spain\'s Civil Guard said 460 kilograms (1,014 pounds) of glass eels were seized in southern Spain. Their market value, once the eels have grown into adults, was estimated at over 400 million euros ($490 million). One kilogram of baby eels can yield 1.3 tons of adult eels, investigators say.More than 100 tons of juvenile eels evade wildlife traffic controls every year in Europe, according to Andrew Kerr, chairman of the Sustainable Eel Group."That\'s nearly one fourth of the total European eel natural stock," Kerr said Friday. "It\'s the biggest wildlife crime action in Europe, and it\'s hidden from everyone."Friday\'s disclosure showed how the ring exported the baby eels bought in Spain through Portugal and Morocco and how the eels were concealed in suitcases or in cargo containers and sent to Hong Kong, mainland China, South Korea and other Asian countries.Police also seized 364 suitcases possibly used to smuggle the eels, Civil Guard Coronel Jesus Galvez told reporters Friday in Madrid.Because eels can\'t be bred in captivity, the wriggling glass eels or elvers are usually fished and raised to maturity in aquaculture companies in Asia, where pollution, climate change and poaching has diminished stocks of the Japonica Anguilla species.Since the glass eel fishing season began at the end of the fall, Portugal has arrested 28 people and has seized 1 ton of glass eels in 18 raids.Hugo Alexandre Matos, director of the Portuguese authority of food security, ASAE, said several investigations remained opened.Meanwhile, Spain has arrested or identified as suspects 89 people since November, snatching more than 2.3 tons of baby eels. The seized eels have been reintroduced to the wild, Galvez said.The operations come as environmental crimes are on the rise globally and in Europe, said Europol\'s chief for organized crime, Jari Liukku, who compared the benefits from illicit wildlife trading to those of drug, arms or human trafficking."Punishments are low and the conviction rate for environmental crimes is still low," he said.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Since taking up the cause of public health care last year, Jimmy Kimmel has become a favorite punching bag of the conservative commentators on Fox News.Foxs Sean Hannity dressed Kimmel down on Thursday for making fun of Melania Trumps Slovenian accent in a monologue earlier this week. Hannity unloaded a fusillade of unfriendly terms describing Kimmel, calling him a despicable disgrace and an ass clown.On Thursday night, Kimmel shot back.The quick pace of change in the White House gave Seth Meyers an idea on Thursday: Maybe President Trump would enjoy firing the most powerful man in the world.Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has said that Trump is not the target of a criminal investigation, but not everyones convinced. Meyers showed a series of clips with Fox News commentators warning that Mueller may be trying to trap Trump into testifying.Jimmy Fallon does not have high hopes for Trumps trip to Peru next week for the Summit of the Americas.The weird roommate with the four chickens is the best weird roommate.Jimmy Kimmel asked a second grader to explain trade deficits to Trump.Stephen Colbert, Trevor Noah, Conan OBrien and James Corden will all return on Monday after a week away. Well be back Tuesday morning to talk about it.Lorde brought her international tour to Brooklyn, and the bedeviling moments were in the details. Heres our review.
KABUL, Afghanistan   Pakistan\'s prime minister arrived in Afghanistan on Friday for a day-long visit many see as an effort to ease strained relations between the two neighbors and revive a push for peace talks with the Taliban.Shahid Khaqan Abbasi was welcomed by Afghan President Asharf Ghani and the two inspected an honor guard at the Presidential Palace in Kabul before heading in for meetings.A statement issued by the Afghan presidential palace after the meeting said the two sides discussed counterterrorism, Afghan-led peace talks and border violations. They also discussed refugee and repatriations issues, the exchange of prisoners and finalization of the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for peace and solidarity.Abbasi, accompanied by several other top Pakistani officials on the trip, his first to Kabul since becoming prime minister last year, is to hold meetings with a string of Afghan officials, according to Ghani\'s spokesman, Shah Hussain Murtazawi.Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies.Pakistan, widely believed to be the only party that can bring the Taliban to the negotiating table, also insists its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated.Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country\'s militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them.Late on Thursday, Pakistan\'s Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement rejecting a claim made by Kabul that Pakistan violated Afghan airspace with Pakistani Air Force raids inside Afghan territory during counter-terrorism operations earlier in the week.The statement said information about the ongoing "operations is shared with the Afghan security forces on a regular basis." In the latest military actions, Pakistan told the Afghan about them and stressed that these operations were on Pakistani side of the border, it said.Islamabad accuses Kabul of failing to take action against militant groups who continue to attack Pakistan from their sanctuaries across the border in Afghanistan."Pakistan urges Afghanistan to focus on taking effective counter-terrorism actions, including plugging in of large gaps existing along the Afghan side of Pakistan-Afghanistan border," the statement said, adding that "it is also important that the Afghan government should refrain from the blame game."Also on Thursday, Javid Faisal, deputy spokesman for Afghanistan\'s chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, said that Pakistan\'s support was critical to talks with the Taliban and that Abbasi\'s visit would help improve the troubled Afghan-Pakistan relations.In January, President Donald Trump lashed out at Pakistan, saying the United States had "foolishly" given Pakistan more than $33 billion in aid over the last 15 years and had gotten nothing in return but "lies & deceit." Washington later confirmed it is withholding $255 million in U.S. military aid to Pakistan this year.___Associated Press writers Kathy Gannon in Islamabad and Amir Shah in Kabul, Afghanistan, contributed to this report.
MEXICO CITY   Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leftist leading the race to win Mexico\'s presidency in July, will root out corruption at Pemex and also aims to slim down the state-owned oil and gas company, his pick for finance minister said on Thursday.In an interview with Reuters, Carlos Urzua, a respected economist trained at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said Lopez Obrador was not resolved to end oil and gas auctions started under the current government, but Urzua said major financial investors he had met with were worried about the energy reform.Urzua had harsh words for Pemex, saying it was neither competitive nor productive enough and adding that its trade union is "an icon of corruption.""Pemex has to be cleaned up, because if not, we\'re not going to have a top-flight company," he said.In office, Urzua said Lopez Obrador\'s government would aim to run a federal budget that was "more or less" in balance, once interest payments on debt were stripped out.To meet its other goals of upping investment and pensions, the government would seek to shake up wasteful social spending and curb excessive public sector salaries, he said."We\'re also going to slim down the structures of all the decentralized institutions, including Pemex," he said.Lopez Obrador holds a double-digit lead in most opinion polls, and his criticism of the economic liberalization carried out under President Enrique Pena Nieto has caused concern among influential sections of the business community.The centerpiece of Pena Nieto\'s agenda has been opening up oil and gas production and exploration to private firms. Lopez Obrador has strongly criticized the move, threatening to scrap the reform or at least review contracts awarded under it.Urzua sought to downplay fears that the energy overhaul, which was based on a change in the constitution, would be overturned."The (auctions) wouldn\'t necessarily be canceled, but they could be halted. Maybe there would be a slower pace," he said.Urzua, who served as Mexico City\'s finance minister for part of Lopez Obrador\'s 2000-2005 mayoralty of the capital, added that he was "sure that the great majority of the contracts awarded" had not been tainted by corruption.Lopez Obrador has also rattled business leaders by threatening to scrap a $13 billion new airport for Mexico City, which the government says is already nearly one-third complete.Urzua said foreign investors were not very worried about the airport, noting that its major investors are Mexican."But they are worried about the energy sector," he said.Urzua said he has already held meetings with representatives from over 50 major investors in Mexico, including BlackRock, Pimco, Credit Suisse, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.To eliminate public sector waste and corruption, Urzua said the Lopez Obrador administration would centralize all purchasing of goods and services in the federal government.(Reporting by Stefanie Eschenbacher; Editing by Leslie Adler)
SINGAPORE   Singapore\'s central bank is expected to tighten monetary policy in April for the first time in six years, with economic growth seen solid enough to shift away from a stance associated with periods of acute weakness.Twelve of 19 analysts, or 63 percent of respondents in a Reuters survey, predicted the Monetary Authority of Singapore would tighten its exchange-rate based policy at its review, due on April 13 at 8 a.m. (0000 GMT).The 12 analysts expect the MAS to slightly increase the appreciation rate of the Singapore dollar\'s policy band from zero percent -- a "neutral" stance that the central bank has kept for the last two years.The remaining seven analysts expect the MAS to keep policy unchanged.The results include four additional responses compared to an earlier Reuters poll published on March 27, in which 60 percent of analysts expected a tightening.The government\'s advance estimate of first-quarter gross domestic product, due at the same time, is expected to show that GDP expanded 1.0 percent from the previous three months on an annualised basis, according to the median forecast in a Reuters survey.On a year-on-year basis, GDP likely grew 4.3 percent, which would be the fastest pace since a near four-year high of 5.5 percent in the third quarter of last year.The solid growth momentum and signs of improvement in the labour market are seen as outweighing the risks from U.S.-China trade tensions, and putting the MAS on track to tighten policy for the first time since April 2012."They don\'t want to be behind the curve, given that the recovery has come quite some way, despite the downside risks as we look forward," said Vishnu Varathan, head of economics and strategy for Mizuho Bank in Singapore.Analysts in the tightening camp say inflation is likely to edge higher in the medium-term and that the economy has strengthened sufficiently for the MAS to shift from a neutral stance. In the past, the central bank has resorted to such settings when the global economy deteriorated, including an 18- month period from October 2008 during the global financial crisis.Singapore dollar NEER band - https://tmsnrt.rs/2GyiLc3"We expect MAS to normalise and shift to a policy of modest and gradual appreciation... We think the neutral stance is no longer appropriate or necessary given the strong growth recovery and rising core inflation," analysts for Maybank Kim Eng said in a research note.Core inflation for the whole of 2017 hit a three-year high of 1.5 percent and is running at a slightly higher pace so far in 2018.The MAS manages monetary policy by changes to the exchange rate, rather than interest rates, letting the Singapore dollar rise or fall against the currencies of its main trading partners within an undisclosed policy band based on its nominal effective exchange rate (NEER).It can adjust policy by changing the appreciation rate, mid-point, or width of the Singapore dollar\'s policy band.At its last policy review in October, the MAS changed a reference to maintaining its neutral policy stance for an extended period, a shift that analysts said created room for the central bank to tighten policy in 2018.The central bank has kept the appreciation rate of the Singapore dollar\'s policy band at zero percent since April 2016.(Reporting by Masayuki Kitano; Editing by Sam Holmes)
Isao Takahata, a film director who founded Japans premier animation studio, Studio Ghibli, with Hayao Miyazaki in 1985 and made sophisticated animated films like the elegiac World War II drama Grave of the Fireflies, died early Thursday in Tokyo. He was 82.The cause was lung cancer, Studio Ghibli said in a statement.Studio Ghibli has released some of the highest-grossing anime films ever, like Ponyo, Howls Moving Castle, Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away, which won an Academy Award for best animated feature in 2003 after an English version was released.These lushly animated fairy tales were all written and directed by Mr. Miyazaki, whose name is more recognizable to international animation aficionados than that of Mr. Takahata.If Studio Ghibli is your favorite band, then Takahata has the deep cuts from the back catalog, Dave Jesteadt, now the president of GKIDS, which distributes many Ghibli films in the United States, told The Los Angeles Times in 2014.The disparity in their recognition might in part have had to do with Mr. Takahatas output, which was considerably smaller than Mr. Miyazakis. Mr. Takahata took longer to complete films than Mr. Miyazaki, who is known for his unflagging work ethic.Mr. Takahatas slow pace sometimes caused resentment  Mr. Miyazaki jokingly compared Mr. Takahata to a real slugabed sloth in 1990  but it also led to meticulously crafted films.Many of Mr. Takahatas movies were popular, particularly in Japan, and many critics praised his work, especially Grave of the Fireflies (1988), a harrowing tale of a brother and sister trying to survive after Japan is devastated by American firebombing during World War II.The film, written and directed by Mr. Takahata and adapted from a story by Akiyuki Nosaka, dealt frankly with cruelty and death but also had moments of innocence, beauty and grace.The critic Roger Ebert of The Chicago Sun-Times called the film an emotional experience so powerful that it forces a rethinking of animation.This film proves, if it needed proving, that animation produces emotional effects not by reproducing reality, but by heightening and simplifying it, so that many sequences are about ideas, not experiences, Mr. Ebert wrote.Mr. Takahatas other films include Only Yesterday (1991), a contemplative tale of a woman who reminisces about her past on a trip to the countryside, and Pom Poko (1994), an environmentalist fantasy about shapeshifting raccoon-like animals called Tanuki that struggle to maintain their lifestyle against encroaching suburbs.Both films were drawn in naturalistic styles, even when they depicted fantastical subjects, a hallmark of a lot of anime and many of Studio Ghiblis films.Mr. Takahata, who was not an animator himself, chose a different approach in later films like My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999), a surrealistic family story drawn like a comic strip; and his last film, The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013), a dreamy, watercolored portrayal of a Japanese folk tale.It is about the essence thats behind the drawing, he said of his aesthetic in Princess Kaguya in an interview with The Associated Press in 2015. We want to express reality without an overly realistic depiction, and thats about appealing to the human imagination.The Tale of the Princess Kaguya took Mr. Takahata about a decade to finish, though he worked on other films at the same time. It was nominated for an Academy Award for best animated feature in 2015.The films tone  the sense of characters grasping to hold on to innocence as the civilized world whisks it away  is all Takahata, the critic Ty Burr wrote in The Boston Globe in 2014.Mr. Takahata was reported to have been born on Oct. 29, 1935, in Mie Prefecture, in southern Japan. He grew up further west in the city of Okayama.He told The Japan Times in 2015 that as a boy during World War II he fled an American bombing raid that killed more than 1,000 people in Okayama. He remembered rushing, barefoot and in his pajamas, past piles of bodies  an experience he drew on for Grave of the Fireflies.He graduated from the University of Tokyo, then started his career in animation in the late 1950s at Toei studio, where he met Mr. Miyazaki.Mr. Takahata worked on television anime series like Lupin the 3rd and Heidi: A Girl of the Alps, and also directed the film Gauche the Cellist (1982), before the two men created Studio Ghibli.There was no immediate information on survivors.
GAZA   Gaza is a coastal strip of land that lay on ancient trading and maritime routes along the Mediterranean shore. Held by the Ottoman Empire until 1917, it passed from British to Egyptian to Israeli military rule over the last century and is now a fenced-in enclave inhabited by two million Palestinians.Here are some of the major milestones in its recent history.1948 - Refugees and Egyptian military ruleAs British colonial rule came to an end in Palestine in the late 1940s, violence intensified between Jews and Arabs, culminating in war between the newly created State of Israel and its Arab neighbors in May 1948.Tens of thousands of Palestinians took refuge in Gaza after fleeing or being driven from their homes. The invading Egyptian army had seized a narrow coastal strip 25 miles (40 km) long from the Sinai to just south of Ashkelon. The influx of refugees saw Gaza\'s population triple to around 200,000.Egypt held the Gaza Strip for two decades under a military governor, allowing Palestinians to work and study in Egypt.In the 1950s and 1960s armed Palestinian "fedayeen" - many of them refugees - mounted attacks into Israel, drawing reprisals. The United Nations set up a refugee agency, UNRWA, which today provides services for 1.3 million registered Palestine refugees in Gaza, around 70 per cent of the population, as well as for Palestinians in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the West Bank. 1967 - War and Israeli military occupationIsrael captured the Gaza Strip in the 1967 Middle East war. An Israeli census that year put Gaza\'s population at 394,000, at least 60 percent of them refugees. It found that 65 percent of working-age men in the 145 sq. mile (375 sq. km) territory were employed in Gaza before the 1967 conflict, mainly in agriculture, fishing, industry and quarries.With the Egyptians gone, the focus of many Gazan workers shifted. Thousands took jobs in the agriculture, construction and services industries inside Israel, to which they could gain easy access at that time. Israeli troops remained to administer the territory, and to guard the settlements that Israel built in the following decades. These became a source of growing Palestinian resentment.1987 - First Palestinian uprising. Hamas formedTwenty years after the 1967 war, Palestinians launched their first intifada, or uprising. It began in December 1987 after a traffic accident in which an Israeli truck crashed into a vehicle carrying Palestinian workers in Gaza\'s Jabalya refugee camp, killing four. Stone-throwing protests, strikes and shutdowns followed.Seizing the angry mood, the Egypt-based Muslim Brotherhood created an armed Palestinian branch - Hamas - with its power base in Gaza. Hamas, dedicated to Israel\'s destruction and restoration of Islamic rule in what it saw as occupied Palestine, became a rival to Yasser Arafat\'s secular Fatah party that led the Palestine Liberation Organization.1993 - The Oslo Accords, and Palestinian semi-autonomyIsrael and the Palestinians signed an historic peace accord in 1993 that led to the creation of the Palestinian Authority. Under the interim deal, Palestinians were first given limited control in Gaza, and Jericho in the West Bank. Arafat returned to Gaza after decades in exile.The Oslo process gave the newly created Palestinian Authority some autonomy, and envisaged statehood after five years. But that never happened. Israel accused the Palestinians of reneging on security agreements, and Palestinians were angered by continued Israeli settlement-building.Hamas and Islamic Jihad carried out bombings to try to derail the peace process, leading Israel to impose more restrictions on movement of Palestinians out of Gaza. Hamas also picked up on growing Palestinian criticisms of corruption, nepotism and economic mismanagement by Arafats inner circle.2000 - Second Palestinian IntifadaIn 2000, Israeli-Palestinian relations sank to a low with the outbreak of the second Palestinian intifada. It ushered in a period of suicide bombings and shooting attacks by Palestinians, and Israeli air strikes, demolitions, no-go zones and curfews.One casualty was Gaza International Airport, a symbol of thwarted Palestinian hopes for economic independence and the Palestinians only direct link to the outside world that was not controlled by Israel or Egypt. Opened in 1998, was deemed a security threat by Israel three years later. Israel destroyed its radar antenna and runway a few months after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.Another casualty was Gaza\'s fishing industry, a source of income for tens of thousands. Gaza\'s fishing zone, set by the Oslo deals at 20 nautical miles, was reduced by Israel to between three and 12 nautical miles. Israel said the restrictions were necessary to stop boats smuggling weapons. Palestinians accused Israel of reneging on Oslo.2005 - Israel evacuates its Gaza settlementsIn August 2005 Israel evacuated all its troops and settlers from Gaza, which was by then completely fenced off from the outside world by Israel.Palestinians tore down the abandoned buildings and infrastructure for scrap. The settlements\' removal led to greater freedom of movement within Gaza, and the "tunnel economy" boomed as armed groups, smugglers and entrepreneurs quickly dug scores of tunnels into Egypt.But the pullout also removed settlement factories, greenhouses and workshops that had employed some Gazans.2006-2007: Isolation under HamasIn 2006, Hamas scored a surprise victory in Palestinian parliamentary elections.Later that year, Hamas militants captured an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, and killed two others in a tunnel raid. In 2007 Hamas seized full control of Gaza, overthrowing forces loyal to Arafat\'s successor, President Mahmoud Abbas.Much of the international community cut aid to the Palestinians in Hamas-controlled areas because they regard Hamas as a terrorist organization.Israel stopped tens of thousands of Palestinian workers from entering the country, cutting off an important source of income, and closed an industrial zone on the Gaza border. Israeli air strikes crippled Gazas only electrical power plant, causing widespread blackouts. Citing security concerns, Israel and Egypt also imposed tighter restrictions on the movement of people and goods through the Gaza crossings.Gazas economy increasingly went underground, becoming more dependent on a network of smuggling tunnels under the border with Egypt. Ambitious Hamas plans to refocus Gaza\'s economy east, away from Israel, foundered before they even started.2013 - Coup in EgyptIn 2011 the Arab Spring brought a window of opportunity for the Islamist-led government in Gaza. The Muslim Brotherhood won parliamentary and presidential elections in Egypt, bolstering Hamas. But the Egyptian army slowed the flow of cash, food, building supplies, cars, petrol - and weapons that used to come through tunnels.Egypt\'s newly elected president, Mohammed Mursi, was overthrown after just a year. Viewing Hamas as a threat, Egypts new military-backed leader, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, closed the border with Gaza and blew up most of the tunnels. Once again isolated, Gazas economy went into reverse.2008 - 2014 - WarsGaza\'s economy has suffered repeatedly over decades in the cycle of conflict, attack and retaliation between Israel and Palestinian militant groups, from the 1970s to recent years.Israel and Gaza militants led by Hamas fought three wars since 2008 which resulted in widespread destruction and the killing of thousands of Palestinians and about 100 Israelis.The worst fighting was in 2014. Hamas and other groups launched rockets at heartland cities in Israel. Israel carried out air strikes and artillery bombardment that devastated neighborhoods in Gaza. More than 2,100 Palestinians were killed, mostly civilians. Israel put the number of its dead at 67 soldiers and six civilians.2017 PALESTINIAN SPLIT WORSENEDIn 2017, Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas launched a series of economic sanctions on Hamas in a bid to force the group to relinquish control of Gaza. He orchestrated a reduction of electricity for Gaza and slashed salaries of 60,000 Palestinian Authority employees there by 30 percent, weakening buying power.2018 U.S. CUTS AID TO PALESTINIANSPresident Donald Trump announced the United States would withhold some future aid payments to Palestinians, accusing them of unwillingness to talk peace with Israel. Washington held back  $65 million of a first scheduled payment to UNRWA, the U.N. agency that cares for Palestinian refugees. It is unclear how much more, if any, it will contribute. UNRWA received $355 million from the United States in the 2017 fiscal year. UNRWA is funded mainly by voluntary contributions from U.N. member states, with the United States by far the largest donor.For a graphic on UNRWA funding, click http://tmsnrt.rs/2CLooyv(Writing by Stephen Farrell, Jeffrey Heller and Nidal al-Mughrabi, Editing by Mark Heinrich)
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean published in the past week.As Easter weekend wound down, Roman Catholics in the region celebrated the death and resurrection of Jesus by participating in processions, stations of the cross and passion plays.Former Brazilian President Luis Inazio Lula da Silva was rejected by the nation\'s highest court in his bid to stay out of prison while appealing a corruption conviction, a decision that could lead to him being barred from October\'s presidential election, in which he has been the front-runner in opinion polls.In Mexico, Central American migrants traveling in the annual "Stations of the Cross" caravan camped out in a soccer field at a sports club after drawing angry tweets from U.S. President Donald Trump even though it had no means of reaching the U.S. border.People grieved in Valencia, Venezuela, after 68 people died during a fire at a police station where prisoners were being kept in crowded cells.Guatemalan army officers carried the coffin of former dictator Efrain Rios Montt, who seized power in a 1982 coup and presided over one of the bloodiest periods of the country\'s civil war.In soccer, fans of the Uruguay club Penarol cheered before the start of a Copa Libertadores match against Argentina\'s Atletico Tucuman. Isaac Brizuela of Mexico\'s Chivas de Guadalajara scored the only goal against the New York Red Bulls during the first leg of a semifinal match in the CONCACAF Champions League tournament.___This photo gallery was curated by photo editor Tomas Stargardter in Mexico City.___AP photographers and photo editors on Twitter at https://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographers
SUNRISE, Fla.   The Florida Panthers are still alive for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. They\'re going to need some help, though.Jared McCann scored with 5:37 left and Roberto Luongo got the win in his 1,000th career game, helping the Panthers stay in contention with a 3-2 victory over the Boston Bruins on Thursday night.The Panthers trail the Philadelphia Flyers by four points for the final Eastern Conference wild card and have two games remaining, including a matchup Sunday night with Boston. Florida needs to win both games and have the Flyers lose to the New York Rangers in regulation Saturday."It would be nice to control our own fate, but we don\'t have that luxury," coach Bob Boughner said. "Who knows what\'s going to happen, but we know we have a job to do. Let\'s just hope that we are in a situation Saturday when the puck drops we\'ve got a chance to make the playoffs."The Panthers were also chasing the Devils and Blue Jackets, but both teams clinched playoff spots with victories Thursday.The 39-year-old Luongo became the third goalie to reach the 1,000-game mark, joining Hall of Famers Martin Brodeur (1,266) and Patrick Roy (1,029). Luongo is the 322nd player to reach the milestone overall. He stopped 26 shots Thursday."It wasn\'t easy. I was feeling a little bit sluggish today for some reason, but tell you what, the boys probably played their best game of the year," Luongo said. "That\'s the best gift the boys could have given me."Aleksander Barkov scored his 100th career goal, and Florida\'s Frank Vatrano scored a goal against his former team.Barkov left the game with 6:51 left in the third period with an apparent upper-body injury after he was checked hard into the boards by Colby Cave. McCann took his spot on the top line and was able to make an impact."I was ready to go," McCann said. "I look for those opportunities every day. I was able to step up."There wasn\'t an update on Barkov after the game."I know the doctors are back there checking him out, so I don\'t have anything as of now. It didn\'t look great when he was going off the ice, to be honest," Boughner said.Danton Heinen and Ryan Donato scored for the Bruins. Tuukka Rask stopped 32 shots."Yeah, a tough start," Rask said. "They came to play, that\'s not a surprise to anybody. They\'re fighting for their lives and need every point they can get. You have to be ready for that and we weren\'t."The Bruins have lost three straight, their longest losing streak since a four-game skid from November 8-15."You don\'t want to go into the playoffs limping," Rask said. "You want to go in full stride and that\'s something we have to fix the last two games."Boston remains tied with Tampa Bay for the lead in the Atlantic Division, but Tampa owns the tiebreaker. Each team has two games left."We\'ve got one out of six points on this trip," coach Bruce Cassidy said. "That\'s what happens in this league, I don\'t care what teams you play. A bad formula to play from behind. Guys have to be ready to go when the puck drops. That\'s something we have to look to correct."McCann tipped in the winner off Mike Matheson\'s shot from the left side.The Bruins tied it at 2 on Heinen\'s goal 2:11 into the second period. After a defensive turnover, David Krejci passed across to Heinen, who beat Luongo on the stick side.Trailing 2-0, the Bruins closed to 2-1 on a power-play goal by Donato, who corralled a bouncing puck in front and swept it behind Luongo with 4:41 left in the first.The Panthers took a 1-0 lead on Barkov\'s goal. Evgenii Dadonov made a nice pass from the right side to Barkov, who tucked the puck into the corner of the net at 7:42.The Panthers went ahead 2-0 after Vatrano, acquired by the Panthers in a trade with Boston on Feb. 22, poked in a rebound at 9:34.NOTES: Bruins F Brad Marchand played in his 600th NHL game. ... Donato has eight points in his first 10 NHL games. ... A video tribute to Luongo\'s 1,000-game mark, midway through the first period, drew a standing ovation, including from Bruins players.UP NEXTBruins: Hosts Ottawa on Saturday night.Panthers: Hosts Buffalo on Saturday night.___More AP hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
NEW YORK   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to face Congress on Tuesday, and No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg is on a media blitz as the company tries to contain swirling concerns about how it protects the data of its 2.2 billion members.Facing its most serious challenge in its 14-year-history, the social media juggernaut is seeking to maintain people\'s trust and avoid a user exodus.Here\'s a look at the scandal and what it means.___HOW DID THIS START?In mid-March, news broke that Cambridge Analytica, a London-based data-mining firm with ties to U.S. President Donald Trump, lifted the Facebook profiles of tens of millions of users without their permission in an attempt to sway elections.A former Cambridge Analytica employee, Christopher Wylie, said the firm got Facebook information through an app in order to build psychological profiles on a large portion of the U.S. electorate. That app vacuumed up information from users who gave the app permission to access their accounts  as well as additional data from their Facebook friends. About 270,000 people were paid to take part; tens of millions of their friends were also caught in the data dragnet.___WHY ARE PEOPLE MAD AT FACEBOOK?The crisis appears to have crystallized the anxiety many people feel about Facebook\'s enormous sway over daily life and its massive data trove.It comes on the heels of a revelation that Russia used the service to meddle in U.S. elections. It has also deepened concerns about the social media network\'s ability to avoid being exploited to spread propaganda and sway elections.And it has renewed questions about Facebook\'s ability to protect the privacy of its users while also exploiting their personal details to fuel its lucrative advertising business.Facebook\'s stock has fallen about 14 percent since the Cambridge Analytica story broke, more than the rest of the stock market has fallen . Some advertisers and users have left Facebook, although the company has said it hasn\'t been a significant number yet.___WHAT\'S THE SCOPE OF THIS SCANDAL?The number of people affected seems to keep ballooning. On Wednesday, Facebook said that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed  up from the 50 million disclosed in previously published reports.And Facebook said it believes most of its 2.2 billion users have had their public profile information scraped by "malicious actors" at some point. That\'s through a feature that lets people search for users through their email address or phone number. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says malicious actors have also used this technique. Outside experts believe they could have been identity thieves, scam artists or shady data brokers assembling marketing profiles.On top of that, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting phone call logs and text histories.___HOW HAS FACEBOOK RESPONDED?Zuckerberg and Sandberg were silent for five days following the initial report. Zuckerberg also was criticized for initially failing to apologize when he did break the silence.Since then, they\'ve been on a major offensive, apologizing on national TV and rolling out new privacy policies. In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world.___IS FACEBOOK CHANGING ITS PRACTICES?Facebook has outlined a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly. It\'s also restricting access that apps can have to data about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content. In addition, the company is removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address.Facebook is trying to be more upfront with users. On Monday, all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that.___WHY IS WASHINGTON INVOLVED?Congress has been interested in increasing regulation on Facebook due to its size and the myriad of issues it\'s facing. That includes data privacy, fake news and Russian meddling in the U.S. elections.Zuckerberg is set to testify on the privacy scandal Tuesday before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.Meanwhile, special counsel Robert Mueller is scrutinizing the connections between Trump\'s campaign and Cambridge Analytica so he\'ll be interested in whatever Zuckerberg has to say, too.___AP Business Writers Alexandra Olson and Barbara Ortutay in New York contributed to this report.
GUN LOVE By Jennifer Clement 247 pp. Hogarth. $25.When a man gives his woman a gun its because he really trusts her, claims Sergeant Bob, the surly vet in Jennifer Clements novel Gun Love. A gun is soon laid on the table when Eli, the kind of man who breaks all the windows in your house, gives a pistol to Margot to hide under the front seat of the 1994 Mercury in which she and her 14-year-old daughter, Pearl, live. Margots main fear is that someone will take her daughter away. The gun is like an umbrella in the rain, she tells Pearl, perhaps the attitude of many women: 80 percent of those gunned down in the United States by intimate partners are women.Gun Love is the American half of a diptych of novels by Clement about gun traffic between the United States and Mexico, the first being Prayers for the Stolen (2013). A longtime resident of Mexico who is now president of PEN International, she is well aware of the statistics: More than 70 percent of the 74,000 firearms confiscated in Mexico between 2009 and 2014 came from the United States, and nearly $276 million was tied up in Mexican contracts with American-based gun manufacturers between 2015 and 2016. Oddly enough, Florida, the location of the trailer court around which much of the action in Gun Love unfolds, leads the nation in both the number of mobile home parks and concealed weapons permits. In our part of Florida things were always being gifted a bullet just for the sake of it, Pearl observes. In the more than 10 years since the passage of Floridas Stand Your Ground law, giving widespread legal immunity to people who use lethal force in self-defense, the number of justifiable homicide cases in the state has nearly tripled. In 2012 the unarmed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was gunned down and his killer later acquitted as a direct consequence of Stand Your Ground.Clements turn to fiction is oddly dreamy for such a topic, as if to suggest the self-delusion of the real-life actors involved. My mother was always full of birthday-candle wishes, comments Pearl, who habitually steals cigarettes in a kind of self-immolation of her own. But the writing is crisp and the images sharp: a field of 63 Barbies buried up to their knees around a trailer; the hatching of conjoined twin alligators still with white pieces of eggshell on the green, scaly back they shared.Trailer parks in fiction often stand as metaphors for the fear of homelessness; to live in a car parked beside one is that much more frightening. It encourages descriptions of surreal coping, such as one in which Margot fingers the dashboard: That was Mozart, she said. Did you like it? The denizens of the trailers, distinguishable by who drinks Coke and who drinks Pepsi, turn sinister as the guns pile up. Sergeant Bob gives his woman a gun to nestle between her breasts. I thought he was going to give me a ring, she says. While Margot and Eli hook up in the Mercurys back seat, guns start to crowd the abandoned trailer where Pearl does her homework. Guns are the focus of another neighbor, Pastor Rex, who runs a Give Your Guns to God campaign that partially supplies a group of traffickers. Did you know there are two bullets for every person in the world? Pearls boyfriend asks (a statistic confirmed by Oxfam in 2012). Toward the end of the book, Pearl names the models she packs in newspaper, a veritable litany that includes semiautomatics, .223-caliber AR-15 rifles and the Bushmaster XM-15. It sounds like worship. Nikolas Cruz, who killed 17 people in a Florida high school in February, found it easier to buy a semiautomatic than a handgun.My mother was a cup of sugar, Pearl says. You could borrow her anytime. Once the bond between mother and daughter comes apart, Pearl is swept into the gun trade. With the souls of animals and the souls of people emanating from the guns all around her, she hears a song of praise: Pearl, Pearl, Pearl in congratulation. Her complicity with the violence seems eerily unconscious, mirroring Americas unnatural inability to admit to the grave consequences of unchecked gun proliferation.

WASHINGTON   Nashville Predators players stood around the locker room after beating the Washington Capitals 4-3, huddled around cellphones watching and rooting for more franchise history.Seconds after the Boston Bruins lost to the Florida Panthers in regulation on Thursday night, Mattias Ekholm yelled out, "Yeah boys!" as teammates high-fived to celebrate the first Presidents\' Trophy in the team\'s 19-year history.A year after the Predators made an improbable run to the Stanley Cup Final as the eighth seed in the Western Conference, they\'ve clinched home ice throughout the playoffs as the top team in the NHL during the regular season.The road to the Cup now runs through Nashville."It\'s a pretty good night for us," captain Roman Josi said. "Obviously the big goal for every team is to win the Stanley Cup, but you can\'t win the Stanley Cup right now. It was something we took a lot of pride in, and I think it\'s a big accomplishment for us."Josi, who scored a power-play goal in the clincher, said he and fellow Predators players looked at the rafters of other buildings this season and wanted to earn more than just the one "Western Conference Champions 2016-17" banner that currently hangs in Bridgestone Arena.They accomplished that in Washington thanks to two goals from Craig Smith, a game-winner from Ryan Johansen and 29 saves from backup goaltender Juuse Saros, setting a franchise record with 52 wins in the process."It\'s always just been about home ice and trying to stay in our building, give ourselves the best chance to be successful in the playoffs," coach Peter Laviolette said. "With that, those things happen. You end up winning a division, a conference and first place in the league."David Poile, who has been general manager since the franchise\'s inception, shook hands and congratulated each player as he walked out of the locker room.While Laviolette and his staff watched the end of the Bruins-Panthers game in the coaches\' office and players took it in on hockey operations manager Brandon Walker\'s phone, Poile watched alone from the concourse on one of the prouder nights in Predators history."We all have goals. That was part of it," Poile said. "It feels real good. When we get to a week from now and we start the playoffs, we\'ll be moving on to something else, but I\'m very proud of our franchise. This is the first time we\'ve done it and it means a lot and I\'m proud of everybody, all the effort that was put in all year."It was almost poetic that the Predators won the Presidents\' Trophy by beating the Capitals, who won it the past two seasons and three times since 2010.Days after the five-year anniversary of his now-infamous trade from Washington to Nashville, star winger Filip Forsberg remarked: "We\'ve seen especially here (in Washington) that the trophy doesn\'t mean that much going forward. But I think just the home ice is going to be huge."The Metropolitan Division-champion Capitals, who have home ice through at least the first two rounds, got two goals from Evgeny Kuznetsov, Alex Ovechkin\'s league-leading 47th of the season and 25 saves from Philipp Grubauer in the loss.Washington could still face New Jersey, Philadelphia, Columbus or back-to-back defending Cup-champion Pittsburgh in the first round."I like the way we\'re playing," said coach Barry Trotz, who was in Nashville for that franchise\'s first 15 seasons and has Washington in the playoffs for the fourth time in four years. "We\'re playing with lots of speed, we\'re playing with lots of pace, and that was a good test."The Predators know there are more tests upcoming, this time as the Cup favorite that won\'t fly under the radar. But after going 9-2 at home on their run to the final a year ago, they assured themselves of more playoff hockey in Music City than on the road."We learned what it was like to play at home in the playoffs," defenseman Ryan Ellis said. "To have the home ice is huge for our team."NOTES: Smith\'s two goals gave him a career-high 25. ... Johansen scored the go-ahead goal with 5:27 left. ... Kuznetsov has seven goals and 11 assists in his past 10 games. ... Capitals F Alex Chiasson left the game with an illness. ... Ovechkin was honored before the game for playing in 1,000 NHL regular-season games. In addition to the traditional silver stick and Tiffany crystal from the team and league, Ovechkin\'s teammates got him and his wife a trip to Spain, presidential suite tickets to see FC Barcelona and a Lionel Messi jersey. ... Rookie Eeli Tolvanen was a healthy scratch for the Predators after playing three games in a row.UP NEXTPredators: Return home after three-game road trip to face the Columbus Blue Jackets in each team\'s season finale Saturday.Capitals: Host the New Jersey Devils on Saturday in a potential playoff preview.______More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
KUALA LUMPUR   Malaysia\'s Prime Minister Najib Razak announced the dissolution of parliament on Friday, paving the way for a general election showdown with his old mentor and the country\'s most seasoned campaigner, Mahathir Mohamad.Najib is under pressure to deliver an emphatic win for the Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition, as he struggles to appease Malaysians unhappy with rising costs and a multi-billion dollar scandal at a state fund he founded.The 64-year-old leader is expected to retain power due to a rift in opposition ranks between Mahathir\'s bloc and the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party.But analysts predict a tough fight from Mahathir, who transformed Malaysia into an industrial nation from a rural backwater during his iron-fisted 22-year rule until 2003.The opposition says the election will be unfair.In recent days, parliament approved plans to redraw electoral boundaries and passed a contentious anti-fake news bill, changes critics say will favour Najib.The government rejects the accusations."If victory is given to BN, we promise to do our best, to carry out a bigger, more inclusive and more comprehensive transformation of the country," Najib said in an announcement on state television, adding that the dissolution of parliament would be effective from Saturday.Polling must be held within 60 days of a dissolution. The Election Commission is expected to meet in days to announce a date for the approximately 14 million eligible voters to cast their ballots.High living costs and corruption are issues that have resonated with voters but overall, Najib\'s standing is likely to be bolstered by a robust economy."We don\'t choose parties, we choose leaders," said 27-year-old Amir Mukris Bakeri, a travel agent in Kuala Lumpur."If the leader can provide for people\'s welfare, that\'s who we\'d pick."Growth has been buoyed by a recovery in global crude oil prices and increased trade and infrastructure investment from Malaysia\'s largest trading partner, China.\'TRICKS\'Political apathy, however, is pervasive among young Malaysians and urban voters, many of whom are reluctant to choose between Mahathir and Najib, who are seen as cut from the same cloth.Mahathir, 92, who was himself criticised for his authoritarian premiership, told a news conference Malaysia\'s 14th general election would be "dirty"."Should Najib win this election through his tricks and his cheating, then we can kiss goodbye to democracy in the 15th, 16th, 17th elections," Mahathir said.If elected, Mahathir would become the world\'s oldest prime minister.Najib resisted demands to step down in mid-2015 following reports of financial mismanagement at state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), including that $681 million was deposited into his personal bank account.Najib has denied any wrongdoing in connection with 1MDB, but the scandal created a rift between Najib and Mahathir, who has become the prime minister\'s harshest critic.With the common goal of taking down Najib, Mahathir has joined hands with his former deputy and jailed opposition leader, Anwar Ibrahim, ending a feud that had shaped the country\'s political narrative over two decades.\'UNPREDICTABLE\'Najib\'s United Malay National Organisation (UMNO) party heads the ruling coalition that has held power since Malaysia\'s independence in 1957.The coalition lost the popular vote in the last election, in 2013, but Najib held on to power with a smaller majority in parliament.Malaysia has a first-past-the-post election system, which is based on the number of seats won, not the popular vote.Even if Najib\'s coalition retains power, a weak victory could lead to an internal leadership challenge against him.His predecessor, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, had to step down after the coalition lost its two-thirds majority in the 222-seat parliament for the first time in 2008."He wants not only to win, but to win big," said Yang Razali Kassim, Senior Fellow at S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore.The election could be a very close call, he said."This will in fact be the most unpredictable general election in Malaysian politics," he said.(Additional reporting by A.Ananthalakshmi, Emily Chow, Liz Lee and Ebrahim Harris; Writing by Praveen Menon; Editing by Michael Perry, Robert Birsel)
NEWARK, N.J.   As five years of hockey frustration ended for the New Jersey Devils, players embraced, raised their sticks to salute their long-suffering fans and just imagined what the future held.The New Jersey Devils are back in the playoffs for the first time since 2012, knowing they have a shot at the Stanley Cup, like 15 other teams after clinching a postseason berth with a 2-1 win over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Thursday night.No tee times this year. No vacation. The real hockey starts next week."There\'s certain moments in your life and certain moments in a season that you want to be able to celebrate," Devils coach John Hynes said. "This is one of them. It\'s a significant accomplishment for us to be able to get ourselves back into the Stanley Cup Playoffs."What the Devils did this season was remarkable. They finished last in the Eastern Conference with 28 wins and 70 points.Their win over the Maple Leafs was their 44th of the season and gave them 97 points with a game to go in the regular season. Patrick Maroon did most of the important work against the Leafs, setting up second-period goals by Pavel Zacha and Miles Wood to provide the margin of victory.After that, it was just a matter of holding off the playoff-bound Maple Leafs, who pushed in the third period.Keith Kinkaid, the mainstay in goal since the end of January, made 31 saves as the Devils won their fourth straight and extended their points streak to eight games (7-0-1). He preserved the lead with a stop in close on Auston Matthews with just over seven minutes to playHe called the final 10 minutes stressful and exciting."The fans were into it," he said. "That\'s an unreal atmosphere out there. You hear how loud they were. Everyone is battling. Everyone is back-checking. Everyone is doing all the little things and we\'re a really hard team to play against when we do that."When the final horn sounded there was a sense of accomplishment. A cheer went up when the Stanley Cup logo and the Devils\' logo were shown on the overhead scoreboard.Center Travis Zajac skated behind defenseman and captain Andy Greene and hugged him. It\'s been a long five years for the only two holdovers from the 2012 team that lost the Stanley Cup Final to the Kings."We\'re a group that doesn\'t give up," Greene said. "We are relentless. We play for each other. We play hard for each other."The Devils also earned this spot, going 10-2-1 in its past 13 games.William Nylander scored on a power play in the first period for Toronto to ice his second straight 20-goal season. Frederik Andersen was outstanding, making 37 saves, including saves on breakaways by Taylor Hall and Michael Grabner in the big second period.The loss was only the fourth in 13 games (9-4) for the Maple Leafs, who will face either Boston or Tampa Bay in the first round of the playoffs."They are a good team," Toronto defenseman Jake Gardiner said. "That\'s as close to playoff hockey as we are going to get right now. That was kind of us last year, fighting for a spot to get in. They played hard. They played well. They didn\'t give us too much."New Jersey, which is currently the first wild card in the Eastern Conference, will have to wait for its playoff opponent to be decided.While the Devils had the majority of shots for the first 27-plus minutes, they fell behind 1-0 when Nylander scored from the right circle 12 seconds after Nico Hischier was called for tripping.Zacha didn\'t tie the game until 7:55 of the second period. He won a puck along the boards in center ice, worked a give-and-go with Maroon entering the Toronto zone and beat Andersen with a shot from the left circle just under the crossbar.Maroon, who was acquired in a trade deadline deal with Edmonton, did all the work on Wood\'s 18th goal. He fended off Nazem Kadri carrying the puck from in front of his bench, all the way behind the net and then came out the other side and found Wood alone in front for a slam dunk.NOTES: Matthews extended his point-scoring streak to eight games with an assist on Nylander\'s goal. ... The Devils won the season series 2-0-1. ... Hall\'s nine-game points scoring streak and four-game goals run were snapped. .... There were four penalties in the game.UP NEXTMaple Leafs: Host Montreal on Saturday night in regular-season finale.Devils: End the regular season at Washington on Saturday night.___More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
Donny from D.C., youre on the air.President Trump  buffeted by rumbling trade tensions with China, delicate negotiations with North Korea and fallout from the Russia investigation  took a few minutes this week to reach for the media equivalent of Linuss blanket: New York City talk radio.When you asked me to do the show, I said, Im thinking, Im gonna take a couple minutes, Im gonna do that show  in between North Korea and Iran and all of the other things going on, Mr. Trump told the hosts of Bernie & Sid in the Morning on WABC-AM, a drive-time program that is not exactly a must-listen beyond certain toll roads in the New York metropolitan area.And I gotta tell you, thats the kind of guy you are, sir, replied Bernard McGuirk, a co-host and a longtime Trump friend. Thats why we love you. (The interview, which aired Friday morning, was taped on Thursday.)The president, a Queens native, grew up immersed in the jabbering, elbows-out culture of talk radio, province of swaggerers like the sports host Mike Francesa. Mr. Trump, who regularly appeared on Howard Sterns program before his election, absorbed the practice of political leaders addressing constituents over the air: New York mayors have long held court by radio, including a memorable exchange in which Rudolph W. Giuliani dressed down the owner of a ferret.Presidents often turn to unconventional news outlets when it comes to reassuring their base: Barack Obamas late-tenure appearances on Between Two Ferns, the Zach Galifianakis web series, and the comedian Marc Marons WTF podcast were lauded by liberal fans, even as traditionalists grumbled.Mr. Trump has proved Scrooge-like when it comes to doling out formal interviews (the major broadcast networks and CNN have not sat down with him in nearly a year), and his last White House news conference was in February  of 2017.His patience for rigorous interviews is thin, and he prefers cozier interlocutors like Jeanine Pirro of Fox News or Mr. McGuirk of WABC, a former Don Imus executive producer and on-air sidekick who, on Friday, praised Mr. Trumps speeches as beautiful, wonderful, fantastic, funny, relaxed.Mr. Trump did manage to make some news during the segment: He let slip that he was pretty unlikely to attend this years White House Correspondents Association Dinner, the clubby black-tie gathering that presidents had attended for decades.Mr. Trumps absence from last years dinner was the first presidential no-show since Ronald Reagan, ailing from a gunshot wound, skipped it in 1981. (The Gipper called in from his hospital bed.) There was buzz around a Trump appearance at this years event after he delivered a monologue at the Gridiron Club gala in March, but that event was not televised. The correspondents dinner is carried live by some cable networks, and the optics of Mr. Trumps hobnobbing with the journalists he routinely derides may be off-brand.The White House has informed us that the president does not plan to participate in this years dinner but that he will actively encourage members of the executive branch to attend, Margaret Talev, president of the White House Correspondents Association, said in a statement on Friday.The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, plans to appear in Mr. Trumps stead.On WABC, Mr. Trump showed no sign of dtente with the press. In fact, he laced into the White House press corps, calling it so bad, its so fake, its so made-up.Theyre like novelists, the president said, who offered no evidence for his claim. I call them novelists. They make up the sources. He deemed last years correspondents dinner a massive failure, prompting Mr. McGuirk to chime in, Yes, yes! Definitely!When asked for comment on Friday, the White House noted that Mr. Trump had pretaped his radio appearance, rather than calling in live. (A producer at WABC said that Mr. Trump had recorded the interview on Thursday morning.) The president said on the air that he was fond of Mr. McGuirk, who, with his co-host, Sid Rosenberg, started the show last week.Mr. Trumps nine-minute appearance on WABC was not exactly an outlier when it comes to high-ranking administration officials making time for local New York programming.Late last month, Lawrence Kudlow, the presidents chief economic adviser, and Ambassador John Bolton, the newly appointed national security adviser, granted interviews to the same relatively obscure radio show: The Cats Roundtable, hosted by the Manhattan oil refinery magnate, supermarket owner and former New York City Republican mayoral candidate John Catsimatidis.So will the president be appearing on the Roundtable soon?I have not asked yet, Mr. Catsimatidis wrote in an email, although he added, He did do pre-election.
NEW YORK   U.S. President Donald Trump will review a list of potential changes to the nation\'s renewable fuel laws at a meeting with members of his cabinet on Monday, two sources said, as biofuels groups warned against any action that would weaken ethanol demand.Trump in recent months has waded deep into the controversial issue of reforming the U.S. Renewable Fuel Standard, a 2005 law requiring refiners to blend increasing amounts of biofuels into their fuel pool each year, or buy credits from those who do.Merchant refiners like Valero and PBF Energy pulled Trump into the debate, arguing that complying with the regulation has grown too costly and will kill off the types of blue-collar jobs Trump had promised to defend.But Trump\'s efforts to reform the law have been met by fierce opposition from corn farmers and ethanol producers who are quick to remind the president that he also vowed to preserve the RFS during corn-belt campaign stops.Monday\'s meeting will include Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt and Agricultural Secretary Sonny Perdue. Pruitt heads into the meeting under pressure from lawmakers to resign over allegations he broke ethics rules by renting a room in a Washington condo owned by the wife of an energy industry lobbyist.Pruitt and Perdue have spent the last several weeks compiling a list of options for Trump to consider on the RFS, ranging from more aggressive tactics like capping the prices of blending credits, called RINs, to lifting seasonal restrictions on high-ethanol gasoline sales."A waiver or cap on RIN prices would fundamentally undermine the Renewable Fuel Standard and deal a massive blow to rural America," Iowa Republican Senator Chuck Grassley said in a statement on Friday.In recent weeks, advisers have urged Trump to let lawmakers tackle the issue, and only use the threat of executive action to coerce them to make it a priority.Iowa farmers and biofuel groups sent a letter to Grassley and fellow Iowa Republican Senator Joni Ernst on Friday, urging them to reach out to Trump to express their anger."Any Administration action to waive or cap RINs will be viewed as nothing less than a declaration of war on rural America and a complete abdication of his repeated promises to protect the RFS, said the letter, orchestrated by the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association.Biofuel groups are also frustrated with the administration over reports that the EPA was exempting small refineries from the program, including three owned by one of the nation\'s largest refining companies, Andeavor.(Reporting by Jarrett Renshaw; editing by Tom Brown)
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone   Sierra Leone\'s new president in an interview with The Associated Press is pledging to avoid the "ethnic cleansing" of clearing out government posts for his supporters.Julius Maada Bio spoke the day after winning the West African nation\'s runoff election. The former opposition candidate and military leader now faces the challenge of helping the country of 7 million people recover from the devastating Ebola epidemic of 2014-2016.The election was the fourth since Sierra Leone\'s brutal civil war ended in 2002, and concerns about potential divisions along ethnic, political or regional lines remain fresh."No Sierra Leonean should feel threatened by my ascension to power," Bio said Thursday. "I am not going to discriminate. National cohesion is very much a part of my program."Defeated candidate Samura Kamara has said the former ruling All Peoples Congress party intends to take "appropriate legal action" against the election results, saying they "did not reflect the will of the voters."Any registered voter has seven days to petition the Supreme Court over the results. Bio was swiftly sworn into office before midnight Wednesday, minutes after results were announced.Bio told the AP that Sierra Leone should proceed with life as normal."Attacking anybody is not necessarily ... is not going to change the result of this election," he said.With his win, his Sierra Leone Peoples Party takes power for the first time in a decade.The new president now faces a parliament that is dominated by the APC party. Outgoing leader Ernest Bai Koroma with the APC had served two terms and was barred by the constitution from running again.The election had caused tensions in Sierra Leone as a member of the then-ruling party filed a legal challenge to the results of the first round of voting and a temporary injunction was issued, stalling preparations. The high court later lifted the injunction but the runoff vote was delayed by a few days. The opposition under Bio called the court challenge a delaying tactic."It has been a very difficult journey to get here," Bio said.The way ahead won\'t be easy, either, he added. People will need to be convinced that he means what he says about unity and a lack of favoritism in government.He acknowledged that his background as military leader also has caused some skepticism among Sierra Leoneans, but he remained optimistic."I remember when (former U.S. President John F.) Kennedy said he will land a human being on the moon, everybody said he was dreaming. When I said I will come back to the statehouse using the ballots, everybody said, \'You only know bullets.\' So, it\'s a dream come true."___
(Reuters) - A New York judge on Thursday awarded title of two Nazi-looted drawings by noted Austrian painter Egon Schiele to a Holocaust victim\'s heirs in what art experts viewed as a key test case of a U.S. law designed to ease the recovery of such stolen works.Under the ruling, both works - "Woman in a Black Pinafore" and "Woman Hiding her Face" - are to be turned over to descendants of Franz Friedrich "Fritz" Grunbaum, an Austrian-Jewish entertainer and impresario who perished in the Dachau concentration camp in 1941.Grunbaum, a vocal critic of the Nazis, once owned some 450 artworks, including more than 80 by Schiele, an Expressionist protege of Gustav Klimt and a major figurative painter of the early 20th century in his own right.Grunbaum\'s art collection was seized by the Nazi regime after he was arrested in 1938 and sent to Dachau, according to a synopsis of the case contained in Thursday\'s summary judgment.The two Schiele works in question turned up decades later, in a booth operated by a London-based dealer, Richard Nagy, at a 2015 art and design show in New York City, and the heirs filed suit seeking to recover the drawings.Nagy\'s lawyers asserted he had acquired legitimate title to the two drawings, stemming from a 1956 sale of some 50 Schiele works by Grunbaum\'s sister-in-law to a gallery in Switzerland, and that the heirs\' rights to bring their claim had long since expired.In his 17-page decision, however, Justice Charles Ramos of the state Supreme Court in Manhattan sided against Nagy, citing the Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery (HEAR) Act.That law, enacted by Congress in 2016, extended the federal statute of limitations for seeking restitution of Nazi-confiscated art to six years from the time of "actual discovery" of its identity and whereabouts.Nagy\'s lawyers argued the HEAR Act did not apply, a position the judge called "absurd," saying the statute was "intended to apply to cases precisely like this one."The judge said there was no dispute the artworks at stake formerly belonged to Grunbaum and were forcibly taken by the Nazis during World War Two, a fact that put the onus on Nagy to establish a superior claim. Ramos said no such evidence was presented.The judge also held that New York law "protects the rightful owner\'s property where that property had been stolen, even if the property is in the possession of a good faith purchaser."Raymond Dowd, lawyer for the Grunbaum heirs - named in the case as Timothy Reif, David Frankel and Milos Vavra - hailed the decision as a landmark in bringing justice to Holocaust victims.The ruling, he said, "brought us a step closer to recovering all of the culture that was stolen during the largest mass theft in history, which until now, has been overshadowed by history\'s largest mass murder."(Reporting and writing by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Editing by Michael Perry)
LONDON   Former Russian spy Sergei Skripal is no longer in a critical condition and his health is improving rapidly, more than a month after he was poisoned with a nerve agent in England, the hospital treating him said on Friday.Skripal, 66, who as a colonel in Russian military intelligence betrayed dozens of agents to Britain\'s foreign spy service, was found slumped unconscious on a bench in the city of Salisbury along with his daughter Yulia on March 4.Britain blamed Russia for the poisoning, the first known offensive use of such a nerve agent on European soil since World War Two. Moscow denied any involvement and suggested Britain had carried out the attack to stoke anti-Russian hysteria.After weeks of no reported change in his condition, the hospital confirmed that Skripal, who had been treated under heavy sedation, was now making fast progress."He is responding well to treatment, improving rapidly and is no longer in a critical condition," Christine Blanshard, Medical Director at Salisbury District Hospital, said in a statement.Prime Minister Theresa May said the Skripals were poisoned with Novichok, a deadly group of nerve agents developed by the Soviet military in the 1970s and 1980s.Russia has said it does not have such nerve agents and President Vladimir Putin dismissed as nonsense the notion that Moscow would have poisoned Skripal and his 33-year-old daughter.The attack prompted the biggest Western expulsion of Russian diplomats since the Cold War as allies in Europe and the United States sided with May\'s view that Moscow was either responsible or had lost control of the nerve agent.Moscow has hit back by expelling Western diplomats, questioning how Britain knows that Russia was responsible and offering its rival interpretations, including that it amounted to a plot by British secret services.Skripal\'s improvement marks the latest twist in an affair that British and Russian diplomats have variously compared with Sherlock Holmes and Agatha Christie mysteries.Doctors had initially feared that the Skripals might have suffered permanent brain damage. A British judge said last month that the attack might have left them with compromised mental capacity, with an unclear effect on their long-term health.The hospital did not say whether either Sergei or Yulia would suffer long term effects. Britain\'s foreign office welcomed the improvement in the Skripals but said they were "likely to have ongoing medical needs".One toxicologist said recovery in such cases was possible.    "We know that nerve agents cause a temporary but potentially lengthy effect on the brain and nervous system. What we also know however, is that with time the body clears the nerve agent away," Chris Morris, a doctor at Newcastle University\'s Medical Toxicology Centre, said in a statement."If the correct treatment is given quickly and the right support provided, then recovery is typically very good."Yulia\'s health has also improved rapidly. On Thursday, she issued a statement through British police to thank hospital staff and people who came to her help when "when my father and I were incapacitated".Russian state television reported that Yulia had phoned her cousin in Russia and told her that she and her father were both recovering and that she expected to leave hospital soon. Their recovery could ultimately help British counter-terrorism police piece together how they were attacked.British authorities have denied the cousin, Viktoria Skripal, a visa to visit the patients, the Home Office (interior ministry) said on Friday. Victoria Skripal told Sky News that the "British must have something to hide" after the decision.CLAIMS, COUNTER-CLAIMS AND THREATSBoth Moscow and London have accused each other of trying to deceive the world with an array of claims, counter-claims and threats.In a separate announcement, the United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians in one of Washington\'s most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for what it called a range of "malign activity," including alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election.At a session of the executive of the global chemical weapons watchdog this week, Russia called for a joint inquiry into the poisoning of the Skripals, but lost a vote on the motion.At a United Nation Security Council meeting on Thursday, Russia warned Britain that "you\'re playing with fire and you\'ll be sorry" over its accusations.Sergei Skripal, who was recruited by Britain\'s MI6, was arrested for treason in Moscow in 2004. He ended up in Britain after being swapped in 2010 for Russian spies caught in the United States.Since emerging from the John le Carre world of high espionage and betrayal, Skripal lived modestly in Salisbury and kept out of the spotlight until he was found poisoned.British police believe a nerve agent was left on the front door of his home. Skripal\'s cat was put down by British authorities. His guinea pigs were discovered dead."When a vet was able to access the property, two guinea pigs had sadly died," a British government spokeswoman said."A cat was also found in a distressed state and a decision was taken by a veterinary surgeon to euthanise the animal to alleviate its suffering," the spokeswoman said.(Editing by Richard Balmforth and David Stamp)
NAHAL OZ, Israel  With tear gas and burning tires fouling the air and gunfire periodically ringing out from one direction, Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the fence hemming in the Gaza Strip for a second week on Friday. Nine Palestinians were killed, including two teenagers, and a thousand were wounded, Palestinian officials said.The demonstrations were smaller than those last week, when 22 people were killed. But the death toll was significant, despite a pledge by Hamas, the militant group that controls Gaza, that the protest would be peaceful, and by Israel that it had learned from last week and would use live fire judiciously.Hamas insisted that demonstrators would be unarmed, though it carved out an exception for rock throwing.Today we are sending a message that our struggle is without arms and guns, and we will wait and see if the world receives the message, and pressures Israel to stop its crimes against our people, Mahmoud al-Zahar, a senior Hamas leader, told reporters at the protests in Gaza City. And if the world fails to do so, we then will be obliged to use our arms.Israeli military officials had said they would use live ammunition if necessary to stop Palestinians from penetrating or damaging the barrier fence, which is actually at least two fences  one a crude barrier of barbed wire; the other, some yards behind, a more complicated structure equipped with electronic sensors.The Israelis released surveillance video clips late in the day that they said showed attempts to cut openings in the barrier, and military officials said that some demonstrators were throwing firebombs at Israeli soldiers.In one instance, in the Shejaiya neighborhood of Gaza City, Palestinians appeared to try to cross the fence and Israeli soldiers responded with live fire. Hundreds of protesters fled from the barrier en masse. Children cried and families took cover behind parked cars until the shots ceased.I believe Im going to cross the fence, even if they shoot me or cut me in half, said Bilal Abu Zaher, 26, who came to the protest on crutches. He said he had been disabled since his house was damaged by an Israeli airstrike in the 2008 Israel-Gaza war. On Thursday, he said, Israeli soldiers shot at his wheelchair, damaging it. On Friday, he was back at the fence.Im here for dignity, he said. My goal is to return to the land.A Palestinian journalists association said that six Palestinian journalists had been shot and wounded by the Israeli Army, local news media reported. An Associated Press reporter tweeted on Friday night that one of them, a video journalist, had died, and was among the nine killed for the day.The protests are aimed at Israels blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Billed as a six-week March of Return, the demonstrations are to culminate on May 15 with Nakba Day, which commemorates the flight and expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians during Israels 1948 war for independence.By Friday, it was clear that they had already achieved one Palestinian aim: shifting the focus of international attention away from the struggle between Hamas and the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority  and onto the stark image of Gaza as a prison with Israel as its jailer.Palestinian protesters flocked to the barrier fence on Friday, chanting, waving flags, flying kites  and setting fire to piles of tires.Hamas, which has been effectively running the protests, said the smoke screen was a defensive measure to protect unarmed Palestinians from being shot, as many were last Friday, the first day of the demonstrations.Israeli officials insisted the smoke screens were meant to provide cover for militants trying to make it across the barrier fence to attack soldiers and Israeli civilians living in farming communities nearby.Either way, the smoke screens appeared effective: From the Israeli side, a detachment of Israeli soldiers ensconced behind earthen berms near the Nahal Oz kibbutz could only occasionally glimpse the hundreds of protesters in the Shajaiye neighborhood of Gaza City through vast clouds of acrid black smoke.The Israelis first tried dispersing the smoke with an industrial-sized fan, trucked in on trailers. When that did not immediately work, they began trying to douse the fires with water cannons, setting off cheers among the protesters when that, too, did little.In Shejaiya, one of five main gathering points for the protesters, ambulances and stretchers came and went throughout the day. At one point, as a lightly wounded man holding a slingshot was carried off, he made an obscene gesture toward the Israeli side, prompting cheers and laughter; another held up two fingers in a victory sign.Israeli news outlets reported that Palestinians had built an ancient war machine  a trebuchet, or slingshot-like catapult  to hurl heavy stones or even burning tires at the Israeli side. The reports included photos of the trebuchet but there was no confirmation on Friday that it had been deployed.The United Nations urged both sides to avoid violence and said there were strong indications that Israeli security forces had used excessive force last week in driving back protesters, which may have breached international law.Elizabeth Throssell, a spokeswoman for the United Nations human rights office in Geneva, said the high casualty toll among protesters who were unarmed or did not pose a serious threat to security forces  and in some cases were running away from the fence  suggested Israeli troops may have used excessive force.Some protesters had reportedly acted dangerously, but international law permits the use of lethal force only as a last resort in the face of an imminent threat of death or serious injury, she said. An attempt to approach or cross the green-line fence by itself certainly does not amount to a threat to life or serious injury that would justify the use of live ammunition, she said.If there is unjustified and unlawful recourse to firearms resulting in death, that may amount to willful killing and thats a grave breach of the fourth Geneva Convention, she added.At the United Nations headquarters in New York, the Palestinian ambassador, Riyad H. Mansour, condemned what he described as a failure by the Security Council to do anything to resolve the situation in Gaza, in particular its inability to vote on a joint statement condemning the violence last week.We believe that the Security Council to continue to disregard its responsibility is encouraging the Israeli side to continue with this onslaught against our people, he said at a news conference outside of the Security Council chamber.At the protests on Friday, despite the occasional crack of gunfire and whistle of bullets, which sent demonstrators running for cover, there was an eerily festive, almost carnival-like atmosphere on the periphery, with vendors selling food, drinks and flags. Israeli drones and surveillance balloons flew overhead, as did the occasional kite in the Palestinian national colors of red, black, white and green.On the Israeli side, civilians sought vantage points with binoculars and cameras, straining to see the action from kibbutz watchtowers or outcroppings of farmland.For much of the afternoon, thousands of Palestinians massed a few hundred yards from the fence, cheering and chanting like fans in a soccer stadium, applauding protesters who defied the Israelis, and jeering the Israelis firing of tear gas canisters, as if to say it couldnt harm them. Some tried distracting Israeli snipers with mirrors reflecting the brilliant sun.Again and again, as the sun sunk into the Mediterranean, came the sound of gunshots, the wail of sirens, the cheers in Arabic: We are heading to Jerusalem with millions of martyrs.
JACKSON, Miss.   A Mississippi Democrat who was President Bill Clinton\'s first agriculture secretary officially announced his candidacy for U.S. Senate on Friday, saying he\'ll run in a special election to finish the term started by longtime Republican Thad Cochran.Mike Espy, also Mississippi\'s first African-American elected to Congress since Reconstruction, had already said he had a "strong intention" to run.The 64-year-old Espy, who lives in the Jackson suburb of Ridgeland, said in a statement released by his campaign that, like Cochran, he wants to be a "calming voice" that appeals to all Mississippians."It is in this same spirit that I offer my candidacy  to rise above party and partisan wrangling in an effort to appeal to all Mississippians  as we unite to show the nation, at the end of this second decade of the 21st century  just how far we have come," Espy said in the statement.Cochran, 80, retired Sunday, citing poor health. Gov. Phil Bryant appointed fellow Republican Cindy Hyde-Smith to temporarily succeed Cochran. She will be sworn in Monday and will run in a special election in November.Republicans are trying to maintain their slim Senate majority in this year\'s midterm election. Though Mississippi is a conservative state, Democratic leaders are pointing to their party\'s victory in a special U.S. Senate election in Alabama in December as proof that the party can compete in the solidly Republican South. The last time Mississippi had a Democrat in the Senate was in January 1989, when John C. Stennis retired.The special election winner will serve until January 2021. Besides Espy and Hyde-Smith, two other candidates have announced: Republican state Sen. Chris McDaniel of Ellisville and Democratic Tupelo Mayor Jason Shelton. Candidates won\'t be identified by party on the ballot, but they are allowed to tell voters their political affiliation.Other candidates could also emerge before the April 24 qualifying deadline. Republican Andy Taggart and Democrat Jamie Franks have both ruled out candidacies in recent days.Espy in 1986 became the first African-American in modern times to win a congressional seat in Mississippi, and he has publicly supported both Democrats and Republicans in various races. Born in Yazoo City, Espy is a member of a prominent family that built a chain of funeral homes across Mississippi\'s Delta region, giving them contacts in African-American communities. Espy also appealed to white farmers who underpin the region\'s struggling economy, and that agricultural focus led Clinton to name Espy to his Cabinet. Espy was indicted for illegally accepting gifts and favors while secretary and trying to cover it up, but was later acquitted at trial of all charges. Jurors said prosecutors never proved Espy had any criminal intent or delivered any favor as a result of the gifts.Since the verdict, Espy has worked as a lawyer. He would be the third African-American to serve as a U.S. senator from Mississippi. Hiram Revels and Blanche Bruce both served during Reconstruction in the years after the Civil War.Mississippi also has a regularly scheduled election this year for a six-year Senate term. Republican incumbent Roger Wicker, who has been in the Senate since late 2007, faces a political newcomer, Richard Boyanton of Diamondhead, in the June 5 primary.Running in the Democratic primary on the same day are state Rep. David Baria of Bay St. Louis; Jensen Bohren of Benton; Victor G. Maurice of Pass Christian; Jerone Garland of Kosciusko; state Rep. Omeria Scott of Laurel; and Howard Sherman of Meridian.___Follow Jeff Amy at: http://twitter.com/jeffamy . Read his work at https://www.apnews.com/search/Jeff_Amy .
BERLIN   Germany and France will launch a programme this month to develop  a successor to their ageing marine surveillance aircraft, amid growing concern about increases in Russian submarine patrols.German Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen and her French counterpart, Florence Parly, plan to sign a letter of intent about the new "Maritime Airborne Warfare System" at the Berlin air show on April 27, the German navy said on its website.The two countries agreed last July to seek a "European solution" to replace existing marine surveillance planes, and develop a road map to that end by mid-2018. The letter of intent formalises those plans and paves the way for both countries to harmonise their military requirements for the maritime mission.The initiative is part of a larger drive by France and Germany to increase their cooperation on defence programmes, including efforts to develop a new European fighter jet.Germany now uses the P-3C Orion built by Lockheed Martin Corp to patrol large swathes of ocean for submarines and other potential threats, while France operates the Atlantique 2, or ATL2, produced by Dassault Aviation in the 1980s.Elisabeth Braw, a London-based fellow at the U.S. Atlantic Council think tank, said the new Franco-German projects might succeed better than the A400M military transport plane and other past projects because they did not involve as many states.But she said it was unclear if European industry had the expertise to develop a new fighter jet that could beat U.S. rivals in future international competitions."Even Airbus is not 100 percent successful, so to go from there to a new fighter jet, it\'s a very long leap of faith," she said.German navy officials were not immediately available for further comment on the programme, or how it will tie into an effort by eight NATO allies, including France and Germany, to cooperate on "multinational maritime multi-mission aircraft capabilities." The programme also includes Canada, Poland, Italy, Spain, Turkey and Greece.NATO members are modernising and upgrading military equipment in the wake of increasingly assertive actions by Russia, including a high level of submarine patrols not seen since the end of the Cold War.France and Germany will also take a "significant first step" on development of a new European fighter jet at the Berlin air show, France\'s Parly told French media on Thursday.In addition, they will display for the first time a life-sized model of the planned "Eurodrone," a programme that also involves Italy and Spain.Germany on Friday underscored its commitment to European defence integration, but said it also planned to be more assertive about seeking waivers from European Union regulations that require Europe-wide competition for defence equipment.Defence Ministry spokesman Holger Neumann told a government news conference the step was part of a larger effort to improve Germany\'s weapons buying system amid reports of shortfalls in military equipment and personnel.(Additional reporting by Sabine Siebold; Editing by Andrew Roche)
Two valuable artworks by Egon Schiele, with a long disputed provenance, must be returned to the heirs of an Austrian Jewish entertainer who owned them before he died in the Dachau concentration camp in 1941, a New York State Supreme Court judge has ruled.The ruling Thursday, by Judge Charles J. Ramos, is one of the first successful applications of the Holocaust Expropriated Recovery, or HEAR, Act, passed by Congress in 2016, and designed to ease statute of limitations restrictions for plaintiffs seeking to recover artwork stolen during World War II.The two disputed Schiele drawings  Woman in a Black Pinafore (1911) and Woman Hiding her Face (1912)  were part of a 449-piece collection owned by Fritz Grunbaum, a well-known cabaret performer in Vienna who was also a vocal critic of the Nazis. For years, Mr. Grunbaums heirs have argued in courts and elsewhere that the Nazis stole the collection, which included 81 Schieles, and that the collection should be returned to its rightful owners.In a previous case, filed in 2005, a court ruled against the heirs as they attempted to recover a Schiele drawing from the Grunbaum collection Seated Woman With Bent Left Leg (Torso) from a Boston businessman who had bought the work in 1963. The court said too much time had passed prior to the Grunbaums claim, causing evidence to be lost.But this time, Raymond Dowd, the lawyer for the heirs, cited the HEAR Act in his pleadings and Judge Ramos cited it as among the legal justifications for his decision. The HEAR Act compels us to help return Nazi-looted art to its heirs, the judge wrote in his 16-page ruling, in which he noted the gut-wrenching process by which Mr. Grunbaums property was looted.The attorney for the London gallery of Richard Nagy, an art dealer who had bought the drawings several years ago, said he plans to appeal the decision. Mr. Nagy argued in court that, while the Nazis inventoried the drawings, they never actually seized them. He has asserted he has good title because, after Mr. Grunbaums murder, the entertainers sister-in-law, Mathilde Lukacs, sold 54 artworks, including the two disputed Schiele drawings, to a gallery in Switzerland, which resold them in 1956. Mr. Nagy bought full control of the two drawings in December 2013 and included them in a show at the Park Avenue Armory in Manhattan in 2015.But Judge Ramos ruled there was no evidence that Ms. Lukas had good title to the works and rejected the idea that Mr. Grunbaum had voluntarily transferred the artworks during his lifetime to an heir. A signature at gunpoint cannot lead to a valid conveyance, he wrote.Mr. Dowd said the heirs hope to sell the Schiele drawings in November at Christies, the auction house, in conjunction with the 100th anniversary of Schieles death. He filed a motion with the court to have the works transferred to the auction house.The heirs had not known where these two Schiele drawings were until they were spotted at the 2015 Armory exhibition. Mr. Dowd demanded their return then but Mr. Nagy argued he had good title.Until the HEAR act, heirs who filed claims could not reliably recover if their claims were too old. Under the new law, the statute of limitations does not start ticking until the claimants actually discover the work, as in this case at the Armory exhibit.Justice Ramos strong vindication of the HEAR Act shows that jurists will uphold Congress intent to provide justice to Holocaust victims and their survivors, Mr. Dowd wrote in an email.
WASHINGTON   When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn\'t on the line.When Trump tapped John Bolton to be his next national security adviser, Kelly wasn\'t in the room.And when Trump spent a Mar-a-Lago weekend stewing over immigration and trade, Kelly wasn\'t in sight.Kelly, once empowered to bring order to a turbulent West Wing, has receded from view, his clout diminished, his word less trusted by staff and his guidance less tolerated by an increasingly go-it-alone president.Emboldened in his job, Trump has rebelled against Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely. It\'s all leading White House staffers and Trump allies to believe that Kelly is working on borrowed time.In recent weeks, Trump has governed at breakneck pace, ousting aides and issuing surprise policy announcements on Twitter, recreating the helter-skelter feel of his first months in office. Kelly\'s allies maintain that his retreat is strategic. They suggest that the belief that Kelly was Trump\'s savior was an overstated idea all along and that the chief of staff is now content to loosen the reins and allow an increasingly comfortable president to govern from his gut.But those close to the president say that Trump has increasingly expressed fatigue at Kelly\'s attempts to shackle him and that while Trump is not ready to fire Kelly, he has begun gradually freezing out his top aide.Trump recently told one confidant that he was "tired of being told no" by Kelly and has instead chosen to simply not tell Kelly things at all, according to a person who was not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity.In Trump\'s West Wing, once the rumors begin that an aide\'s exit is forthcoming, the "stink" on that staffer never leaves, according to one of the nearly dozen White House aides, former administration officials and outside advisers who spoke to The Associated Press under the same conditions.As Kelly\'s public profile and behind-the-scenes influence has faded, speculation has risen that chaos could return."It\'s not tenable for Kelly to remain in this position so weakened," said Chris Whipple, author of "Gatekeepers," a history of modern White House chiefs of staff. "More than any of his predecessors, Donald Trump needs an empowered chief of staff to tell him what he does not want to hear. Trump wants to run the White House like the 26th floor of Trump Tower, and it\'s simply not going to work."Kelly was once a fixture at the president\'s side, but Trump has now cut him out of a number of important decisions.For months, Kelly made it a practice to listen in to many of the president\'s calls, particularly with world leaders. While he is still on the line for some of those conversations, Kelly was not part of the call Trump made to Putin last month from the White House residence during which Trump ignored advisers\' advice against congratulating the Russian president on his re-election.Although Kelly had agitated for the removal of outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster, he counseled Trump against hiring Bolton, a neo-conservative media commentator. Trump did it anyway, offering the job to Bolton in a one-on-one meeting in the Oval Office and telling his chief of staff about it later.As Trump spent the Easter weekend at his Florida resort and tweeted about his tariffs plan, Kelly was out of state, though the men did consult by phone. While Kelly has fumed about the ethics questions swirling around Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, Trump was at least initially more supportive of Pruitt, telling him, "We\'ve got your back."The president also has cast aside the constraints the retired four-star Marine general tried to place on Trump about whom he could see and speak to. Those restrictions led shunned advisers to try to undermine the chief of staff in the press and with Trump. For months, former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was barred from the White House, only to return when Kelly was overruled by Trump, according to four White House aides and outside advisers.Many in the West Wing believed that Kelly\'s attempts to curtail Trump\'s interactions with Lewandowski, as well as Trump allies such as David Bossie and Anthony Scaramucci, were always destined to fail and alienate the president, who has privately contemplated recreating the freewheeling nature of his campaign and Trump Tower office. Kelly also has clashed with Trump\'s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, who had his security clearance downgraded after a policy change written by the chief of staff.Some White House aides contend that Kelly has been intentionally giving Trump more leeway to be himself and that Kelly recognizes that\'s what Trump wants. But allies acknowledged Kelly\'s receding power and said he\'s trying to keep his head down and focus on policy, such as the plan to mobilize the National Guard along the U.S. border with Mexico.The White House declined to make Kelly available for an interview. In public, Trump praises his chief of staff, telling Marines in California last month that Kelly probably "likes what you do better than what he does, but he\'s doing a great job."The speculation surrounding Kelly echoes the treatment of his predecessor, Reince Priebus, who was the subject of months of questions about how long he would last on the job. Priebus eventually resigned under pressure.Kelly also no longer commands the same respect among some quarters of the staff. His role came under harsh scrutiny this year over his handling of the controversy surrounding ousted White House aide Rob Porter, who was accused of domestic abuse.Kelly\'s shifting version of events elicited frustration from former communications director Hope Hicks, who had been dating Porter, and dismayed a number of West Wing staffers. That episode frustrated Trump, who still remains agitated about an interview that Kelly gave to Fox News months ago in which he suggested that Trump had "evolved" in his thinking about the need for a wall on the Mexican border.Kelly, who took the job last July, had previously told confidants he hoped to be on the job for a year. One person familiar with his thinking said the chief of staff recently voiced doubt he would make it that far.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Jill Colvin contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey
MOSCOW   Some of Russia's richest and most influential people were hit with sanctions Friday by U.S. President Donald Trump's administration.In total, 24 Russian officials and tycoons face new restrictions while a dozen companies were targeted as Washington stepped up its condemnation of Russia's actions in recent years, including its 2014 annexation of Crimea, support for Syrian President Bashar Assad, hacking attacks and meddling in Western elections.A look at some of those targeted by the new U.S. sanctions:___OLIGARCHS- Kirill Shamalov: At 36, he is Russia's youngest billionaire and reportedly married to President Vladimir Putin's daughter Katerina Tikhonova. The Treasury Department states directly that he is Putin's son-in-law, although the Kremlin has never acknowledged that Tikhonova is Putin's younger daughter. Media reports earlier this year said the couple had split. In 2014, Shamalov acquired a large share of Russian petrochemical company Sibur, later selling most of his stake for an undisclosed sum. Forbes magazine estimated his wealth at $1.4 billion.- Igor Rotenberg: He is the 44-year-old son of billionaire Arkady Rotenberg, Putin's friend since both started practicing judo as teenagers in the 1960s. He began his career as a partner of his father and later came to control the oil and gas exploration company Gazprom Burenie and an operator of a nationwide toll system for heavy trucks. Forbes estimated his wealth at over $1.1 billion.- Oleg Deripaska: The metals tycoon controls a business empire with assets in aluminum, energy and construction and is worth $5.3 billion, according to Forbes. Deripaska, 55, figured in the Russia investigation over his ties to former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who once worked as his consultant.- Viktor Vekselberg: The magnate built his fortune, currently estimated by Forbes at $14.6 billion, by investing in aluminum and oil industries. More recently, he has expanded his assets to include industrial equipment and high technologies. Vekselberg, 60, also gained notoriety in 2004 by buying the world's largest private collection of imperial Faberge eggs  nine in total  and bringing it back to Russia.___OFFICIALS- Andrei Kostin: He heads Russia's second-largest bank, VTB, which is majority-owned by the state and plays a pivotal role in the Russian economy. Kostin, 61, is part of the Kremlin elite and is involved in making key economic decisions.- Alexei Miller: The CEO of Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled natural gas giant, is a longtime associate of Putin's. Miller, 56, has played a key role in spearheading Gazprom's expansion, including its booming gas sales to Europe.- Nikolai Patrushev: The KGB veteran is the secretary of the presidential Security Council, a body that includes Cabinet members and chiefs of intelligence agencies. Patrushev, 66, known for his hawkish anti-Western stance, has been involved in preparing key foreign policy decisions and is believed to be one of Putin's closest and most influential advisers.- Viktor Zolotov: He began his career as a KGB bodyguard in the 1970s and served as the chief of the presidential security service for 13 years from 2000. Zolotov, 64, is another powerful representative of Kremlin hawks. As the National Guard chief, he commands a force that numbers hundreds of thousands of troops.- Alexei Dyumin: He served as Putin's chief security guard and assistant before being promoted to lead the Russian military's special operations forces. In 2014, he oversaw the annexation of Crimea and the following year became a deputy defense minister. Since his 2016 appointment as governor of the Tula region, Dyumin, 45, has received unusually prominent coverage by state media, fueling speculation Putin is grooming him as a possible successor.- Yevgeny Shkolov: He reportedly has known Putin since the 1980s when they worked together as KGB officers in Dresden, East Germany. In 2012, Putin named Shkolov to a key Kremlin position overseeing personnel and later put him in charge of anti-corruption efforts. Shkolov, 62, has kept a low profile but is believed to be close to Putin.- Vladimir Kolokoltsev: A career police officer, he became Russia's interior minister in charge of the entire national police force in 2012. Kolokoltsev, 56, is considered to be a good professional who doesn't have much political clout.- Mikhail Fradkov: Now 67, he began his career as a Soviet foreign trade official and then held a succession of government jobs, serving as prime minister from 2004 to 2007 during Putin's second presidential term. For the following decade, he headed Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service, the KGB successor agency dealing with spying abroad. In 2017, he was given an honorary position at the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies, a government-funded think tank that was reportedly involved in Russia's alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.- Alexander Zharov: The 53-year-old head of Roskomnadzor, the state communications oversight agency, has directed its efforts to shut down some online media and other resources critical of the Kremlin, but he's not perceived as someone who wields any political influence.- Konstantin Kosachev: He is a 55-year-old career diplomat who held various Foreign Ministry positions until his election to parliament in 1999. As the chairman of the foreign affairs committee in the upper house of parliament, Kosachev has actively promoted the Kremlin foreign policy agenda, but like other members of the rubber-stamp parliament he's not seen as close to decision-making.___COMPANIESThe U.S. list includes several companies owned and controlled by Deripaska, including Basic Element Limited and EN+ Group, which is registered in Jersey. The list also includes companies controlled by Shamalov, Rotenberg and Vekselberg. In addition, the sanctions target the state-controlled arms trader, Rosoboronexport, and the Russian Financial Corporation Bank owned by it.
LINCOLN, Neb.   Actor and model Hopper Penn has been released from jail after he and actress Uma Von Wittkamp were arrested on drug charges earlier this week in Nebraska.Here are some facts about the couple and their arrest:___A FAMOUS FAMILYPenn, 24, is the son of Sean Penn, the Academy Award-winning actor, filmmaker and political activist known for his roles in "Fast Times at Ridgemont High," \'\'Mystic River" and "Milk." His mother is Robin Wright, an actress and director known for her work in the Netflix drama "House of Cards" and movies including "Wonder Woman" and "The Princess Bride."Named after Dennis Hopper and Jack Nicolson, Hopper Jack Penn was born in Los Angeles but was largely raised in Ross, a small, exclusive town outside of San Francisco. He and his mother moved back to Los Angeles around the time Wright filed for divorce in 2009.He\'s also the nephew of singer-songwriter Michael Penn and the late actor Chris Penn. His sister, Dylan Frances, is a model and actress.Hopper Penn has gained some fame of his own. He acted in the film "War Machine" with Brad Pitt, and models eyewear for Fendi, an Italian luxury fashion house. But he has shied from the label "actor," noting his regular job at a Los Angeles pizza restaurant.Von Wittkamp is less well-known, but played a role in the 2015 film short "Endings, Inc."___STRUGGLES WITH ADDICTIONHopper Penn told the Evening Standard last year that he fell in with a "bad crowd" during his parents\' divorce, which was finalized in 2010. His spiral apparently began a month after he moved to Los Angeles, when he was badly injured in a skateboarding accident and had to undergo surgery for bleeding on the brain.Penn has since admitted to using a variety of drugs, including methamphetamine, but said he sought treatment."I went to rehab because I woke up in (the) hospital and my dad said, \'Rehab? Or bus bench?\'" he said in the Evening Standard interview. "I was like, \'I\'ll take the bed.\'"A representative for the agency that represents Hopper Penn did not have any immediate comment.___THE ARRESTHopper Penn was arrested Wednesday afternoon with Von Wittkamp, his 26-year-old girlfriend, after a Nebraska State Patrol trooper stopped them on westbound Interstate 80 for allegedly failing to signal. A Hamilton County sheriff\'s dispatcher said Penn and Von Wittkamp were released Thursday after posting $25,000 bond apiece.Authorities said the trooper detected "drug activity" in the 1992 Volvo and searched the car. Inside, they said they found 14 grams of marijuana, four amphetamine pills and 3 grams of psilocybin, a psychedelic drug commonly known as mushrooms.Penn was charged with possession of a controlled substance (psilocybin) and possession of marijuana. Von Wittkamp was charged with possession of a controlled substance (amphetamine) and possession of a controlled substance (psilocybin).Possession of a controlled substance is a felony in Nebraska, punishable by up to two years in prison, a year of post-release supervision and a $10,000 fine. Because Penn allegedly had one ounce or less of marijuana and it\'s his first offense in Nebraska, the marijuana charge is only punishable by a citation, a $300 fine and a possible drug-treatment course.Deputy Hamilton County Attorney Benjamin Dennis said he didn\'t have any information about the case beyond what was in court filings.
BOSTON   Assault weapons and large-capacity magazines are not protected by the Second Amendment, a federal judge said in a ruling Friday upholding Massachusetts\' ban on the weapons.U.S. District Judge William Young dismissed a lawsuit challenging the 20-year-old ban, saying assault weapons are military firearms that fall beyond the reach of the constitutional right to "bear arms."Regulation of the weapons is a matter of policy, not for the courts, he said."Other states are equally free to leave them unregulated and available to their law-abiding citizens," Young said. "These policy matters are simply not of constitutional moment. Americans are not afraid of bumptious, raucous and robust debate about these matters. We call it democracy."State Attorney General Maura Healey said the ruling "vindicates the right of the people of Massachusetts to protect themselves from these weapons of war.""Strong gun laws save lives, and we will not be intimidated by the gun lobby in our efforts to end the sale of assault weapons and protect our communities and schools," Healey, a Democrat, said in a statement. "Families across the country should take heart in this victory."AR-15 assault-style rifles are under increased scrutiny because of their use in several recent mass shootings, including the February massacre at a Florida high school that left 17 people dead.The Gun Owners Gun Owners\' Action League of Massachusetts and other groups that filed the lawsuit argued that the AR-15 cannot be considered a "military weapon" because it cannot fire in fully automatic mode.But Young dismissed that argument, noting that the semi-automatic AR-15\'s design is based on guns "that were first manufactured for military purposes" and that the AR-15 is "common and well-known in the military.""The AR-15 and its analogs, along with large capacity magazines, are simply not weapons within the original meaning of the individual constitutional right to \'bear arms,\'" Young wrote.Young also upheld Healey\'s 2016 enforcement notice to gun sellers and manufacturers clarifying what constitutes a "copy" or "duplicate" weapon under the state\'s 1998 assault weapon ban, including copies of the Colt AR-15 and the Kalashnikov AK-47.Healey\'s stepped-up enforcement followed the shooting rampage at a nightclub in Orlando, Florida, that killed 49 patrons. She said at the time that gun manufacturers were circumventing Massachusetts\' ban by selling copycat versions of the weapons they claimed complied with the law.The Massachusetts assault weapons ban mirrors the federal ban that expired in 2004. It prohibits the sale of specific and name-brand weapons and explicitly bans copies or duplicates of those weapons.The National Rifle Association panned the ruling and pledged to help the groups fighting the case "in any way possible.""As long as politicians and judicial officials continue to flout the law in order to advance a political agenda, the five million members of the NRA will be here to hold them accountable," the group\'s Institute for Legislative Action said in a statement.Jim Wallace, executive director of the Massachusetts gun owners group, said Young\'s upholding of Healey\'s crackdown on copycat assault weapons gives the attorney general "unbridled authority" to interpret laws as she pleases."Everyone in the state should be really concerned about that," Wallace said. "What if the next attorney general isn\'t a friend on one of your issues?"Wallace said he couldn\'t yet say whether the group will appeal the decision.The U.S. Supreme Court has blocked local governments from banning handguns and ruled that the Second Amendment allows Americans to have guns in their homes for self-defense.But the court last year turned away an appeal from Maryland gun owners who challenged the state\'s ban on assault weapons.___Follow Alanna Durkin Richer at http://twitter.com/aedurkinricher . Read more of her work at http://bit.ly/2hIhzDb .
Good morning. I wrote about beef and broccoli for The Times this week, that great Chinese-restaurant menu war horse. And, thanks to the chef Jonathan Wu, with an assist from the chef Dale Talde, I managed to put together a beef and broccoli recipe (above) that I think could become a regular part of your weeknight dinner rotation. It is ridiculously good.The recipe calls for chuck beef, though you could make it with rib steak or brisket if you had any to hand. You could make it with venison. Up in Shishmaref, Alaska, you might make it with caribou or musk ox. Firm tofu is an excellent substitute for beef, as are chunks of boneless, skinless chicken thigh. You could even boil some small potatoes in water, rice wine and a little soy sauce, dry them off and smash them lightly before tossing them in the wok to crisp and then take up the sauce and have a delicious meal. Beef and broccoli is enormously adaptable. It is never not good.Give that a shot tonight or Saturday, so you start dialing in on the recipe. Practice works in cooking same as in golf and on the xylophone. Put your time in now, and youll be able to work fast on a Wednesday night.Passover ends this weekend and, as our colleague Ron Lieber reports, thats cause for leavened excitement among those who have observed the holiday: pizzas and brownies and bagels after days of avoiding rising foods in a nod to ancestors who had no time to let bread dough rise while fleeing Egypt. Rons story is about a delicious ritual for Moroccan Jews that follows Passovers end, Mimouna, a party in which the centerpiece is moufleta, a pan-cooked cake smeared with butter and honey. Whatever your faith, I think you should give moufleta a try.Also! Id like to make a big pot of chicken and dumplings this weekend. And another of roasted carrot and red lentil ragout. I think salted tahini and chocolate chip cookies would be a good thing to bake on Sunday afternoon. And I believe weekends end ought to coincide with a giant tray of enchiladas con carne. Could you fit a wheel of Melissa Clarks baked Brie into the weekend proceedings? Heres hoping.There are a ridiculous number of good things to cook this weekend available to you on NYT Cooking. Just sign up for a subscription to access them. (Or give someone a gift subscription, so they can.) Then cook! And show us your work, in pictures and words. Well be hanging around the hashtags on Instagram all weekend, and monitoring comments on Facebook, and just generally Twittering about food.Well be standing by to help if anything goes wrong, either with your cooking or our technology. Just write: cookingcare@nytimes.com. Well get back to you.Now, some distance from our stovetop and refrigerator crisper, I think you should read this fascinating NPR story about right whales and the lobster fisheries of Maine and the Canadian Maritimes.Action Bronsons new recipe for a butcher sandwich has some vulgarities in it because its on Vice, but I think it could make a very good sandwich. (Parts of it reminded me of the sandwich king Tyler Kords old recipe for new-style Russian dressing, made with grape jelly and mayonnaise, which he served with fried clams. You can read about that in Kords aptly named book, A Super-Upsetting Cookbook About Sandwiches.)There are some incredible photographs in the current issue of The Surfers Journal.And some very good reporting in this Tampa Bay Times report on the cost of baby diapers, which makes for a struggle for roughly a third of American families.So get reading, and then get cooking. Have a great weekend. See you on Sunday.
About six years ago, Jacob Gutman, an owner of Court Street Office Supplies, noticed that the lawyers and the judges in the nearby courthouses were no longer buying large leather-bound appointment books to anchor their desks.January was usually the busiest month, a time for restocking stationery, but bookkeepers and accountants in the nearby municipal offices were no longer ordering as many ledger books and the charts containing the latest tax rates. He saw that younger people  students and teachers at the neighborhoods five colleges and graduate schools, workers and residents of Brooklyn Heights and Cobble Hill  were no longer buying refills for their pocket calendars.Plainly, the ubiquity of computers, smartphones and other electronic gadgets were the culprits. So Mr. Gutman reinvigorated personal service, stocked a wide range of digitized products, even beefed up a line of toys to lure nearby residents. He was able to keep his store afloat. He even weathered the arrival of big-box stores like Staples and Office Depot.But only for so long. The greater ease of shopping online and its increasing adoption by Americans has meant that once-likely customers are no longer buying anything from him, even if they come in to browse.I sell this for $4.89, said Mr. Gutman, snatching a decorative electric candle from a shelf as an example. Someone comes in and with his cellphone takes a picture. It takes him less than three seconds and he can get it online for $4.29.The wounds have been so bone-deep that the store found it difficult to cover its overhead and turn much of a profit. And so on Feb. 16, just before the eve of the Sabbath, Mr. Gutman, a Hasidic Jew with a long white beard and a gentle voice and manner, closed the store. It had been a fixture of Brooklyns clamorous heart for 35 years, selling pens, paper, rubber bands and manila files, as well as such specialized items as Blumberg legal forms for divorce petitions, apartment leases and all manners of litigation.He spent the last day manning a cash register for a line of bargain hunters as well as sad-eyed regulars who were picking up the remaining shards of merchandise strewn on the higgledy-piggledy shelves at 50 percent off.Mr. Gutman, it turns out, is transforming Court Street Office Supplies into an online retailer as well, delivering and mailing stationery out of his 7,000-square-foot warehouse two miles away in a scruffy industrial slice of Gowanus, but dropping some of the services he once offered, like photocopying, faxing and that mainstay of many a stationery store, a notary. Those were services essential to poorer litigants who maneuvered the courts on their own.Its not news that what is happening to mom-and-pop stationery stores is also happening to small stores that sell books, clothing, toys, gifts, hardware. The trend partly explains the changeover into chain-store thoroughfares of once idiosyncratic shopping streets like Broadway on the Upper West Side.Ted Potrikus, president of the Retail Council of New York State, which represents 2,000 merchants, identifies the problem as the store in the palm of our hand  your cellphone.People dont want to spend their time downtown looking for a place to park  theyd rather do it online, he said. He added that rising rents in popular downtowns have also been a factor in the shuttering of small and even big stores. With stationery, online shopping and digitization are such powerful trends that Staples closed almost 300 of its roughly 2,150 stores in North America between 2014 and 2016.Still, for those who work and live around Court Street, the shift is causing heartache.Its a tragedy, a sad day because there are lots of items you dont find in places like Staples  rubber stamps and ribbons for adding machines, said one shopper, John McGill, 70, who operates Two for the Pot, a whole-bean coffee and imported teas shop on Clinton Street. Besides, I like these guys. I will miss them. Theyre knowledgeable. Theyre friendly and some of them are pretty funny when we banter over the counter.George Jacobs, 71, a computer programmer who came over from Bushwick, said Court Street stocked hard-to-get 11-by-17-inch engineering paper that he uses to make flow charts and drawings on his HP Plotter, a type of machine that has essentially been replaced by large-format inkjet printers.Megan Schoenberg, 26, who works in her familys real estate business, was in the store on its last day buying a small footstool and a transparent plastic file box.Its sad because this is a monument in the neighborhood, she said.She recalled a similar feeling she had with the closing of a Brooklyn Heights pharmacy and a video store. Others mentioned the loss of BookCourt, a literary landmark that had been in Cobble Hill since 1981 and offered periodic talks by such writers as Don DeLillo and Junot Daz. Some customers predicted they would have to round up a car to get to Brooklyn malls where they can find a Staples-type storeRonald Goldbrenner, a longtime attorney in Downtown Brooklyn, compared the loss of the Court Street stationery store to losing a foundational business like a Zabars.These are classic institutions, he said, and what makes the difference is the excellence. What ordinary merchants do they do better and more, and this place is an example of better and more.Rhea Lieber, a senior at the nearby Packer School, wrote a letter, in both Hebrew and English, lamenting the loss. The Packer community is devastated to say goodbye to such a neighborhood staple (no pun intended), she wrote.In some ways, Court Street was a throwback to an earlier time. It had a glass counter that was stocked with numerous brands of fountain pens, including a $500 Pelikan, and it sold ink for those pens. It carried carbon paper.There are still some lawyers who use it, Mr. Gutman saidAnd who uses fountain pens anymore?Real traditional lawyers or judges from the old school, and they usually use it to make an impression when theyre with people, he said.But many younger customers dont even bother with ballpoints. Some dont have a pen in their in their pocket, said Mr. Gutman. The ones that do, their image is the iPhone that they have in their hands. Its almost embarrassing for them to have a pen.Mr. Gutman got into the stationery business in 1982 when his own trade  cutting and selling diamonds  suffered in an industrywide slump. A grocer friend, Lazar Abramowitz, persuaded him to team up and buy an available stationery store on Court Street called Card Cabin.At that time, there was no Staples, Mr. Gutman said. There were real people and real merchandise.When Mr. Abramowitz died three years ago, his widow, Miriam, became Mr. Gutmans partner.His motivation for finally closing was not because of a rent increase, he said. His lease had more than two years left, and his landlord had offered to lower the rent  which, given neighborhood prices can be estimated at roughly $30,000 a month, though Mr. Gutman did not want to reveal the number. And his 12 employees were not asking for raises.A visit in the last days of March to the Court Street warehouse, its eight aisles piled to the 24-foot tall ceilings with cartons of Bic pens, Sharpie markers, Post-it Notes and Brother ink cartridges, suggested that many customers have found other options. Some of the larger accounts call in orders, but not many individuals are trooping from Downtown Brooklyn for a pen or roll of Scotch tape.Indeed, Mr. Gutman and his partner Ms. Abramowitz say that with stationery becoming a diminishing need in the age of computers, they are gradually concentrating on becoming an office furniture purveyor. They have hired a designer, Brian Glickman, who arranged Tiffanys Fifth Avenue offices and are hoping to design and furnish work stations for small businesses.Kids today dont want to work behind desks, Mr. Glickman said. They want time to decompress and want things like pool tables.Mr. Gutman is not yet supplying pool tables, but as habits continue to change, who knows?.
WASHINGTON   The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington\'s most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "malign  activity."The action, taken under pressure from the U.S. Congress, freezes the U.S. assets of oligarchs such as aluminum tycoon  Oleg Deripaska, a close associate of Putin, and lawmaker Suleiman Kerimov, whose family controls Russia\'s largest gold producer, Polyus.The sanctions largely respond to what U.S. intelligence agencies have said was Russian interference in the presidential election, although the Treasury Department painted them as a response to a series of adversarial actions by Moscow.U.S. President Donald Trump has been under fire for not taking strong action against Russia after a series of diplomatic disputes reminiscent of the Cold War era. The sanctions could complicate his hopes for good relations with Putin.Relations already had worsened recently as the United States expelled Russian diplomats over a poisoning case in Britain and imposed sanctions on Russians for alleged links to cyber attacks.The latest move is aimed at seven Russian oligarchs and 12 companies they own or control, plus 17 senior Russian government officials. They freeze the U.S. assets of the people and companies named and forbid Americans in general from doing business with them.Trump has faced criticism - including from fellow Republicans - for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling. The U.S. Treasury Department said the sanctions were in response to Russia\'s "malign activity," including its actions in Ukraine, its support of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria\'s civil war and subverting Western democracies.U.S. intelligence agencies last year accused Russia of using hacking, false information and propaganda to disrupt the 2016 elections and try to ensure Trump defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. Russia denies interfering in the election.Preparations for a meeting between Trump and Putin will not be affected by the sanctions, the White House said."As the president has said, he wants to have a good relationship with Russia but that\'s going to depend on some of the actions by the Russians," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters.Russia said it would respond firmly to the sanctions."Of course we will not leave this current and any new anti-Russian attack without a harsh answer," Russia\'s foreign ministry said in a statement. "But first of all we would like to recommend that Washington discard illusions that we can be spoken to in the language of sanctions."OLIGARCHS AND ELITESThe sanctions could hurt the Russian economy, especially the aluminum, financial and energy sectors, and are a clear message to Putin and his inner circle of U.S. displeasure.Others on the sanctions list include Viktor Vekselberg, key owner of Renova holding group who Forbes magazine ranks as Russia\'s 9th richest businessman. He is famous for bringing back a collection of Faberge eggs to Russia.Also targeted is Kirill Shamalov, a minority shareholder with petrochemical company Sibur. Shamalov married Putin\'s youngest daughter Katerina in 2013 but unconfirmed media reports say they have since split.The CEO of Russia\'s gas exporter Gazprom, Alexei Miller, said he was proud to be targeted by sanctions."Not being included in the first list I even had some doubts - maybe something is wrong (with me)? But I am finally included. This means that we are doing everything right," Miller said through his spokesman, referring to an earlier U.S. list of Russian oligarchs.Gazprom has relationships with major foreign companies, especially in Europe. Gazprom itself is not under sanctions, but the inclusion of Miller on the blacklist could create complicated legal dilemmas for partner companies. Although they are under European Union jurisdiction, they will not want to fall foul of any U.S. legislationDeripaska\'s blacklisting will also reverberate around the world because his empire has a global footprint and counts major multinationals as partners, including German automaker Volkswagen.Deripaska called the decision to target him "very unfortunate but not unexpected.""Certainly the grounds for putting my name on the list of SDNs as provided by U.S. officials are groundless, ridiculous and absurd," he said, in a statement sent to Reuters by a spokesperson for his industrial group Basic Element. SDN stands for "Specially Designated National."A Cyprus-based company tied to Deripaska sued Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, two former aides to Trumps presidential campaign, in a New York state court in January, accusing them of misappropriating more than $18.9 million earmarked for deals in Ukraine in 2008.Shares in some Russian companies targeted by the sanctions plummeted. EN+ Group, which manages Deripaska\'s aluminum and hydropower assets, ended down 20.9 percent on the London stock exchange.Rusal, a Russian aluminum giant fell 10 percent on the Moscow Exchange.Douglas Jacobson, an attorney with Jacobson Burton Kelley firm in Washington, said most international Western banks would shy away from helping the companies targeted on Friday to raise capital. These companies now are radioactive," he said.The Treasury Department has told investors they have until May 7 to divest any stocks, bonds or other holdings of the Russian companies En+, GAZ,and Rusal. For the 12 companies named on Friday, Treasury said any contracts and activities must be terminated in 60 days.RUSSIA AND TRUMPBob Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, urged Trump to set out a clear strategy."Nearly 15 months into this administration, the American people and our allies are still questioning whether the president is willing to fully defend our democracy and our national security," said Menendez, co-author of the law under which Friday\'s sanctions were imposed.U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller is investigating whether Trump\'s election campaign colluded with Russia, something that Trump denies.Trump angered many members of Congress by failing for months to implement sanctions on Russia that lawmakers passed nearly unanimously last year. But Daniel Fried, the U.S. governments former coordinator of sanctions policy under President Barack Obama, said the sanctions list "is a solid piece of work.Putin\'s government has been blamed for the poisoning of a former Russian double agent living in Britain last month and the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and Patricia Zengerle; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu, Tim Ahmann and Susan Heavey in Washington, Nathan Lane, Michael Erman and Karen Freifeld in New York and Andrew Osborn, Katya Golubkova, Gleb Stolyarov and Oksana Kobzeva, Denis Pinchuk, Christian Lowe and Gabrielle Tetrault-Farber in Moscow; Writing by Alistair Bell and Mary Milliken; Editing by Yara Bayoumy, Bill Trott and Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON   The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington\'s most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "malign  activity."The action, taken under pressure from the U.S. Congress, freezes the U.S. assets of oligarchs such as aluminium tycoon  Oleg Deripaska, a close associate of Putin, and lawmaker Suleiman Kerimov, whose family controls Russia\'s largest gold producer, Polyus.The sanctions largely respond to what U.S. intelligence agencies have said was Russian interference in the presidential election, although the Treasury Department painted them as a response to a series of adversarial actions by Moscow.U.S. President Donald Trump has been under fire for not taking strong action against Russia after a series of diplomatic disputes reminiscent of the Cold War era. The sanctions could complicate his hopes for good relations with Putin.Relations already had worsened recently as the United States expelled Russian diplomats over a poisoning case in Britain and imposed sanctions on Russians for alleged links to cyber attacks.The latest move is aimed at seven Russian oligarchs and 12 companies they own or control, plus 17 senior Russian government officials. They freeze the U.S. assets of the people and companies named and forbid Americans in general from doing business with them.Trump has faced criticism - including from fellow Republicans - for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling. The U.S. Treasury Department said the sanctions were in response to Russia\'s "malign activity," including its actions in Ukraine, its support of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria\'s civil war and subverting Western democracies.U.S. intelligence agencies last year accused Russia of using hacking, false information and propaganda to disrupt the 2016 elections and try to ensure Trump defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. Russia denies interfering in the election.Preparations for a meeting between Trump and Putin will not be affected by the sanctions, the White House said."As the president has said, he wants to have a good relationship with Russia but that\'s going to depend on some of the actions by the Russians," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters.Russia said it would respond firmly to the sanctions."Of course we will not leave this current and any new anti-Russian attack without a harsh answer," Russia\'s foreign ministry said in a statement. "But first of all we would like to recommend that Washington discard illusions that we can be spoken to in the language of sanctions."OLIGARCHS AND ELITESThe sanctions could hurt the Russian economy, especially the aluminium, financial and energy sectors, and are a clear message to Putin and his inner circle of U.S. displeasure.Others on the sanctions list include Viktor Vekselberg, key owner of Renova holding group who Forbes magazine ranks as Russia\'s 9th richest businessman. He is famous for bringing back a collection of Faberge eggs to Russia.Also targeted is Kirill Shamalov, a minority shareholder with petrochemical company Sibur. Shamalov married Putin\'s youngest daughter Katerina in 2013 but unconfirmed media reports say they have since split.The CEO of Russia\'s gas exporter Gazprom, Alexei Miller, said he was proud to be targeted by sanctions."Not being included in the first list I even had some doubts - maybe something is wrong (with me)? But I am finally included. This means that we are doing everything right," Miller said through his spokesman, referring to an earlier U.S. list of Russian oligarchs.Gazprom has relationships with major foreign companies, especially in Europe. Gazprom itself is not under sanctions, but the inclusion of Miller on the blacklist could create complicated legal dilemmas for partner companies. Although they are under European Union jurisdiction, they will not want to fall foul of any U.S. legislationDeripaska\'s blacklisting will also reverberate around the world because his empire has a global footprint and counts major multinationals as partners, including German automaker Volkswagen.Deripaska called the decision to target him "very unfortunate but not unexpected.""Certainly the grounds for putting my name on the list of SDNs as provided by U.S. officials are groundless, ridiculous and absurd," he said, in a statement sent to Reuters by a spokesperson for his industrial group Basic Element. SDN stands for "Specially Designated National."A Cyprus-based company tied to Deripaska sued Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, two former aides to Trumps presidential campaign, in a New York state court in January, accusing them of misappropriating more than $18.9 million earmarked for deals in Ukraine in 2008.Shares in some Russian companies targeted by the sanctions plummeted. EN+ Group, which manages Deripaska\'s aluminium and hydropower assets, ended down 20.9 percent on the London stock exchange.Rusal, a Russian aluminium giant fell 10 percent on the Moscow Exchange.Douglas Jacobson, an attorney with Jacobson Burton Kelley firm in Washington, said most international Western banks would shy away from helping the companies targeted on Friday to raise capital. These companies now are radioactive," he said.The Treasury Department has told investors they have until May 7 to divest any stocks, bonds or other holdings of the Russian companies En+ <ENP.q.L>, GAZ,and Rusal. For the 12 companies named on Friday, Treasury said any contracts and activities must be terminated in 60 days.RUSSIA AND TRUMPBob Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, urged Trump to set out a clear strategy."Nearly 15 months into this administration, the American people and our allies are still questioning whether the president is willing to fully defend our democracy and our national security," said Menendez, co-author of the law under which Friday\'s sanctions were imposed.U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller is investigating whether Trump\'s election campaign colluded with Russia, something that Trump denies.Trump angered many members of Congress by failing for months to implement sanctions on Russia that lawmakers passed nearly unanimously last year. But Daniel Fried, the U.S. governments former coordinator of sanctions policy under President Barack Obama, said the sanctions list "is a solid piece of work.Putin\'s government has been blamed for the poisoning of a former Russian double agent living in Britain last month and the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and Patricia Zengerle; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu, Tim Ahmann and Susan Heavey in Washington, Nathan Lane, Michael Erman and Karen Freifeld in New York and Andrew Osborn, Katya Golubkova, Gleb Stolyarov and Oksana Kobzeva, Denis Pinchuk, Christian Lowe and Gabrielle Tetrault-Farber in Moscow; Writing by Alistair Bell and Mary Milliken; Editing by Yara Bayoumy, Bill Trott and Tom Brown)
LONDON/MOSCOW   Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.Yulia and Sergei Skripal, 66, were found slumped unconscious on a public bench in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Britain said they were poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent, the first known use of such a toxin on European soil since World War Two.London has blamed Russia for the attempted murder while Moscow denies any involvement. The incident has had major diplomatic ramifications, with mass expulsions of Russian and Western diplomats."We have told our British colleagues that \'you\'re playing with fire and you\'ll be sorry\'," Russian U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia told a meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Thursday that Moscow had requested."We didn\'t do it, we\'re not guilty," Nebenzia said.British U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce told the Security Council that Britain\'s actions "stand up to any scrutiny" and pledged to keep the 15-member body updated on the inquiry."We have nothing to hide ... but I do fear that Russia might have something to fear," Pierce said.Deputy U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kelley Currie told the council: "We have stated previously and do so again today our firm belief that Russia is responsible for this chemical weapons attack on U.K. soil".The attack left the Skripals in critical condition and doctors had initially feared that even if they did survive, they might have suffered permanent brain damage.But while her father remains stable in intensive care, Yulia\'s health has improved rapidly. On Thursday she issued a statement through British police to thank hospital staff and people who came to her help when "when my father and I were incapacitated".Her recovery means she can help British counter-terrorism police with their investigation although she did not give any details about what had happened in her brief remarks.Britain\'s Foreign Office said she had been offered assistance by Russia\'s embassy but had so far declined."I woke up over a week ago now and am glad to say my strength is growing daily. I am grateful for the interest in me and for the many messages of goodwill that I have received," said Yulia, 33."I am sure you appreciate that the entire episode is somewhat disorientating, and I hope that you\'ll respect my privacy and that of my family during the period of my convalescence."Hours before the statement issued by British police, Russian state TV and Interfax reported that Yulia had phoned her cousin Viktoria Skripal in Russia, saying she and her father were both recovering and that she expected to leave hospital soon."Everything is fine, everything is fixable, everyone is getting better, everyone is alive," they quoted her as saying in the call.Asked about her father\'s health, Yulia was cited as saying: "Everything is fine, he is resting right now, sleeping ... nobody has any problems that can\'t be put right."Russian state TV said it could not vouch for the authenticity of the quotes. Viktoria Skripal has said she plans to travel to England if she can get a visa.DIPLOMATIC LOWPolice believe the nerve agent was left on the front door of the home in Salisbury where Skripal, a military intelligence colonel who betrayed dozens of Russian agents to Britain\'s MI6 spy service, lived after he was freed in a spy swap.The attack has driven Moscow\'s relations with the West to a new post-Cold War low, with Britain and its allies, including the United States, expelling about 130 diplomats and the Kremlin responding in kind.On Wednesday, Russia lost its call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning at a meeting of global watchdog the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.Moscow\'s ambassador to London Alexander Yakovenko said on Thursday Russia had never made Novichok, the Soviet-era nerve agent which British experts say was the toxin used.He said the Kremlin would accept the results of OPCW tests but only if there was transparency and they were confirmed by experts from outside Europe and NATO.While scientists at the Porton Down biological and chemical weapons laboratory near Salisbury have concluded the toxin was Novichok, its chief executive said on Tuesday they had not yet determined whether it was made in Russia.That prompted even some allies to say London needs to provide more evidence of Russian culpability.Britain says there is no plausible explanation other than that Russia was behind the attack and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has accused Russia of running a disinformation campaign.A number of Russians have died in mysterious circumstances in Britain in recent years including dissident Alexander Litvinenko who was poisoned with a rare radioactive isotope in 2006. A British inquiry concluded his murder had probably been ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin."We have a lot of suspicions about Britain," said Russian UK ambassador Yakovenko. "If you take the last 10 years, so many Russian citizens died here in the UK, under very strange circumstances ... My question is why is it happening here?"(Additional reporting by Estelle Shirbon and William James in London, Michelle Nichols at the United Nations and Paul Carrel in Berlin; Editing by Catherine Evans and James Dalgleish)
SEOUL, South Korea   In the same courtroom where an ex-military dictator was once sentenced to death, Park Geun-hye's corruption conviction on Friday extended the tradition of South Korean presidencies ending badly. Nearly every former president, or their family members and aides, have been mired in scandals near the end of their terms or after they left office. One leader, Park's father, was assassinated by his spy chief, and another former president killed himself.Here's a look at South Korea's tarnished presidential legacies:___SYNGMAN RHEE (1948-1960)The U.S.-educated Christian leader and independence fighter became South Korea's first president in 1948 with help from the United States, three years after the Korean Peninsula was liberated from Japanese colonial rule at the end of World War II. Rhee's government became increasingly authoritarian, especially after the 1950-53 Korean War. Critics accused Rhee of corruption and nepotism as he attempted to prolong his hold on power. He won his fourth presidential term in 1960 amid widespread suspicions of vote-rigging. This triggered nationwide protests that forced him to flee to Hawaii, where he died in 1965.___PARK CHUNG-HEE (1961-1979)Park, then an army general, came to power in a coup in 1961, which overturned another government elected after Rhee resigned. Park has been credited with industrial policies that drove the country's rapid economic growth during the 1960s and '70s. Critics remember Park as a ruthless dictator who jailed, tortured and executed dissidents. He was assassinated by his spy chief during a late-night drinking session in 1979.___CHUN DOO-HWAN (1980-1988)Chun, an army general, and his military cronies drove tanks and troops into Seoul to seize power in a coup in December 1979 that ended the interim government of acting President Choi Kyu-hah following Park's death. In the summer of 1987, massive pro-democracy demonstrations forced Chun's government to accept a constitutional revision for direct presidential elections. After his tenure ended, Chun spent two years in exile in a remote Buddhist temple amid public calls for his punishment over corruption and human rights abuses.___ROH TAE-WOO (1988-1993)Roh, Chun's army buddy, won the 1987 election, thanks largely to divided votes among opposition liberal candidates. Both Chun and Roh were arrested in late 1995 on charges of taking bribes from businessmen while in office. They were also indicted on mutiny and treason charges stemming from the 1979 coup and a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy protests that killed hundreds in the southern city of Gwangju in 1980. Chun was initially sentenced to death and Roh to 22 1/2 years in jail in August 1996. South Korea's Supreme Court in April 1997 ruled on a life sentence for Chun and a 12-year prison term for Roh. Both were released by a presidential pardon in December 1997.___KIM YOUNG-SAM (1993-1998)Kim, whose election formally ended military rule, initially enjoyed strong support for his ambitious anti-corruption drives. That was before his popularity nosedived amid the late-1990s Asian financial crisis, which toppled some of South Korea's biggest companies and forced his government to accept a $58 billion bailout from the International Monetary Fund. Critics accused him of mismanaging the economy. He left office amid a corruption scandal that saw his son arrested and imprisoned.___KIM DAE-JUNG (1998-2003)A longtime opposition leader and democracy activist, Kim rose to the presidency and held an unprecedented summit with then-North Korean leader Kim Jong Il in 2000. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize that year. He left office tainted by corruption scandals involving aides and all three of his sons. Kim was also accused of having the Hyundai business group allegedly pay more than $400 million to North Korea ahead of the inter-Korean summit.___ROH MOO-HYUN (2003-2008)Roh leaped to his death in 2009, a year after his tenure ended, amid allegations that his family members took bribes from a businessman during his presidency. His older brother was sentenced in 2009 to 2  years in prison for influence-peddling, although he was later pardoned. Lawmakers in 2004 had voted to impeach Roh on allegations of incompetence and election law violations, but the Constitutional Court reinstated him two months later, saying the accusations were not serious enough to justify his unseating.___LEE MYUNG-BAK (2008-2013)The conservative Lee's victory, which ended a decade of liberal rule, reflected voters' hopes that the former Hyundai CEO would revive a bad economy. His popularity declined over unmet economic promises and policies that critics saw as attacks on freedom of speech. He left office with rock-bottom popularity amid a series of corruption scandals surrounding his family members and key government figures. Prosecutors earlier this month arrested the 76-year-old over various corruption allegations, including suspicions that he took a total of 11 billion won ($10 million) in bribes from his own intelligence agency, companies and others. Prosecutors also allege Lee used a private company as a channel to establish illicit slush funds totaling 35 billion won ($33 million), embezzled official funds and evaded taxes.___PARK GEUN-HYE (2013-2017)Park was formally ousted from office and arrested in March 2017 over allegations that she colluded with a confidante to take tens of millions of dollars from companies in bribes and through extortion and also allowed the friend to manipulate affairs from the shadows. She apologized for putting trust in her friend, Choi Soon-sil, but denied any criminal wrongdoing. She called her trial political revenge and declined to attend sessions.___Follow Kim Tong-hyung on Twitter at @KimTongHyung.

GAZA BORDER   Israeli troops shot dead seven Palestinian protesters and wounded at least 200 along the Israel-Gaza border on Friday, Gaza medical officials said, raising the death toll to 27 in the week-long disturbances.They said the demonstrators, including two teenage boys aged 16 and 17, were killed at protest sites along the frontier during a round of daily demonstrations that has been dubbed "The Great March of Return".The day of violence, which saw bigger Palestinian crowds than in recent days but not as large as when the demonstration began last Friday, calmed down as night descended.Gazans, including Palestinian refugees and their descendants seeking to regain ancestral homes in what is now Israel, have set up tent encampments a few hundred meters (yards) inside the 65-km (40-mile) fence that separates Israel from the Gaza Strip.Large groups of youths have ventured much closer to the no-go zone along the barrier, risking live fire from Israeli troops to roll burning tires and throw stones."Israel took everything from us, the homeland, freedom, our future," said Samer, a 27-year-old protester who would not give his full name, fearing Israeli reprisals. "I have two kids, a boy and a girl, and if I die, God will take care of them."The number of protesters on Friday was larger than in recent days, but lower than the outset of the disturbances on March 30, when 17 Palestinians were fatally shot by Israeli forces. The Israeli military estimated Friday\'s turnout at around 20,000.Refugees comprise most of the 2 million population of Israeli-blockaded Gaza, an enclave ruled by the Islamist movement Hamas which calls for Israel\'s destruction and is designated by Western states as a terrorist organization.Many of those killed were militants, said Israel, which stationed sharpshooters on the frontier to stop Palestinians attempting "any breach of the security infrastructure and fence, which protects Israeli civilians".WAR OF WORDSDavid Keyes, an Israeli government spokesman, accused Hamas of having instigated violent protests along the border."This is a travesty for the Palestinian people that the Hamas government is encouraging its people to attack Israel, it is encouraging its people to commit acts of violence," he said.Hamas\'s Gaza leader, Yehya Al-Sinwar, spoke at a protest  encampment to praise those who turned out to confront the "enemy who besieges us". He said the demonstrations would continue, telling the crowds: "We will uproot the borders, we will pluck out their hearts, and we will pray in Jerusalem."Earlier, Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem urged protesters to keep the rallies peaceful. "Maintaining the peaceful nature of the protests will strike all fragile Zionist propaganda," Qassem said in a statement.Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who holds little sway in Gaza, condemned what he described as Israel\'s "acts of killing and oppression conducted...against the peaceful uprising."Israel\'s response to the protests has drawn international criticism, with human rights groups saying it involved live fire against demonstrators posing no immediate threat to life.The demonstrators have revived a longstanding demand for the right of return of Palestinian refugees to towns and villages which their families fled from, or were driven out of, when the state of Israel was created.The Israeli government has ruled out any right of return, fearing that the country would lose its Jewish majority.Palestinian youths burned Israeli flags and planted Palestinian banners on dirt mounds beside tented encampments as others arrived on large trucks carrying piles of more tires to burn. Others launched stones with slingshots.With Israeli tear gas rising into the air, Palestinian youths used T-shirts, cheap medical masks and perfume to try and protect themselves. Israel tried to douse the  burning rubber with jets of water directed over defensive dirt mounds on its side of the border.A U.N. human rights spokeswoman urged Israel to exercise restraint against the Palestinian protesters. We are saying that Israel has obligations to ensure that excessive force is not employed. And that if there is unjustified and unlawful recourse to firearms, resulting in death, that may amount to a wilful killing, Elizabeth Throssell said in Geneva.Israel says it is doing what it must to defend its border and that its troops have been responding with riot dispersal means and fire "in accordance with the rules of engagement".The Palestinian deaths have elicited scant concern in Israel, which has been the target of thousands of rocket strikes from Gaza over the past few years.Palestinian militant groups have also dug tunnels under the border fence to smuggle weapons, and to launch attacks.(Additional reporting by Eli Berlzon and Amir Cohen on the Gaza border, Stephanie Nebehay in Geneva; writing by Stephen Farrell and Ori Lewis; editing by Mark Heinrich)
LONDON   The former Russian spy who was left fighting for his life after exposure to a rare nerve agent is no longer in critical condition, a British health official said Friday, a month after the mysterious poisoning in a quiet English city triggered a diplomatic crisis between Moscow and the West.Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, were found unconscious on a bench March 4 in Salisbury and were hospitalized for weeks in critical condition. British authorities blame Russia for what they say was poisoning with a military-grade Soviet-developed nerve agent called Novichok. Russia denies the accusation.Dr. Christine Blanshard, the medical director at Salisbury District Hospital, said in a statement that 66-year-old Sergei Skripal "is responding well to treatment, improving rapidly and is no longer in a critical condition."Yulia Skripal, 33, regained consciousness last week and is now in stable condition, she said.Russian state television on Thursday played a recording of what they said was a phone call from Yulia to her cousin, Viktoria Skripal, in Russia. In it, Yulia said she would be discharged soon.Blanshard said Friday that Yulia Skripal could "look forward to the day when she is well enough to leave the hospital," but called any speculation about her release date "just that  speculation."Scientists said the Skripals\' recovery was not unprecedented. Nerve agents work by blocking an enzyme in the body that lets nerves communicate with each other and with the body\'s organs.Alastair Hay, professor emeritus of Environmental Toxicology at the University of Leeds, said recovery can happen over time because "eventually the body will restore the enzyme to full capacity, and nerve function will be restored."The Skripals\' long-term prognosis is uncertain, however. Michelle Carlin, senior lecturer in forensic and analytical chemistry at Northumbria University, said there is limited knowledge about the long-term effects of Novichok poisoning, but "neurological damage has been reported in other historic cases."The poisoning has chilled relations between Russia and the West, producing a wave of diplomatic expulsions unseen even at the height of the Cold War.Britain, along with the United States and at least two dozen other U.K. allies, have expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats. Russia has sent home the same number of those nations\' envoys.Russia has challenged Britain\'s allegation that Moscow was behind the attack. Scientists at the U.K.\'s Porton Down defense laboratory identified the poison as Novichok but have not pinpointed where it was manufactured. The British government says the scientific findings and other intelligence points to Russia.At a U.N. Security Council meeting called Thursday by Russia to discuss the Skripal poisonings, the Russian ambassador warned Britain that it was "playing with fire" and claimed that Russia was the victim of a hasty, sloppy and ill-intentioned defamation campaign by London and its allies.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov kept up the offensive Friday, once again urging Britain to show its evidence in the case.Speaking on a trip to Belarus, he said British officials have engaged in "frantic and convulsive efforts to find arguments to support their indefensible position" instead of producing evidence.Lavrov said Britain and its Western allies are wrong if they expect Russia to "confess to all deadly sins" it did not commit.In the phone call recording released by Russian state Rossiya TV, Yulia Skripal said she and her father were both recovering and that her father\'s health was not irreparably damaged.Viktoria Skripal, who works as a chief accountant in the city of Yaroslavl, told The Associated Press on Friday that she has no doubt it was Yulia who called and that she has not heard from her since. She said the call was recorded because she has an app on her phone to keep track of all the calls she makes for work."I made this recording, that was Yulia," she said.Viktoria Skripal said she hoped to travel to Britain to visit Sergei and Yulia, but the British government said Friday it had denied her a visa because her application "did not comply with the immigration rules."Britain also announced that pets in Skripal\'s home  two guinea pigs and a cat  were also poisoned. The two rodents were found dead after the home was sealed off by investigators. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said the cat was put down after it was found "in a distressed state."The Russian Embassy in London claimed the treatment of the pets might amount to animal cruelty and said "it is difficult to avoid the impression that the animals have been disposed of as an inconvenient piece of evidence."___Vasilyeva reported from Moscow. Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow, Danica Kirka in London and Edith Lederer at the United Nations contributed.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don\'t call it a "timeline."Wary of charges of hypocrisy for publicly telegraphing military strategy after criticizing former President Barack Obama for the same thing, the White House has ordered Trump\'s national security team not to speak of a "timeline" for withdrawal. That\'s even after Trump made it clear to his top aides this week that he wants the pullout completed within five or six months.It wasn\'t the result top national security aides wanted. Trump\'s desire for a rapid withdrawal faced unanimous opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence community, all of which argued that keeping the 2,000 U.S. soldiers currently in Syria is key to ensuring the Islamic State does not reconstitute itself.But as they huddled in the Situation Room, the president was vocal and vehement in insisting that the withdrawal be completed quickly if not immediately, according to five administration officials briefed on Tuesday\'s White House meeting of Trump and his top aides. The officials weren\'t authorized to discuss internal deliberations and requested anonymity.If those aides failed in obtaining their desired outcome, it may have been because a strategy that\'s worked in the past  giving Trump an offer he can\'t refuse  appears to have backfired.Rather than offer Trump a menu of pullout plans, with varying timelines and options for withdrawing step-by-step, the team sought to frame it as a binary choice: Stay in Syria to ensure the Islamic State can\'t regroup, or pull out completely. Documents presented to the president included several pages of possibilities for staying in, but only a brief description of an option for full withdrawal that emphasized significant risks and downsides, including the likelihood that Iran and Russia would take advantage of a U.S. vacuum.Ultimately, Trump chose that option anyway.The president had opened the meeting with a tirade about U.S. intervention in Syria and the Middle East more broadly, repeating lines from public speeches in which he\'s denounced previous administrations for "wasting" $7 trillion in the region over the past 17 years.What has the U.S. gotten for the money and American lives expended in Syria? "Nothing," Trump said over and over, according to the officials.The intensity of Trump\'s tone and demeanor raised eyebrows and unease among the top brass gathered to hash out a Syria plan with Trump, officials said: Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary James Mattis, CIA chief Mike Pompeo and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan.At one point, Dunford spoke up, one official said, telling Trump that his approach was not productive and asked him to give the group specific instructions as to what he wanted.Trump\'s response was to demand an immediate withdrawal of all American troops and an end to all U.S. civilian stabilization programs designed to restore basic infrastructure to war-shattered Syrian communities.Mattis countered, arguing that an immediate withdrawal could be catastrophic and was logistically impossible to pull off in any responsible way, without risking the return of the Islamic State and other terrorist groups in newly liberated territories, the officials said. Mattis floated a one-year withdrawal as an alternative.Trump then relented  but only slightly, telling his aides they could have five or six months to complete the mission to destroy the Islamic State and then get out, according to the officials. Trump also indicated that he did not want to hear in October that the military had been unable to fully defeat the Islamic State and had to remain in Syria for longer.The president had spoken. But what to say about it publicly?In a brief and vague statement released the day after the meeting, the White House said the U.S. role in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" and emphasized that the U.S. was counting on other countries and the U.N. to deal with Syria\'s future. But it offered no specificity as to the timing of a U.S. withdrawal."The president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, said Thursday. "We\'ve always thought that as we reach finale against ISIS in Syria, we\'re going to adjust the level of our presence there. So in that sense, nothing has actually changed."Pentagon officials stressed that no formal order had been handed down to the military to alter course or start a withdrawal. Nonetheless, the officials said Trump was clear in his intent.For Trump, any notion of a "timeline" comes with significant political risk. After all, he had regularly bashed Obama on the campaign trail for forecasting his military moves in advance. In fact, Trump was so critical of Obama for putting an arbitrary deadline on the 2011 Iraq withdrawal that he dubbed Obama "the founder of ISIS," arguing that Obama had signaled to al-Qaida sympathizers in Iraq that they need only wait the U.S. out.And Trump\'s whole strategy for dealing with Afghanistan, for example, is based on the idea that the U.S. presence should be "conditions-based" and not time-based."I\'m not like other administrations, where they say we\'re going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn\'t work that way," Trump said last year, shortly after becoming president.___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK   The six-month closure of the Philippine tourism island of Boracay for a revamp after the country\'s president branded it a "cesspool" reflects the growing pressures on beach resorts across Southeast Asia as visitor numbers surge.(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2uThVRw)Tourism experts say the region\'s infrastructure is buckling under record visitor numbers, especially as more Chinese holiday abroad, and expect more drastic measures to come.Airports have become chaotic, hotels are being thrown up hastily with little regard for safety and sanitation, tropical beaches are strewn with garbage and coral reefs are dying.Thailand already has plans to shut its famous Maya Bay in the Phi Phi islands for four months this summer, while an environmental group is calling for urgent government action to tackle a "crisis" on the Indonesian tourist island of Bali."Many out-of-control destinations across Asia will need clean-ups," said Brian King, associate dean of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at Hong Kong Polytechnic University. "These may come from government, or industry or from NGO-driven community action. The danger is that little happens until the crisis point is reached."He added: "Boracay is not the first and won\'t be the last closure."Airlines have already started to cut back flights to Boracay, which had 2 million visitors last year, with the largest foreign contingents coming from China and South Korea, ahead of its closure on April 26. [nL4N1RI1ZZ]The Philippines, which had record visitor numbers last year after three years of double-digit growth, estimates the Boracay closure could reduce full-year GDP by 0.1 percent. [nL4N1RI1ZZ]It is also planning to inspect the beach resort of Puerto Galera, on the island of Mindoro, and is already looking at the resorts of El Nido and Coron, in Palawan province, where an influx of tourism and rapid development has put infrastructure under strain.But rival tourist hotspots around the region are not all rubbing their hands at the prospect of the extra revenue from the redirected tourist traffic.Kanokkittika Kritwutikon, the head of the Tourism Authority of Thailand\'s Phuket office, said the island was at "stretching point", particularly its airport, which has undergone a number of upgrades in recent years to try to cope with overcapacity."Our policy is to try to spread tourism around" from Phuket to "secondary destinations that are less well-known," said Kanokkittika. "Apart from guests arriving by plane to Phuket we also have boats coming in, including cruises, so you can imagine how many tourists come through Phuket."The shutdown of Maya Bay in an attempt to salvage the area\'s coral reefs - which have been damaged by crowds of tourists and warmer temperatures - follows the closure of 10 popular Thai diving sites in 2016 after a National Parks survey found bleaching on up to 80 percent of some reefs.Pattaya, south of Bangkok, serves as another cautionary tale.An influx of western tourists from as far back as the 1960s, when American soldiers came on leave from the Vietnam war, and a construction boom in the 1990s transformed it from a picturesque fishing village to a town known for its seedy nightlife and high crime rate.Thailand\'s tourism ministry expects 37.55 million tourists this year, up from a record 35 million in 2017, of which 9.8 million were from China.SHUTDOWNS "TOO LATE"Benjamin Cassim, a tourism lecturer at Temasek Polytechnic School of Business in Singapore, said the closures of Boracay and Maya Beach could become "test cases" and will be closely monitored by other countries with popular beach resorts.A non-profit group in Indonesia has been calling on the government to tackle what it calls an "environmental crisis" in Bali, the country\'s most popular tourist island, which saw more than 5.5 million visitors last year.Indonesian authorities have long faced criticism for allowing unplanned developments that have swallowed up rice fields with golf courses and villas on Bali. Its beaches are regularly strewn with plastic washed up from the ocean during certain months of the year.Nonetheless, President Joko Widodo has been trying to promote creation of10"newBalis" in other parts of the scenic Indonesian archipelago."Environmental conditions in Bali are now increasingly degraded," said I Made Juli Untung Pratama of WALHI, the Indonesian Forum for Environment."The culprit is the construction of massive tourism accommodation, without a proper regard to Bali\'s environment. The massive development of tourism accommodation has caused the environmental crisis in Bali."Shutdowns such as the one on Boracay are not a new phenomenon. Back in 2004, Malaysian authorities shut all hotels on the island of Sipadan, known for having some of the best scuba diving in the world, to help protect its eco-system and subsequently restricted tourist numbers to the island.But some say these extreme actions often come too late, and a more sustainable solution is needed across the region."Proactive environmental protection is a far more effective approach than reactive environmental protection," said Matt Gebbie, an analyst from Horwath HTL Indonesia, a tourism consultancy."You can\'t revive coral reefs and eroded beaches and degraded forests in six months," Gebbie said. "Proactive protection is essential for the long term sustainability of resort destinations."(Reporting by John Geddie and Dewey Sim in SINGAPORE; Neil Jerome Morales and Martin Petty in MANILA; Amy Sawitta Lefevre in BANGKOK; and Cindy Silviana and Tabita Diela in JAKARTA; editing by Philip McClellan)
SEOUL   A South Korean court jailed former President Park Geun-hye for 24 years on Friday over a scandal that exposed webs of corruption between political leaders and the country\'s conglomerates.Park became South Korea\'s first democratically elected leader to be forced from office last year when the Constitutional Court ordered her out over a scandal that landed the heads of two conglomerates in jail.The court also fined Park, the daughter of a former military dictator, 18 billion won ($16.9 million) after finding her guilty of charges including bribery, abuse of power and coercion."The defendant abused her presidential power entrusted by the people, and as a result, brought massive chaos to the order of state affairs and led to the impeachment of the president, which was unprecedented," judge Kim Se-yoon said as he handed down the sentence.Up to 1,000 Park supporters gathered outside the court, holding national flags and signs calling for an end to "political revenge" against her.The court found Park guilty of colluding with her old friend, Choi Soon-sil, to receive about 7 billion won ($6.56 million) each from Lotte Group, a retail giant, and Samsung, the worlds biggest maker of smartphones and semiconductors, while demanding 8.9 billion won from SK, an energy conglomerate.Most of the money was intended to bankroll non-profit foundations run by Choi\'s family and confidants, and to fund the education of Choi\'s horse-riding daughter, the court said.Prosecutors sought a 30-year sentence and a 118.5 billion won ($112 million) fine for Park.Park, 66, who has been in jail since March 31 last year, has denied wrongdoing and was not present in court.The judge said Park had shown "no sign of repentance" but had instead tried to shift the blame to Choi and her secretaries."We cannot help but sternly hold her accountable," Kim said.\'HEARTBREAKING\'Park apologized while in office for seeking help from Choi, who had no policy or political experience, but that was as close as she came to admitting any guilt.Kang Chul-koo, one of Park\'s state-appointed lawyers, said he would discuss with her the possibility of an appeal."We tried our utmost but regret the result turned out very bad," Kang told reporters at the court."The truth will be revealed one day."The sentence will be a bitter blow for Park, who returned to the presidential palace in 2012 as the country\'s first woman leader, more than three decades after she left it following the assassination of her father.Her ouster from office last year led to a presidential election won by the liberal Moon Jae-in, whose conciliatory stand on North Korea has underpinned a significant warming of ties between the rival neighbors.Moon\'s office said Park\'s fate was "heartbreaking" not only for herself but for the country, and added that history that was not remembered would be repeated."We will not forget today," the office said.Park is the latest former leader of South Korea to run afoul of the law.Two predecessors, Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo, were convicted in 1996 of mutiny, treason and corruption and sentenced to long prison terms but both received presidential  pardons and were freed after a couple of years.But Moon took office pledging to end the practice of pardoning public and corporate officials convicted of corruption.WATERSHED?Park\'s friend, Choi, was convicted and jailed for 20 years after a separate trial in February.The chairman of the Lotte Group, the country\'s fifth-largest conglomerate, Shin Dong-bin, was jailed for two years and six months.Samsung Group heir Jay Y. Lee was jailed for a similar term on charges of bribery and embezzlement but in a surprise decision in February, an appeals court freed him after a year in detention.Park\'s supporters and opponents reflect divisions in a society still haunted by Cold War antagonism.Most supporters are older conservatives who remember her father\'s authoritarian 18-year rule, beginning in 1961, when their country began its remarkable surge toward becoming an economic power.Younger, liberal voters, who staged months of protests against Park before her ouster, will be hoping the verdict will be a watershed in efforts by the new government to end the self-serving collusion between political leaders and the powerful conglomerates known as chaebol."The ruling will be a lesson for many companies," said Choi Woon-youl, a lawmaker of the ruling Democratic Party."They have to boost transparency and sever the ties of collusion with government. If you have nothing to hide, whether about management or succession, you don\'t have to be bullied by the government."(Reporting by Hyonhee Shin and Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Soyoung Kim and Christine Kim; Editing by Robert Birsel)

KHUZAA, Gaza Strip   Thousands of Palestinians protested along Gaza\'s sealed border with Israel on Friday, engulfing the volatile area in black smoke from burning tires to try to block the view of Israeli snipers and cheering a Hamas strongman who pledged that the border fence will eventually fall.Israeli troops opened fire from across the border, killing at least nine Palestinians and wounding 491 others  33 of them seriously  in the second mass border protest in a week, Gaza health officials said. A well-known Palestinian journalist was among the dead, and hundreds of others suffered other injuries, including tear gas inhalation, the officials said.The deaths brought to at least 31 the number of Palestinians killed by Israeli fire since last week.Early Saturday, Palestinian health officials confirmed that Yasser Murtaga had died from a gunshot wound sustained while covering demonstrations near the Israeli border in Khuzaa. The area was the scene of large protests Friday, and was covered in thick black smoke.Murtaga was over 100 meters (yards) from the border, wearing a flak jacket marked "press" and holding his camera when he was shot in an exposed area just below the armpit. Journalists were in the area as protesters were setting tires on fire.The Israeli military has said it fired only at "instigators" involved in attacks on soldiers or the border fence. It had no immediate comment.Murtaga worked for Ain media, a local TV production company that has done projects, including aerial drone video, for foreign media. He was not affiliated with Hamas or any other militant group.The latest casualties were bound to draw new criticism from rights groups that have branded Israel\'s open-fire orders on the border as unlawful, after Israel\'s defense minister warned that those approaching the fence were risking their lives.The U.N. human rights office said Friday that it has indications that Israeli forces used "excessive force" against protesters last week, when 15 Palestinians were killed or later died of wounds sustained near the border.An Israeli military spokesman defended the rules of engagement."If they are actively attacking the fence, if they are throwing a molotov cocktail that is within striking distance of Israeli troops or similar activities, then those persons, those rioters, become, may become, a target," said Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus.Friday\'s large crowds suggested that Hamas, the Islamic militant group that has ruled Gaza since a 2007 takeover, might be able to keep the momentum going in the next few weeks. Hamas has called for a series of protests until May 15, the anniversary of Israel\'s founding when Palestinians commemorate their mass uprooting during the 1948 war over Israel\'s creation.Israel has alleged that Hamas is using the mass marches as a cover for attacking the border fence, and has vowed to prevent a breach at all costs.The military said that on Friday, protesters hurled several explosive devices and firebombs, using the thick plumes of smoke from burning tires as a cover, and that several attempts to cross the fence were thwarted.Gaza\'s shadowy Hamas strongman, Yehiyeh Sinwar, told a cheering crowd in one of the protest camps Friday that a border breach is coming.The world should "wait for our great move, when we penetrate the borders and pray at Al-Aqsa," Sinwar said, referring to the major Muslim shrine in Jerusalem.He was interrupted several times by the crowd, who chanted, "We are going to Jerusalem, millions of martyrs!" and "God bless you Sinwar!"The mass protests are perhaps Hamas\' last chance to break a border blockade enforced by Israel and Egypt since 2007, without having to succumb to demands that it disarm. The blockade has made it increasingly difficult for Hamas to govern. It has also devastated Gaza\'s economy, made it virtually impossible for people to enter and exit the territory, and left residents with just a few hours of electricity a day.Israel argues that Hamas could have ended the suffering of Gaza\'s 2 million people by disarming and renouncing violence.Friday\'s marches began before Muslim noon prayers when thousands of Palestinians streamed to five tent encampments that organizers had set up several hundred meters (yards) from the border fence.In one camp near the border community of Khuzaa, smaller groups of activists moved closer to the fence after the prayers. Demonstrators torched large piles of tires, engulfing the area in black smoke meant to shield them from Israeli snipers; the faces of some of the activists were covered in black soot.Israeli troops on the other side of the fence responded with live fire, tear gas, rubber-coated steel pellets and water cannons.After the first tires started burning, several young men with gunshot wounds began arriving at a field clinic at the camp.Mohammed Ashour, 20, who had been among the first to set tires on fire, was shot in the right arm."We came here because we want dignity," he said resting on a stretcher before paramedics transported him to the strip\'s main hospital.Yehia Abu Daqqa, a 20-year-old student, said he had come to honor those killed in previous protests."Yes, there is fear," he said of the risks of advancing toward the fence. "We are here to tell the occupation that we are not weak."The death toll since last week includes at least 24 people killed during the two Friday protests at the border, as well as one killed during a protest on Tuesday. The six other deaths include three Palestinian gunmen killed in what Israel said were attempts to attack the border fence and three men who were struck by Israeli tank fire.Speaking at U.N. headquarters in New York, Palestinian U.N. Ambassador Riyad Mansour put the death toll for Friday\'s protest at nine; the discrepancy between that figure and the death toll provided by the Gaza Health Ministry could not immediately be explained.More than 1,000 people suffered a range of injuries on Friday, including those hit by live fire and those overcome by tear gas, the Gaza health ministry said. Twelve women and 48 minors were among those hurt, the officials said.At the United Nations, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged all parties to exercise maximum restraint, said U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric.He said U.N. Mideast envoy Nickolay Mladenov had been in touch with Israeli and Palestinian officials to reinforce "the need to allow people to demonstrate peacefully." Mladenov stressed the need to ensure that "excessive force is not used, and the need to ensure that children are not deliberately put in harm\'s way," Dujarric said.For a second week in a row, the United States blocked a U.N. Security Council statement supporting the right of Palestinians to demonstrate peacefully and endorsing Guterres\' call for an independent investigation into the deadly protests in Gaza.Palestinian U.N. Ambassador Riyad Mansour told reporters at U.N. headquarters in New York Friday evening that 14 of the 15 council nations agreed to the statement, but the U.S., Israel\'s closest ally, objected.A White House envoy urged Palestinians to stay away from the fence. Jason Greenblatt said the United States condemns "leaders and protesters who call for violence or who send protesters  including children  to the fence, knowing that they may be injured or killed."Hamas has billed the final protest, set for May 15, as the "Great March of Return" of Palestinian refugees and their descendants, implying they would try to enter Israel. Two-thirds of Gaza\'s residents are descendants of refugees.Palestinians commemorate May 15 as their "nakba," or catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands were uprooted from homes in what is now Israel.__Daraghmeh reported from Ramallah, West Bank. Associated Press writers Karin Laub in Ramallah, Ian Deitch in Jerusalem, Josef Federman on the Gaza border and Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed to this report.
LONDON   The Latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter in Britain (all times local):5:30 p.m.Britain\'s Home Office says it has rejected a visa application for the niece of a former Russian spy poisoned by a nerve agent in the southwestern city of Salisbury.The authorities said in a statement Friday that Viktoria Skripal\'s visa application was denied on the grounds that it "did not comply with the immigration rules." It did not elaborate.Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia were found unconscious on a bench in Salisbury on March 4 and have been in a British hospital ever since.Viktoria told the AP she had been told to come to the British Embassy in Moscow on Friday afternoon but the embassy emailed her to say the appointment has been cancelled.___2:55 p.m.British doctors say former spy Sergei Skripal is no longer in critical condition, a month after he was poisoned with a nerve agent.Dr. Christine Blanshard, the medical director at Salisbury District Hospital, says the 66-year-old "is responding well to treatment, improving rapidly and is no longer in a critical condition."The former Russian spy and his daughter Yulia have been hospitalized since they were found unconscious on a park bench March 4. British authorities say they were exposed to a military-grade nerve agent and have blamed Russia.Russia has denied responsibility for the poisoning.The hospital says Yulia Skripal,33, is conscious and in stable condition.___12:55 p.m.Russia\'s foreign minister is urging Britain to produce its evidence in the ex-spy poisoning case.Sergey Lavrov said Friday that Britain must "honestly and openly ... put all the facts on the table."Britain blamed Russia for the March 4 nerve agent attack on former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the city of Salisbury. Russia has fervently denied the claims and accused Britain of waging a deliberate defamation campaign.Lavrov, speaking on a trip to Belarus, said British officials have engaged in "frantic and convulsive efforts to find arguments to support their indefensible position" instead of producing evidence.He said that Britain and its Western allies are wrong if they expect Russia to "confess to all deadly sins" it didn\'t commit and "play by their rules."___12:45 p.m.A relative of a former Russian spy and his daughter who were poisoned in Britain says she has not heard from them since a call from the daughter earlier this week, but she is certain that call was authentic.Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia are in a British hospital after being poisoned with a military grade nerve agent. Britain has blamed Russia for the attack.Russian state television on Thursday played back a recording of what they said was a phone call from Yulia Skripal to her cousin Viktoria, who lives in Russia. There was no explanation how the call was recorded especially because Viktoria is heard on the call expressing surprise at hearing her cousin, who was in critical condition until a week ago.Viktoria Skripal told The Associated Press on Friday that she has no doubt that it was Yulia who called, and that she has not heard from her since. Viktoria, who works as a chief accountant in the city of Yaroslavl, explained that the call was recorded because she has an app on her phone that she uses to keep track of all the calls she makes for work.She said she was invited to come to the British Embassy on Friday afternoon, supposedly to pick up her visa, but a contact at the embassy has emailed her to say that the appointment has been canceled and that the decision on her visa application has not been made yet.___12:20 p.m.A Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman is questioning why British officials have incinerated the pets found at the poisoned ex-spy\'s home.Maria Zakharova said on Facebook Friday that the two guinea pigs and a cat who lived in former double agent Sergei Skripal\'s home were important evidence.Britain\'s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said the guinea pigs were found dead at Skripal\'s home after it was sealed off for investigations. It said the cat was also found "in a distressed state and a decision was taken by a veterinary surgeon to euthanize the animal to alleviate its suffering."Britain blamed Russia for the March 4 nerve agent attack on Skripal and his daughter. Russia vehemently denied the accusations and accused Britain of waging a deliberate defamation campaign.___10:25 a.m.The British government says two guinea pigs and a cat were victims of the Salisbury poisoning.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs says the two rodents were found dead at the home of Sergei Skripal after it was sealed off for investigations.It said Friday that a cat was also found "in a distressed state and a decision was taken by a veterinary surgeon to euthanize the animal to alleviate its suffering."The former Russian spy and his daughter Yulia have been hospitalized since they were found unconscious on a park bench March 4. British authorities say they were exposed to a military-grade nerve agent, and have blamed Russia.Russia vehemently denies responsibility.On Thursday, Russia\'s U.N. ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said Britain had not yet mentioned the fate of the pets, which he said was an important piece of evidence.___5 a.m.The international furor over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter intensified, with Russia warning Britain that it was "playing with fire."At a U.N. Security Council meeting on Thursday, Russia\'s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia claimed that Russia was the victim of a hasty, sloppy and ill-intentioned defamation campaign by London and its allies.Britain has blamed Russia for the March 4 poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter. In response, more than two dozen Western allies including Britain, the U.S. and NATO have ordered out over 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity. Moscow has fiercely denied its involvement in the nerve agent attack and expelled an equal number of envoys. The diplomatic turmoil has hit lows unseen even at the height of the Cold War.Moscow assumes "with a high degree of probability" that the intelligence services of other countries are likely responsible for the incident, Nebenzia said at the U.N.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Antonio Villaraigosa, the former mayor of Los Angeles, is a leading Democratic candidate for governor. California Today has been doing occasional question-and-answer sessions with candidates for office, and today we turn to Mr. Villaraigosa. The interview, edited and condensed for clarity, was done for our article on the race.Q: Does Gov. Jerry Brown deserve any blame for the increase in poverty and homelessness?A: No. I dont think so. The state was in free-fall when he came in. And it took, what, four years, the first term at least, really five years, to get us back on the footing that we are on now. We werent in a position to do what we needed to do. The next administration needs to focus a lot more on building on that template of homelessness, affordable housing and economic development.Q: Do you support the bill proposed by Senator Scott Wiener that would override local zoning laws to permit more dense housing construction near transit lines?A: There are two problems with the Wiener bill. It starts out with a stick. I think you need to start out with incentives. And it only focuses on places where there is transit-oriented development. So Marin County, as an example, would be exempt. Marin has probably led the state in fighting affordable homeless.Q: You have criticized the pledge by one of your opponents, Gavin Newsom, to pass single-payer health care system for California.A: Im for it in concept. But it would require waivers from Trump so you can get Medicare. Thats not going to happen. Thats why I call it snake oil.Q: Is this an effective campaign issue for Mr. Newsom?A: Hes the darling of the nurses. It is very, very effective with those who are just so disenchanted with whats going on with Trump and want to believe that we can somehow do something about this without Trumps cooperation and notwithstanding our own budgetary constraints.Q: Do you support impeaching President Trump?A: No. Its become crystal clear that we are on our way to establishing that Donald Trump obstructed justice. But in order to impeach, that means you have to convince not just Democrats, you have to convince Republicans, too. You cant just call for impeachment. We have to build for it.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) The Trump White House and California are in an escalating legal war; heres an expert analysis of the biggest standoffs (with handicapping) from our legal correspondent, Adam Liptak. (The New York Times) Some of those tensions might be easing. The state and White House are in talks on a deal over a major point of contention: whether California would continue getting a waiver to impose its own stricter emission standards. (The New York Times) A 5.3 magnitude earthquake rattled buildings and nerves around Los Angeles. Its right on the edge of being an earthquake that could be dangerous. No serious damage or injuries were reported. (The Los Angeles Times) Drought? Presidio Terrace in San Francisco is lush with trees and flowers, as the neighborhood uses up to one million gallons of city water a year. Guess whos paying? (The San Francisco Chronicle) Six months after the wildfires, Sonoma County is struggling to recover. I have never experienced a disaster quite like this. (The San Francisco Chronicle) A look at what happened to homeless people rousted from the Santa Ana River Trail after their motel vouchers expired. (The Orange County Register) Merle Haggard, a Central California native, is getting a building: A post office is being named in his honor in Bakersfield. He died in 2016. (Bakersfield.com) The decision by Orange County officials to back the Trump administrations lawsuit against Californias so-called sanctuary city laws risks branding the G.O.P. as anti-immigrant, just as Latinos and Asian-Americans transform the county, says the political analyst Ronald Brownstein. (CNN) Governor Brown has been quiet on the police shooting of Stephon Clark in Sacramento, but candidates to succeed him have spoken out. (The Sacramento Bee) The Clark shooting was not an anomaly in California, an Op-Ed writer argues. Day-to-day life for generations of black residents there has long been shaped by discrimination and inequality. (The New York Times) The Los Angeles Times editorial board says lawmakers should proceed with caution as they debate a bill to raise the standard for police officers using deadly force. (The Los Angeles Times) The California Chamber of Commerces annual job killer list is out: the bills the chamber wants the Legislature to kill (think regulations and taxes). The chambers kill record is pretty good. (The Sacramento Bee) Glindas house is for sale. She was the Good Witch in The Wizard of Oz, played by Billie Burke. Built in 1938 (making it older than the movie), it was Ms. Burkes longtime residence. Yours for $2.9 million. (Brentwood Patch) The King Tut exhibition is coming to Los Angeles, and heres a cool video on what to look for if you brave the crowds. (The Los Angeles Times)When Gov. Jerry Brown turned 40  that happened 40 years ago, the first time Mr. Brown served as governor  The Los Angeles Times marked the moment with a story. The young governor becomes a middle-aged governor today, the first paragraph reads.Mr. Brown turns 80 on Saturday. He is the oldest governor in the United States, according to the authoritative source on such things (Wikipedia). He plans to head to a gym to pump some iron and weather permitting, take a bike ride with his wife, Anne Gust Brown. Theres dinner with staff on Friday night and another one with friends and family, including his sisters Kathleen and Barbara, at the Governors Mansion in Sacramento on Saturday.Per tradition, the first lady will also be baking his mothers famous banana cake, said Evan Westrup, Mr. Browns press secretary.The writer of that original story observed that in the four years since Mr. Brown had taken office at age 36, his sideburns grayed, and keeping his weight down has become a problem. Forty years later, the sideburns are gone. All the hair is gone. We wont say anything about the weight, except blame that famous banana cake.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia  Malaysias leader has said he will dissolve Parliament on Saturday, paving the way for the most contentious general elections in the country since it gained independence more than six decades ago.The election will be a referendum on Prime Minister Najib Razak, who is running for a third term amid a lingering scandal involving billions of dollars that were diverted from a Malaysian state investment fund.The elections will pit Mr. Najib, who has vowed to make Malaysia great, against his erstwhile mentor Mahathir Mohamad, a former prime minister whose 22-year rule was as transformative as it was divisive. After years of hounding Malaysias political opposition, Dr. Mahathir, 92, defected from the governing coalition to partner with his former enemies.Its like a civil war in Malaysia right now, said Fahmi Fadzil, the communications director for the opposition Peoples Justice Party. Ive never seen this country so divided.Malaysias electoral commission will announce the date of the nationwide election next week, but it is expected to occur by mid-May. In the last general elections in 2013, campaigning was limited to just 15 days. Despite the brief run-up to the voting that year, however, the National Front coalition, which has run Malaysia since independence, lost the popular vote for the first time in history.Discontent with Mr. Najib has simmered for years, especially among members of Malaysias ethnic Chinese minority. But Mr. Najib, who is the scion of an ethnic Malay political dynasty, has been able to count on rural Malay constituents whose influence has been amplified by race-based policies that benefit them.The governing National Front alliance is dominated by Mr. Najibs United Malays National Organization, which has safeguarded preferential treatment for the Malay majority in areas ranging from government jobs to university places.In the run-up to the campaign season, the governing alliance appears to have focused on creating ideal conditions to assure Mr. Najibs re-election. On Thursday, a government body temporarily deregistered Dr. Mahathirs new political party because it had filed incomplete paperwork. Until the documentation is complete, Dr. Mahathirs political bloc will not be allowed to campaign or display its logo.There is no rule of law in this country, Dr. Mahathir said at a news conference late Thursday night. Najib is cheating to win the election by paralyzing his opponents.Even before the order to dissolve Parliament was announced on Friday, flags for the National Front began appearing at overpasses and major intersections in Kuala Lumpur, the nations capital. Banners for opposition parties, which are expected to band together under the Peoples Justice Party in order to contest the elections, were not on display.Two controversial bills were passed in the waning days of Parliament. One rejiggered voting districts so drastically that the opposition derided it as gerrymandering. Another piece of legislation made creating or circulating fake news punishable by up to six years in prison. The definition of fake news has not been made clear.Earlier this week, Mr. Najib promised to give raises to Malaysias 1.6 million civil servants, most of whom are Malay. The prime minister also vowed to lavish hundreds of millions of dollars on police officers and certain companies run by bumiputra, or sons of the soil, as Malays and indigenous peoples are known.Dr. Mahathir was the architect of the affirmative action program for Malays, who were discriminated against during British rule. Encouraging mass immigration by Chinese and Indians, the British also gave some prime jobs in the colonial administration and business sphere to non-Malays, fostering resentment that festers to this day.Pakatan Harapan, Malaysias opposition coalition, is an unwieldy collection of disparate forces that includes Chinese liberals, Islamists and nationalist Malays. Meaning alliance of hope in Malay, it is led by Dr. Mahathir, even though some of the coalitions most prominent members are veteran opposition leaders who were jailed or harassed during the former prime ministers long tenure.Chief among them is Anwar Ibrahim, a former deputy prime minister to Dr. Mahathir who fell out of favor and was jailed on sodomy and graft charges that were widely seen as politically motivated. Mr. Anwar famously appeared in court in 1998 with a black eye that Dr. Mahathirs allies insisted was self-inflicted.Mr. Anwar is now back in prison after a second sodomy conviction. He is scheduled to be released in June. How the opposition will deal with two suns in its political solar system  Dr. Mahathir and Mr. Anwar  remains to be seen.The electoral choice is so uninspiring for some younger Malaysian voters that they have started a movement to cast spoiled ballots to protest the state of national politics.The National Front, however, says that it has delivered on 99 percent of its campaign pledges from 2013. The country of 30 million people is among Southeast Asias most prosperous, even though a study released last year by the United Nations and the Malaysian Health Ministry found high rates of child malnutrition.Our target is nothing short of being one of the top nations in the world, Mr. Najib said on Wednesday.Yet Malaysias international reputation has been damaged by a scandal surrounding the mishandling of at least $3.5 billion connected to the One Malaysia Development Berhad fund, known as 1MDB.An investigation by the United States Department of Justice, which is building a case to seize around $1.7 billion in assets connected to the fund, found that $731 million that was deposited into bank accounts controlled by Mr. Najib had come from 1MDB. Mr. Najib contends that the bulk of that money was given to him by a Saudi patron.For the prime minister, its either be re-elected or go to jail, said Mukhriz Mahathir, an opposition politician who is also Dr. Mahathirs son. The stakes could not be higher for him.Multiple Malaysian investigations into 1MDB have found no impropriety connected to Mr. Najib or his associates. Officials with 1MDB have said no money went missing from the fund. Mr. Najib has hinted that investigations by foreign countries into 1MDB are Western witch hunts.Both Mr. Najib and Dr. Mahathir have a record of blaming outsiders for stirring up dissent against them. Dr. Mahathir suggested that Jews were behind the Asian financial crisis in 1997. Mr. Najib has advised white people to stop interfering in Malaysian affairs.Malay populism is expected to be stirred up during the campaign, and some Malaysian minorities have characterized this election as an existential moment for a country that depends on a delicate balance of races for stability. Although numbers are hard to come by, an ethnic Chinese brain drain appears to be robbing Malaysia of qualified white-collar workers.If the opposition loses again, there will be no hope left, said Liew Chin Tong, an ethnic Chinese strategist for the opposition Democratic Action Party. I worry that some people will end up leaving Malaysia.
LOS ANGELES  He talked about the movie business with Michael Douglas, Morgan Freeman and Dwayne Johnson over dinner at Rupert Murdochs house. He discussed space travel with Richard Branson in the California desert, and philanthropy with Bill Gates and technology with Jeff Bezos in Seattle. He visited Harvard and MIT, brokered arms deals with President Trump and sat down with Wall Street financiers. He even met with Oprah Winfrey.For nearly three weeks, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the 32-year-old heir to the Saudi throne, has crisscrossed the United States, on an ambitious, choreographed journey through modern American life, while under heavy guard because of his many enemies in the Middle East.The prince, who arrived in America with a reputation as an aggressive consolidator of power back home and a zealous interventionist abroad, is seeking to change the perception of Saudi Arabia from an opaque and conservative kingdom, where mosques promote extremist ideology and women are relegated to second-class status, to a modernist desert oasis.Prince Mohammed also has sought to attract American investors for industries going well beyond Saudi Arabias Aramco petroleum giant. He is pressing what he has described as a transformative economic agenda, to wean the kingdom from reliance on oil and diversify its economy through public infrastructure investments and development of an entertainment industry  including theme parks along the lines of Six Flags and Disney.I think its brilliant and I will tell you why, said Adam Aron, the chief executive of the movie theater chain AMC, who has met with the prince. The crown prince is aware that Saudi Arabia has had a difficult image in the United States, because its been such a conservative country for so many decades. He wants to transform Saudi society in ways that will be very appealing to Americans.Mr. Aron spoke this week in a reception area of the Four Seasons in Los Angeles, as attendees of a Saudi conference on the entertainment business ate from a spread of Middle Eastern dishes  lamb kebabs, hummus, tabbouleh. They were entertained by an oud player. Officials spoke about plans to open up the country to concerts, jazz festivals and movies, all an attempt, in the words of one Saudi official, to drive happiness in the kingdom, where 70 percent of the population is under 30, and many are glued to their smartphones.Mr. Aron has been a beneficiary of the crown princes economic plan, called Vision 2030. On Wednesday, Mr. Aron and the Saudis announced a deal to open the first movie theater in Saudi Arabia in decades.Black Panther, the Marvel blockbuster, will be the first film shown at the April 18 gala opening in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.Mr. Aron said men and women would be able to attend films together, a revolutionary step in Saudi Arabia, where public space has long been strictly segregated by gender. He said Hollywood films would be censored in the same way they were in other places across the Middle East: sex out, violence in.The trip, in its scale and the range of American luminaries on the itinerary, is an undertaking of extravagant ambition, say analysts. One historical parallel occurred in 1943, when the king of Saudi Arabia sent Prince Faisal, his son, to the United States to meet with President Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II and tour the United States, according to Bruce Riedel, a former C.I.A. official who is now a Saudi expert at the Brookings Institution.Even then, the scope wasnt what you see today, said Mohammed K. Alyahya, a Saudi expert at the Atlantic Council in Washington. This is really across the board. It signals that there is deep cooperation beyond just security for oil.For the longest time the Saudis wouldnt explain themselves, and explain why things were happening in their country, Mr. Alyahya added. That is changing dramatically.The princes American tour followed a similar visit to Britain, where he soaked in the royal treatment and dined with the queen. And as in the United States, local lobbying and public relations firms helped present an image of the prince as an economic and social reformer. In London, ads appeared on billboards and the sides of black cabs: He is bringing change to Saudi Arabia. He is empowering Saudi Arabian women. He is opening Saudi Arabia to the world.For decades, the relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia could be distilled into one proposition: access to oil for the Americans, and a guarantee that the Americans would protect Saudi Arabia from enemies, especially its chief rival, Iran.Prince Mohammeds trip began in Washington, where he met with President Trump and his son-in-law Jared Kushner, who share the princes antipathy for Iran and have deepened relations with the Saudis to counter Irans growing influence in the Middle East.The trip ends this weekend in Texas, where the prince meets with oil executives and two former presidents, George W. Bush and George H.W. Bush.He rose to next in line to assume the throne last year, under his father King Salman, after having helped push aside a cousin as crown prince. And then he locked up some of Saudi Arabias wealthiest and most influential businessmen, including members of the royal family, in the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh in what he described as a crackdown on corruption. The government then seized billions of dollars of their assets, in some cases through physical abuse and intimidation, The New York Times has reported.Prince Mohammed also has been sharply criticized by human rights activists for waging a bombing campaign in Yemen, where thousands of civilians have been killed, and for cracking down on dissent by jailing bloggers. And in playing to an American audience the prince has faced longstanding concerns over the efforts of Saudi Arabian clerics to export extremist Islamist ideology, beliefs that underpin terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State.Part of the princes rebranding of his nation  and his attempt to address the issue of religious extremism for a country that was home to 15 of the 19 hijackers in the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001  is a piece of revisionism, say analysts. The prince has argued, in interviews around his trip, that extremism in Saudi Arabia is traceable to the 1979 revolution in Shiite Iran, whose rivalry with Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia has inflamed sectarian tensions that divide the Middle East.Its really a rewriting of Saudi history, said Karen E. Young, an expert on Saudi Arabia at the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington. Ms. Young said that conservative Muslim strains had always coursed through Saudi society, but that drawing a line between before 1979 and after plays into this rhetoric of the world against Iran.It also plays to the sentiments of the Trump administration, which has taken a tougher line and has threatened to tear up the 2015 deal the Obama administration negotiated to curtail Irans nuclear program.For the most part, human rights concerns have not overshadowed the princes American journey. At the dinner at Mr. Murdochs house, for instance, where guests  but not the prince himself  drank wine from the media moguls vineyard, the prince spoke about empowering women in Saudi Arabia, where they will soon be able to drive for the first time in decades, and movie investments in the kingdom. He was not pressed on human rights issues, said one attendee, who described the evening as informal and the prince as carefully candid.Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles was one of the few Americans who met with Prince Mohammed and in public stressed human rights issues. In a statement, the mayor said he urged the Crown Prince to continue his efforts to advance womens rights, and raised concerns about human rights and the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Yemen.In Los Angeles, Prince Mohammeds visit drew a smattering of protests. Hes coming here under the guise that hes some great reformer and changing the country, said Michelle Modglin, 67, a retired nurse, demonstrating outside the Beverly Hills office of the William Morris Endeavor talent agency, which recently received a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia. But we know thats not true as long as hes bombing Yemen and killing innocent people.Later that evening, hundreds of Saudi students from nearby universities  many of whom receive educational scholarships from the Saudi government  packed a ballroom at the Beverly Hills Hotel for a TED-style event put on by the Misk Foundation, a nonprofit founded by Prince Mohammed. During the Misk Talk, successful Saudi men and women representing technology, entertainment and other industries sought to impart wisdom and inspiration to the young crowd.And on Tuesday night, Misk hosted an art exhibit in an industrial-style event space in the arts district of downtown Los Angeles, where women in miniskirts and leather pants mixed with young Saudi women in head scarves, while young Saudi men who live in Los Angeles worked as volunteer guides to Saudi art.Hala Alzuhayri, a Saudi woman at the University of San Diego who attended the Misk Talk, praised the prince for opening up the economy and said she was pleased about the new prospects for women, even as she worried about the pace of change. But we are a Muslim society, so these kinds of big steps have to take time, she said. You cant just shock society with big steps one after another. Its hard.In the cities on his itinerary, fancy hotels reserved all their room for the royal entourage, displacing other guests and disrupting local businesses because of the heavy security. In New York, a green Saudi flag was raised outside the Plaza Hotel near Central Park, and all the rooms were bought at a cost of millions. In Los Angeles, the princes entourage took over the Four Seasons and the prince stayed at a private mansion. The Saudis also rented the entire Four Seasons in Palo Alto, near the campuses of Google and Facebook, during the princes Silicon Valley stopover. We have had a request from the State Department for a V.I.P. delegation, said James Tattersall, the hotels director of marketing.Parts of the trip seemed to verge on chaos before it even began. Journalists and analysts in Washington who follow the kingdom could not get a precise schedule. There was a last-minute scramble for hundreds of visas for visiting Saudis, according to Bloomberg. In New York one night, the tempo of the Middle East, where meetings often stretch into the dark hours of the night, prevailed. Reporters were called to the Plaza near midnight for an announcement of a $200 billion solar power deal between the Saudis and SoftBank.It was very disorganized, said Ms. Young, of the start of the trip. There was a real lack of coordination.But the operation soon stabilized, with a tightly controlled message managed by the Saudi Embassy in Washington with assistance from American lobbying and public relations firms. Almost daily, news releases were issued about the crown princes dizzying schedule of meetings.It sent a message that this could go very wrong, she said, of the early chaos. But to their credit its gone very well.
LONDON  Last year, Israeli police officers raided a Bedouin village in the Negev desert called Umm al-Hiran. The Israeli authorities said that during the raid a villager had purposely run over an Israeli officer, killing him. They called it a terrorist attack. The villager died at the scene. Silent police helicopter footage seemed to show his car accelerating into the officer.Forensic Architecture uncovered a different story.You may recall Forensic Architecture from headlines a few years back. It investigated the killing of two Palestinian teenagers in the West Bank. Local and international media crews were on hand when the teenagers were killed. Security cameras recorded the shootings. At first, Israels minister of defense said the teenagers had been throwing Molotov cocktails at Israeli soldiers, despite security footage showing otherwise. The minister said the footage had been doctored.Forensic Architecture combed through the videos and social media posts. Using architectural rendering software, it pieced together a computer model of the site and tracked the trajectory of the bullets. That pinpointed the soldier who fired them and the weapon he used. Comparing acoustic signatures, Forensic Architecture then matched the fatal shots to the distinct sounds of live ammunition, contradicting the militarys claim that only rubber bullets had been fired. All this contributed to Israeli officials reversing themselves, and charging the soldier with manslaughter.A survey of Forensic Architectures work is now on view at  the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, through May 6. A collaborative of designers, filmmakers, coders, archaeologists, psychologists and others, based at Goldsmiths, University of London, Forensic Architecture acts more or less like a detective agency. It partners with groups like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. Its funders include the European Research Council. And its investigations are whodunits. Eyal Weizman, an Israeli-British architect, is the groups founder and resident Columbo.Instead of creating a house or skyscraper, the group scours for evidence of lies, crimes and human rights violations  combining the spatial and engineering skills of architects, the data-gathering prowess of librarians, the doggedness of investigative journalists and the storytelling finesse of screenwriters. Its reports have annoyed Germanys Christian Democratic Union party, frustrated Bashar al-Assad, Syrias president, provoked an attack from Vladimir V. Putins Russia Today news service, and infuriated officials in Israel.Mr. Weizman has an especially long history of run-ins there. Born in Haifa, educated at the Architectural Association in London, he was just starting out as an architect in Tel Aviv when he began to study the legacy of town planning in the occupied territories. What he saw suggested to him architectures complicity in human rights violations. In 2002, with a colleague, Rafi Segal, he was hired to organize a show of new Israeli architecture. Mr. Weizman and Mr. Segal presented settlements in the occupied territories. Appalled, the Israel Association of United Architects canceled the exhibition and withdrew the catalog. The incident brought Mr. Weizman attention.And it made him think.His timing could hardly seem better, with technology rapidly democratizing the instruments of forensic research and the purview of young architects widening. He begins his recent book, Forensic Architecture, recalling the  libel trial in London of the Holocaust denier and historian David Irving, nearly two decades ago. Mr. Irvings shameful case relied on a tidbit of architectural evidence: he made much of fuzzy satellite imagery showing a demolished crematory at Auschwitz. Survivors had said they recalled poison cyanide gas canisters dropped through a hole in the crematorys roof, but Mr. Irving said there was no hole in the satellite photos. No hole, no Holocaust, became the deniers catchphrase.Mr. Irving lost his trial. But Mr. Weizman cites the case as a cautionary tale. The tools of forensic analysis can easily be perverted. Wielded especially by governments and other powers in defense of violence and crime, they need to be challenged by equally sophisticated means. Architecture and forensics may be disparate disciplines but brought together they could produce a new, different mode of practice, Mr. Weizman realized. They could help reverse the forensic gaze back onto state agencies that usually monopolize it.Adopting a phrase coined by the photographer Allan Sekula, Mr. Weizman terms the practice counter forensics.I stopped by the groups office in southeast London the other day. A dozen or so researchers were staring into computer screens, Nick Masterton among them. He was tinkering with a timeline and 3D computer model of the Grenfell Tower fire that killed 71 people in London last year. Mr. Masterton and the rest of the Grenfell team have spent the last several months knitting together thousands of open-source photographs, videos and reams of metadata related to the fire.Mr. Masterton told me hes using some of the techniques he learned in architecture school when so-called parametric design was the rage. Forensic Architecture relies on computer programs and digital animation software that model exotic building shapes to reconstitute bombed-out ruins, identify debris patterns from drone strikes and document tragedies like the fire. And of course Mr. Masterton scours the Web for images.It has become a clich that smartphones and social media today flood the world with pictures that change public debates around power, policing, violence and race. For Mr. Weizman, the image flotsam, as he calls it, can be as confounding as it can be useful and it needs to be assembled. It requires construction and composition  thus, architecture, in his words. The resulting architectural image complex functions like a lens, letting people see the scene of a crime as a set of relations between images in time and space.Christina Varvia is now Forensic Architectures research coordinator. What we do is in the tradition of paper architecture, she told me, when I asked how her work relates to what she did as an architect. Except we expect results. As architects, were also trained to bring different people together to produce a design. But instead, we synthesize evidence.Since 2011, when Mr. Weizman founded the agency, its work has expanded beyond Israel and the Palestinian territories to Mexico, Guatemala, Afghanistan and Europe. Its investigation into whether a German undercover agent lied about witnessing the murder of a man of Turkish descent at an internet cafe is one of the most intriguing and mysterious cases at the Institute of Contemporary Arts.One of the most heartbreaking involves Saydnaya, the infamous prison outside Damascus.Since the start of Syrias civil war, thousands have disappeared inside that countrys detention centers. At Saydnaya, prisoners are kept in darkness, tortured and beaten if they speak. No outsiders are allowed access. There are no recent photographs of the inside.Working with Amnesty International, Forensic Architecture interviewed five former Saydnaya detainees in Istanbul. The researchers asked the prisoners to describe the building. Trauma unhinges memory, but architecture can provide an anchor. No detail was considered too trivial. Based on remembered smells of grease and blood, and sounds like an idling truck engine delivering new prisoners or the approaching thud of guards beating inmates, cell by cell, Forensic Architecture constructed a computer model of Saydnaya.When a state commits a crime, Mr. Weizman explained, it cordons off an area, which is the privilege of the state. That site becomes a work of architecture, defined by the cordon. A prison by definition is architecture. You can try to break through the state cordon via leaks, media images, satellite photographs. And when theyre not available, memory is a way around the cordon. In any case, the cordoned area is our building site.At Umm al-Hiran, the Bedouin village that was raided, the building site became the dusty hill where the car struck the police officer. The supposed terrorist in that case was a farmer named Yaqub Musa Abu al-Qian. The Israeli policeman he ran over was named Erez Levi.Collaborating with ActiveStills, an Israeli-based photographic collective, Forensic Architecture used photogrammetry and collected, time stamped and synchronized every available image and video of the raid, producing a corresponding soundtrack. The soundtrack, when played alongside the thermal-imaging videos, revealed the pops of three gunshots where heat flashes emerged from a policemans weapon that had been overlooked in the silent helicopter footage. The weapon was fired at Mr. Abu al-Qians car just before it accelerated down a hill and into Mr. Levi.Not long after that discovery, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz published a leaked autopsy report revealing that Mr. Abu al-Qian had suffered two bullet wounds, one in his right knee, the leg controlling the gas pedal. The wound raised an alternative explanation for why Mr. Abu al-Qian, who had been moving slowly, with his lights on, suddenly accelerated, as if losing control of his vehicle.The police continued to insist he was a terrorist, but more than a month after the raid Israels security service and Ministry of Justice changed the story and attributed the incident to a police blunder.That still left unexplained the second bullet, which villagers testified to seeing an Israeli officer fire at point-blank range into Mr. Abu al-Qian after his car had stopped.So Forensic Architecture continued its investigation.With volunteers, it reenacted the event at Umm al-Hiran, using the same model car, confirming that the scenario in which a wounded Mr. Abu al-Qian lost control and sped down the hill matched the video evidence. It also turned out that the doors of a Land Cruiser lock automatically when the vehicle reaches 20 kilometers an hour, as Mr. Abu al-Qians car did before swerving to a standstill at the bottom of the hill.In helicopter footage, the drivers side door can be seen to open when the police surround the stopped vehicle, implying Mr. Abu al-Qian willingly opened it. A single gunshot then pierces the soundtrack.That second bullet lodged beneath Mr. Abu al-Qians heart. The leaked autopsy report said he bled to death from this wound, while medical aid was withheld.An investigation by the justice ministry into the event recently concluded, without any apparent indictments. The case awaits a final verdict by the state attorney.
When Rose Giulianos grandmother died in 2014, the thought of selling the Brooklyn apartment building that had been in her family for 125 years was so unbearable that she and her husband moved back east from the San Francisco Bay Area to manage the property.Her great-great-grandfather, an Italian immigrant, had bought the six-unit building in Greenpoint, at 146 Newton Street, in 1889, moving into one apartment and filling the others with members of his extended family. Ms. Giulianos grandmother was born in the building and when she married, her husband, who grew up nearby, joined her there.Even when they got older, and we were like, You can go to Florida, I dont think she could envision herself in any other place but that house  that house, that neighborhood, that community, Ms. Giuliano said. In the summer, they would sit on the stoop and play cards. The block was her family. She just seemed of that place, a certain place in time.Ms. Giuliano and her husband lived in her grandparents old apartment for a little over three years. But while the building itself was as she remembered it from childhood visits  the murals of Naples in the halls, the dumbwaiter they used to play with, the smell of fermented grapes that emanated from the corner of the basement where her grandfather made wine  nothing else was.The buildings all around them were being torn down and gutted, the businesses her grandparents once frequented were long gone and the other apartments were filled with tenants, not family members.It isnt what it was. It cant be what it was. It just becomes a business, and do you want that? said Ms. Giuliano, whose family finally sold the building this winter. I felt super-conflicted. Is my grandmothers ghost still walking the halls? Im sad letting it go, but I dont know how to hold on and preserve it anymore.Of all possible family heirlooms, a home is perhaps the most complicated: a thing of tangible value, that can be lived in or sold, rented out or passed down through the generations. Used as a primary residence or shared happily as a second home, it can number among the most practical of legacies. Some families manage to keep the same house for hundreds of years, recipes and rituals repeating across the years as new generations fill the rooms, castoffs and treasures collecting in the corners.Most, however, do not. The 2016 American Community Survey found that the median length of homeownership in the United States was 13 years. Unlike a painting or a ring, a house can be a very expensive heirloom to keep, and for many families, it changes at some point from a beloved home to a costly albatross.Children move away, heirs multiply, and old houses need work. Often, financial value accrues along with the sentimental, making it difficult, if not impossible, for any one family member to buy the others out. None of which necessarily makes confronting the reality of selling a family property any less difficult.Five years ago, Enid Thoms and her husband, Arthur, decided to sell a stately Georgian house in Kennebunk, Me., that had been in her family since 1801.When we put it on the market, I cried all weekend, Ms. Thoms said. Im very partial to that house, and I feel very bad about being the last. But now Im 80 and infirm, and it has become more a burden than a joy.Her great-great-grandfather, Hugh McCulloch, was a shipbuilder whose boatyard lay behind the houses seven acres on the Kennebunk River. His son, of the same name, served as Secretary of the Treasury under three presidents, including Abraham Lincoln, and was among those in the room when Lincoln died. She remembers her grandmother, who grew up traveling around the world with her father and spoke five languages, as a very formal woman, who once, when sick with a cold, greeted her by simply saying, Consider yourself embraced.It wasnt until we got the house that we started enjoying it, said Ms. Thoms, whose parents took it over when she was in college. She and Mr. Thoms were married in the dining room, during a blizzard, in front of one of the houses six fireplaces.Once the Kennebunk house sells, the Thoms plan to live year-round in their more modest home in Ocala, Fla. But as they have discovered, selling a property that has been in your family for 217 years presents more than emotional hurdles.Though the house is in good condition, with a museum-quality interior and a freshly painted exterior, and is now asking $598,000 (about a third less than it was first listed at), they have found that many buyers are more interested in air conditioning than in having wallpaper from 1785 or a convertible ballroom on the second floor.Every year we go up in the spring, and every year, when September comes and it hasnt sold, we say, The heck with it, we dont want to get rid of it anyway, Mr. Thoms said.Deborah Rainey, the broker for Georgia Realty Sales, a firm based in Washington, Ga., currently has a listing for a Greek Revival mansion that has been in the same family since it was built in 1818  which is not uncommon, she noted, in the historic town.Selling here is an art  the families are on no timeline, and theyre all emotional sales, she said. And it seems that no sooner do I sell one than I have family members come back and say, I would have kept that.Not long ago, one seller backed out of a signed contract with a couple from Boston after deciding that she couldnt part with the old family home after all.Others are so attached that they continue to return after the sale. Years ago, Ms. Rainey bought a house in South Carolina right over the Georgia border from the second family that had ever owned it. The deed stipulated that the original family had to approve the sale. And to her surprise, their oversight didnt end there: After the sale closed, she would often find the matriarch sitting in her yard.I got the house, but I got them, too, Ms. Rainey said.Letting go can be hard; not only do some former owners haunt the houses they once inhabited, they say that the houses haunt them, too.George Howe Colt, who wrote The Big House: A Century in the Life of an American Summer Home, about selling his familys summer house on Cape Cod, said that he still dreams about the house, which sold in 1997.After the book came out, he got stacks of letters from people who had gone through the same experience. Many apologized that their houses were not very big or distinguished, but all felt, as Mr. Colt had, that it was the place where our family was most itself, he said.Everyone worried that when they lost the house, theyd lose their families, Mr. Colt said. I worried about that, too.A house can act as a powerful anchor to the past, connecting those who roam its rooms with people and ways of life that have disappeared.Mary Idle, 91, spent childhood summers visiting various maiden aunts in Massachusetts, and ending up at her grandmothers summer house in Chatham. Her grandparents had bought the very old Cape overlooking the harbor in the late 1800s and reveled in its being unspoiled by modern conveniences like electricity and plumbing.Ms. Idle remembers being dragooned into cleaning the oil lamps with her sister, the nightly ritual of watching the moon rise over the ocean, and playing with her grandmothers dolls, Ida and Maude, who had petticoats, split underdrawers, little boots and their own four-poster bed.It was a very special place, across the street from the lighthouse, Ms. Idle said, recalling the rhythm of the light at night. Youd go to sleep with the light going over your bed, over your bed, over your bed.When her older brother died recently, the house passed to a number of nieces and nephews scattered across the country. Ms. Idles son, Win, who lives in Colorado, was among them. They recently listed the house for $1.75 million.We did not come to that conclusion lightly, Mr. Idle said. We love that place, but its an expensive home and we do not have that kind of money. My brother and I talked about it, but theres no way we could have bought it out from the others.While owning a home that has increased significantly in value is an unalloyed good in almost any other context, it often proves the undoing for a family home with more than one heir.Michael Hardman was the fourth generation to grow up in a brick townhouse in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, that his great-grandfather bought in the early 1900s. He remembers his parents being so happy when its value hit $30,000.I had hoped my kids would be the fifth generation to grow up here, said Mr. Hardman, who lives in Staten Island with his wife  she grew up down the block in Brooklyn  and their 5-year-old twin boys. But after his mother died, he and his sister discovered that the house had extensive structural damage and would require hundreds of thousands of dollars of work just to be habitable.There was no way, no way I could fix the house and pay off my sister, not even with an interest-free loan from her, said Mr. Hardman, a detective with the New York Police Department. He had wanted, badly, to see it sold to another family, but several potential sales fell through after buyers met with contractors and realized the scope of the project, said Abigail Palanca, an agent with Compass who had the listing.The siblings sold the house to a local developer for $1.4 million in 2016, and it is now nearing the end of an extensive renovation. It just went back on the market for $2.48 million. On a recent morning, Mr. Hardman and his wife, Mary, stopped by to see it. Walking through, Mr. Hardman greeted the handiwork with exclamations of wow and holy cow, marveling at how long it must have taken to strip decades of paint from the original woodwork.I love it, he said. This is what I would have imagined.Mr. Hardman moved in with his parents and younger sister in 1977, when he was 8, and seeing the house restored to a better version of itself brought back memories of spying on passers-by from the roof and imagining treasure hidden in the walls by his bootlegging great-grandfather.Its so nice being back. I didnt want my last memories to be bad, he said. I wish my parents were here to see this. Let the next family have four generations in this house, too.For some families, selling is not motivated by necessity or practicality, but by a desire for freedom and a fresh start. As much delight as one might draw from an ancestral home, the pull of the future is sometimes greater.Lianne Miller lives on a 16-acre East Hampton horse farm that has been in her family since the 1700s; the earliest paper deed they have found dates to 1763. She and her husband bought it from her mother and uncle in 1995, after her grandfathers death, discovering inside the old farmhouse hand-whittled crutches, a double-barreled shotgun and a newspaper announcing the start of the Spanish-American War.Ms. Miller grew up in Indiana, but she loved visiting her grandfather, an electrician whose pastime was salvaging castoffs left at the dump when the summer people went back to the city. Being here was like an adventure, hed show us his treasures, she said.He also enjoyed driving slowly down the side of the road, pointing out the monstrosities  that is, modern houses  to his grandchildren.But in addition to the farm, her family passed down a strong ethos of independence. And so, after her son graduated from high school last year, she decided that it was time to sell. Her husband had died of cancer in 2015 and her two daughters were grown and living in other states. The house no longer suited her needs.She listed the property for $4.5 million, despite knowing that the next person may well tear it down. Not everyone likes the Little House on the Prairie look as much as I do, she said.I do walk around thinking, Im really going to miss this place, she said. But if I wanted to stay, Id stay. Im just ready to start a new chapter. Im ready to go. I didnt see my future being here in East Hampton without my husband.When the house sells, she plans to put her things into storage and drive along the Interstate 81 corridor, from Pennsylvania into North Carolina, with her dog and three horses, staying in various towns until she finds one she likes. She feels comfortable with her decision, in part because she knows that her ancestors would have approved.When I bought the house, both my parents said, Listen, dont ever feel that you have to keep it, she said. If you get the want to go, go. What good is preserving it if youre not happy there?


