Want to know how The Americans ends? Head to Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Walk toward the East River. Disarm a couple of security doors. Climb a flight of stairs. Find an open door, and enter the studio of Alyssa Monks.Ms. Monks, 40, isnt a writer. She isnt a director. She definitely isnt an actress. Id be way too embarrassed to do that, she said.She is a painter, and her canvases are integral to the sixth season of the acclaimed FX drama, about Elizabeth and Philip Jennings (Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys), married Russian agents working deep cover in a suburb of Reagan-era Washington. The series returns March 28, and if you want Ms. Monks to spoil it for you, youll need to use interrogation techniques more persuasive than mine. I cant possibly was all she would tell me.When the showrunners Joe Weisberg and Joel Fields were plotting out the final season, they created an artist character, Erica, played by Miriam Shor (Younger). The wife of a nuclear arms negotiator, she is bedridden with cancer. Elizabeth, typically unrecognizable in oversize glasses and a curly wig, infiltrates her home as a health aide.To round out Ericas character, the show needed some paintings. Because we just felt that if we found the right real art, the character of the artist would feel true, Mr. Weisberg said, speaking at his offices near the Gowanus soundstage where The Americans shoots. But not any paintings would do. Elizabeth needs to discover more than nuclear secrets in Ericas home.As fans of The Americans know, Elizabeth keeps her emotions closer to her chest than any spyware. In this final season, the showrunners wanted to explore what would happen if Ericas art breaks through Elizabeths exterior and provokes her, Mr. Weisberg said. As Elizabeth sees art as a bourgeois frivolity, the paintings had to work on her unconsciously, like sleeper agents, suggesting the kinds of intense emotions that she will never let herself feel. They had to be realistic, but not too realistic, passionate, but not over the top. They had to look as though they could have been painted in the 1980s. And they had to be, as Mr. Fields said, really good art.Mr. Fields and Mr. Weisberg called their friend, the gallerist Jim Kempner, with a request: Find a painter who ticks every box. Mr. Kempner returned with a shortlist. Ms. Monkss name was near the top. As soon as the showrunners saw her canvases, they wanted them.A painting of a woman slumped on a hotel bed looked like Elizabeth after a honey trap. A screaming face seemed to embody the pain she repressed.Some of the work seemed like it could literally be a representation of Elizabeths psyche, Mr. Weisberg said. So they proposed what Mr. Fields called, this weird creative partnership where we wanted to appropriate her real, beautiful art for our fictional character. Ms. Monks agreed.I first met Ms. Monks in the late fall, in the Williamsburg studio that is also her apartment. She was wearing her uniform: boots, jeans, dark top, so much liner it looked like her eyes had fallen down twin holes.Born in New Jersey, she earned an M.F.A. from the New York Academy of Art. She is an admired painter who worked in a more or less realistic style until the 2012 death of her mother pushed her into a more abstract form that emphasized imperfection and chaos.In her home, the open-plan living room had been completely given over to painting. Drawings and paintings in various stages of completion covered the walls. Tubes, palettes, charcoal sticks and flammable solvents were arranged across carts and tables.Ms. Monks has lent her painting out before  an album cover here, a movie there  but the idea of an ongoing collaboration that would bring a character to life, that was exciting, attractive, she said. The compensation worked out to about what shed make on the sale of a large painting, the kind of canvas that takes months to create.She pointed out some of the paintings The Americans had requested. They were drawn to the more dramatic pieces, she said, because not all my work is this intense, right?She led me to a small one of a smudged face, a larger one of a woman shrieking behind a shower door, an even larger portrait of her mother, painted after her death, where the face seems to recede into a dark background. (That one made an FX publicist cry.) Though the images are more or less legible, they are often distressed  with solvents, with impasto, with various techniques that worry the painting. Anything that makes the surface complex, Ms. Monks said.Some collectors wouldnt part with pieces the show wanted, so she had been working 14-hour days recreating them. As she painted, she often played episodes of The Americans. Im learning a little Russian, she said.She could have tried it out an evening a few days later when she went to The Americans soundstage to help a team of set decorators with Ericas bedroom. The room itself unsettled her. The hospital bed reminded her of her mothers final illness. This is very evocative, she said, very surreal. While hammers struck a syncopated beat, she spread some drawings on the bed and arranged paintings across three of the walls. That one on the bottom is upside-down, she said gently to a crew member.Finally, the crew stood back to admire the work. I think we were able to get a good range, Ms. Monks said approvingly. Theyre not all screaming faces.A few days after that, she was on the set again. The first two episodes were shooting, and Ms. Monks had been tapped to provide Ericas sketch of a sleeping Elizabeth. One producer had tried to stash her in an unused quadrant of the stage  the set of a safe house  but Ms. Monks felt lonely in there, so she arranged her materials near a bank of monitors. She was worried she wouldnt have enough time for a decent sketch. My grad-school teachers will be so mad if she doesnt have feet! she said.Still, she knew she shouldnt make the drawing too perfect. She was drawing as Erica, after all. There will have to be some jagged moments where shes seizing with pain, Ms. Monks reasoned. I imagine the charcoal would break.Once shed taken a photo of a sleeping Ms. Russell, Ms. Monks went back to her table, covering the paper with charcoal, then using an eraser to pull out lines and shadows and shapes. Bloody hell, thats fast, the director Chris Long said.Meanwhile, Ms. Shor, dressed as the dying Erica, sat up in bed, brandishing the charcoal fiercely for the camera and trying to make use of what Ms. Monks had taught her during a recent lesson. It changed how I look at art; it changed how I thought about myself drawing, she said. Ms. Monks is a good teacher. In the first episodes, its Ms. Shors hands youll see moving over the paper, not Ms. Monkss, though both were shot.The sketches and the paintings are the most obvious evidence of Ms. Monkss collaboration with The Americans, but her influence is felt throughout the season. Shes had an impact on the design, arguing against some bold blue-and-gold wallpaper as an overly busy background for the paintings and substituting rubber bands for store-bought clasps on Ericas drawing board. She has given notes on the scripts, too, nixing a moment when Ericas husband covers up a sleeping Elizabeth while Erica is in mid-portrait. Alyssa said, Hes been married to her all these years, Mr. Fields recalled. If theres one thing you know, its dont screw with the model.And while Ms. Monks hasnt altered elements like who lives, who dies or who wears which wig, she has indirectly suggested new scenes and stories. These paintings started almost infiltrating the imaginations of the writers and also the characters, something started to grow, Mr. Weisberg said by telephone as the season finished shooting.During a chat in January at the Forum Gallery, the Upper East Side space that represents her work, Ms. Monks said she didnt know if the show would change her life or her sales. But it has given her renewed faith in her work. Before shed joined up with The Americans, shed felt afraid of the direction she was taking  darker, more abstract, more emotionally evocative, a little riskier. Her time on the show, she said, has given me permission to go deep into it and find that theres a lot of beauty there.I passed this tribute on to the showrunners. Thats just the sort of backhanded compliment that we here at The Americans like to get, Mr. Fields said. Here was an artist who was wondering whether or not things were too dark. Then she spent some time with us and realized she could go darker.
RIO DE JANEIRO   Google said Friday it would comply with a Brazilian judge\'s order to remove 16 videos from YouTube that expressed "assumptions and opinions" about a Rio de Janeiro city councilwoman who was slain last week.It came in a push by the family of Marielle Franco to squash rumors floated online that the former activist was connected to criminals.Franco and driver Anderson Gomes were shot to death in their car as they returned from an event focused on empowering black women. Franco, who was black grew up in a rough part of Rio, was a frequent critic of police brutality.Before being elected in 2016, she worked as an activist on several human rights issues.The slayings have shocked Brazil, put intense pressure on the government and led to international calls for an independent investigation.Police have not many any arrests and no group has taken responsibility for the murders.Since her March 14 death, messages posted on social media allege connections to drug traffickers and other criminals. Her family denies that, and earlier this week filed an injunction asking that slanderous posts be removed.In the court order published Thursday, Judge Marcia Correia Hollanda said the 16 videos she was ordering removed amounted to a "violation of the honor and image" of Franco."None of the disseminators present any proof of what they declare," she wrote.In a statement to The Associated Press Friday, Google, which owns YouTube, said it would comply with the judge\'s order to have the videos removed within 72 hours.Claudio Lamachia, president of the Brazilian bar association, said the push by Franco\'s family comes at a time when the country is increasingly wrestling with how to combat "fake news." The constitution makes clear that free speech does not include lies or unfounded accusations, he said."The internet is an open channel of liberty, but one that must include responsibility," said Lamachia.The videos are a window into the violent and complicated underworld of Rio, which is experiencing a spike in violence nearly two years after hosting the 2016 Olympics.Drug traffickers control large swaths of the city, including Mare, a warren of favelas, or marginalized areas, where Franco grew up. At the same time, militias, armed groups made up of current and former police officers, vie for influence and have been accused of summary executions.Speakers in several videos claim Franco has ties to the Red Command, Rio\'s largest gang."Everybody is talking about how this poor, black woman from a favela got to be a councilwoman," said a man posting under the name Forca Brasileira. "How did she do that? With the help of traffickers."Other videos criticize pro-choice positions that Franco had taken and accused her left-leaning Socialism and Liberty Party of having ties to organized crime.Unfounded accusations have not been limited to Youtube.Soon after the killing, a judge and a federal deputy posted false information about Franco, such as claiming she was "engaging with criminals." Both later apologized.Earlier this week, Franco\'s party said it had received more than 15,000 emails with "fake news" about Franco and local news organizations have devoted articles to debunking such reports.Among the false claims: Franco got pregnant when she was 16, she married a Red Command gang member and regularly smoked marijuana."Marielle was never a gangster. We were never financed by drug traffickers and she never married a gangster," said Franco\'s sister, Anielle Silva, at a protest on Tuesday. "They are not going to destroy what my sister built."
CONCORD, N.H.   Two University of New Hampshire researchers have been accused of misusing credit cards for federal research grant expenses to charge thousands of dollars of gift cards and personal items, the U.S. Attorney\'s office said Friday.Prosecutors say Hailong Zhang, 44, a research project manager for UNH\'s College of Life Sciences and Agriculture, and Jichun Zhang, 45, a research assistant professor for its Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and Space, were indicted on charges of using the cards multiple times to buy items from companies such as Amazon.com, Apple, Inc., and submitting fake receipts to UNH for reimbursement.They were arrested on theft charges Friday and scheduled for court appearances. It wasn\'t immediately known if they had lawyers or if they are related. An email seeking comment was sent to Hailong Zhang.The university discovered "some irregularity" in employee expense reimbursement claims by the two in December, UNH spokeswoman Erika Mantz said in a statement. UNH turned the information over to police and government officials. Mantz said the Zhangs were placed on unpaid administrative leave and banned from campus.The indictment for Hailong Zhang alleges that from December 2013 to this past January, he used the business credit card 31 times to buy Amazon.com gift cards totaling more than $82,000, which he used to buy items for his personal use.  His grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health.The indictment for Jichun Zhang alleges he used the credit card for personal items totaling more than $6,900 from January 2016 to December 2017. His grants were awarded by the National Aeronautic and Space Administration.
LONDON   A former Cambridge Analytica political consultant said the company\'s management misled the British public about work the firm did for a pro-Brexit group before the vote to leave the European Union, the Guardian reported on Friday.Brittany Kaiser, a business development director at the company from 2014 until earlier this year, said in an interview that Cambridge Analytica was carrying out data crunching and analysis work for Leave.EU, while publicly denying it was doing so.The insider account puts further pressure on the London-based data analytics firm, which is already facing renewed scrutiny in the United States and Europe over allegations it improperly harvested Facebook data to target U.S. voters.Late on Friday, a High Court judge granted an application by the UK Information Commissioner\'s Office for a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica\'s offices.The data protection watchdog said in a statement it plans to execute the warrant shortly to confirm the company deleted data from 50 million Facebook profiles, which a whistleblower has alleged it failed to do.Kaiser, who acted as a spokeswoman for Cambridge Analytica before and after the 2016 referendum, said she was ordered by the company to deny the firm was involved with the Brexit issue."I was quite confident that real work was being undertaken," Kaiser said in a videotaped interview with the Guardian."No, we didn\'t run the whole campaign and maybe our work wasn\'t used, but when I talked to the press we were actually undertaking data work and analysis" for Leave.EU, she said.Last month, Cambridge Analytica Chief Executive Alexander Nix denied to a parliamentary committee the company worked for Leave.EU, saying only that his firm had met the campaign group to discuss potential business, but did not reach a deal."Let me be absolutely crystal clear about this. I do not know how many ways I can say this. We did not work for Leave.EU. We have not undertaken any paid or unpaid work for them, okay?" he told a committee investigating fake news in UK politics.Cambridge Analytica\'s board of directors suspended Nix on Tuesday shortly before British broadcaster Channel 4 aired an expose of the firm\'s business practices in the United States.Arron Banks, a major donor to Leave.EU, wrote in "The Bad Boys of Brexit" a campaign diary he published after the campaign that the group had hired Cambridge Analytica on Oct. 22, 2015 to use \'big data and advanced psychographics to influence people\'.(Reporting by Eric Auchard in London; Editing by Adrian Croft)
BANDUNG, Indonesia   A spate of mysterious attacks on Islamic clerics, schools and mosques in Indonesia in recent weeks has ramped up tensions as the world\'s most populous Muslim-majority country heads into provincial elections and a presidential poll next year.Intelligence and Islamic officials believe that political forces are behind what they describe as a shadowy "black campaign" designed to whip up fear that Islam itself is under siege under the leadership of President Joko Widodo.In one town near the capital, Jakarta, a mosque manager was stabbed and a religious scholar received an anonymous letter warning that 10 clerics would be killed. Videos of what police say are fake attacks on Muslim clerics and schools have also been distributed on social media, heightening a mood of unease.The attacks on the heavily populated island of Java have come as hardline Muslim groups press for a more conservative society and decry moderate politicians, posing a threat to Indonesia\'s reputation for tolerance and the democracy it won with the downfall of authoritarian President Suharto in 1998.Indeed, there are echoes today of the panics stirred up by Suharto, which typically involved attacks on religious figures and institutions and sometimes a communist scare to discredit politicians.Elections are due across the country in June for dozens of governors, district heads and mayors. Analysts see those polls as an opening skirmish before 2019\'s battle for the presidency.Ridwan Kamil, mayor of the city of Bandung and frontrunner to become governor of West Java province, says he has been hounded for months by hoax stories online that questioned the strength of his Islamic faith."If you are not a Muslim, they will label you an infidel. If you are Muslim, they will label you not Islamic enough," Kamil said of his opponents in an interview with Reuters, declining to identify them."They\'re trying to send a message ... that the country is not safe, that the government is failing, that we need to replace the existing government. Who gets the benefit? Whoever challenges Jokowi," he said, referring to President Widodo, whom he supports for re-election, by his nickname.A CAMPAIGN TO SOW DISCORDThe potency of religion as a swing factor in elections was graphically illustrated last year when the popular governor of Jakarta, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, an ethnic-Chinese Christian and close ally of Widodo, lost his bid for re-election after being accused of insulting the Koran.An online video of him speaking had been edited to make it seem that he was criticising the Koran when in fact he was sniping at people who use a passage of Islam\'s holy book to warn Muslims against voting for non-Muslims.Purnama\'s ouster was spearheaded by the Islamic Defenders Front (FPI), a hardline group that organised huge protests against him in late 2016. He was later jailed for blasphemy.Reuters investigations into the recent attacks in Java showed that the FPI has been involved in stoking the tensions.National police chief Tito Karnavian says the wave of violence has not been "massive or systematic", and he blames online activists for "spicing up" anxiety among Muslims. There have only been three actual assaults and about 42 fake attacks were promoted online, he said.Even so, intelligence officials, Islamic leaders and politicians say there is a concerted effort to sow discord through vandalism and threats to Islamic leaders, schools and mosques, reinforced through social media. Intelligence agency chief Budi Gunawan described it as a "rampant black campaign".A leader of the Islamic Union, a mainstream organisation known as Persis, was killed in the early hours of Feb. 1 by a man wielding an iron bar. Senior Persis leaders told Reuters that 22 of the group\'s schools, mosques and teachers had been vandalised or received abusive phone calls since that incident.Someone, said Persis deputy chairman Jeje Zaenudin, is trying to "provoke a reaction".Mahmud Syaltout, deputy secretary general of the youth wing of Indonesia\'s largest Muslim group, Nahdlatul Ulama (NU), said NU schools and mosques have been targeted.One man who was caught vandalising a mosque in East Java appeared to be healthy and feigning madness, he said.Widodo\'s chief of staff, retired military chief Moeldoko, told local media someone was playing "old games", noting that  deploying mentally ill people to create unrest was a tactic that harked back to the Suharto era.RED SCAREPressed by Widodo, the NU and another moderate Islamic group, Muhammadiyah, have stepped up grassroots efforts to combat fundamentalist movements. According to a recent survey, nearly 20 percent of high school and university students support the establishment of an caliphate rather than a secular state.On social media, much of the blame for the recent attacks has been laid on "communists" who - critics say have been allowed to flourish under Widodo and his left-leaning Indonesia Democratic Party-Struggle.The government and independent analysts have said there is no credible evidence of a revival of Indonesia\'s outlawed communist party (PKI), once the world\'s second-largest. The party was decimated after soldiers and Islamic vigilantes slaughtered - according to some estimates - at least 500,000 alleged leftists and their families in 1965.Even so, Islamists, ultra-nationalists and elements of the military frequently warn of a resurgence. Analysts see the fomenting of a "red scare" as partly aimed at Widodo, a reformist and moderate who has often been falsely labelled by enemies as a descendant of communists.Earlier this year, a homeless man, suspected of planning to attack a cleric at an Islamic boarding school in West Java, was beaten and accused of being a communist.The man was accosted by students as he paced up and down a lane by their school near the town of Bogor around 3 a.m. on Feb. 10, said Mahmud Mukhlis, one of the students.A pin was found inside the vagrant\'s bag that a local cadre of the FPI Islamic group declared was "a symbol of the PKI", Mukhlis said. The pin, viewed by Reuters, was in fact a name tag from a high school emblazoned with an eagle, Indonesia\'s national symbol.Members of FPI filmed the assault and shared the video on social media, said Mukhlis.Slamet Maarif, a spokesman for FPI, did not deny his group  was behind the video. He said it needed to be proven that the homeless man\'s "communist" plot was a hoax, and described the incident as evidence of "an awakening" of the communist party."The government should be following up, and not accusing the people of spreading a hoax," Maarif said.MUSLIM CYBER ARMYPolice have arrested about 20 members of a network of online activists for spreading fake news about attacks on religious figures across Java.Known as the Muslim Cyber Army (MCA), the network was formed after the government shut down some of FPI\'s websites and social media accounts following anti-Purnama demonstrations in 2016.Police say they are investigating who funds and directs the MCA. FPI leaders have frequently praised the network, and have urged police to stop harassing it.For a decade, West Java province has been ruled by a coalition of nationalist and conservative Islamic parties that support Prabowo Subianto, a former Suharto-era special forces commander who lost the 2014 presidential election to Widodo.In that contest, Widodo was buffeted by an online smear campaign that he came from a family of communists and had Chinese ancestry. Warnings of a communist comeback are often linked to a surge in Chinese investment and workers in Indonesia, part of Widodo\'s drive to revamp the country\'s crumbling infrastructure.Subianto is expected to again challenge Widodo, a moderate reformer currently riding high in opinion polls, in next years election.Subianto was buoyed by the victory of a candidate he backed in last year\'s Jakarta governor election, but his Gerindra party\'s contestant to become governor in West Java is well behind Kamil in opinion surveys.Gerindra\'s deputy secretary general, Ahmad Reza Patria, said the party had no links to the "vile and extraordinary acts" in Java. Subianto has not commented publicly on the incidents.Bandung Mayor Kamil said he has stepped up security patrols in his city following the wave of attacks, but he is in no doubt that they are politically motivated."In my opinion, it is orchestrated," he said. "It\'s not just a person, but an organisation trying to benefit politically through fear."(Additional reporting by Jessica Damiana; Editing by Bill Tarrant and John Chalmers)
LONDON  In a dusty, overheated rehearsal room near London Bridge, things were getting ghoulish. On a mocked-up stage set, a soprano wearing a mask with black buttons over her eyeholes was slamming a fake hand into a door, trying to make it look as if it had been severed. Around a table, two magic consultants were huddled around a miniature toy theater, debating what sort of fake mice would freak audiences out the most. Eerie, discordant chords drifted from another room: A trio was practicing. Youre doomed, they seemed to be singing.It was the fourth week of rehearsals for the Royal Operas new adaptation of Neil Gaimans Gothic childrens novella Coraline, and no bumps in the night were being left to chance. The seven singers had memorized Mark-Anthony Turnages angular, complex score and had worked out where to stand and walk; today was all about making sure that the supernatural transformations required by Rory Mullarkeys libretto happened where they were meant to. The piece presented an unusual number of challenges, sighed Aletta Collins, the director: Never before had she been required to work out how to throw someone through a mirror onstage, as happens at the climax of the action, let alone how one might recruit a mouse orchestra, which pops up in Act One.Were doing our level best, she said.In the 16 years since it was published, Coraline, a tale of a plucky girl who falls into a parallel universe and battles forces from the dark side, has developed a passionate fan base, selling more than a million copies. In 2009 there came a stop-motion movie, and there have been video game and comic book adaptations, too  even an Off Broadway musical. Propelled by this, and by the astonishing success of other stories, such as the Sandman series and American Gods, Mr. Gaiman has become something of a cult figure, not just among the Comic-Con crowd, but in mainstream literary circles, too.Even so, the idea of making a fantasy novel into an avant-garde opera still seems like a leap  and not only because of the mice. But then Mr. Turnage has always had eclectic taste: His last opera, which had its debut seven years ago, focused on the wayward life and tranquilizer-fueled death of Anna Nicole Smith, and his orchestral and instrumental works have gleefully referenced Miles Davis, the paintings of Francis Bacon and Beyoncs Single Ladies.If someone says you cant do this, or shouldnt do this, then I think its a very good reason to do it, Mr. Turnage said in an interview. It has to provoke me, otherwise I get bored.Though Mr. Gaiman hasnt been directly involved in this new version  earlier this month he finished shooting a screen adaptation of his novel Good Omens, written with Terry Pratchett  Mr. Turnage and Mr. Mullarkey have had plenty to play with. The novel begins when little Coraline Jones discovers that a bricked-up door in the apartment shes just moved into is a portal to a nightmarish other world. Trapped behind the door, she finds a figure with black buttons for eyes who coos that shes Coralines other mother and promises her anything she desires, if only she agrees to stay for ever and always. Coralines journey home to her real parents is not only a coming-of-age story; it also becomes a mythic quest.A powerful, self-determined heroine, Coraline is more than a match for operatic heroines like Leonore in Beethovens Fidelio or Rosina from Rossinis The Barber of Seville. The role is shared in the new production by the sopranos Mary Bevan and Robyn Allegra Parton.Shes such a strong female character, Mr. Turnage said. Shes powerful; shes going to solve these things. Ive got a seven-year-old daughter. S hes too young to read the book, but she saw the film, and she was very taken with Coraline.Although the opera, like the novel, is aimed at young audiences  Mr. Turnage has dedicated it to his daughter and his youngest son  it goes to some genuinely disturbing places. The sense that evil lurks around every corner is palpable; there are heavy hints, too, of abuse in the plotline of parent-like figures who bribe a child to love them. While critics have often compared the book to Lewis Carroll, Mr. Gaimans universe is arguably closer to David Lynch or Stephen King in its atmosphere of suspenseful, what-lies-beneath horror.I wanted to write about how people who have your best interests at heart may not always pay you the kind of attention that youd like, Mr. Gaiman said in a statement. And people who pay a lot of attention to you may not always have your best interests at heart.Ms. Collins agreed that, despite its fairy-tale qualities, this narrative is not for the fainthearted. The story is: You can have anything you want in the whole wide world, as long as you let me sew buttons into your eyes, she said.Mr. Turnage clearly relishes the materials otherworldly side; the score, written for 15 musicians, is astringent and occasionally violent, bringing to mind early chamber pieces such as On All Fours (1983) and Blood on the Floor (1996). But Coraline does allow audiences some moments of fun. The composer said he enjoyed coming up with Broadway-ish music for the character of Mr. Bobo, an eccentric old man who dwells in the apartment above Coraline and conducts the mouse orchestra. Two retired actresses who live in the apartment beneath, Miss Spink and Miss Forcible, are portrayed as divas of a certain age who issue Cassandra-like pronouncements about fate in high-voltage coloratura.The fantasy element is so heightened, Mr. Turnage said. Completely operatic.The Royal Opera has staged eight new operas for young people and families in the last five years, among them Julian Philipss How the Whale Became (2013), based on childrens stories by Ted Hughes, and Adriano Adewales Hatch (2017), billed as a sensory experience for children aged 2 to 5. The profusion indicates how seriously the company is trying to demolish the perceived barriers that surround the art form, and to attract new and more diverse audiences.The company is under continual pressure to justify its annual governmental subsidy of around $33 million annually  the highest of any arts institution in Britain  and has invested in co-productions with theater and dance companies around the country. It also runs school workshops and outreach projects in towns outside London, including in some of the regions most deprived areas.Mr. Turnage, who grew up in Essex, not far from London, and was the first member of his family to get a college education, said he hoped audiences for Coraline would come from all walks of life. The opera world sometimes wasnt as outward-facing as it should be, he suggested.A lot of opera directors are making opera for other opera directors, and quite a few opera composers are writing for their peer group, he said.Although Coraline has been in development for over four years, both he and Ms. Collins said that the theme of a young woman standing up for herself against the odds had acquired particular topicality in the context of the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements. The classical world has experienced plentiful rumors about sexual harassment, along with some high-profile firings  notably of the conductors Charles Dutoit and James Levine, who was pushed out of the Met earlier this month.Mr. Turnage said that, while some things had improved over his years in the business, Im acutely aware of women working in the opera world and the way that theyre marginalized, and how tough it is. Everybody knows this.He added he was proud that, as well as having created a strong female lead, the production also has a largely female creative team, led by Ms. Collins and the conductor Sian Edwards. The world is changing, Mr. Turnage said.He added that he hoped Coraline offered a path forward, in its way. He was inspired by a quotation from G.K. Chesterton that Mr. Gaiman uses as the epigraph of the book: Fairy tales are more than true: Not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.
LONDON   A former Cambridge Analytica political consultant said the company\'s management misled the British public about work the firm did for a pro-Brexit group before the vote to leave the European Union, the Guardian reported on Friday.Brittany Kaiser, a business development director at the company from 2014 until earlier this year, said in an interview that Cambridge Analytica was carrying out data crunching and analysis work for Leave.EU, while publicly denying it was doing so.The insider account puts further pressure on the London-based data analytics firm, which is already facing renewed scrutiny in the United States and Europe over allegations it improperly harvested Facebook data to target U.S. voters.Late on Friday, a High Court judge granted an application by the UK Information Commissioner\'s Office for a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica\'s offices.The data protection watchdog said in a statement it plans to execute the warrant shortly to confirm the company deleted data from 50 million Facebook profiles, which a whistleblower has alleged it failed to do.Kaiser, who acted as a spokeswoman for Cambridge Analytica before and after the 2016 referendum, said she was ordered by the company to deny the firm was involved with the Brexit issue."I was quite confident that real work was being undertaken," Kaiser said in a videotaped interview with the Guardian."No, we didn\'t run the whole campaign and maybe our work wasn\'t used, but when I talked to the press we were actually undertaking data work and analysis" for Leave.EU, she said.Last month, Cambridge Analytica Chief Executive Alexander Nix denied to a parliamentary committee the company worked for Leave.EU, saying only that his firm had met the campaign group to discuss potential business, but did not reach a deal."Let me be absolutely crystal clear about this. I do not know how many ways I can say this. We did not work for Leave.EU. We have not undertaken any paid or unpaid work for them, okay?" he told a committee investigating fake news in UK politics.Cambridge Analytica\'s board of directors suspended Nix on Tuesday shortly before British broadcaster Channel 4 aired an expose of the firm\'s business practices in the United States.Arron Banks, a major donor to Leave.EU, wrote in "The Bad Boys of Brexit" a campaign diary he published after the campaign that the group had hired Cambridge Analytica on Oct. 22, 2015 to use \'big data and advanced psychographics to influence people\'.(Reporting by Eric Auchard in London; Editing by Adrian Croft)
ATLANTA  Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt knew she was going to have to rip up one of the two N.C.A.A tournament brackets she filled out after her beloved Loyola-Chicago Ramblers faced Nevada here Thursday. Before Sister Jean, the 98-year-old nun and team chaplain, surged to Kardashian-level fame on social media  albeit chaste and devout  she served both as Loyolas divine inspiration and as a scout who crafted detailed basketball reports that even Mike Krzyzewski would love.Loyolas 69-68 victory over Nevada here on Thursday ensured that Sister Jean would get to rip up the right bracket, which actually was the wrong one. See, the Mother Teresa side of Sister Jeans personality moved her to slot her beloved Ramblers into the national title game. She called it her Cinderella bracket, and now, after the No. 11-seeded Ramblers upset No. 6 Miami, No. 3 Tennessee and then Nevada, Sister Jean and her dreams are very much alive.But, alas, she could not dismiss the other side of her soul, that of the basketball lifer. So Sister Jean hedged: She filled out another bracket with the Ramblers being eliminated here, in the semifinals of the South Regional.In the first half, the No. 7-seeded Wolf Pack (29-7) looked every bit the powerhouse that had erased a 22-point deficit to stun No. 2-seeded Cincinnati, 75-73, to reach the round of 16. It was a 20-minute chess match punctuated by Loyola fast breaks that were rarely finished. Nevada blocked five of Loyolas shots, all at point blank range, as the Wolf Pack took a 12-point lead late in the half.There was reason, however, for the Wolf Pack to worry even then.Nevada had struggled to score from long range, shooting just 2 of 13 from beyond the 3-point arc and were 9 of 27 from the field. The Ramblers did not quit, found their scoring touch and put together a 12-0 run to take 28-24 lead into halftime.In the second half, the Wolf Pack doubled down on a smothering defense that forced Loyola into three shot-clock violations and another half-dozen hurried, off-balance attempts. With 3 minutes 18 seconds left, Nevada tied the score at 59-59 when Cody Martin floated through the lane for a soaring layup.Now Sister Jean and the Rambler faithful had reason to murmur some prayers.Aundre Jackson drained a 3-pointer to give Loyola a 62-59 lead with 2:38 left. But with 1:20 left, Martin nailed a 3 of his own to bring Nevada within one, 64-63. But with 41 seconds left, Jackson drew a foul and hit both free throws to put the Ramblers up, 66-63.Nevada drew to within a point, 66-65, with two free throws from Jackson, but Loyolas Marques Townes swished a 3-pointer with 6.3 seconds to all-but ice the game.I just gave him a little shot fake, and I shot it, and it went in. It was just  thats something you dream about, Townes said. Youre in the Sweet 16 and you hit a big shot like that. Its just amazing. Im just blessed to be in that position.Martin hit another from beyond the arc with 1.4 seconds left to add some late drama. Still, Loyola, ahead by a point, just needed to successfully inbound the ball.They did, and Sister Jeans Cinderella bracket survived for at least another game.Im sorry for Sister Jean, for busting her bracket, Townes said. But yeah, were just happy to be in this position and going to the Elite Eight.
DUBLIN  The Irish are renowned for their way with words. But the nation of bardic poetry, James Joyce and W. B. Yeats has proved a latecomer to the wordiest of music genres, hip-hop.Its always been corny to rap and be from Dublin, Rejjie Snow said in an interview in his dressing-room in the Olympia Theater, a plush 19th-century concert hall in the Irish capital. I dont know why. Maybe its the accent, maybe its the lifestyle. When I told people I wanted to rap as a kid, they were like, Oh you want to rap?But Rejjie Snows eccentric choice of career has been vindicated. A few hours later, one of the rising stars of Irish hip-hop, 24, stood in the spotlight on the Olympias stage, microphone in hand, faced by a young, excited crowd chanting Rejjie, Rejjie and rapping verses from his newly released debut album, Dear Annie, back at him. At one point, a teenager at the front hauled herself onto the barrier separating audience from stage to shout, Rejjie, I love you!The first rap acts in Ireland emerged in the early 1990s. But it has taken until now for hip-hop culture to start flourishing, with rappers and groups proliferating across the country. The situation resembles Irish rock in the 1970s, when bands sprung up in a grass-roots modernization of Irish music.Two forces lie behind Irish raps rise. One is a new generation of immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean, attracted to Ireland during its Celtic Tiger boom years in the 1990s and 2000s. Their numbers are tiny by the standards of other European countries  in the 2016 census, just under 65,000 people identified as black in a nation of almost 4.7 million  but talent in the emerging music scene is disproportionately drawn from among them. Rejjie Snow, whose given name is Alexander Anyaegbunam, has a Nigerian father and an Irish-Jamaican mother.The other factor is the growth in popularity of hip-hop itself. Since 2010, it has eclipsed other genres to become the global lingua franca of youth culture. In 2016, Drake was the most streamed act in the world on Spotify. He was also the most streamed in Ireland, which has the youngest population in the European Union. This years lineup for one of the countrys main music events, the Longitude Festival, has risked rock fans ire by turning to hip-hop artists.Casey Walsh, 20, and his childhood friend Alex Sheehan, 21, make up the duo Versatile, a north Dublin take on the strain of delinquent rap acts running back from Eminem to the Beastie Boys. They made a surprise appearance at Rejjie Snows Olympia Theatre gig, to a fervid response from the audience.Ireland never really took to the hip-hop music, it was just a select few, Mr. Walsh said in a Skype interview. But now, festival lineups are just hip-hop acts. Its crazy.I used to cringe when I heard Irish rap, he added. Stuff about how the governments robbing us and our lives are so bad.Its kind of repetitive, Mr. Sheehan added.And no one wants to hear it, Mr. Walsh said.A do-it-yourself ethos predominates among Irish hip-hop acts. Audiences are built using social media and YouTube videos: Versatile get as many as a million views for theirs. But like the Irish rock bands in the 1970s, rappers in search of a record deal are forced to look to Britain or the United States. Rejjie Snow, who lives in Brooklyn, is signed to the influential New York label 300 Entertainment. His latest album was mainly recorded in London and Paris.Compared to two years ago its so much better, Celaviedmai, a 25-year-old rapper from Galway whose given name is Maimouna Salif, said in a telephone interview. Its seen as a real career, its not seen as a hobby or a pastime.Celaviedmai is one of a handful of female rappers in Ireland, in what is still a male-dominated scene. Ireland is so small that its so difficult to do things on your own, she said. There arent enough resources, or theyre too expensive.The positive side-effect of limited resources is artistic ingenuity. Irish rap abounds in different styles. Rejjie Snows songs are dreamy and off-center. Socially conscious rap is common; its criminal-minded flip side, street rap, does exist, but to a lesser degree. Grime, a vibrant Britain-based offshoot of rap, is beginning to make its presence felt. Other acts fuse hip-hop with Afrobeats, R&B and dance music.The free-for-all mirrors wider rap trends. The last decade has seen a breakdown of the importance of region to hip-hop, its reliance on place as a marker of a particular sound. The internet has collapsed distances between scenes. But Irish raps lack of definition also points to a fluidity within Irish identity.Thought I had to be American, thought I had to be English, everything else but Irish, the Rusangano Family, a trio from Limerick, rap on one of their tracks. In an interview, Godknows Jonas, 27, a member of the group, said, Thats a very personal line, because identity is something that has always been a confusing one as someone who got here from Zimbabwe.When I was younger, Id feel like I didnt fit in with my friends, and then Id go home and feel I didnt fit in with my parents: They were still holding onto the culture from back home, he added. For me, writing those lines was like me staking a claim of who I am. Im proud to be Irish, Im proud to be African, Im proud to be who I am.What it means to be Irish in 2018 is up for grabs. Our identity as Irish people is socially and culturally evolving, said Mango, whose given name is Karl Mangan, a 27-year-old rapper who makes grime music with the producer Adam Fogarty, 35, who is known as Mathman.The process is not without tensions. In rap, they center on the question of accent. American or mid-Atlantic accents are not uncommon among Irish rappers. Rejjie Snow, who left Dublin at 17 to live in Florida, is an example, though he described his own rapping voice as neutral.Mr. Fogarty has his own views about how an Irish M.C. should sound. He said there was a quite significant part of our hip-hop history where artists were using fake accents. Slowly but surely, there has been a shift away from that.Lilo Blues, 21, a member of the Dublin rap trio the Hare Squead, groaned when the issue was raised. He grew up in southern Dublin listening to American hip-hop and R&B. I didnt have anything in Ireland to grasp onto in terms of urban culture or sound, he said. Its not even conscious. Its not like, Ill put this phrase in so they can tell Im from Ireland. No, its natural.At Rejjie Snows gig at the Olympia, issues of accent and music industry infrastructure faded into the background. Here was Irish raps acceleration in its distilled form, a propulsive release of energy. Thinking about the destination could wait for another day. Yo Dublin, are you ready for Rejjie Snow? the D.J. shouted. The answering roar drowned out the beats.
