Malaysia's government proposed new legislation Monday to outlaw fake news and punish offenders with a 10-year jail sentence, a move slammed as an attempt to silence dissent ahead of a general election.
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
A doctored animation and photo have surfaced online appearing to show one of the survivors of the Florida high school shooting tearing up the U.S. Constitution.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak's government tabled a bill in parliament on Monday outlawing "fake news", with hefty fines and up to 10 years in jail, raising more concern about media freedom in the wake of a multi-billion dollar graft scanda...
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wants to repeal a Japanese law requiring broadcasters to show impartiality, a step critics fear will lead to sensational reporting and polarize views, just as a similar move has been blamed for doing in the United States.
Czech President Milos Zeman has ordered the country's counter-intelligence service to see if the type of nerve agent used in an attack in Britain could have been made in the Czech Republic.
The leader of a secretive group in upstate New York turned female followers into brainwashed "slaves" who were branded with his initials and coerced into having sex, authorities alleged on Monday in a criminal complaint charging him with sex-traff...
Mark Zuckerberg might want to delete the last ten days from his timeline and everyone else's. In a little more than a week, Facebook has turned from one of the market's darlings to a stock investors are running from.
Mexico's navy said Monday that a helicopter called in to support marines after they were ambushed in the border city of Nuevo Laredo didn't kill the bystanders who died.
After sixty-one weeks in the White House, President Trump has found someone he won’t attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels.
The leader of a secretive group in upstate New York turned female followers into brainwashed "slaves" who were branded with his initials and coerced into having sex, authorities alleged on Monday in a criminal complaint charging him with sex-traff...
After sixty-one weeks in the White House, President Trump has found someone he won’t attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels.
Kenta Maeda finished last season pitching aggressively and effectively out of the Dodgers' bullpen.
President Trump is struggling to find any top lawyers willing to represent him as he faces a critical decision: whether to give the special counsel an interview.
A science reporter for The Times explains what happened when a tipster’s well-intentioned note about a stroke medicine backfired.
A nonpartisan group says in a complaint to the Federal Election Commission that a super PAC has been improperly organizing and funding activities for a Republican U.S. Senate candidate in Mississippi.
After selling their robotics company to Google, two engineers are working on technology they think can change how special effects are made.
For years, identity theft expert Eva Velasquez warned parents that freezing their children's credit reports was difficult, problematic and probably unnecessary.
As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg's to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama's Gulf coast.
The White House on Monday disputed adult film star Stormy Daniels' claim that she was threatened to keep quiet over her alleged affair with Donald Trump and said the president continues to deny the relationship.
Roadside bombs disguised as rocks in Yemen bear similarities to others used by Hezbollah in southern Lebanon and by insurgents in Iraq and Bahrain, suggesting at the least an Iranian influence in their manufacture, a watchdog group said Monday.
After selling their robotics company to Google, two engineers are working on technology they think can change how special effects are made.
For years, identity theft expert Eva Velasquez warned parents that freezing their children's credit reports was difficult, problematic and probably unnecessary.
One reader found the actress believable and intelligent, while another says the media went overboard about a “non-bombshell” interview.
Disinformation operations will gradually become concerted, automatic and seamless.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
This week it was clear that Farid is at least as far gone as Ramon is.
