MARRAKESH, Morocco  Crowds of visitors wait in line to see the clothing displays at the Muse Yves Saint Laurent Marrakesh. But, once inside, they seem equally awed by its Ali Babas cave of jewelry.That cave, as its curator, Dominique Deroche, described it, is a long rectangular vitrine divided into themes  such as color, gold, Africa  that offer another peek into the creative processes of Mr. Saint Laurent, the Algerian-born master designer who died in 2008.Mr. Saint Laurents accessories have been receiving fresh attention since September, when the Muse Yves Saint Laurent Paris opened in his former headquarters on Avenue Marceau; and October, when the museum opened in Marrakesh (the city, he said, that taught him color) and Phaidon published Yves Saint Laurent Accessories by Patrick Mauris.Ms. Deroche had long worked for the fashion house as a press liaison. Now 73, she was part of the team that selected pieces from Mr. Saint Laurents vast archive to be displayed in Marrakesh, making what she said were four or five visits to Morocco to complete the job.For the accessories displays alone, she said, there were about 20,000 pieces to consider. She made selections with Pierre Berg, Mr. Saint Laurents former business and personal partner (who died in September), and the exhibition designer, Christophe Martin.Everything started in 2015, Ms. Deroche said during an interview in late February in Paris, surrounded by racks of clothing from the designers Rive Gauche label. That was when Mr. Berg asked for her help.Its the first time Ive curated, but he knew me very well because I had started working there in 1966 and he knew that I knew a lot about the Saint Laurent style, she said.She knew, for example, that the designers taste in jewelry was rarely understated. He put a lot on each look, Ms. Deroche said. Sometimes he would add two or three necklaces at once, or two or three bracelets, drawing from house creations overseen for decades by Loulou de La Falaise, one of his many muses. He also worked with houses and craftsmen like Roger Scemama, Paul Caillol, Gripoix and Robert Goossens.Saint Laurent liked accessories very much, but he always said they had to be fake, big and fake, Ms. Deroche said. He didnt like to play with real diamonds.But what about, for example, that set of two gold stars dotted with red stones: Surely those are, at least, garnets?Fake, fake, fake, Ms. Deroche emphasized. He loved that, you know. But he always worked with the top sculptors and real jewelers. These pieces arent glued, theyre encrusted.In his jewelry creations, Mr. Saint Laurent also favored forms and materials from nature (brooches shaped like doves or sunflowers) and motifs he considered to be lucky (stars, crosses, hearts and four-leaf clovers). Opulence sometimes would be added, like the gold leaf on an African-influenced wooden bracelet.Wheat also was a recurring theme in his pins and bracelets. Straw gives you luck and strength, Ms. Deroche said. So even in his private office, we always added a bouquet of wheat. (It became so closely associated with the designer that Catherine Deneuve, a longtime friend and client, carried a sheaf of wheat to the designers funeral.)Perhaps the most eye-catching items in the Marrakesh vitrine  and among the most valuable, according to Ms. Deroche  are two pieces of wearable gilded bronze by the French sculptor Claude Lalanne, made from casts of the waist and bustline of the model Veruschka in 1969.They were worn on the runway with breezy chiffon dresses in place of a necklace or a belt.Saint Laurent always said that for him, a button or a belt is also a form of jewelry, Ms. Deroche said.
CHICAGO   It\'s a scandal of privacy, politics and an essential ingredient of business success  public trust.Facebook is confronting a costly, embarrassing public relations debacle after revelations that Cambridge Analytica may have misused data from some 50 million users to try to influence elections. Among its marquee clients: President Donald Trump\'s general election campaign.Now a company known as much for reminders of a long-lost friend\'s birthday and documentation of acquaintances\' every whim is grappling with outrage  and the possible loss of confidence  from users around the globe that have made the social media site a part of their daily routine."I trust somebody until they give me a reason not to trust them," said Joseph Holt, who teaches business ethics at the University of Notre Dame. "And Facebook has increasingly given me reasons not to trust them."Losing that would be a disaster, not just for Facebook, but for any Silicon Valley company that relies on users to open up their private lives.The amount of trust placed in technology has soared. Cars sync with cell phones. Refrigerators know when there\'s no more milk and reorder it. Virtual assistants field answers to nearly any inane question.And with each turn of the steering wheel, sip of milk or request for dinner reservations, a trail of digital crumbs is left for companies to collect, analyze and profit off.The public has largely been willing to accept the trade-off, knowing in exchange for giving up some data, Netflix will offer spot-on show suggestions, Amazon will prompt a diaper order and Google will figure out what to search before a user finishes typing it.Not everyone understands the darker side of data brokers in an always-connected society.Every time a person shops online or at a store, loyalty cards linked to phone numbers or email addresses can be linked to other databases that may have location data, home addresses and more. Voting records, job history, credit scores (remember the Equifax hack?) are constantly mixed, matched and traded by companies in ways regulators haven\'t caught up with.While Facebook let slip data profiles on millions of people, "it\'s much more than that," says James Grimmelmann, a professor at Cornell Law School. "Trying to pin down any one breach as being the source of all the privacy harms out there is futile."For Facebook, whose power and value are built on being so ever-present in people\'s lives, the impact has been immediate  its share price is down nearly 14 percent since the scandal broke March 16.Investors fear that Facebook users will start to think twice before posting the latest snapshots of their puppy, or clicking "like" on a news story or movie trailer."It\'s something that\'s going to remain in people\'s memory," says Mike Chapple, a University of Notre Dame professor with expertise in cybersecurity. "I think it\'s changed people\'s perceptions."After the scandal broke, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg apologized, admitted his company\'s mistakes and said security needs to be enhanced to protect users\' data. He noted that this is a major trust issue for the public.It follows closely on the heels of the company acknowledging it helped spread fake news and propaganda from Russian-linked trolls disrupting the 2016 presidential election.While some disenchanted Facebook users have deactivated their accounts, others point out that breaking up can be hard to do. If a credit card company or an airline\'s data is breached, it\'s easy enough to switch allegiances. But for most of Facebook\'s 2 billion users there\'s no real substitute, says Aaron Gordon, a partner at Schwartz Media Strategies, a Miami-based public relations and crisis management firm."It\'s a lot harder to just up and leave," he says. "So you go to Twitter or Instagram? It\'s not the same."(Besides, Instagram is owned by Facebook.)Holt, the business ethics professor, loved Facebook, but with all that\'s come out, he feels like he\'s in an abusive relationship. He estimates he cut his usage from about 30 minutes daily to about 10 minutes every other day and would happily flee altogether if a viable alternative emerged that more zealously protected data."I haven\'t left it yet, but I go less often and I feel less good about it," he says.Facebook is not the only company to deal with misuse of private information that has weakened public confidence. Equifax, the credit reporting agency, and Target, the retail giant, both suffered massive data breaches affecting tens of millions of people. Wells Fargo faced stiff government fines for a fake accounts scandal.The public tends to get numb to this steady drumbeat of bad news, says brand strategist Rachel Brand."People pick their battles and daily outrage," she says. "Facebook messed up royally, but most people are on a daily outrage roller-coaster and aren\'t sure if this is the hill worth dying on."___Matt Sedensky reported from New York. He can be reached at msedensky@ap.org or https://twitter.com/Sedensky. Cohen can be reached at scohen@ap.org or ttp://twitter.com/@scohenAP.___Technology Writer Ryan Nakashima in Menlo Park, California, contributed to this report.
DUBAI   Sayed Ahmed AlWadaei, a prominent Bahraini rights campaigner exiled in Britain, said on Saturday a Bahraini court had sentenced his wife to two months in jail in absentia this week and that his mother-in-law had begun a hunger strike in jail.AlWadaei, director of the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy (BIRD) and one of the most outspoken critics of the Gulf island kingdom, alleges the government\'s treatment of his family was aimed at silencing his activism."Their escalation against both of my family members was no coincidence," AlWadaei, who has lived in exile since 2012, told Reuters. Asked if Bahraini authorities were trying to muzzle him, he replied,  "Of course. My wife was beaten, mistreated and threatened that they are going after our family to punish me. Now all their threats were executed."Bahraini authorities did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment.A close U.S. and British ally, Sunni Muslim-ruled Bahrain has cracked down on the opposition, hailing mostly from the Shi\'ite Muslim majority, since it crushed pro-democracy demonstrations they led in 2011.Rights groups have accused authorities of seeking to stamp out dissent. The government says the opposition is linked to militants backed by their arch-enemy Iran who have carried out years of deadly bombing and shooting attacks on security forces.AlWadaei\'s wife Duaa was detained and interrogated as she and their son departed Bahrain\'s airport after a visit in 2016.When she complained that she was physically abused during questioning about his activities and movements - charges authorities have denied - she was charged with insulting state institutions and sentenced in absentia to two months in jail on Wednesday, AlWadaei said.U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert criticised Duaa AlWadaei\'s sentence and urged the kingdom, where the U.S. bases its Fifth Fleet, not to prosecute free speech."We saw the report that a Bahraini criminal court sentenced her in absentia to ... two months in prison for allegedly insulting a state institution. Really?""We strongly urge the government to abide by its international obligations and commitments to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that includes the freedom of expression."AlWadaei also said his mother-in-law Hajer Mansoor Hassan began a hunger strike on Tuesday to protest against alleged restrictions to her privacy and monitoring of phone calls, and was moved to an Interior Ministry hospital two days later.She was sentenced to three years in jail in October for planting a "fake bomb" meant to taunt police. She denied the charges.Another female activist at the same prison, Medina Ali, also began a hunger strike to protest against a strip search and in solidarity with Hassan, BIRD reported.(Reporting by Noah Browning; Editing by Ghaida Ghantous and Mark Heinrich)
LONDON   Egypt has deported a British journalist working for The Times, the newspaper said on Saturday, describing an "increasingly oppressive environment" for media in the country ahead of next week\'s presidential election.The Times said its correspondent, 33-year-old Bel Trew who had been based in Cairo for several years, was arrested while reporting and "forced to leave Egypt"."The Times deplores this attempt by the Egyptian authorities to intimidate the media and suppress our coverage," a statement by the newspaper said, adding that Egyptian authorities had "no intention of allowing (Trew) to return".Egypt\'s government foreign press centre, the interior ministry, and President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi\'s office, did not respond to phone calls and requests for comment via WhatsApp.Trew said in a separate article published by The Times that she was detained by police in central Cairo after conducting an interview, held for almost 24 hours and then "marched onto a plane" at Cairo airport bound for London.Her deportation follows what human rights groups call a crackdown on press freedom aimed at stifling dissent in the run-up to the March 26-28 presidential election.Egyptian authorities have urged legal action against media outlets they deem to be publishing "fake news", and rights activists say several local journalists have also been arrested in recent months.Sisi, a former military commander, is virtually guaranteed to win a second term after all serious opposition pulled out of the race citing intimidation after a major challenger was jailed.The election commission says the vote will be free and fair and Sisi has said he wanted more candidates to run.Sisi\'s critics say he has presided over an intensifying crackdown on dissent. Supporters say tough measures are needed to stabilise the country after years of unrest that followed a 2011 popular uprising.A British Foreign Office spokeswoman said the foreign secretary had raised Trew\'s deportation with his Egyptian counterpart."The Egyptian authorities have not shared any evidence of wrongdoing. We will continue to press them on this case," she added.(This version of the story corrects fifth paragraph to show arrest happened after interview, not before)(Editing by Helen Popper and Dale Hudson)
After Duke Tran escaped from slavery, but before he became a millionaire, he was a Wells Fargo employee.He worked at the banks debt-collections center near Portland, Ore., talking on the phone to customers who owed Wells Fargo money. It wasnt glamorous, but the job enabled him to afford a two-story suburban house with mustard-colored aluminum siding. After more than three decades in the United States, Mr. Tran felt that he was the living embodiment of the American dream.And then it all started to crumble.In 2014, according to Mr. Tran, his boss ordered him to lie to customers who were facing foreclosure. When Mr. Tran refused, he said, he was fired. He worried that he wouldnt be able to make his monthly mortgage payments and that he was about to become homeless.Joining a cadre of former employees claiming they were mistreated for speaking out about problems at the bank, Mr. Tran sued. He argued in court filings that he had been fired in retaliation for blowing the whistle on misconduct at the giant San Francisco-based bank. Mr. Tran said he didnt want his job back  he wanted Wells Fargo to admit that it had been wrong to fire him and wrong to mislead customers who were facing foreclosure.It was a long shot. Banks generally are happy to reach private settlements, but loath to publicly admit wrongdoing, which can open them up to litigation. But Mr. Tran, who fled Vietnam as a teenager and then was enslaved by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, wasnt daunted by long odds.And so Mr. Tran, who is in his mid-50s and speaks English with a heavy Vietnamese accent and jumbled grammar, became the latest foe to take on Wells Fargo.The bank already faced widespread condemnation from regulators, lawmakers and enraged customers for opening fake accounts and otherwise deceiving and defrauding its customers.But the conduct that so unsettled Mr. Tran was not something the bank had previously been accused of; he was alone in leveling the accusations. He said the bank was trying to cover up the fact that it did not have the documents to prove some of its customers owed money it was trying to collect. To further his lawsuit, he opened his life to intense scrutiny, used vacation time at his new job to attend meetings and court dates, and told and retold the story of his experiences at the bank, which maintained that Mr. Tran had been fired for poor performance and that there had been no cover-up of missing documents. He would not go away.I have a story to tell, he said in an interview with The New York Times. This is a true story. I blew the whistle. They all know.Mr. Tran calls himself Duke now, but his name at birth was Tran Duy Duc. He was born in Vietnam in 1961, the son of a colonel in the South Vietnamese military fighting alongside American troops. Mr. Tran was 13 when, in 1975, the North Vietnamese took over the government and sent his father to a prison camp as punishment for helping the Americans. When released four years later, Mr. Trans father paid to sneak Mr. Tran over the Cambodian border.You have to leave, his father told him.As soon as he got to Cambodia, though, Mr. Tran was captured by fighters for the genocidal Khmer Rouge regime. They forced him to drink vinegar, believing he had swallowed gold and family jewels that the vinegar would help expel. Then they made the 17-year-old their slave, forcing him to dig wells.Sometimes the soldiers got drunk and took me out and put AK-47s to my head so I would pass out, Mr. Tran said.Eight months after he was caught, Mr. Trans captors traded him to aid workers who carried humanitarian supplies. He still remembers the items that bought his freedom: a kilo of rice, two boxes of canned tuna, two boxes of sardines in tomato sauce, antibiotics and some other medical supplies.The aid workers took him to Thailand. From there, the International Organization for Migration helped him reach the United States.I am so grateful, Mr. Tran said. Here I am, an American citizen.His first job in America was scrubbing pots in a restaurant kitchen. Soon after that, he got his first call center job, in the payment processing division of a local bank. He said in an interview that he had worked in call centers for a total of 25 years.In 2002, he began working in a call center for Wells Fargos collections unit in Vancouver, Wash. In March 2013, he transferred to another Wells Fargo unit, the home equity division, in nearby Beaverton, Ore.Mr. Tran was proud of his work. In an interview, he described himself as a really model employee who got internal recognition at Wells for his good work.The division was responsible for a portfolio of home-equity loans that Wells Fargo had bought from another company at the peak of the financial crisis in 2008. As the bank examined the loans in 2013, employees realized that Wells Fargo was missing some of the paperwork that proved the borrowers owed money to the bank.Tom Goyda, a Wells Fargo spokesman, confirmed the existence of the problem. He said 120 of the loans had initially appeared to be missing their underlying documents.Mr. Goyda said the bank was confident that the loans Mr. Tran cited were valid and that it had handled them properly. He said Mr. Tran had only limited visibility of the banks internal system and that he did not have access to all of the borrowers information.Nine months into his new job, Mr. Tran answered a phone call from a Wells Fargo customer in Lexington, N.C. His name was Walter Coles.Mr. Coles, who is now 88, had recently opened a letter that Wells Fargo sent to his wife, Jacqueline. He handled her affairs because she has Alzheimers. The letter said that Mrs. Coles owed Wells Fargo nearly $90,000 and that if she did not pay within 90 days the bank would foreclose on the Coleses house.Mr. Coles had credit card accounts with Wells Fargo, but this was the first he had heard of any $90,000 loan. I knew that my wife hadnt taken out a mortgage, he said in an interview. My house was paid off 35 years ago.So he called Wells Fargo. On the phone with Mr. Tran, Mr. Coles asked for proof that his wife owed the money. Mr. Tran tried to pull up the Coles file on his computer, but he couldnt find the loan documents. He told Mr. Coles that they were missing.Mr. Tran started calling various Wells Fargo offices to figure out what had happened, he said. He consulted bank archives in San Francisco and Roanoke, Va., to try to find the documents.We were unable to locate the agreement. Document is not available, a Wells employee reported in an email to Mr. Tran, which was reviewed by The Times.Another employee responded: We have tried all avenues to find documents but no luck.Mr. Tran talked to his boss, Peter LeDonne, about the situation. He said Mr. LeDonne had told him not to follow up with Mr. Coles. They tell me: Its no problem. If the customer call back, you tell them its a balloon, Mr. Tran recalled, referring to a type of loan that would require Mr. Coles to repay the owed amount all at once.Through a Wells Fargo spokesman, Mr. LeDonne declined to comment for this article.Mr. Tran wasnt the only Wells employee to receive that advice.In an April 2014 email to Mr. Tran and other employees, reviewed by The Times, a Wells Fargo manager, Cazzie Moreland, said that when the bank couldnt find the documents proving a loan existed, that is not something we would share with the customer under any circumstances.Mr. Goyda, the bank spokesman, said Ms. Morelands email was poorly worded, but its one email that was part of a larger communication and training effort. He said the bank didnt want customer service representatives, who didnt have access to all of the banks document storage systems, to act hastily.What we didnt want was to have a customer call and to have the representative mistakenly tell them something, Mr. Goyda said.Mr. Tran said in his lawsuit that he had felt uncomfortable as soon as he had seen how Mr. Coless inquiry was handled. Mr. Coles was insisting that he and his wife had never borrowed any money in the first place. He was  reasonably, in Mr. Trans view  demanding proof that any loan existed. Mr. Tran said he had shared his feelings with his boss.Before long, Mr. Tran said, he received another unsettling customer phone call. This time, it was from a woman named Nancy who said the bank had told her that she owed $165,000. She said she had not taken out a loan.She was really emotional, Mr. Tran said. She said: I have all my children live in my home. I dont have money to pay. Where is my children going to live?Once again, the bank had no paperwork to prove that the borrower owed the money, Mr. Tran said. He said he had complained to his supervisor, Mr. LeDonne, and his bosss boss.I told him this is a fraud, I cannot be a part of that. He got upset, Mr. Tran said.In a court filing last year, Mr. LeDonne said: I had no knowledge that Mr. Tran reported or complained of what he believed to be an alleged Wells Fargo practice of deceiving customers regarding missing loan documents or other unlawful activities.On Nov. 12, 2014, Mr. Tran said, Mr. LeDonne called him into an office. A group of Mr. Trans superiors was waiting. They asked for his security badge and told him that he was fired. Mr. LeDonne and a Wells lawyer marched him out the front door.Im thinking Im going to die, Mr. Tran recalled. From the time they walk me out that door, I dont have any backup.On the street, they told him that if he had any questions about why he was fired, he could call a number they gave him for a human resources representative.He called the number. An H.R. person told Mr. Tran that he had been fired for failing to orally respond to a customer whose call he had answered.Mr. Tran was mortified. He couldnt sleep. He couldnt bring himself to tell his wife, Ann, and their sons, Justin and Jimmy, that he had been fired. When they asked why he wasnt going to work in the mornings, Mr. Tran said he was on vacation. When that excuse no longer seemed plausible, he invented another.I thought, my God, Ive lost my American dream, he said.His wife worked in a dental equipment factory. She earned $17 per hour, and it was suddenly the familys only income.After three months of unemployment, in February 2015 he landed a call center job at U.S. Bank, where he still works.Even with a new job, he remained angry about what he felt was his unfair firing. In June 2015, he sued Wells Fargo in federal court for retaliation and other claims. His lawyers argued that Wells had tried to silence him and, when that failed, fired him.Wells Fargo tried, through standard court procedures including a motion to dismiss, to kill the lawsuit, to no avail.Mr. Tran wanted to go to trial. He and his lawyers never specified how much money they wanted a jury to award Mr. Tran in damages and compensation, but they said in a court filing that it should be no more than $179 billion  a figure they knew was unrealistic. What Mr. Tran really wanted, he said, was to force Wells to publicly admit wrongdoing.Wells Fargos lawyers maintained that the bank had fired Mr. Tran for poor performance. They claimed Mr. Tran never reported anything to his superiors. Court filings indicate that they hoped to use inconsistencies in his deposition to prove he couldnt show when or how he had complained about the lost loan documents.A trial was scheduled for last month in federal court in Portland. After years of discovery, the trial promised to dredge up unflattering information about Wells Fargo. The timing was bad: The bank was in the final stages of negotiating a painful settlement with the Federal Reserve, which would bar Wells Fargo from growing until it fixed its problems. The bank was trying to position itself as having moved past its era of malfeasance.With the trial three weeks away, Wells Fargo asked to engage in mediation, according to Mr. Trans lawyer, Michael Fuller. Mr. Fuller told Mr. Tran that it was possible Wells Fargo would try to settle the case.Mr. Fuller said in an interview in late January that he could not foresee Mr. Trans settling for less than $10 million.Mr. Tran did not want to settle. He wanted Wells Fargo to have to admit it was wrong.They have so much money, he said in a Feb. 2 interview. They use that money to buy off the American justice system, and they never go to court.He said he was considering not showing up to the meeting.Im ready to go to court, he said. Im not going to settle.The next day, Mr. Tran settled. He stopped returning phone calls seeking comment.People familiar with the settlement said it included a seven-figure payment to Mr. Tran.Mr. Coles, the Wells Fargo customer who said the bank had spent three years trying to collect money he never borrowed, laughed when told of the settlements size.Thats good for him, he said. He hasnt got anything to worry about now.Mr. Coles is still battling the bank. I think we should be compensated for the trouble theyve caused us, he said.

