 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: The U.S. is considering tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese products, President Trump said on Thursday, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.It was the latest volley in a back and forth between the worlds two largest economies. Heres how we got to this point. Beijing  is trying to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system. Our correspondent there explains why China is confident it would win a trade war.Washington imposed sanctions on some of Russias richest men and top officials today, punishing President Vladimir Putins inner circle for Russian aggressions.The move is intended to penalize some industrialists who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putins increasingly authoritarian administration. They grow out of an oddly disjointed policy: While President Trump continues to call for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years. At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency were sidelined in the past year after raising concerns about spending and management by the agencys administrator, Scott Pruitt.Among Mr. Pruitts requests, some of which were declined: a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership, a bulletproof security desk, a 20-person protective detail and the use of lights and sirens to speed his motorcades trips through Washington (including to a trendy French restaurant).The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the officials reassignments and their objections were related. We dispute the veracity of the accusations, an agency spokesman said. Senior White House officials say Mr. Pruitts fate is uncertain as he confronts a growing series of ethical questions. In his first public comments about the matter, President Trump said on Thursday that he didnt know about a $130,000 payment to a pornographic film actress who claims to have had a sexual relationship with him.Asked why Michael Cohen, his personal lawyer, had made the payment, Mr. Trump said, Youll have to ask Michael Cohen.Mr. Trumps remarks came after an appearance in West Virginia in which he literally tossed out his boring speech to renew his criticism of U.S. immigration law and to assert that millions voted illegally in the 2016 election. Some of his claims dont add up. It was a presidential corruption scandal that exposed entrenched ties between South Koreas government and huge conglomerates like Samsung.Park Geun-hye, the countrys former president, was sentenced today to 24 years in prison. She and a longtime friend were accused of collecting or demanding large bribes from three big businesses. Almost all of South Koreas presidents have seen their reputations tarnished by corruption scandals involving them, their relatives or their aides. The shooting at YouTube headquarters this week highlighted security risks in the workplace. Many companies are similarly exposed, as an open-door policy pervades corporate America. The U.S. added 103,000 jobs in March, down from Februarys pace but strong enough to extend a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained 4.1 percent. Your briefing writer remembers the 1980s fondly. So does Japan, where mild new prosperity has rekindled nostalgia for the last time the countrys economy truly boomed. U.S. stocks were up on Thursday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Can coffee rev up your workout? Heres how to uninstall Facebook Messenger. Recipe of the day: This weekend, make one-pot meatballs and sauce.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:As police shootings continue to draw headlines, the noted conservative writer and lawyer David French weighs in. He draws on his 2007 deployment in Iraq to ask: Shouldnt police at home exhibit at least as much discipline as soldiers at war?While noting that many police shootings are lawful and justifiable, he writes, many others would be surprising to see in a war zone, much less in the streets of Americas cities.  [National Review] Lynda Richardson, senior staff editor, TravelThe Ides of March may have passed, but this history of Julius Caesar is still a fascinating and relevant read.Plus it contains good advice like two very good friends could make up for a lot of enemies.  [The New York Review of Books] Julie Bloom, deputy national editor The week in good news is backWere happy to report that our column rounding up some of the weeks uplifting and inspiring stories has returned. Quiz time!Did you keep up with this weeks news? Test yourself. Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critic says after watching the horror film A Quiet Place that youll leave elated or Ill eat my words.We also review Chappaquiddick, a retelling of the 1969 car crash involving Ted Kennedy, and break down nine film festivals in New York City this month.Here are 11 TV shows well be talking about, and 11 new books we recommend.The calendar might say April, but winter hasnt fully released its grip on New York. We went in search of spring, starting with the annual Orchid Show in the Bronx.If youre in the city, we also recommend 10 plays, 15 pop, rock and jazz concerts, 22 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids. Save the datePrince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry in less than six weeks. We have answers to everything you ever wanted to know  and some things you didnt. Best of late-night TVFacebook is under investigation in Australia, where, Jimmy Fallon noted, Facebooks stock actually goes down the toilet in a counterclockwise direction. Quotation of the dayI cant imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets. Jeffrey Fagan, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School, on the fatal shooting of a mentally ill Brooklyn man by plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a call of a man brandishing what was thought to be a gun. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration imposed new sanctions on seven of Russias richest men and 17 top government officials on Friday in the latest effort to punish President Vladimir V. Putins inner circle for interference in the 2016 election and other Russian aggressions.The sanctions are designed to penalize some of Russias richest industrialists, who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putins increasingly authoritarian administration.Effectively, the action prevents the oligarchs from traveling to the United States or doing business or even opening a bank account with any major company or bank in the West. It also restricts foreign individuals from facilitating transactions on their behalf.Elizabeth Rosenberg, a former sanctions official in the Obama administration, described the penalties as fairly muscular and predicted that more sanctions are probably coming.They grow out of Washingtons oddly disjointed policy toward Russia: While President Trump has called for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the  administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years.Nobody has been tougher on Russia, but getting along with Russia would be a good thing, not a bad thing, Mr. Trump said this week. By Friday, according to a White House statement, he had dropped any qualification. We cannot allow those seeking to sow confusion, discord and rancor to be successful, Mr. Trump said.Fridays list targets Mr. Putins inner circle. It imposes sanctions on a family member, his son-in-law, Kirill Shamalov, who has had close business ties to one of Mr. Putins longtime friends from St. Petersburg, Gennady Timchenko. It also penalizes people like Vladimir Bogdanov, the director general of Surgutneftegas, a large privately owned oil company that has long been rumored, without solid evidence, to have given an ownership stake to Mr. Putin.The list is an assault on one of the oligarchs favored tools for avoiding sanctions, which is to pass assets to their children.It targeted the oil executive Igor Rotenberg, the son of Arkady Rotenberg, who is a former judo partner of Mr. Putin and whose companies have won a host of state contracts, including one for the construction of a bridge from the Russian mainland to Crimea, the Ukrainian Black Sea peninsula seized by Moscow in 2014.Also on the list is Oleg V. Deripaska, who once had close ties to Mr. Trumps former campaign manager, Paul Manafort. Altogether, the Trump administration targeted seven oligarchs, 12 companies they own or control, 17 Russian government officials and a state-owned arms export company.This list sends a very clear signal to Putin himself that were not afraid to go after your friends and their children, said Alina Polyakova, a Russia expert at the Brookings Institution. There is some real thinking in this.Russias Foreign Ministry promised a harsh response and described Washingtons increasing use of sanctions as economically anti-competitive.The sanctions have been under consideration for some time. A senior administration official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity said that they responded to Moscows continuing and increasingly brazen pattern of malign activity worldwide  especially against Western democracies.The Russian government operates for the disproportionate benefit of oligarchs and government elites, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said. Russian oligarchs and elites who profit from this corrupt system will no longer be insulated from the consequences of their governments destabilizing activities.The sanctions come just as investigators working for Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel looking into the possibility of collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow, have begun to question Russian oligarchs about possible financial links between those in Mr. Putins orbit and people close to Mr. Trump.Fridays penalties could be particularly painful for Mr. Putins regime.While Russias oligarchs make nearly all of their money in Russia, many stash their families, their lovers and much of their wealth in places like London, New York and Miami, where they are believed to own hundreds of millions of dollars in property. However, the economic strain is likely to be delayed, given that most on the list have already shielded their assets.Targeted sanctions against the oligarchs are seen as a particularly good way to punish Moscows aggressive moves while sparing wider Russian society, which is already suffering under Mr. Putins thumb.The sanctions come just three days after Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, in his final speech as Mr. Trumps national security adviser, warned darkly about the growing Russian menace.For too long some nations have looked the other way in the face of these threats, he said, adding, And we have failed to impose sufficient costs.The new sanctions stem from legislation passed by Congress overwhelmingly last year and designed to limit Mr. Trumps ability to lift sanctions already imposed on Russia. Lawmakers in both parties feared that the president would suspend sanctions imposed by President Barack Obama as he pursued warmer relations with Moscow as promised during his campaign and first year in office.The Trump administration opposed that legislation but quietly acceded to it after it passed with a veto-proof majority. Within that law was a measure requiring the administration to create a list of Russian oligarchs. Lobbying around the creation of the list became intense as Russias wealthiest citizens feared punishing sanctions to come.That is exactly what happened on Friday.The sanctions list will only hasten the slide of Washington-Moscow relations. This week, 60 American diplomats left Russia as part of a tit-for-tat series of expulsions that followed last months nerve-gas poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian double agent, and his daughter.Mr. Skripals poisoning on British soil prompted more than 20 countries to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats and intelligence officers, the largest such coordinated action ever. British officials believe that Mr. Skripals poisoning, which occurred after an assassin smeared a nerve agent on the door handle of his home, was such a risky operation that it was unlikely to have been undertaken without approval from the Kremlin.Russia has denied involvement in the poisoning.But the attack is seen as part of a pattern of increasingly aggressive moves by Mr. Putin, including the seizure of Crimea; military interventions in Georgia, Ukraine and Syria; tacit support for President Bashar al-Assads chemical attacks on his own populace in Syria; a direct attack by Russian mercenaries on American troops in Syria; and the hacking of elections in the United States and Europe.The Trump administrations responses to Mr. Putins needling have been uneven. Although Congress gave the State Department $120 million in 2016 to counter Russian hacking efforts, the department has so far spent none of it. And Mr. Trump said this week that he wanted American forces to leave Syria soon, an exit that would benefit Iran, Russia and one of its allies, Mr. Assad.But the administration has also imposed considerable economic penalties on Russia, with Fridays action the latest in a string of similar moves.NATO allies are now thinking anew about more coordinated responses to track and impose sanctions on Mr. Putins cronies. Both Congress and the British Parliament are considering legislation that would require that the owners of companies and properties be disclosed.
WASHINGTON  President Trump will not attend the White House Correspondents Association Dinner this year, continuing a boycott that began his first year in office, the White House announced on Friday, but the president will actively encourage members of his administration to go in celebration of the First Amendment.The presidents decision did not come as much of a surprise. Just a few hours after the announcement on Friday, the president tweeted about the Fake News Media and said, so much of the media is dishonest and corrupt!Amid his and his press offices antagonistic relationships with the news media, the president did not attend the annual gala last year either. The event is typically a cozy mix of journalists and politicians, but during the first year of the Trump administration, it turned into an event for press freedoms.Mr. Trump has continued to dismiss news stories as fake news when he considers them unflattering to himself or to his administration. In recent days he has focused his attention on The Washington Post, its owner, Jeff Bezos, and the company that made Mr. Bezos among the richest people in the world, Amazon.On Friday, he turned his attention to stories suggesting that the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt, could replace his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, a seemingly implausible scenario given the ethical cloud hanging over Mr. Pruitts head.But encouraging members of the executive branch to attend the April 28 dinner, even in his absence, in support of the First Amendment is a notable change.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, will represent the Trump administration at the head table, where presidents and first ladies have sat in the past.Last years boycott marked the first time a president had skipped the Washington tradition since Ronald Reagan in 1981, when Mr. Reagan was recovering from an assassination attempt.The annual event  streamed live on television  features a comedian who roasts the president and the administration, and the president typically returns the gesture to the press. Mr. Trump, himself, was mocked at the dinner in 2011 by both comedian Seth Meyers and President Barack Obama.This year, Michelle Wolf, a stand-up comic and frequent contributor to The Daily Show With Trevor Noah, will be the featured comedian.
On April 28, 1945  73 years ago  Italians hung the corpse of their former dictator Benito Mussolini upside down next to a gas station in Milan. Two days later, Adolf Hitler committed suicide in his bunker beneath the streets of war-ravaged Berlin. Fascism, it appeared, was dead.To guard against a recurrence, the survivors of war and the Holocaust joined forces to create the United Nations, forge global financial institutions and  through the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  strengthen the rule of law. In 1989, the Berlin Wall came down and the honor roll of elected governments swelled not only in Central Europe, but also Latin America, Africa and Asia. Almost everywhere, it seemed, dictators were out and democrats were in. Freedom was ascendant.Today, we are in a new era, testing whether the democratic banner can remain aloft amid terrorism, sectarian conflicts, vulnerable borders, rogue social media and the cynical schemes of ambitious men. The answer is not self-evident. We may be encouraged that most people in most countries still want to live freely and in peace, but there is no ignoring the storm clouds that have gathered. In fact, fascism  and the tendencies that lead toward fascism  pose a more serious threat now than at any time since the end of World War II.[Get more of the biggest debates of the day right in your inbox by signing up for the Opinion newsletter.]Warning signs include the relentless grab for more authority by governing parties in Hungary, the Philippines, Poland and Turkey  all United States allies. The raw anger that feeds fascism is evident across the Atlantic in the growth of nativist movements opposed to the idea of a united Europe, including in Germany, where the right-wing Alternative fr Deutschland has emerged as the principal opposition party. The danger of despotism is on display in the Russia of Vladimir Putin  invader of Ukraine, meddler in foreign democracies, accused political assassin, brazen liar and proud son of the K.G.B. Putin has just been re-elected to a new six-year term, while in Venezuela, Nicols Maduro, a ruthless ideologue, is poised to triumph in sham balloting next month. In China, Xi Jinping has persuaded a docile National Peoples Congress to lift the constitutional limit on his tenure in power.Around the Mediterranean, the once bright promise of the Arab Spring has been betrayed by autocratic leaders, such as Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt (also just re-elected), who use security to justify the jailing of reporters and political opponents. Thanks to allies in Moscow and Tehran, the tyrant Bashar al-Assad retains his stranglehold over much of Syria. In Africa, the presidents who serve longest are often the most corrupt, multiplying the harm they inflict with each passing year. Meanwhile, the possibility that fascism will be accorded a fresh chance to strut around the world stage is enhanced by the volatile presidency of Donald Trump.If freedom is to prevail over the many challenges to it, American leadership is urgently required. This was among the indelible lessons of the 20th century. But by what he has said, done and failed to do, Mr. Trump has steadily diminished Americas positive clout in global councils.[To read more about the threat of authoritarianism around the world, read Roger Cohen on Eastern Europe.] Instead of mobilizing international coalitions to take on world problems, he touts the doctrine of every nation for itself and has led America into isolated positions on trade, climate change and Middle East peace. Instead of engaging in creative diplomacy, he has insulted United States neighbors and allies, walked away from key international agreements, mocked multilateral organizations and stripped the State Department of its resources and role. Instead of standing up for the values of a free society, Mr. Trump, with his oft-vented scorn for democracys building blocks, has strengthened the hands of dictators. No longer need they fear United States criticism regarding human rights or civil liberties. On the contrary, they can and do point to Mr. Trumps own words to justify their repressive actions.At one time or another, Mr. Trump has attacked the judiciary, ridiculed the media, defended torture, condoned police brutality, urged supporters to rough up hecklers and  jokingly or not  equated mere policy disagreements with treason. He tried to undermine faith in Americas electoral process through a bogus advisory commission on voter integrity. He routinely vilifies federal law enforcement institutions. He libels immigrants and the countries from which they come. His words are so often at odds with the truth that they can appear ignorant, yet are in fact calculated to exacerbate religious, social and racial divisions. Overseas, rather than stand up to bullies, Mr. Trump appears to like bullies, and they are delighted to have him represent the American brand. If one were to draft a script chronicling fascisms resurrection, the abdication of Americas moral leadership would make a credible first scene.Equally alarming is the chance that Mr. Trump will set in motion events that neither he nor anyone else can control. His policy toward North Korea changes by the day and might quickly return to saber-rattling should Pyongyang prove stubborn before or during talks. His threat to withdraw from the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement could unravel a pact that has made the world safer and could undermine Americas reputation for trustworthiness at a critical moment. His support of protectionist tariffs invites retaliation from major trading partners  creating unnecessary conflicts and putting at risk millions of export-dependent jobs. The recent purge of his national security team raises new questions about the quality of advice he will receive. John Bolton starts work in the White House on Monday.What is to be done? First, defend the truth. A free press, for example, is not the enemy of the American people; it is the protector of the American people. Second, we must reinforce the principle that no one, not even the president, is above the law. Third, we should each do our part to energize the democratic process by registering new voters, listening respectfully to those with whom we disagree, knocking on doors for favored candidates, and ignoring the cynical counsel: Theres nothing to be done.Im 80 years old, but I can still be inspired when I see young people coming together to demand the right to study without having to wear a flak jacket.We should also reflect on the definition of greatness. Can a nation merit that label by aligning itself with dictators and autocrats, ignoring human rights, declaring open season on the environment, and disdaining the use of diplomacy at a time when virtually every serious problem requires international cooperation?To me, greatness goes a little deeper than how much marble we put in our hotel lobbies and whether we have a Soviet-style military parade. America at its best is a place where people from a multitude of backgrounds work together to safeguard the rights and enrich the lives of all. Thats the example we have always aspired to set and the model people around the world hunger to see. And no politician, not even one in the Oval Office, should be allowed to tarnish that dream.
Donny from D.C., youre on the air.President Trump  buffeted by rumbling trade tensions with China, delicate negotiations with North Korea and fallout from the Russia investigation  took a few minutes this week to reach for the media equivalent of Linuss blanket: New York City talk radio.When you asked me to do the show, I said, Im thinking, Im gonna take a couple minutes, Im gonna do that show  in between North Korea and Iran and all of the other things going on, Mr. Trump told the hosts of Bernie & Sid in the Morning on WABC-AM, a drive-time program that is not exactly a must-listen beyond certain toll roads in the New York metropolitan area.And I gotta tell you, thats the kind of guy you are, sir, replied Bernard McGuirk, a co-host and a longtime Trump friend. Thats why we love you. (The interview, which aired Friday morning, was taped on Thursday.)The president, a Queens native, grew up immersed in the jabbering, elbows-out culture of talk radio, province of swaggerers like the sports host Mike Francesa. Mr. Trump, who regularly appeared on Howard Sterns program before his election, absorbed the practice of political leaders addressing constituents over the air: New York mayors have long held court by radio, including a memorable exchange in which Rudolph W. Giuliani dressed down the owner of a ferret.Presidents often turn to unconventional news outlets when it comes to reassuring their base: Barack Obamas late-tenure appearances on Between Two Ferns, the Zach Galifianakis web series, and the comedian Marc Marons WTF podcast were lauded by liberal fans, even as traditionalists grumbled.Mr. Trump has proved Scrooge-like when it comes to doling out formal interviews (the major broadcast networks and CNN have not sat down with him in nearly a year), and his last White House news conference was in February  of 2017.His patience for rigorous interviews is thin, and he prefers cozier interlocutors like Jeanine Pirro of Fox News or Mr. McGuirk of WABC, a former Don Imus executive producer and on-air sidekick who, on Friday, praised Mr. Trumps speeches as beautiful, wonderful, fantastic, funny, relaxed.Mr. Trump did manage to make some news during the segment: He let slip that he was pretty unlikely to attend this years White House Correspondents Association Dinner, the clubby black-tie gathering that presidents had attended for decades.Mr. Trumps absence from last years dinner was the first presidential no-show since Ronald Reagan, ailing from a gunshot wound, skipped it in 1981. (The Gipper called in from his hospital bed.) There was buzz around a Trump appearance at this years event after he delivered a monologue at the Gridiron Club gala in March, but that event was not televised. The correspondents dinner is carried live by some cable networks, and the optics of Mr. Trumps hobnobbing with the journalists he routinely derides may be off-brand.The White House has informed us that the president does not plan to participate in this years dinner but that he will actively encourage members of the executive branch to attend, Margaret Talev, president of the White House Correspondents Association, said in a statement on Friday.The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, plans to appear in Mr. Trumps stead.On WABC, Mr. Trump showed no sign of dtente with the press. In fact, he laced into the White House press corps, calling it so bad, its so fake, its so made-up.Theyre like novelists, the president said, who offered no evidence for his claim. I call them novelists. They make up the sources. He deemed last years correspondents dinner a massive failure, prompting Mr. McGuirk to chime in, Yes, yes! Definitely!When asked for comment on Friday, the White House noted that Mr. Trump had pretaped his radio appearance, rather than calling in live. (A producer at WABC said that Mr. Trump had recorded the interview on Thursday morning.) The president said on the air that he was fond of Mr. McGuirk, who, with his co-host, Sid Rosenberg, started the show last week.Mr. Trumps nine-minute appearance on WABC was not exactly an outlier when it comes to high-ranking administration officials making time for local New York programming.Late last month, Lawrence Kudlow, the presidents chief economic adviser, and Ambassador John Bolton, the newly appointed national security adviser, granted interviews to the same relatively obscure radio show: The Cats Roundtable, hosted by the Manhattan oil refinery magnate, supermarket owner and former New York City Republican mayoral candidate John Catsimatidis.So will the president be appearing on the Roundtable soon?I have not asked yet, Mr. Catsimatidis wrote in an email, although he added, He did do pre-election.

WASHINGTON  President Trump defended his pugnacious approach to trade policy on Friday and the Treasury secretary warned there could be a trade war with China, as Mr. Trump doubled down on a White House plan to punish Beijing by threatening to levy tariffs on an additional $100 billion in imports.There is the potential of a trade war, Steven Mnuchin said in an interview with CNBC. There is a level of risk that we could get into a trade war.Mr. Mnuchin said he was hopeful that negotiations with his Chinese counterparts could avert a damaging escalation of retaliatory, tit-for-tat tariffs but declined to elaborate on the status of talks and whether he thought an agreement could be reached.Financial markets continued to drop on Friday as the potential for a damaging trade dispute  which had begun to fade on Wednesday and early Thursday as other top White House advisers tried to soothe markets  reared its head amid comments by Mr. Trump, Mr. Mnuchin and Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, suggesting the United States would not back down.In a radio interview that aired on Friday, Mr. Trump acknowledged that his approach to China could cause a little pain to financial markets but said that it would be worth it in the long run.Now we could  the easiest thing for me to do would be just to close my eyes and forget it, Mr. Trump said on WABC Radios Bernie & Sid in the Morning show.If I did that, Im not doing my job. So, Im not saying there wont be a little pain, but the markets gone up 40 percent, 42 percent  so we might lose a little bit of it  but were going to have a much stronger country when were finished. And thats what Im all about. We have to do things that other people wouldnt do.Mr. Mnuchin said on Friday that a correction was normal after such a long stretch of rising stock prices. He insisted that Mr. Trumps trade policy would be good for economic growth and that he was not concerned about daily declines in stocks.I think these are all long term positive things that the president is willing to defend our interests, Mr. Mnuchin said.He added that he continued to be optimistic that a mutually beneficial agreement could be worked out.I think this could be good for us and good for them, he said.Mr. Trump, in a tweet on Friday, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trumps decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of Americas aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.The presidents criticism of the World Trade Organization is not new  many of his top advisers have complained that its process for reviewing and resolving trade disputes has put the United States and Western countries at a disadvantage.But the United States has said it will take its complaint about Chinese trade practices, including the tactics it uses to gain access to American intellectual property, to the global body as part of the sweeping trade action the White House announced last month. That White House investigation found that China cheats the United States out of $50 billion annually through pressure and other coercive measures aimed at gaining access to American technology.On Friday morning, the White House issued an additional statement defending the presidents actions.Year after year, China continues to distort global markets and harm U.S. businesses and consumers with unfair trade practices, the press office said.The president is for free trade, but it must also be fair trade. Addressing unfair trade practices and ensuring that global trade is free, fair, and reciprocal will have a significant positive long-term impact on the U.S. economy, the statement said.But the approach has come under swift and stinging criticism from lawmakers of both parties, as well as industries whose businesses depend on access to Chinas markets.Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat from North Dakota, called Mr. Trumps actions reckless, saying in a tweet that 60% of her states exports to China are agricultural products. Chinas unfair trade policies need to be reined in but this isnt the way to do it.In his statement on Thursday, Mr. Trump said he had instructed the agriculture secretary to implement a plan to protect farmers and agricultural interests. It is unclear what that plan could entail, but Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said that if the president chose to subsidize farmers, he could spark a wider conflict with countries beyond China, which would object to unfair competition from American agriculture.White House trade advisers have described the tariff threats as a long overdue action against a pernicious cheater in global trade, saying China has long engaged in pressure, coercion and outright theft to gain access to valuable intellectual property. Yet the escalating threat of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies has unnerved many American businesses that depend on China as a source for goods or as a market for their own products.Global markets were cautiously lower on Friday, following a volatile week in which markets plunged on the presidents initial trade threats, then recovered as his advisers said the trade move was mostly a negotiating tool and might not even go into effect.China was celebrating a national holiday Friday and did not immediately announce any concrete action against the presidents threat of an additional $100 billion in tariffs. A spokesman said the Chinese Ministry of Commerce had taken note of the White Houses statement, adding that the Chinese position has been made very clear. We do not want to fight, but we are not afraid to fight a trade war.If the United States follows through with its threats, the Chinese will follow suit to the end and will not hesitate to pay any price, he said, arguing that the United States initiated the conflict.In the meantime, the trade measures ignited a swift response from manufacturers, retailers and politicians from states whose economies depend on agriculture. Although China exports far more to the United States than it imports, China is still the United States third largest export market after Canada and Mexico, a vital destination for American-made goods like Boeing airplanes, luxury automobiles and soybeans.Hopefully, the president is just blowing off steam again, but if hes even half-serious, this is nuts, Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, said on Thursday. Lets absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this.The National Retail Federation criticized the new round of tariffs as a dangerous game of chicken ending with the United States on the losing end of a trading relationship that has benefited American companies and consumers.This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start. We are on a dangerous downward spiral, and American families will be on the losing end, Matthew R. Shay, the president and chief executive of the retail group, said in a statement. We urge the administration to change course and stop playing a game of chicken with the nations economy.
WASHINGTON  At an event on Thursday billed as a round-table discussion on tax overhaul, President Trump aired a litany of familiar  and often inaccurate  grievances on immigration, trade and voter fraud.He suggested he had been vindicated by reports about the perils of immigration, particularly for women, and referred to a caravan of hundreds of Central American migrants traveling through Mexico, some headed toward the United States border.Remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower when I opened, Mr. Trump said at the discussion, in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., referring to comments he made in 2015 during a speech announcing his candidacy for president. Everybody said, Oh, he was so tough, and I used the word rape.Mr. Trump continued, And yesterday, it came out where, this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before.The risks of crossing the United States border are well documented. But The New York Times has been unable to find any news reports of rape in the caravan that has so captured the attention of Mr. Trump and the right-wing news media  whether by smugglers or cartels or even among the migrants themselves.A White House spokesman did not directly respond to a question about what the president meant when he seemed to indicate new information about such instances of rape had been released on Wednesday. Instead, the spokesman said Mr. Trump was referring to sexual violence inflicted on migrants by smugglers, citing articles from 2009 and 2014 as evidence of those claims.Hours after Mr. Trumps speech, Rodrigo Abeja, one of the caravan organizers, said he was unaware of any accusations of rape against the migrants.You guys heard of a case? Mr. Abeja asked reporters in Matas Romero, Mexico. Neither have we.Others also disputed Mr. Trumps assertion.Ive been with the caravan for 12 days and havent seen or heard of anyone being raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before, Adolfo Flores, a reporter who is following the migrants for BuzzFeed News, wrote in a Twitter post.Eric L. Olson, the deputy director of the Latin American program at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, agreed that migrants faced dangers but said there was no reliable data on rates of sexual abuse. He said he had not heard that members of the caravan had experienced violence at the hands of smugglers or cartels in recent days.In fact, this is why the caravan formed: to protect themselves from abuse from Mexican authorities and criminal groups and unscrupulous people, Mr. Olson said. No criminal is so stupid and do something like that while everyones eyes are trained on them.The comment about rape was not the only inaccurate or misleading claim that Mr. Trump made during his speech. A partial list follows: They used to call it tax reform. And for 40 years, they couldnt pass anything and they didnt know why. False. Tax cuts were passed under Presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Read more here. We had a trade deficit of almost $500 billion last year with China.This is exaggerated. The American trade deficit with China was closer to $400 billion in 2017. Read more here. In many places, like California, the same person votes many times. You probably heard about that. They always like to say, Oh, thats a conspiracy theory. Not a conspiracy theory, folks. Millions and millions of people, and its very hard because the state guards their records.This is false. There have been no credible allegations of fraudulent voting at anything close to this scale during the 2016 election. Read more here.  The suspect in a truck attack last year in Manhattan brought a lot of people with him. They say 22 people. Twenty-two people. So this guy, because hes here, now can get the mother and the father and the grandmother and the cousins and the brothers and the siters and the aunts and the uncles. This is implausible. American green card holders can only sponsor their spouses and unmarried children for permanent residence. Sayfullo Saipov, the suspect in the attack in October, is married with three children. Under the law, he would not be able to sponsor his extended family to come to the United States. And there is no known evidence that he tried. Read more here.  We have very weak laws because of the Democrats, the president said, adding, We had very, very weak laws. We have the worst laws  you ever think catch-and-release, which were terminating very quickly.False. Mr. Trump is referring to a practice, not a law, where detained immigrants are released until court proceedings because of legal and logistical constraints. It has occurred under Republican and Democratic administrations alike, including under Mr. Trump. Read more here.

KIEV, Ukraine  The man sat at a restaurant table, grasping a glass of white wine. His sandy hair was close cropped, he wore a cardigan sweater and in the afternoon bustle he looked like just another office worker at lunch.While seated, the most notable element of his appearance was hardly noticeable; only when he stood to introduce himself did it become clear that he is short, almost childlike, in stature, a characteristic that earned him the nickname the midget from Russian political operatives.He spoke flawless English, with only a touch of an accent, was gregarious, and casually brushed aside the main question in this rare interview in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, a year or so ago, saying that of course he was not a Russian spy.Yet in Washington these days, the man, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, has turned up in multiple court filings by the special prosecutor, Robert S. Mueller III, who identifies him as Person A. Just this week, for example, a Dutch lawyer was sentenced to a month in prison for lying to the F.B.I. about, among other things, his communications with Person A.And last week, Mr. Mueller turned over a card in the investigation into the Trump campaigns possible collusion with Russia by asserting in a court document that this person has ties to a Russian intelligence service and was in contact with a senior member of the campaign, Rick Gates, during the 2016 election.The Federal Bureau of Investigation special agents assisting the Special Counsels Office assess that Person A has ties to a Russian intelligence service and had such ties in 2016, the filing said.As Person A, Mr. Kilimnik, a 47-year-old former Russian military interpreter, has appeared now in multiple court filings by the special prosecutor, which suggests that he could become a pivotal figure in the investigation. For about a decade, he worked as an office manager in Kiev for the political consulting business of Paul Manafort, acting as a go-between and fixer for the American and the Russian-leaning politicians who were its clients.The Russian government has denied meddling in the 2016 election and President Trump has denied collusion by members of his campaign staff. But during the years that Mr. Manafort worked in Ukraine, the country was deeply penetrated by Russian intelligence agents. While Mr. Kilimnik continues to deny that he was a Russian agent, it would have been perfectly normal for Moscow to plant someone in the Manafort operation.Konstantin Viktorovich Kilimnik was born in eastern Ukraine in the Soviet period. He studied at the Military Institute of the Ministry of Defense in Moscow, and after the Soviet breakup took Russian citizenship, he said in the interview. The institute trains interpreters for the Russian military intelligence agency, formerly known as the G.R.U. and now called the Main Directorate.He worked for a time in Sweden as an interpreter for a Russian company that exported arms, and later in the Moscow office of the International Republican Institute, a Washington-based nonprofit, where former employees said they suspected he was informing on them to the Russian authorities.He parted ways with the organization, a former employee of the Moscow office said, after the chief of the F.S.B., the successor agency to the K.G.B., talked in a speech about the private meetings of the institutes officials.They didnt have evidence, but suspected Mr. Kilimnik had been the source, said the former official, who could not be cited publicly discussing personnel issues.In the interview, Mr. Kilimnik said he had been dismissed for having taken work on the side as an interpreter for Mr. Manafort in Ukraine in the early 2000s.It is not known whether Mr. Manafort, a longtime consultant to Republican politicians, was aware of the suspicions of the institutes managers when he hired Mr. Kilimnik in 2005. Mr. Manaforts business in Ukraine was registered in Mr. Kilimniks name.Mr. Manaforts former client President Viktor F. Yanukovych was deposed in 2014, and Mr. Kilimnik said he stopped working for Mr. Manafort that year.In August of 2016, Mr. Kilimnik was formally investigated in Ukraine on suspicion of ties to Russian spy agencies, according to documents from Parliament and the Prosecutor Generals Office, but no charges were filed.A Ukrainian lawmaker, Volodymyr I. Ariev, who requested the investigation, said Mr. Kilimniks background in military intelligence deserved scrutiny.He was a student of a military school in Russia, Mr. Ariev said. Everybody in the former Soviet Union knows what that means. They produce professional spies.In person, though, Mr. Kilimnik has been surprisingly nonchalant about the suspicions swirling around his past and role in the 2016 campaign.He said he was never contacted by investigators in Ukraine and called the probe politically motivated. If there were any truth to me talking to any security service in the world, they would arrest me, he said, speaking of Ukrainian law enforcement.Before the United States election, Mr. Kilimnik said, he and Mr. Manafort had spoken every couple of months, at a time when Mr. Manafort served as chairman of the Trump campaign, but he said there was nothing to hide in the calls and meetings. The two mostly discussed Ukrainian politics, not the election, he said: I was briefing him on Ukraine.The filing last week by the special counsels office asserted that Mr. Kilimnik had communicated with Mr. Gates late during the 2016 campaign, and that Mr. Gates was aware of Mr. Kilimniks background in Russian intelligence.The filing was notable for touching on Mr. Gatess activities during the campaign. He has pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and conspiring to defraud the United States for activities related to his work in Ukraine mostly before joining the Trump campaign, and agreed to cooperate with the investigation.Mr. Gatess communications with Mr. Kilimnik were revealed in the sentencing documents of a former lawyer for the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, Alex van der Zwaan, who pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his interactions with Mr. Kilimnik and with Mr. Gates.Mr. Kilimnik also played a role in a reported effort by Mr. Manafort to contact a Russian oligarch, Oleg V. Deripaska, during the campaign.Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik had cooperated on an ultimately unsuccessful business venture financed by Mr. Deripaska, known as the Pericles investment fund.In July, 2016, while Mr. Manafort was chairman of the Trump campaign, Mr. Manafort emailed Mr. Kilimnik asking him to offer Mr. Deripaska private briefings about the campaign in exchange for resolving a multimillion dollar financial dispute related to the business, according to The Washington Post. Mr. Deripaska has said he never received the offer. Mr. Kilimnik, reached by email, declined to comment on this matter and the special counsels court filings.Mr. Kilimnik has surfaced as a fringe figure in other aspects of the Russian investigation.Rinat Akhmetshin, a Russian-American lobbyist who attended a Trump Tower meeting with Donald Trump Jr. in June of 2016 where a Russian lawyer had promised to provide negative information on Hillary Clinton, had also worked in Ukraine with Mr. Kilimnik closely enough to know his nickname among Russian-leaning political operatives in Kiev.At the time, about eight years ago, Mr. Akhmetshin was trying to persuade political advisers of Mr. Yanukovych to buy the rights to a book that cast a domestic political opponent in a negative light, and attended meetings with Mr. Kilimnik.In the interview last year, Mr. Kilimnik said he divided his time between Kiev, where he worked, and Moscow, where his wife and two daughters lived in the suburb of Khimki.In a court filing last year, Mr. Mueller asserted that Mr. Kilimnik was now based in Russia. In email exchanges over the past year, Mr. Kilimnik has declined to say where he is.I do not want to be part of the U.S. political games and I am not, Mr. Kilimnik wrote in an email last year. I am simply a random casualty because of my proximity to Paul, he said, referring to Mr. Manafort.Asked in the interview about the allegation of ties to Russian intelligence agencies, Mr. Kilimnik said, I vehemently deny it.
John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, told President Trump last week that Scott Pruitt, the embattled administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, needed to go following damaging allegations about ethical infractions and spending irregularities, according to two officials briefed about the conversation.But Mr. Trump, who is personally fond of Mr. Pruitt and sees him as a crucial ally in his effort to roll back environmental rules, has resisted firing him, disregarding warnings that the drumbeat of negative headlines about the administrator has grown unsustainable and that more embarrassing revelations could surface.White House officials said Friday that Mr. Trump continues to believe that Mr. Pruitt has been effective in his role, and they stressed that it was up to the president alone to decide his fate.No one other than the president has the authority to hire and fire, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters. The president feels that the administrator has done a good job at E.P.A.She said the White House, which has been conducting an internal investigation into Mr. Pruitts conduct, was continuing to review any of the concerns that we have.Earlier, in a brief interview, Ms. Sanders said that Mr. Pruitts success in achieving items on the presidents agenda  including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations  may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.He likes the work product, she said of Mr. Trump.Conservatives have, for the most, part rallied around Mr. Pruitt, but late Friday saw the first signs of a fissure.Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee, has started to investigate Mr. Pruitts condo deal, an aide to the committee confirmed.Mr. Gowdy is already investigating Mr. Pruitts first-class travel. This week, the committee was provided two memos from the E.P.A.s designated ethics official related to the administrators living arrangements, the aide said.Asked about Mr. Pruitt at an event on Friday evening, Mr. Gowdy said, I dont have a lot of patience for that kind of stuff. Youve got to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars, according to a video an activist took of the interaction that was distributed by Friends of the Earth, an environmental group.Mr. Pruitt has been dogged by a series of scandals in recent weeks, including revelations that he rented a condominium co-owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist for $50 per night; that he spent more than $100,000 on taxpayer-funded first-class travel, which the E.P.A. has argued was necessary because of security concerns; and that  the agency sidelined or demoted at least five high-ranking agency employees who had raised questions about his spending.The Wall Street Journal first reported Mr. Kellys unheeded advice to Mr. Trump, which marked the escalation of a quiet, but intense, turn in the West Wing against Mr. Pruitt. Privately, many senior White House aides have become infuriated with the E.P.A. chief and exasperated with his ethical lapses, believing that it is only a matter of time before his special standing with the president wears thin.But Mr. Trumps decision to keep Mr. Pruitt in his job over the counsel of his chief of staff also raised new questions about Mr. Kellys power in the West Wing. It was only two months ago that Mr. Trump was musing privately about replacing Mr. Kelly in the aftermath of the scandal surrounding Rob Porter, Mr. Trumps staff secretary who resigned under pressure after it emerged that he had faced allegations of spousal abuse by two former wives.In recent days, Mr. Trump has appeared determined to do things his own way, and he has conducted a purge of people in his administration who had clashed with him, including Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, and Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser whose last day at the White House was Friday.But Mr. Trump regards Mr. Pruitt warmly, and  for now  has continued to back him.I think hes done a fantastic job at E.P.A., Mr. Trump told reporters on Thursday on Air Force One as he returned to Washington from an event in West Virginia. I think hell be fine.On Friday, Mr. Trump pushed back against news reports that he had considered replacing Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, with Mr. Pruitt, saying in a tweet that his E.P.A. chief is doing a great job but is TOTALLY under siege.That came hours before yet another embarrassing revelation on Friday afternoon, when Politico reported that the lobbyists who owned the condominium Mr. Pruitt paid $50 a night to rent had leased the space to him for only six weeks, and became frustrated when he declined for months to leave, eventually pushing him out and changing the locks.The president, who dislikes direct personal confrontations, has been known to change his mind and tone rapidly when it comes to personnel decisions as events unfold and he gauges the reaction in the news media and the potential for damage to his own reputation. But his aides also point out that Mr. Trump relishes doing things his own way and bristles against being told he must adhere to certain conventions, even when failing to do so may mean enduring political fallout.In interviews in recent days with conservative news outlets, including Fox News and The Washington Examiner, Mr. Pruitt pushed back hard against accusations that his actions were unethical. In an interview with Fox News, he described his living arrangement as an Airbnb situation, and said the E.P.A.s ethics office had signed off on it.The ethics office ruled that Mr. Pruitts condo rental did not violate the agencys rules. A later memo released this week said the office did not have all the facts about the rental when it made its initial ruling, including reports that Mr. Pruitts daughter, McKenna Pruitt, lived at the apartment when she was a White House intern.Asked by Fox whether renting a room from a Washington lobbyist violated Mr. Trumps credo of draining the swamp, Mr. Pruitt replied, I dont even think thats even remotely fair to ask that question.Mr. Trump, an avid Fox viewer who puts great stock in TV performances, did not appear to think much of Mr. Pruitts appearance. Asked Thursday on Air Force One what he thought about it, he paused, smiled wryly and said, Its an interesting interview.On Friday, a coalition of 64 House Democrats called for Mr. Pruitts resignation. Mr. Pruitts conservative allies said that is more likely to bolster the administrators standing than hurt it and said they hope Mr. Kelly will not force him out.If he doesnt weather this, no one is ever going to take another job in this administration, and John Kelly is an idiot, said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist, adding, If this turns into a referendum on who is doing more for the presidents agenda, Pruitt will win.Conservatives have rallied around Mr. Pruitt. The Wall Street Journals editorial page said the E.P.A. chief was being hounded because of his success in dismantling Obama-era environmental standards. Other conservative groups have accused the news media of campaigning for Mr. Pruitts ouster.Mr. Kelly and Mr. Pruitt have clashed in the past. The chief of staff stepped in last year to block an effort by the E.P.A. chief to announce public red team, blue team hearings on climate change, an idea that Mr. Pruitt had personally pitched to the president as a way of challenging the science behind global warming. Mr. Trump liked the idea, officials said, but his administration regarded it as foolish at best and potentially disastrous, fearing it could become a spectacle that would undermine the presidents antiregulatory push.At a December meeting to discuss Mr. Pruitts plan, a deputy of Mr. Kellys said the plan was dead and not to be discussed further.
Rising tensions between China and the United States pummeled stocks again on Friday, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trumps threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China, and the sell-off gained steam as the day progressed. A new report on hiring that showed the pace of job growth slowing in March  103,000 jobs were added in the month  did little to buoy investors.Investors took little comfort in statements from the administrations top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants. On CNBC, Mr. Mnuchin emphasized that the United States was willing to negotiate with China, but he acknowledged that there was potential for a trade war.And investors found few bright spots in afternoon comments from Jerome H. Powell, the new chairman of the Federal Reserve. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell gave little indication that he planned to deviate from the Feds gradual path of lifting interest rates. He also suggested after his speech that he was unsure how the new tariffs imposed by the United States and China would affect the economy.By the time markets closed, both the Standard & Poors 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen more than 2 percent.Mr. Trump, who had been a cheerleader for the rising stock market, acknowledged in a radio interview that was aired on Friday that the trade friction could take a toll on the market. The S.&P. 500 is now down 2.6 percent for the year and more than 9 percent from its late January peak.Im not saying there wont be a little pain, Mr. Trump said. He added: But were going to have a much stronger country when were finished.Mr. Powells comments underscored the shaky position stock investors are in, buffeted almost daily by conflicting announcements from the White House and by tariff announcements from Beijing that have strained one of the worlds most important economic relationships. A deep trade freeze between the two countries could chill global growth.So far, though, there is little evidence of a slowdown. And without one, the Fed, as Mr. Powell suggested, will probably keeping raising rates, which traditionally is viewed as a drag on stocks.The losses on Friday were especially heavy for American companies reliant on global trade. The aircraft maker Boeing tumbled 3 percent, and Caterpillar, which sells lots of construction and mining equipment in China, sank 3.5 percent.With China tailoring its tariffs toward American agricultural products, investors also dumped stocks tied to the sector. The fertilizer giants CF Industries and Mosaic each fell more than 3 percent, as did Deere, the farm equipment maker.The gloomy trading day in the United States followed a mixed day elsewhere.Japans Nikkei 225 closed down 0.4 percent, while Hong Kongs Hang Seng ended up 1 percent. Major European benchmarks like Frances CAC-40, Germanys DAX and Britains FTSE 100 were all lower. (Mainland Chinese markets were closed on Friday.)On Thursday, Mr. Trump said he had instructed his top trade officials to determine whether additional tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese imports were warranted and, if so, to identify the products upon which to impose such tariffs.The comments were part of a roller-coaster week that has whipsawed investors.People have started to feel like this is a bit of the childrens game. Somehow the markets havent really gotten any actual sense of whether this will be true, said Vincent Chan, head of China equity research for Credit Suisse, the investment bank.Tariffs on $100 billion of Chinese products is a big thing, but the market thinks its a bit of a childish move, he added. The market doesnt know how to react.On Monday, China announced tariffs on $3 billion in American goods in response to steel and aluminum tariffs that Washington imposed last month. Then on Tuesday, American officials detailed plans for tariffs on roughly $50 billion in Chinese goods. China responded hours later by announcing tariffs on a similar amount of American goods.Should Mr. Trump impose more tariffs, the impact could be significant. Capital Economics, a research firm, estimated that doing so could shave up to half a percentage point from Chinas economic growth rate. A change of that size could be felt around the world, as China is a major force in global growth. Last year, its economy grew 6.9 percent.The stomach-churning volatility in the stock market in recent months hasnt spread to other markets.There has been no panicked rush to the safety of United States government bonds. And while companies are having to pay slightly more to borrow in the bond markets, the interest rates havent risen to levels that could threaten the economy.We havent really, in a way, seen anything that has us too worried yet, said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase.Others arent quite so confident.In a note to clients on Friday, Barclays analysts cited the intensifying trade tensions as a reason for investors to move out of stocks and into the safety of bonds.At this juncture, we think it is wise for market participants to take a break from risk, they wrote.
Pacemakers and artificial joints. Defibrillators. Dental fillings. Birth-control pills and vaccines. All are made in China, and all could be subject to new tariffs.Dozens of drugs and medical devices are among the Chinese products and ingredients that the Trump administration targeted for a potential 25 percent tariff in a proposal this week. The list includes some products that are in dangerously short supply, like epinephrine, used to treat allergic reactions, and others, like insulin, whose rising prices have driven public outrage in the United States.The proposed tariffs have unsettled the medical device and supply industries, given that a growing number of products, as well as their components, are now manufactured in China. In recent years, as trade groups have noted, Chinese manufacturing of medical equipment has undergone a major shift from throwaway items like surgical gloves to more complicated products like magnetic resonance imaging scanners.Chinas medical device industry has been expanding rapidly. An International Trade Commission report in January said the fastest growth was in sales of implantable orthopedic devices, plates and screws, mostly made of titanium and used for surgery and sports medicine. One analyst estimates that about 12 percent of medical devices imported into the United States come from China, amounting to $3 billion a year.Several companies, including Medtronic and Zimmer Biomet, have orthopedic device factories in China that export goods to the United States.In 2012, Medtronic, considered the worlds leading medical-device maker, bought China Kanghui Holdings, a major provider of orthopedic devices in China. Any products shipped from those operations to the United States would be subject to the tariffs. Medtronic declined to comment, saying it was still reviewing the proposal.And a report this week by RBC Capital Markets estimated that if the proposed 25 percent tariffs took effect, the move could cost the medical device industry up to $1.5 billion each year. Some of the higher costs would undoubtedly result in increased prices for those devices, affecting baby boomers, who are now among the biggest recipients of hip and knee replacements.Brandon Henry, a medical device analyst for RBC Capital Markets, said some of the bigger medical technology companies were surprised to find their products on the list.Greg Crist, a spokesman for AdvaMed, the trade group for device members, said its members were disappointed because this action threatens to affect the health and well-being of American patients and those around the world.How much would be passed on to consumers remains unknown.The impact of this orthopedic device tariff isnt a straight line, said David A. Halsey, president of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, in an email, adding that the group was working to assess the possible effects.It is still unclear whether the tariffs will be enacted: Companies have until May to lobby the administration for changes. But on Friday, President Trump ratcheted up the pressure by threatening to levy tariffs on an additional $100 billion in imports, provoking China to respond that it would strike back yet again.Indeed, stocks of drug manufacturers remained largely unruffled after the unveiling of the list on Tuesday, but by Friday, the major medical device company stocks had dipped along with the overall market. Medtronic shares were 2.7 percent lower for the week, and Zimmer Biomet was down 2.4 percent.It was unclear whether the tariffs would have a substantial effect on the drug industry, analysts said, even though China is a leading exporter of raw pharmaceutical ingredients. We dont see much impact, Umer Raffat, a pharmaceutical industry analyst for Evercore ISI, said in a note to investors on Tuesday.That is because many generic drugs that contain Chinese ingredients are manufactured in countries like India, meaning they would not be subject to the tariffs. And brand-name drugs made in the United States are frequently so expensive that the list price often has little connection to the products manufacturing cost.Nevertheless, at least one trade group sounded the alarm on the tariffs, warning that they could exacerbate the already contentious issue of health care costs, just when the Trump administration has pledged to take action to lower drug prices.We are concerned that the proposed tariffs may lead to increased costs of manufacturing for generics and biosimilars and thus higher prescription drug prices for patients in the U.S., said Jeffrey K. Francer, senior vice president and general counsel at the Association for Accessible Medicines, which represents generic-drug companies. The generic business has  been struggling with falling prices even as brand-name drug prices have risen.Several major manufacturers, including Pfizer, Merck and the generic-drug makers Mylan and Teva Pharmaceutical declined to comment.The cynic in me thinks this is another way for companies to say they need to raise their prices, said Erin R. Fox, a drug-shortage expert at the University of Utah.Ms. Fox said she suspected that the tariffs could exacerbate shortfalls of generic injectable drugs  decades-old products that are mainstays in hospitals and have been in short supply for years because of manufacturing problems and supply disruptions.While many pill forms of generic drugs are manufactured overseas, most generic injectable drugs are made in the United States, using raw ingredients acquired from overseas. But because many companies do not disclose where those raw ingredients come from  saying the information is proprietary  it is hard to know the impact of the proposed tariffs, Ms. Fox said.Two drugs on the  list of 1,300 Chinese exports are epinephrine and lidocaine, which are both in short supply in their sterile injectable form.Things are so bad right now with the injectables, we dont need anything else to pile on, to possibly make things worse, Ms. Fox said.Heather Zoumas Lubeski, a spokeswoman for Par Pharmaceutical, a major manufacturer of injectable epinephrine, said the companys raw ingredients were imported from Europe and that the proposed tariffs would not have an impact on Par or its parent company, Endo International.Even for some widely used products, it is unclear how American consumers would be affected. While insulin is on the list, all three major companies that sell insulin in the United States  Eli Lilly, Sanofi and Novo Nordisk  said they did not import insulin from China. (Novo Nordisk said that one rarely used insulin product, the NovoPen Echo, does come from China, but that the company was committed to keeping it accessible to consumers.)Some analysts and trade lawyers pointed out that the list was an early draft and that many different industries and groups would be lobbying the government in the coming months so that their products would not be punished.

McALLEN, Tex.  They arrive a few dozen at a time, their children by their side, their belongings in government-issued plastic bags.The immigrants who step inside a Catholic Charities relief center in this South Texas border city are the focus of national controversy, but their concerns are more logistical than political. One of the first things they do after sitting down is fix their shoes  most have spent a few days in federal detention before coming here; they had to remove their shoelaces, and now they sit in the centers blue hard-backed chairs, tying up their shoes.Dozens of immigrants, mostly from Central America, have been crossing illegally here every day, most of them scooped up by federal Border Patrol agents, given a court date and an ankle bracelet monitoring device, and dropped off at the downtown bus station. From there, they are led by volunteers to the nearby relief center, where they put their belts back on, eat a bowl of cereal, sort through donated clothes and change their infants diapers.In the drama that is the migrants journey, this is the intermission  the limbo of waiting for the journey to start up again. And it goes on, seven days a week, morning to night, regardless of the news out of Washington.They will always come, said Mariana Salinas, 43, who was apprehended crossing the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons last week after fleeing the threat of gang violence in her native El Salvador. Were doing it for the kids.Earlier this week, on the day White House officials announced that President Trump planned to deploy the National Guard to the southern border, Ms. Salinas was one of about 170 newly released immigrants who were assisted by the center. The day before, the number was about 140.Mr. Trump on Thursday railed again at the flow of undocumented immigrants across the border but took credit on Twitter for reducing such crossings to a 46-year low. Were toughening up at the border, Mr. Trump told an audience in West Virginia. Were throwing them out by the hundreds.There was little evidence of that this week at the border, where a steady flow of immigrants made their way out of the detention center, through the relief center, and from there, onward to cities around the country. Border apprehensions have slid significantly over the past year, but the Department of Homeland Security announced Thursday that illegal border crossings had surged in March: The 37,393 individuals apprehended on the Southwest border was a 203 percent increase over the same period in March 2017, though the number was lower than in 2013 and 2014.The number of illegal border crossings during the month of March shows an urgent need to address the ongoing situation at the border, Tyler Q. Houlton, the departments press secretary, told reporters in Washington. As the president has repeatedly said, all options are on the table.Three of the four governors in the states that share a border with Mexico  Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas  have expressed support for Mr. Trumps plan to mobilize the National Guard to help secure the border. The Democratic governor of Oregon, Kate Brown, has said that if asked, she would refuse to deploy any Guard troops.But here in the Rio Grande Valley at the southern tip of Texas, one of the busiest corridors for human smuggling and illegal entry into the United States, the issue takes on a far more nuanced tone.The Trump administrations immigration policies were rarely mentioned in the dining room and lobby of the McAllen respite center. Although the center was busy, no one working to help handle the flow seemed to think they needed help from the National Guard. These immigrants were mothers and fathers, teenagers and infants  men with baseball caps changing their childs diaper, mothers and daughters brushing their teeth for the first time in days at the bathroom sink, men eating bowls of chicken soup.Many of the other Americans who live here  those who legally call the border home and have done so for years, sometimes generations  appeared to share the same view: There is no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who keep filling downtown McAllen.Were not in a position where military zones are needed in our communities, said Sergio Contreras, the president of a regional business group, the Rio Grande Valley Partnership. Its not something thats helpful. We want to showcase that theres other means of securing the border.At the relief center on Wednesday, Lilian Morales Gonzalez, 22, tried to soothe her crying 2-month-old baby, a statue of Jesus behind her. She came from Guatemala  so my son can grow up with his father, she said  and was apprehended on Monday morning. She said Mr. Trump and his policies had no effect on her decision.Ismelda Cruz, 28, also came from Guatemala. She, her husband and 7-year-old daughter crossed the Rio Grande at Reynosa, Mexico, fleeing the criminals she said were trying to recruit her husband. Asked if the presence of National Guard troops would deter people from making the journey from Guatemala, Ms. Cruz replied, Theyre always going to find a way through.Migrants who were recently apprehended, longtime residents and local officials in McAllen and other cities in the Rio Grande Valley said that with or without the National Guard, and with or without the White Houses increasingly anti-immigrant rhetoric, people would keep crossing. They worry that a deployment of troops would hurt the regions economy and add to the inaccurate perception that Texas border cities were unsafe.Well get the bad publicity, said Tony Martinez, the mayor of Brownsville, an hours drive to the east. Nobody is sitting around here locking their doors and taping up their windows. Its not a matter of security. Immigrants dont want to migrate. They have to. This charade that Washington, or Trump more particularly, is imposing on the border is nothing more than empty rhetoric.A show of military force on the border in this part of Texas would be nothing new.The Texas Republicans who lead state government have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on increasing border security, deploying heavily armed river patrol boats, purchasing a high-tech surveillance airplane and posting state troopers in the highway medians near the border, and previous United States administrations have on occasion dispatched National Guard units. In 2014, former Gov. Rick Perry ordered 1,000 National Guard troops to the border, in a state-ordered mobilization that Gov. Greg Abbott continued after he took office in 2015.For the most part, the troops assisted local and federal law enforcement, in an approach officials described as referring and deterring  aiming to deter illegal activity with their physical presence, and to refer those suspected of being illegal immigrants to law enforcement officials. Some of the troops lived in motels; the cost for the deployment, as estimated in 2014, was $12 million a month.These days, for all the emphasis on border security, the Rio Grande Valley displays few signs of an outright militarization. The binational culture of the region  Texas license plates are visible on cars, as are plates from the Mexican state of Tamaulipas  has frayed in recent years, but remains intact. Business leaders in the valley say construction has increased, but they worry about a recent decline in retail sales tax, which they attribute in part to fewer shoppers coming from Mexico.We just did a binational run into Matamoros, Mexico, Mr. Martinez said. We were in Matamoros and we all had nice breakfasts. We had 800 runners from both sides. Were doing a lot of wonderful things in spite of whats going on in Washington.In McAllen, a majority-Hispanic city of 142,000, the migrants are largely invisible, except for when they walk to and from the bus station or the relief center.The center  a storefront that blends in with the Tex-Mex restaurants, nightclubs and clothing stores  has become a hub of activity on the quiet downtown streets.With insufficient space to detain everyone, federal authorities for years dropped off immigrants who had promised to appear in court at the bus station downtown. Sometimes they had a bus ticket, purchased by their relatives, but sometimes they did not. The immigrants were on their own to sort out their travel arrangements. Many of them were hungry, tired, confused.In stepped Sister Norma Pimentel, executive director of Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley. She opened the center at Sacred Heart church near the bus station, and then moved it last year to the current storefront building. Since 2014, the center has assisted nearly 100,000 immigrants.We try to guide them as best we can, Sister Pimentel said. There have been times where we have been busier. But for the most part, the numbers have not stopped. They wave up and down, and right now were in a wave up.On Wednesday afternoon, there were so many parents with children in the centers lobby that it looked as if a P.T.A. meeting was about to begin. Toddlers played with toy cars; the parents clutched manila envelopes containing their bus tickets and official release orders.Sister Pimentel stapled a sheet of paper to their manila envelopes with a message to help them at the bus station: I do not speak English. What bus do I need to take?Ms. Salinas and her two boys were released from detention on Wednesday morning, and they sat staring at Ms. Salinass ankle bracelet, which she was concerned was too tight. She said gang violence was the main reason she fled El Salvador: Gang members had killed a 22-year-old relative and she feared for the safety of her 11- and 15-year-old sons.I was worried now that hes older, hes going to be a target, she said of her oldest son. They look for kids his age.Ms. Cruz, the woman from Guatemala here with her 7-year-old daughter, took a seat in front of Sister Pimentel. She was apprehended with her husband, but he remained in detention. She did not know where he was, or when he would be released. She had a bus ticket to Phoenix, Ariz., where her mother lives and where she has a court date next week.Sister Pimentel looked through her paperwork and asked Ms. Cruz a simple question. It was a question heard many times in the Valley, but it took Ms. Cruz by surprise, because it seemed the first time anyone had asked it of her on this day.Cmo ests? Sister Pimentel said with a smile. How are you?
LIVERMORE, Calif.  For seven years, Deepika Jalakam sat at home. Bored, unfulfilled and dependent on her husband for every dime, she struggled with the notion that her professional life was doomed in the land of opportunity.So when the employment card arrived in the mail in 2015, Ms. Jalakam did what she often does when good fortune comes her way: She placed it before the gods in the Hindu shrine mounted in her kitchen cabinet, blessed it with a dab of red kum kum powder and recited a prayer of gratitude.Within weeks, Ms. Jalakam, who has a degree in biotechnology, landed a job as an analyst at an insurance company. The next year, she and her husband, Vinay Kumar, a software engineer, bought a house. In 2017, the finances of the Indian immigrant couple were secure enough that they decided to have a second child.All that planning, though, is in jeopardy. Ms. Jalakam and thousands of other spouses of skilled workers have been told that their special work permits  authorization that can mean the difference between struggling and thriving in their adopted homeland  are likely to be revoked.[Do H-1B visas harm American workers? Read more here.]The Trump administration announced last fall that, as part of a crackdown on H-1B visas issued for skilled workers to enter the United States, it plans to rescind an Obama-era program that allowed spouses to work. The change, expected in June, would mean that thousands of mainly Indian women who followed their husbands to the United States will have to give up their jobs  even though many are highly educated workers with sought-after skills.We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted. Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability, said Ms. Jalakam, 32, who now finds herself worrying about everything from day-to-day spending to vacation plans.Across the country, thousands of Indian families are caught in a similar dilemma because of the outsized role that they play in the H-1B visa program.The annual visa scramble began this week, with applications delivered by the truckload to government processing centers. The petitions represent tens of thousands of foreigners vying for the opportunity to work in the United States for three years or longer.Many are Indian software engineers and computer programmers recruited by American technology companies that say they cannot find enough talent in this country. Among the applicants are Indian math and science teachers headed for rural schools, as well as physicians and other professionals.But the H-1B program has spawned controversy. During his campaign, President Trump invited Americans displaced by H-1B workers to his rallies. Since taking office, he has ordered the programs overhaul, and his administration has taken steps to tighten scrutiny of applications.Still, demand for the visas continues unabated. In 2018, for the sixth consecutive year, the federal government was so flooded with petitions it stopped accepting them within a week. On Friday, officials announced they had reached their annual cap within five days and would resort again to a computer lottery to select the targeted 85,000 recipients. Universities and research organizations are exempt from the cap.Nearly 365,000 H-1B petitions were approved in the 2017 fiscal year. This number includes first-time applications subject to the cap and renewals, which are not capped. Three-quarters of them went to Indian nationals.Their success has been a mixed blessing. Tens of thousands of Indians on the temporary visas were later sponsored by their employers to remain permanently in the United States, but their families are in limbo, stuck in a ballooning backlog of green cards that are approved but cannot yet be issued.While skilled workers from most countries receive permanent residency a year or two after applying, Indians must wait a decade or longer because of their large numbers. The delays have meant that until recently thousands of women, many highly educated, remained at home while their husbands worked.Children must also wait. If their familys green card is not approved before they turn 21, the children are no longer eligible for legal residency as dependents and must leave the country, though they may have spent much of their lives in the United States. The much-debated legal protection for so-called Dreamers, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, applies to children who entered the country illegally, not to the offspring of legal immigrants.The Obama administration attempted a partial fix to the problem in 2015, authorizing temporary work permits for spouses of H-1B visa holders who were in the pipeline to get a green card. Under the program, known as H-4EAD, an estimated 100,000 spouses, overwhelmingly women, have obtained work permits.I felt like I was free from a cage to fly in any direction I want, Ms. Jalakam said of her work authorization that year.Last falls announcement that the temporary work program would soon be scrapped has energized Indian women. Many who had sunk money into property and other investments with earnings from their jobs took to Twitter, using #standwithh4ead and #saveh4ead to raise awareness of their plight.Were determined to save our jobs, said Jansi Kumar of Seattle, a founder of a Facebook page started in December, Save H4EAD, which has attracted nearly 5,000 followers. In early February, about 500 Indians descended on Capitol Hill to press for a solution to the green card backlog. At a rally, they hoisted posters that read, Legal Immigrants Matter Too and #H4EAD Let Spouses Work.On the other hand, a group of information technology workers who lost their jobs to imported workers has filed suit to overturn the spousal work authorization program. The Department of Homeland Security, the federal agency which oversees the program, said it was completing an economic analysis and was likely to render its decision in June.L. Francis Cissna, director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Department of Homeland Security agency that issues the permits, said the Trump administrations priority was to protect American workers. The reason there is a lot of concern about Americans being displaced is because it is happening, he said in a recent interview.In January, the Information Technology Industry Council, which represents titans like Apple, IBM and Microsoft, argued in a letter to the administration that revoking spousal work permits could prompt foreign talent to leave the United States and put American companies at a competitive disadvantage.Their valued, long-term employees will choose to leave their companies for other employment opportunities in countries that allow these workers and their families to raise their standard of living, the council warned.Doug Rand, former assistant director for entrepreneurship in the Obama administration, said Indian immigrants have long been essential for American technological innovation and offering work permits to spouses makes sense. If it werent for these outrageous backlogs, they would be Americans already, he said.The backlog that is creating the problem is a byproduct of immigration laws drafted decades ago.In 1965, Congress established that no country could receive more than 7 percent of green cards issued in a year. In 1990, it determined that only 140,000 employment-based green cards could be granted annually, and each family member requires a separate card.Then the rise of the tech sector created a surge in demand for workers. Indians had the skills that American companies prized, so employers turned to the nonimmigrant H-1B visa to import them. Down the road, companies chose to sponsor many of the visa holders for green cards, which because of the annual caps created the current backlog.In June 2015, the latest year for which official data is available, about 300,000 Indians, including spouses and children, were waiting for their permanent residency cards. Indians in the green-card process since 2008 are only now receiving them.No one should be stuck waiting more than 10 years for a green card. It hurts employers and employees and their families, said Stephen Yale-Loehr, a professor of immigration law at Cornell Law School. Indians are being held hostage by our broken immigration system.Some families have had to wait so long that they fear their children will reach adulthood and be forced to leave. Lakshmi Vishnubhotla, who has worked for 10 years as a teacher in Marion County, S.C., is currently sponsored for an H-1B by the school district. He was named teacher of the year for the district in 2015-16.Mr. Vishnubhotlas green card application, which includes his family, was approved in 2012. They are still waiting for the cards to be issued. Given that the wait time is 10 years, and getting longer, he is worried. In seven years, his 14-year-old daughter, Sivani, will be considered an adult. His son, Sarvan, will turn 21 in nine years. At that time, they will no longer be eligible for green cards as Mr. Vishnubhotlas dependents and could be forced to return to India.We dont want to split our family, Mr. Vishnubhotla said.Teachers who arrived after him, including some whom he trained from Jamaica, Venezuela and elsewhere, already have permanent residency.Jigar Madlani, a software engineer in Parsippany, N.J., came on an H-1B and hisgreen card was approved in 2013. But none of the familys cards have been issued, and he fears his wife, Heta, will soon lose her ability to work.Armed with an H-4EAD permit, she was hired in late 2015 as a case manager for New Jerseys 211 line, handling calls from drug addicts, homeless families, victims of domestic violence and others in crisis seeking help.I had no identity in this country. I got it, and now they want to take it away from me, Ms. Madlani said.Back in California, Ms. Jalakam dreads returning to the days when she filled her time tutoring students in math and taking online technology courses.I would see a woman all dressed up as an executive and wonder, Will I ever be like that? recalled Ms. Jalakam, whose familys green card was approved in 2010 but is still unissued.Now that she has a well-paying job, Ms. Jalakams main fear is losing it. She was pregnant with their second child when the administration announced plans to rescind the work authorizations. She began fretting about how they would afford their $4,800 monthly mortgage.She found like-minded women on the SaveH4EAD Facebook page, and felt better, she said. I realized there are strong-willed women like me who really want to work.
SHANGHAI  At the heart of the intensifying trade dispute between the United States and China is a fundamental question: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries.China has embarked on an aggressive and expensive plan to retool its economy for the future as it moves to dominate in robotics, aerospace, artificial intelligence and more. President Trump has said Chinas approach relies on unfair and predatory practices, and on stolen American technology. And even as Chinese leaders say they want to avoid a trade war, they are staunchly defending their plans and showing little sign of backing down.Mr. Trumps threat to sharply escalate the administrations tariffs on Chinese imports  a threat he reiterated on Friday  shows that neither side has yet gone far enough to persuade the other to compromise. Bigger and broader tariffs may be necessary to get Chinas attention.The administration, if its serious, better be prepared for much more, said Derek Scissors, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.Chinas $300 billion plan for government assistance, Made in China 2025, calls for helping cutting-edge industries by providing low-interest loans from state-controlled banks, guaranteeing large market shares in China and offering extensive research subsidies. The goal is to help Chinese firms acquire Western competitors, develop advanced technology and construct immense factories with considerable economies of scale.It is an agenda that China would probably go to great lengths to protect. We will not start a war  however, if someone starts a war, we will definitely fight back, Gao Feng, the commerce ministry spokesman, said at a news conference in Beijing on Friday. No options will be ruled out.For the United States, victory in such a war would be difficult to verify, much less achieve.China could say it plans to ease back on government support. But that could be difficult to quantify because of the countrys opaque political system and the states control of information.China could back off from rules that favor local competitors and require American companies to share technology if they want access to the Chinese market. For example, foreign automakers face pressure to transfer electric-car technology to their local partners, and foreign technology companies are increasingly required to submit to security reviews. Foreign businesses have long complained that many of the rules they must follow are unwritten.Chinas government-financed campaign is already paying off in some ways. Drive into downtown Shanghai from Pudong International Airport and you pass a seemingly endless series of huge hangars and vast, glass-walled design centers, all part of the countrys effort to create a commercial aircraft manufacturing giant to rival Boeing or Airbus. Travel to factory districts in Shanghai and on the outskirts of many other Chinese cities and you see enormous, newly built factories ready to churn out electric cars, the batteries they use and other components.Proving that the Chinese government unfairly supports the effort could be difficult, however.The United States could press its argument with the World Trade Organization, which oversees global trading rules and prohibits big loans from government-controlled banks at artificially low interest rates. But the W.T.O. requires many contracts and government documents to prove cases, evidence that can be hard to get in a tightly controlled country like China.Even when the W.T.O. rules against China, persuading the country to comply can be challenging. One such ruling, involving Chinas restrictions on foreign electronic payment systems, was issued nearly six years ago. China is still mulling how it will comply  despite numerous complaints from the Obama administration and more recent nudges from the Trump administration.So the United States has turned to tariffs. That means it is using a 1980s tool to address an industrial policy issue that is already shaping the 21st century.Mr. Trumps top trade official, Robert Lighthizer, was a deputy United States trade representative under President Ronald Reagan. The tariffs that Mr. Lighthizer threatened against Japan in those days are among the same ones he is wielding now. But the two periods differ in two big ways.One is that Japan depended on the United States in the 80s for military protection from the Soviet Union. China, by contrast, is an increasingly assertive global rival, sending naval vessels to the Baltic Sea and building a naval base in East Africa.The second major difference between then and now is that the European Union deeply resented the tariffs of the 1980s, and Mr. Trumps use of them could make it difficult to persuade European officials to present a united front. In response to American tariffs, Beijing could simply shift business from American companies like Boeing and Ford to European rivals like Airbus and Daimler.Chinese officials dispute the American accusations about their unfair trade practices. They say Mr. Trumps tariffs violate W.T.O. rules, and they dispute claims that China forces American companies to hand over technology. As for Made in China 2025, Chinese officials say the plan is only guidance, not a government directive  and that foreign companies are free to participate, too.In Chinas current industrial policy, the Trump administration sees an extension of how the country has already come to dominate one major industry of the future: solar power.Mr. Trump himself is no fan of solar panels. He has spoken enthusiastically about coal, not renewable energy, throughout his campaign and his presidency. But the solar power industry is one of the biggest success stories so far in Chinas efforts involving advanced industries.The United States played a central role in developing solar panels and manufacturing them until a decade ago. Around then, the Chinese government decided to finance a lavish expansion of the sector. State-controlled banks lent tens of billions of dollars at low interest rates despite the high-profile bankruptcies of solar manufacturers.Chinese firms now produce three-quarters of the worlds solar panels. Most American and European companies have closed factories, and many have become insolvent. Chinas success in producing solar panels has given Beijing a blueprint for seizing the lead in a long list of other high-tech industries.Many foreign companies are caught between Chinas industrial ambitions and Washingtons efforts to stop them, including major aerospace companies and carmakers. The conflict may spread: Made in China 2025 could create major competitors to General Electric and Intel, and to companies outside the United States like Siemens and Samsung.Tariffs could hurt such companies if the United States and China follow through on their plans. They also risk losing their competitiveness if Beijing succeeds in subsidizing the creation of large Chinese rivals in their industries.Boeing, for example, could be hit by American tariffs on civilian aircraft parts it buys from Avic, a state-controlled Chinese military and aviation company  required purchases if the company, which is based in Chicago, wants to sell planes in China. China, in turn, is pushing a consortium that includes Avic to become a Boeing rival. Boeing, like other multinational companies, has refrained from endorsing or criticizing the tariffs.Although our members are unhappy with retaliatory tariffs being used, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, there is a belief that greater pressure has to be brought to bear on China.
Good Friday. Heres what were watching: Investors should get ready to feel a little pain. Is the inflation scare over? Hiring slowed in March. The U.S.-China trade fight is getting hotter. The Treasury Department sanctioned Russian mogul Oleg Deripaska.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.President Trump has supported combative trade policies for years, and in recent months, his administration has begun to pursue them. The actions have weighed on the stock prices of large international corporations, and if implemented, could hurt their bottom lines.But global companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trumps trade policies. Will that now change? With first-quarter earnings imminent, and tensions with China escalating, shareholders may want companies to make specific disclosures. The companies may be tempted to say little. After all, Mr. Trumps trade restrictions have merely been threatened, and may not occur if deals are struck. But in the past, companies have refreshed their outlooks in the face of circumstantial economic and geopolitical events, like the Gulf War. And investors will likely press firms to estimate the impact of a trade war and describe the measures they will take to protect their businesses.Boeing, Apple and General Motors are among the companies that will come under the spotlight. All do considerable sales in China. Apple and G.M. rely on manufacturing facilities in the country. Investors will have plenty of questions. How much might revenue and profits fall in a trade war? What would you do if your supply chains got interrupted? What sort of contingency measures are you readying? What would you do if you became the target of campaigns that aimed to stop Chinese consumers buying your products, like the one last year directed at South Korean products?Executives will no doubt have good arguments for why their businesses wont be hurt much. Chinas airlines will remain reliant on a steady supply of Boeings aircraft for a long time. The facilities in China that make G.M. and Apple products are big employers. And since the proposed tariffs most likely wont be in effect by the time first-quarter earnings are announced, companies will probably be able to get away with some generalities.Still, the prospect of a trade war raises questions about the adequacy of corporate disclosure. Those of G.M., contained in its latest annual report, seem quite detailed. They offer quite specific warnings about the risks of doing business in China, and the company even mentions the possibility of trade agreements falling apart. But financial reports from Boeing and Apple arguably have less on potential problems in China and trade disputes.Boeings annual report did mention tariffs and embargoes as threats. But the report, released in February, also sounded a bullish note on the global economy that now almost sounds like it was from a different era:Will such language remain in Boeings reports?- Peter EavisFor years, investors had a singular focus on the Federal Reserve and its plans to raise rates.Any indication that the Fed could move more aggressively than expected to tighten monetary policies and stocks would pull back.Now the Fed has company in sending jitters through the market: Trade.A one-two punch from the White House and the Fed pushed stocks on Wall Street down Friday. The S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both finished off more than 2 percent.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trumps threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China. Investors took little comfort in statements from the administrations top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants.Comments from Mr. Powell in the early Friday afternoon added to the unease. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell highlighted the strength of the United States economic recovery and gave little indication that the Fed planned to deviate from its gradual path of lifting interest rates.President Trump, in a radio interview that was taped on Thursday and aired on Friday, acknowledged his approach to China could cause a little pain to financial markets but that it would be worth it in the long run.On WABC Radios Bernie & Sid in the Morning show, Mr. Trump said:The president also took to Twitter to defend his approach to trade policy. Mr. Trump, in a tweet, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.Some context here: The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trumps decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of Americas aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.In response to a potential new set of U.S. tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese goods, Beijing said in a briefing on Friday that it would immediately fight back with a major response.More from what a representative for Chinas Ministry of Commerce said:The briefing  amid a Chinese holiday  signals the latest instance of saber-rattling between the U.S. and China on trade. But was Mr. Trumps announcement on Thursday just a bluff? Even his advisers arent sure.The Chinese official said that the two sides cant negotiate under the current conditions. And in an interview with Bloomberg on Friday, Larry Kudlow  who has been national economic adviser for just under a week  said he could not predict when talks would begin. He added:But China has reasons to think it could win a trade war. (Worth noting: U.S. tariffs wouldnt bite until after a two-month comment period.)More companies, like Cargill, are getting jumpy. Some fear the tensions could kill Qualcomms bid for NXP Semiconductor. Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chases international business, is worried, too: He said the hostilities could be the greatest danger to the world economy, but arent at a war level yet. The Economist says that the presidents comments do not suggest he is ready to sue for peace.Meanwhile, the White House hopes to announce a preliminary Nafta deal this month after revising some of its more aggressive demands.Reaction of the day, from Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska:Earlier this year, stocks sold off after the jobs report for January showed a 2.9 percent annual increase in wages, a relatively strong rise. Investors feared that a sustained increase in earnings could prompt consumers to buy more goods and services, pushing up prices in the process. Concerns receded after Februarys report showed a 2.6 percent jump in wages, and Marchs rise of 2.7 percent is not likely to stir up more worries.But as they gauge wage pressures, analysts also pay close attention to the forces that indirectly affect wages. One of those is, of course, the number of additional jobs the economy is creating. Marchs gain of 103,000 jobs was below economists forecasts and about half the monthly average this year. That weakness will no doubt reduce inflation fears still further.The March report contained data that could do even more to quell investors nerves over inflation. While the report revised Februarys gain higher to 326,000 jobs from 313,000, it sharply reduced the January figure to 176,000 from 239,000. The January revision prompted Jim Vogel, of FTN Financial, to write: Peter EavisThe United States added jobs for its 90th straight month in March, an unprecedented run of growth for the economy, but at a much slower pace than in March.The headline numbers  103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. Estimates of Februarys job growth were revised upward, but Januarys figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.The takeaways Wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sectors rebound in the months ahead. Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster February report was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people.Theres a lot to quote from Anthony Scaramuccis meal with Edward Luce of the FT  held at the Hunt and Fish Club, the Midtown Manhattan restaurant that the onetime investor owns, naturally. So well have to limit ourselves to just a few selections: Michael de la MercedProminent among the Russian oligarchs and businesses sanctioned by the Treasury Department on Friday is Oleg Deripaska, the billionaire known for his jet-setting, his consistent presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos  and his ties to Vladimir Putin (and, before a falling out, Paul Manafort).Mr. Deripaska is associated with aluminum producers like EN+ Group, which went public in London late year, and Rusal, as well as the commercial vehicle maker GAZ Group and energy producer EuroSibEnergo. All those companies were also sanctioned for being controlled or owned directly or indirectly by Mr. Deripaska.Heres what the Treasury Department said about the move against the businessman: Michael de la MercedAndrews take: A favorite Wall Street parlor game is whether the JPMorgan Chase C.E.O. would run for president in 2020. Mr. Dimons latest annual letter increased that chatter, touching on immigration and political polarization. He praised some of President Trumps policies (on tougher trade negotiations, on taxes). But his stances on deregulation and on social issues likely mean that he would have to run as an independent  and history hasnt been kind to third-party candidates.Peter Eavis adds: The JPMorgan chief also homed in on regulations of bank liquidity, or access to cash and equivalents. He contended that liquidity requirements are higher now  which he favors  but are also more rigid and could impinge on lending. But the argument is flawed, in part because banks that have less liquidity arent in a position to lend.The investment behemoths plan to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. (And with $6.3 trillion under management, the firms actions carry enormous weight.) The products include: A new exchange-traded fund that focuses on favorable environmental, social and governance (E.S.G.) standards and excludes firearms-related companies. BlackRock will update other E.S.G. funds to exclude them, too. A bond-focused E.T.F. excluding gun-related companies. New strategies available through 401(k) plans that track five major indexes, including the S.&P. 500, but screen out firearms sellers and makers.Walmart, Kroger and Dicks Sporting Goods, all of whom have now set some limits on gun sales, will still count as gun-related.Critics corner: Rob Cox of Breakingviews writes, By getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws  who it hopes will be customers for decades to come  that it has something for them.Heres the DealBook tally of financial firms that have announced concrete moves addressing gun control: Citigroup, Amalgamated, BlackRock. (Have we missed one? Let us know.) President Trumps attacks on Amazon arise from his anger at Jeff Bezos, unnamed people close to the White House say. (WSJ) The president dispensed with a boring speech on tax to denounce immigration. (NYT) E.P.A. officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs after raising concerns about Scott Pruitt, unnamed sources said. Senior White House officials say the agency chiefs fate is uncertain given ethical questions about his housing (he reportedly fell behind on a lease from a lobbyist), staffing and travel expenses. Mick Mulvaney has complained that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau engages in wasteful spending  but gave his hires big raises. (NYT) Mr. Trump denied knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to Stormy Daniels. (WaPo) The administration and California officials are expected to try to settle a fight over car emissions standards. (NYT) At an NYT event, Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, said Mr. Trump was breaking democratic norms. (NYT)If users wanted to opt out of data-driven advertising, they would have to pay, Sheryl Sandberg told NBC in one of many interviews yesterday. (They cant, as yet.) Still, Ms. Sandberg told Bloomberg that some advertisers had cut spending and admitted that the network faced a challenge in reassuring them.The California public pension fund CALSTRS also wants more detail on how Facebook is protecting user data. (Its investment chief has deleted his account.)Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that Facebook would apply tough new E.U. data-protection rules worldwide.But some analysts say that the worst may be over for investors.Elsewhere in Facebook: The company has put on hold a request for hospitals to share anonymized patient data for a research project. It has been accredited by the Media Ratings Council for the first of three rounds of ad impression auditing. Civic groups in Myanmar said Mr. Zuckerberg had exaggerated what Facebook was doing to stop incitement of violence there. Teslas Model 3 impressed Jim Stewart. Will it win over enough other consumers to lift the carmakers fortunes? (NYT) Google promised to increase office security in the wake of the YouTube shooting, and changes may come to other Silicon Valley campuses. (NYT) Didi Chuxing is open for business  and taking on Uber  in Mexico. (Reuters) Delta said that a cyberattack on the company that ran its websites chat function may have compromised thousands of customers credit card data. (WSJ)Cryptocurrency corner: South Korean prosectors detained the heads of Coinnest and another exchange, on accusations of embezzling from customers. Coinbase is going into venture capital. The former C.E.O. of Mt. Gox, the first big failed Bitcoin exchange, is no longer a believer.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has met with a slew of companies during his U.S. tour, including Amazon and the augmented-reality start-up Magic Leap. But the movie business was a focus.Entertainment is the new oil for Saudi Arabia, the head of the kingdoms entertainment authority told the WSJ. (Diversifying away from the old oil is the crown princes stated mission.)AMC Entertainment has announced plans to open the kingdoms first movie theater in over 30 years. The crown prince is hoping for a Disney theme park, too. The Information has more, and says the Saudis are largely following a Chinese playbook. Nine West, the U.S. shoe seller, reportedly could file for bankruptcy protection as soon as today, with a plan to sell its main brand to Authentic Brands Group. (Reuters) Blackstone plans a $2.3 billion bid for the Spanish hotelier Hispania. (Reuters) The investment firm Kimmeridge Energy Management has built an 8.1 percent stake in Carrizo Oil & Gas and wants the driller to consider selling itself, or at least some assets. (WSJ) Domo, a Utah-based business software company, is reportedly preparing to file confidentially for an I.P.O. (Recode) Instacart has raised another $150 million from existing investors like Coatue Management. (Axios) Takeda Pharmaceutical might bid for Shire, its C.E.O., Christophe Weber, told some analysts at a meeting last week. I investors and the media werent invited. (Bloomberg) Steve Jurvetson appears to have founded a new venture capital firm, Future Ventures, after resigning from DFJ after reportedly lying about an unidentified matter. (Recode) Deutsche Banks co-head of investment banking and global head of markets, Garth Ritchie, is reportedly considering leaving. And Matt Zames, formerly JPMorgans chief operating officer, has reportedly been contacted about becoming the German lenders next C.E.O. Skadden named 14 new partners, including in its M.&A., litigation and antitrust practices. (Skadden) WageWorks, a provider of employee-benefits services, replaced its C.E.O., Joseph L. Jackson, C.F.O. and general counsel, and said it needed to restate financial results from the past two years. (WSJ) Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, has been dabbling in the film business and has a credit in Al Pacinos latest movie. (NYT) Target agreed to revise hiring guidelines at its stores, after complaints that it considered old or very minor criminal records in a way that disproportionately affected black and Hispanic applicants. (NYT) I.S.S. and Glass Lewis are recommending that G.E. address accounting issues by firing K.P.M.G., its auditor of 109 years. (WSJ) Solar panels are everywhere, but renewable energy still accounts for barely 12 percent of electricity consumed globally. (NYT) The fashion industry, which employs an overwhelmingly female staff and focuses on female consumers and audiences, reported one of Britains worst gender pay gaps. (NYT) Memories of a long-distant boom have left Japan with a peculiarly potent version of 1980s nostalgia. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.


Eagle-eyed viewers of the HBO film Paterno  a biopic of the disgraced Penn State football coach, starring a slurring, pancake-faced Al Pacino  may spot a surprising name in the credits: Anthony Scaramucci, the worlds most famous former White House communications director.Mr. Scaramucci, it turns out, is a dabbler in the biz.I just gave them the dough, he said during a brief telephone conversation the other day.Officially, he is a co-executive producer of Paterno, having bought the rights to a book about the saga at Pennsylvania State University several years ago with a producing partner, Edward R. Pressman. His involvement with the movie, which will air on Saturday, is not widely known, although Mr. Scaramucci recently tweeted a link to its trailer. His post said: 5 years in the making. Outstanding Film on human nature and our flaws.The Mooch, as he is known, spent 11 days in the Trump White House, before an expletive-filled tirade to a New Yorker reporter prompted his ouster. These days, he makes the cable news rounds, gamely sparring with hosts like CNNs Chris Cuomo, and he appeared with his wife on Dr. Phil to discuss their recent reconciliation.I like Anthony, Mr. Pressman, a veteran film producer, said in an interview. I consider him a friend. And I know hes gone through a lot. From my perspective, hes a good man. Im not a big Trump booster. His interest is purely artistic and business, and politics was not part of our process.At the Paterno premiere on Monday, boldface names like Allison Janney and Jeffrey Wright joined a wolfish-looking Mr. Pacino for a reception at Porter House in Manhattan, where the three-course dinner featured filet mignon and a football-size slice of coconut cake.Absent from the festivities was Mr. Scaramucci. HBO, the home of liberal darlings like Bill Maher and John Oliver, did not confirm whether or not the Mooch had been asked to attend.Anthony Scaramucci has a co-executive producer credit on Paterno based on early financing he brought to the project prior to HBOs involvement, a network spokesman wrote by email.Mr. Scaramucci said Mr. Pressman had invited him to the premiere, but unfortunately, I had a prior engagement in L.A.Paterno is not the first entry on Mr. Scaramuccis cinematic rsum.He was the executive producer of Big Words, a 2013 film about a group of failed rappers in Brooklyn set on the eve of Barack Obamas election. He co-produced The Inevitable Defeat of Mister & Pete, also from 2013 and also about a group of African-American friends in Brooklyn.He met Mr. Pressman during the filming of Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, Oliver Stones 2010 sequel to his 1987 film. The sequel included a walk-on role for Mr. Scaramucci, who spent his pre-political life as a financier.The two men pursued a few projects  at one point negotiating with Jackie Robinsons widow about a biopic of the baseball star  and eventually zeroed in on Joe Posnanskis 2012 biography, Paterno. (The book was used as source material for the HBO film; the journalist Sara Ganim, who won a Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Penn State scandal, was a consultant on the project.)He liked the experience of Wall Street, and he liked the business as a sideline, Mr. Pressman said.The Trump administration no longer employs Mr. Scaramucci, but it retains at least one aspiring movie mogul: Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, who was an executive producer of Mad Max: Fury Road and other major pictures and is married to Louise Linton, a producer and occasional actress.Mr. Scaramucci, who has also invested in a Manhattan restaurant, the Hunt & Fish Club, and the New York Mets, indicated on the phone that Hollywood was unlikely to be his sole focus. Still, he mustered up a bit of the showbiz hard sell.Whatd you think of the movie? he asked. It was great.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Since taking up the cause of public health care last year, Jimmy Kimmel has become a favorite punching bag of the conservative commentators on Fox News.Foxs Sean Hannity dressed Kimmel down on Thursday for making fun of Melania Trumps Slovenian accent in a monologue earlier this week. Hannity unloaded a fusillade of unfriendly terms describing Kimmel, calling him a despicable disgrace and an ass clown.On Thursday night, Kimmel shot back.The quick pace of change in the White House gave Seth Meyers an idea on Thursday: Maybe President Trump would enjoy firing the most powerful man in the world.Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has said that Trump is not the target of a criminal investigation, but not everyones convinced. Meyers showed a series of clips with Fox News commentators warning that Mueller may be trying to trap Trump into testifying.Jimmy Fallon does not have high hopes for Trumps trip to Peru next week for the Summit of the Americas.The weird roommate with the four chickens is the best weird roommate.Jimmy Kimmel asked a second grader to explain trade deficits to Trump.Stephen Colbert, Trevor Noah, Conan OBrien and James Corden will all return on Monday after a week away. Well be back Tuesday morning to talk about it.Lorde brought her international tour to Brooklyn, and the bedeviling moments were in the details. Heres our review.
LOS ANGELES  He talked about the movie business with Michael Douglas, Morgan Freeman and Dwayne Johnson over dinner at Rupert Murdochs house. He discussed space travel with Richard Branson in the California desert, and philanthropy with Bill Gates and technology with Jeff Bezos in Seattle. He visited Harvard and MIT, brokered arms deals with President Trump and sat down with Wall Street financiers. He even met with Oprah Winfrey.For nearly three weeks, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the 32-year-old heir to the Saudi throne, has crisscrossed the United States, on an ambitious, choreographed journey through modern American life, while under heavy guard because of his many enemies in the Middle East.The prince, who arrived in America with a reputation as an aggressive consolidator of power back home and a zealous interventionist abroad, is seeking to change the perception of Saudi Arabia from an opaque and conservative kingdom, where mosques promote extremist ideology and women are relegated to second-class status, to a modernist desert oasis.Prince Mohammed also has sought to attract American investors for industries going well beyond Saudi Arabias Aramco petroleum giant. He is pressing what he has described as a transformative economic agenda, to wean the kingdom from reliance on oil and diversify its economy through public infrastructure investments and development of an entertainment industry  including theme parks along the lines of Six Flags and Disney.I think its brilliant and I will tell you why, said Adam Aron, the chief executive of the movie theater chain AMC, who has met with the prince. The crown prince is aware that Saudi Arabia has had a difficult image in the United States, because its been such a conservative country for so many decades. He wants to transform Saudi society in ways that will be very appealing to Americans.Mr. Aron spoke this week in a reception area of the Four Seasons in Los Angeles, as attendees of a Saudi conference on the entertainment business ate from a spread of Middle Eastern dishes  lamb kebabs, hummus, tabbouleh. They were entertained by an oud player. Officials spoke about plans to open up the country to concerts, jazz festivals and movies, all an attempt, in the words of one Saudi official, to drive happiness in the kingdom, where 70 percent of the population is under 30, and many are glued to their smartphones.Mr. Aron has been a beneficiary of the crown princes economic plan, called Vision 2030. On Wednesday, Mr. Aron and the Saudis announced a deal to open the first movie theater in Saudi Arabia in decades.Black Panther, the Marvel blockbuster, will be the first film shown at the April 18 gala opening in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.Mr. Aron said men and women would be able to attend films together, a revolutionary step in Saudi Arabia, where public space has long been strictly segregated by gender. He said Hollywood films would be censored in the same way they were in other places across the Middle East: sex out, violence in.The trip, in its scale and the range of American luminaries on the itinerary, is an undertaking of extravagant ambition, say analysts. One historical parallel occurred in 1943, when the king of Saudi Arabia sent Prince Faisal, his son, to the United States to meet with President Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II and tour the United States, according to Bruce Riedel, a former C.I.A. official who is now a Saudi expert at the Brookings Institution.Even then, the scope wasnt what you see today, said Mohammed K. Alyahya, a Saudi expert at the Atlantic Council in Washington. This is really across the board. It signals that there is deep cooperation beyond just security for oil.For the longest time the Saudis wouldnt explain themselves, and explain why things were happening in their country, Mr. Alyahya added. That is changing dramatically.The princes American tour followed a similar visit to Britain, where he soaked in the royal treatment and dined with the queen. And as in the United States, local lobbying and public relations firms helped present an image of the prince as an economic and social reformer. In London, ads appeared on billboards and the sides of black cabs: He is bringing change to Saudi Arabia. He is empowering Saudi Arabian women. He is opening Saudi Arabia to the world.For decades, the relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia could be distilled into one proposition: access to oil for the Americans, and a guarantee that the Americans would protect Saudi Arabia from enemies, especially its chief rival, Iran.Prince Mohammeds trip began in Washington, where he met with President Trump and his son-in-law Jared Kushner, who share the princes antipathy for Iran and have deepened relations with the Saudis to counter Irans growing influence in the Middle East.The trip ends this weekend in Texas, where the prince meets with oil executives and two former presidents, George W. Bush and George H.W. Bush.He rose to next in line to assume the throne last year, under his father King Salman, after having helped push aside a cousin as crown prince. And then he locked up some of Saudi Arabias wealthiest and most influential businessmen, including members of the royal family, in the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh in what he described as a crackdown on corruption. The government then seized billions of dollars of their assets, in some cases through physical abuse and intimidation, The New York Times has reported.Prince Mohammed also has been sharply criticized by human rights activists for waging a bombing campaign in Yemen, where thousands of civilians have been killed, and for cracking down on dissent by jailing bloggers. And in playing to an American audience the prince has faced longstanding concerns over the efforts of Saudi Arabian clerics to export extremist Islamist ideology, beliefs that underpin terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State.Part of the princes rebranding of his nation  and his attempt to address the issue of religious extremism for a country that was home to 15 of the 19 hijackers in the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001  is a piece of revisionism, say analysts. The prince has argued, in interviews around his trip, that extremism in Saudi Arabia is traceable to the 1979 revolution in Shiite Iran, whose rivalry with Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia has inflamed sectarian tensions that divide the Middle East.Its really a rewriting of Saudi history, said Karen E. Young, an expert on Saudi Arabia at the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington. Ms. Young said that conservative Muslim strains had always coursed through Saudi society, but that drawing a line between before 1979 and after plays into this rhetoric of the world against Iran.It also plays to the sentiments of the Trump administration, which has taken a tougher line and has threatened to tear up the 2015 deal the Obama administration negotiated to curtail Irans nuclear program.For the most part, human rights concerns have not overshadowed the princes American journey. At the dinner at Mr. Murdochs house, for instance, where guests  but not the prince himself  drank wine from the media moguls vineyard, the prince spoke about empowering women in Saudi Arabia, where they will soon be able to drive for the first time in decades, and movie investments in the kingdom. He was not pressed on human rights issues, said one attendee, who described the evening as informal and the prince as carefully candid.Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles was one of the few Americans who met with Prince Mohammed and in public stressed human rights issues. In a statement, the mayor said he urged the Crown Prince to continue his efforts to advance womens rights, and raised concerns about human rights and the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Yemen.In Los Angeles, Prince Mohammeds visit drew a smattering of protests. Hes coming here under the guise that hes some great reformer and changing the country, said Michelle Modglin, 67, a retired nurse, demonstrating outside the Beverly Hills office of the William Morris Endeavor talent agency, which recently received a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia. But we know thats not true as long as hes bombing Yemen and killing innocent people.Later that evening, hundreds of Saudi students from nearby universities  many of whom receive educational scholarships from the Saudi government  packed a ballroom at the Beverly Hills Hotel for a TED-style event put on by the Misk Foundation, a nonprofit founded by Prince Mohammed. During the Misk Talk, successful Saudi men and women representing technology, entertainment and other industries sought to impart wisdom and inspiration to the young crowd.And on Tuesday night, Misk hosted an art exhibit in an industrial-style event space in the arts district of downtown Los Angeles, where women in miniskirts and leather pants mixed with young Saudi women in head scarves, while young Saudi men who live in Los Angeles worked as volunteer guides to Saudi art.Hala Alzuhayri, a Saudi woman at the University of San Diego who attended the Misk Talk, praised the prince for opening up the economy and said she was pleased about the new prospects for women, even as she worried about the pace of change. But we are a Muslim society, so these kinds of big steps have to take time, she said. You cant just shock society with big steps one after another. Its hard.In the cities on his itinerary, fancy hotels reserved all their room for the royal entourage, displacing other guests and disrupting local businesses because of the heavy security. In New York, a green Saudi flag was raised outside the Plaza Hotel near Central Park, and all the rooms were bought at a cost of millions. In Los Angeles, the princes entourage took over the Four Seasons and the prince stayed at a private mansion. The Saudis also rented the entire Four Seasons in Palo Alto, near the campuses of Google and Facebook, during the princes Silicon Valley stopover. We have had a request from the State Department for a V.I.P. delegation, said James Tattersall, the hotels director of marketing.Parts of the trip seemed to verge on chaos before it even began. Journalists and analysts in Washington who follow the kingdom could not get a precise schedule. There was a last-minute scramble for hundreds of visas for visiting Saudis, according to Bloomberg. In New York one night, the tempo of the Middle East, where meetings often stretch into the dark hours of the night, prevailed. Reporters were called to the Plaza near midnight for an announcement of a $200 billion solar power deal between the Saudis and SoftBank.It was very disorganized, said Ms. Young, of the start of the trip. There was a real lack of coordination.But the operation soon stabilized, with a tightly controlled message managed by the Saudi Embassy in Washington with assistance from American lobbying and public relations firms. Almost daily, news releases were issued about the crown princes dizzying schedule of meetings.It sent a message that this could go very wrong, she said, of the early chaos. But to their credit its gone very well.
Nearly two months after the Boston Marathon bombing, Mike Pompeo, then a congressman from Kansas, took to the floor of the House to denounce American Muslim leaders for what he called their silence in response to the heinous terrorist attack.Silence has made these Islamic leaders across America potentially complicit in these acts, Mr. Pompeo said, reading from prepared remarks.In fact, more than half a dozen American Muslim organizations had issued statements condemning the bombing within hours of the attack. In the days following, Muslim groups organized news conferences, blood drives and prayer vigils. Mr. Pompeo was immediately informed that he was wrong, but did not apologize or respond to Muslim groups stung by his remarks.Mr. Pompeo, now the C.I.A. director, has been chosen by President Trump to replace Rex Tillerson as secretary of state. He faces what is expected to be a relatively smooth confirmation hearing in the Senate. But an array of voices are raising alarm over what they say is Mr. Pompeos record of anti-Muslim remarks and ties to anti-Islam groups. American Muslims, Jews, civil rights groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and former State Department officials are among those pushing senators on the Foreign Relations Committee to take a closer look.My concern is that Mr. Pompeo has left a trail of horrific, inaccurate, bigoted statements and associations vis--vis Muslims around the world, said Shaun Casey, former director of the State Departments office of religion and global affairs under the Obama administration. Mr. Casey questioned whether Mr. Pompeo, with such a record, could be a credible representative for the dozens of Muslim-majority countries he would have to conduct diplomacy with.Islamic and Jewish groups have raised similar concerns about John R. Bolton, Mr. Trumps choice for national security adviser and a former ambassador to the United Nations.Mr. Bolton and Mr. Pompeo both have ties to individuals and groups promoting a worldview that regards Islam not so much as a religion, but as a political ideology that is infiltrating the United States and other Western countries with the goal of imposing Shariah law, the Muslim legal code. These groups believe that the vehicle for this takeover is the Muslim Brotherhood, and they allege that American mosques, civic organizations and leaders and even government officials who are Muslims are suspected of being Muslim Brotherhood operatives.Mr. Pompeo as a congressman arranged a briefing for one such group called Act for America, or ACT, on Capitol Hill and accepted the groups National Security Eagle Award in 2016, according to the groups website. Local ACT chapters have protested the construction of mosques, as well as school textbooks that include information about Islam, and have promoted anti-Shariah bills in state legislatures. The founder of ACT, Brigitte Gabriel, has written that the purest form of Islam is behind the terrorist attacks: Its not radical Islam. Its what Islam is at its core.Mr. Bolton is chairman of the Gatestone Institute, a think tank that regularly features articles on its website promoting the notion that pliant European countries, especially Britain, are submitting to Islamization by hostile Muslim migrants.The C.I.A., on behalf of its director, said in a statement that Mr. Pompeo has worked extensively and successfully to expand C.I.A.s partnerships with countries throughout the Muslim world. The agency said that in doing so, he had saved countless Muslim lives and added security to the Muslim peoples of those nations.When Mr. Pompeo was  asked in his confirmation hearing for C.I.A. director last January whether he would discriminate against Muslims, given his past statements, Mr. Pompeo responded that he believed in having a diverse work force at the C.I.A. and in cooperating with Muslim countries that provide intelligence to the United States.Mr. Bolton, through a spokesman, declined a request for an interview.At times, Mr. Bolton has seemed to express more nuanced views. In an interview with Herald Radio in 2015, Mr. Bolton said that the proposal by Mr. Trump, at the time a candidate, to ban all Muslims coming into the United States was certainly completely wrong.Thats just not consistent with our views about America and how we should operate. I think hes playing on the frustration and the fear that we see out in the country, Mr. Bolton said. Our problem is the radicals, the terrorists. Its not an entire religion. I think we absolutely have to make that clear. Not because I care about what the rest of the world thinks, but because I care what we think about ourselves.Both Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Bolton have appeared frequently on the radio show of Frank Gaffney Jr., the president and founder of the Center for Security Policy, a think tank that argues that mosques and Muslims across America are engaged in a stealth jihad to Islamize the country by taking advantage of American pluralism and democracy.Mr. Bolton has occasionally nodded along to some of Mr. Gaffneys falsehoods. When Huma Abedin, an American Muslim who was a close aide to Hillary Clinton, was wrongly accused of being a secret member of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mr. Bolton told Mr. Gaffneys radio show that he did not see any problem with raising the question, even though a host of senators had denounced it.On another show in 2015, Mr. Gaffney said that President Barack Obama displayed kind of an affinity for, if not the violent beheading and crucifixions and slaying of Christians and all that, but at least for the cause for which these guys are engaged in such activities.Mr. Pompeo agreed, saying, Frank, every place you stare at the presidents policies and statements, you see what you just described.Mr. Gaffney went on to ask Mr. Pompeo whether he had concerns about Representative Andr Carson, a Democrat of Indiana who is Muslim, and who served on the House Intelligence Committee. Mr. Carson has deep personal ties to Muslim Brotherhood operatives and organizations, Mr. Gaffney asserted, an accusation that is unfounded.Mr. Pompeo sidestepped the question about his colleague, but said, There are organizations and networks here in the United States tied to radical Islam in deep and fundamental ways.He warned: The efforts to expand the caliphate are not limited to the physical geography of the Middle East or other places where there are large Muslim majorities.The idea that American Muslims are a subversive fifth column is rejected by mainstream experts. Muslims make up less than 1 percent of the American population and many of those who are immigrants came to the United States to escape authoritarian Muslim countries; imposing Shariah law is not on their agenda. American Muslim leaders have denounced the Islamic State, which has threatened them with death.Wael N. Alzayat, who was a Middle East expert at the State Department and senior policy adviser to Samantha Power, the former United Nations ambassador, said of Mr. Pompeos comments, Imagine if this stuff had been said about Jews, or African-Americans or Chinese-Americans. And yet, were living with an administration that is actually rewarding people with racist views or racist associations with some of the highest positions in our government.Mr. Bolton, a fierce critic of Mr. Obama, wrote the foreword to a 2013 book by Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer, The Post-American Presidency: The Obama Administrations War on America. Ms. Geller has said that the only moderate Muslims are secular Muslims, and that allowing Muslims to pray in public schools or workplaces would lead to the mosque-ing of America. She led the fight against a mosque near the site of the World Trade Center.Six liberal Jewish organizations last week issued a statement warning that the appointment of Mr. Bolton was dangerous. Among their objections: This willingness to support anti-Muslim bigotry violates fundamental Jewish and democratic values of tolerance, equality and respect.As national security adviser, Mr. Bolton does not need to be confirmed by the Senate.Many analysts predicted that Mr. Bolton and Mr. Pompeo would push to have the State Department declare the Muslim Brotherhood to be a foreign terrorist organization. The designation would mean that any individuals or organizations accused of association could be subject to investigations, seizure of assets, and other legal actions.As a congressman, Mr. Pompeo co-sponsored legislation to designate the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization. When he became the C.I.A. director, analysts at the agency warned that such a designation would be ill-advised, Politico reported. But there was still enthusiasm for such action. Mr. Bolton said on Mr. Gaffneys radio program last July, Why doesnt the United States get on with the business of declaring the Muslim Brotherhood a foreign terrorist organization?Arsalan Suleman, the acting special envoy to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation during the Obama administration, said that designating the Muslim Brotherhood a foreign terrorist association would be misguided, because the group had morphed into different forms in various countries. In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood was outlawed by President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi after he took power from a Muslim Brotherhood-affiliated president. In Jordan, the group still participates in electoral politics.American Muslim leaders and policy analysts say that such a move could be used to target Muslim groups and nonprofits  even those that work to protect civil rights and the victims of hate crimes. Anti-Islam groups like ACT for America and the Center for Security Policy characterize many of the largest American Muslim organizations as fronts for the Muslim Brotherhood. But most mainstream experts on American Muslims say that any such connections are so tenuous or old as to be irrelevant, and that the effort to classify them as terrorist affiliates amounts to modern-day McCarthyism.This is just another way of demonizing a broad swath of American Muslims, said Faiza Patel, co-director of the Liberty and National Security Program of the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law.
CHICAGO  Jerome H. Powell used his inaugural speech as Federal Reserve chairman on Friday to highlight the strength of the United States economic recovery, and told a questioner that a potential trade war would have no immediate effect on the Feds plans to continue gradually raising interest rates this year.Mr. Powell, in a speech before the Economic Club of Chicago, said the economy continued to experience tailwinds. Referring to the Feds policymaking body, he added that the labor market has been strong, and my colleagues and I on the Federal Open Market Committee expect it to remain strong.Later, in a question-and-answer session with Mellody Hobson, who heads the economic club, he said it was too early to say how tariffs imposed by the United States and China might affect growth and inflation.The discussion about tariffs is at a relatively early stage, and we talked about this at the F.O.M.C. meeting a couple of weeks ago now, Mr. Powell said. And people really dont see yet any implications in the near term for the outlook, because we dont know the extent to which the tariffs will actually come into effect and, if so, how big will that effect be and what will the timing of it be.Mr. Powell also said, in the question session, that he saw little evidence that regulations were holding back the performance of American banks, or that immigration levels were weighing on wage growth in the United States.In his speech, Mr. Powell said the Fed saw other signs of economic strength in the United States, citing steady income gains, rising household wealth and elevated consumer confidence, which he said would continue to support consumer spending.Business investment improved markedly last year following two subpar years, and both business surveys and profit expectations point to further gains ahead, he said. The recently enacted tax cuts and spending increases are helping to lift investment, Mr. Powell said, adding that strong global growth has boosted U.S. exports.Mr. Powells remarks made no mention of President Trumps series of trade measures against China, including a directive late Thursday that the United States trade representative consider tariffs on an additional $100 billion of imported Chinese products.Mr. Powell only glancingly addressed the March employment report, released Friday by the Labor Department, which showed job growth slowing significantly from January and February and the unemployment rate holding steady at 4.1 percent. The labor market added 103,000 jobs in March  though the monthly average for the year remains above 200,000  and showed wage growth ticking up slightly.Mr. Powell ticked off several indicators that support the idea that the economy is running near so-called maximum employment, which economists generally consider to be the lowest unemployment rate that does not spur rapid inflation. But he said other indicators, such as labor-force participation that remains depressed by historical standards, suggest that the economy has not yet reached that point. He particularly noted still-lagging wage growth. I will be looking for an additional pickup in wage growth as the labor market strengthens further, he said.Fed officials raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point at their most recent meeting, in March, to a range of 1.5 percent to 1.75 percent. Officials indicated that they considered the economy and labor market to be healthy, and that they expected to raise rates twice more this year and three times in 2019.Mr. Powell, like his predecessor, Janet L. Yellen, cast that gradual series of increases as a carefully planned strategy to ensure that the Fed will not need to raise rates abruptly in the event of a steep rise in inflation. The F.O.M.C.s patient approach has paid dividends and contributed to the strong economy we have today, he said.He closed his prepared remarks by cautioning that events could force the central bank to change course. Our views about appropriate monetary policy in the months and years ahead will be informed by incoming economic data and the evolving outlook, Mr. Powell said. If the outlook changes, so will monetary policy. Our overarching objective will remain the same: fostering a strong economy for all Americans  one that provides plentiful jobs and low and stable inflation.Analysts said Friday that they did not see anything in the latest jobs report that would cause the Fed to deviate from its current path.The Fed will look beyond these temporary disruptions, said Beth Ann Bovino, chief United States economist at S & P Global Ratings.Analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Friday that other factors, including subdued inflation data and rising geopolitical risks, could cause Mr. Powell to sound more cautious in his outlook.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump will host French President Emmanuel Macron at a private dinner at Mount Vernon as part of a state visit later this month.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Friday that Trump and first lady Melania Trump would dine with Macron and his wife on the first night of their visit in late April.Sanders said the home of President George Washington served as a "beautiful reminder of France\'s unique status as America\'s very first ally going all the way back to the revolution."Macron is making the first state visit of Trump\'s presidency. He will be welcomed with a South Lawn arrival ceremony and a state dinner.
BANGKOK  A Belarusian escort jailed in Thailand who claims to have evidence of Russian meddling in United States elections faces new criminal charges of solicitation and conspiracy, the police said on Friday.The escort, Anastasia Vashukevich, who says she had a brief affair with the powerful Russian aluminum tycoon Oleg V. Deripaska, was arrested in February with nine others at a sex training seminar in Pattaya, south of Bangkok. Most had been charged with working without a permit and were awaiting deportation.The Pattaya police chief, Col. Apichai Krobpetch, said Friday that all 10 have now been charged with soliciting prostitution and conspiracy. He declined to provide details about the charges or to say who brought the case to the police.Ms. Vashukevich, 27, who also goes by the name Nastya Rybka, gained notoriety in Russia after she joined a yacht trip with Mr. Deripaska in August 2016 as an escort and posted photos of the two of them together.She also posted an audio recording of Mr. Deripaska discussing Russian-American relations with a deputy prime minister, Sergei E. Prikhodko. Both men are close to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.Mr. Deripaska also had close ties with Paul Manafort, who managed Donald Trumps presidential campaign for five months. Mr. Manafort, who has been indicted on money laundering charges by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, owed millions of dollars to Mr. Deripaska and offered to give him private briefings on the presidential campaign.Ms. Vashukevich said after her arrest that she had additional audio recordings of visitors to the yacht, including some who spoke English and talked about the United States elections. She called herself the missing link in the Russia investigation. The group has asked for asylum in exchange for the recordings.Alexander Kirillov, 38, whom Ms. Vashukevich describes as her seduction coach and who also was arrested at the seminar, has accused the Russian government of staging a covert operation in Thailand in an attempt to silence them.The two are being held largely incommunicado at a Bangkok detention center.Arrest reports and police cellphone messages show that the police were working with a foreign spy who went to the one-week seminar and told the police when the time was right to raid the meeting.It was unclear whether the solicitation charge was connected to the seminar or to an incident that occurred outside the sessions. Several people who attended the workshop described it as relatively tame, with lectures on the art of seduction aimed at male Russian tourists.Friends of the 10 accused say that two of them were deported to Russia before the new charges were filed. Colonel Apichai declined to say whether that was the case.
SAN FRANCISCO  For months, Facebooks critics  ranging from Silicon Valley executives to Washington politicians  have been urging the company to do a better job of identifying who is buying political ads and creating pages about hot-button topics on its social media sites.On Friday, just days before its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is expected to testify before Congress, Facebook said it had started forcing people who want to buy political or issue ads to reveal their identities and verify where they are.Mr. Zuckerberg announced the move in a post on Facebook. He said this verification was meant to prevent foreign interference in elections, like the ads and posts from so-called Russian trolls before and after the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Zuckerberg added that he supported a  Senate bill, the Honest Ads Act, that would bring political advertising on the internet more in line with what is required on broadcast television. One of the sponsors of the bill, which has some bipartisan support but is still in the committee stage, said that statement was a reversal from what Facebook had earlier indicated.In the coming months, Facebook will start verifying the identity and location of people who run pages  which everyone from sports teams and celebrities to partisan groups use to promote information  that have large followings, Mr. Zuckerberg said. The company would not specifically say what would make it ask a pages creator for an identity, though it said the number of followers would be one factor.Facebook will also soon start clearly labeling political ads and providing more information about them, like who paid for them.Facebook is under increasing pressure to crack down on misinformation before this falls hotly contested midterm elections. And scrutiny of social media has become even more intense since the Justice Department charged 13 Russians and three companies in a February indictment that revealed a sophisticated network designed to subvert the 2016 election and to support the Trump campaign.Facebook recently removed 270 accounts associated with Russias Internet Research Agency, the troll factory that spread misinformation before and after the 2016 election.These steps by themselves wont stop all people trying to game the system, Mr. Zuckerberg said in his post. But they will make it a lot harder for anyone to do what the Russians did during the 2016 election and use fake accounts and pages to run ads.The new policy for Facebook and for Instagram, which Facebook owns, covers only a part of what appears on those social media outlets. Most regular pages and accounts will still not require verification.Many of the deliberately misleading or outright false news stories on Facebook are shared among regular users, and they often come from residents of the United States. The company generally doesnt regulate the content of posts, including their veracity, unless they violate its community standards, which prohibit bullying, pornography and threats, among other things.Facebooks algorithms also tend to magnify the visibility of sensationalist posts because they tend to draw more clicks, reactions and comments.Effective immediately, people who want to run Facebook ads regarding political candidates or issues in the United States need to submit proof of a government-issued identification. They also have to have a mailing address in the United States, though some people think it would be easy for foreign agents to set up one.Facebook will mail a unique code for the advertiser to enter for verification, Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook, said. Advertisers will also have to disclose what candidate, organization or business they represent, he said in an email.The program will be rolled out to the rest of the world in the coming months, the company said.Were committed to getting this done in time for the critical months before the 2018 elections, Mr. Zuckerberg said in his post.Initially, Mr. Zuckerberg scoffed at the idea that misinformation on Facebook could have played a role in the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. But starting last fall, the company was faced with  and eventually acknowledged  a series of revelations that Russian agents bought ads or spread misinformation on its social media outlets.Facebook said that between 2015 and 2017, 11.4 million Americans saw ads from the Internet Research Agency and more than 126 million users were likely to have seen the unpaid posts from the groups Facebook pages.Law enforcement officials say Russian agents, looking to stir discord, posed as Americans with Facebook pages that represented a range of political viewpoints, from Blacktivist to Heart of Texas.The misinformation issue affected many of the companys more than two billion users around the world. Just a day before Facebook announced its ad changes, civil society groups in Myanmar criticized Mr. Zuckerberg, arguing that he had mischaracterized his companys effectiveness at detecting and quashing messages encouraging violence in the country.Facebooks acknowledgment of its problems has accelerated in recent weeks, after revelations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked with the Trump campaign, had improperly harvested the data of up to 87 million Facebook users.Mr. Zuckerberg is set to testify before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary Committees on Tuesday and the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.He and Facebooks chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, have gone on a charm offensive ahead of the hearings. Mr. Zuckerberg spent an hour taking questions from reporters on Wednesday, and Ms. Sandberg has sat for a series of broadcast interviews this week. Both executives signaled that they knew the company had a problem that would not be easily fixed.Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook would hire more people for the verifications, but did not say how many. Rob Goldman, Facebooks vice president of advertising, and Alex Himel, its vice president of local business, said in a separate post that the company would also rely on software to help find advertisers that should have gone through the authorizations process but did not.They added that Facebook was also hoping its users would report political ads that didnt have proper disclosures.Facebook will also begin adding political ad labels to such posts and will allow users to see who was behind political ads, the basic demographic information about who saw those ads and other ads run by those people, Mr. Goldman and Mr. Himel said. Facebook began testing its verifications over the past several days, and people will begin seeing the label and additional information in the U.S. later this spring, they said.Testing of the political ad disclosures has already begun in Canada and will roll out globally this summer, the company said.The policy builds on an announcement in October that Facebook would start verifying advertisers running election-related ads. Critics said that would not capture many of the ads run by Russian agents around the 2016 election, which focused on issues rather than specific elections. One Internet Research Agency ad, for example, featured a Confederate flag and said, The South will rise again!Facebooks move on Friday would address those issue ads. Most of the Russian ads focused on divisive political issues like guns, L.G.B.T. rights, immigration and racial issues, Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said in a statement.Thats why todays announcement by Facebook is so important, he added.Facebook hadnt always been on board with such disclosures. In October, Mr. Warner co-sponsored the Honest Ads Act, which would require tech companies to disclose who is behind political ads on their sites. Facebook told congressional aides that it would struggle to comply with the legislation because it often struggled to understand whether an ad was political or commercial, and that the sheer number of Facebook ads also complicated that task.Rachel Cohen, a spokeswoman for Mr. Warner, said on Friday that his office had met with Facebook officials regarding the bill several times and that they hadnt supported it.Another co-sponsor of the bill, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, applauded Facebook on Friday for voluntarily complying with the bills proposals, but added in a statement that a patchwork of voluntary measures from tech companies isnt going to cut it.Facebooks political-ad disclosures would in some ways do more than what is expected of television networks because the company would allow users to see all of the ads run by a group, said Travis Ridout, a Washington State University professor and co-director of the Wesleyan Media Project, which tracks political advertising.Still, Facebooks verification plans dont seem foolproof, Mr. Ridout said. Its certainly a great step to take and helps to solve the problem of foreign influence, he said. But I would not be surprised if people get creative and find ways around those requirements.
LATROBE, Pa.   A woman is claiming in a lawsuit that a house that was turned into a shrine to then-presidential candidate Donald Trump played a part in a car accident in which she was severely injured.The suit by Kelly Roadman contends the shrine acted as a distraction when another driver struck her car in October 2016.The home in Unity Township, Pennsylvania, that became known as the "Trump House" was painted like an American flag, with a 12-foot-high waving Trump cutout out front.The Tribune-Review reports that Roadman\'s car was struck when a driver tried to turn left to view the display. She is seeking more than $30,000 in damages.The property owner could not be reached for comment.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump signed a memorandum on Friday ordering the end of a policy, known as "catch and release," in which illegal immigrants are released from detention while awaiting a court hearing on their status.As part of the memo, Trump asked Defense Secretary Jim Mattis to produce a list of military facilities that could be used to detain illegal immigrants.(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Trump and his Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt (all times local):4:30 p.m.Embattled Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt has met with President Donald Trump to lay out his case for why he should remain in his post.Pruitt visited the White House on Friday to discuss his agency\'s recent steps to roll back Obama-era fuel efficiency standards for cars.But according to two administration officials, he also fought for his job in his meeting with the president.While White House aides are increasingly fed up with Pruitt, and chief of staff John Kelly has advocated firing him, Trump remains less certain.Pruitt is one of the most effective members of Trump\'s Cabinet in undermining his predecessor\'s regulatory agenda, and Trump enjoys his hard-charging style.The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive internal discussions.___3:05 p.m.The White House is conducting a review of ethical questions surrounding Scott Pruitt, the head of Environmental Protection Agency.But press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Friday the president believes Pruitt has "done a good job at ... carrying out the goals of the EPA."A senior White House official adds that Trump was unwilling to fire Pruitt, though Pruitt has lost support of many in the West Wing. The official was not authorized to discuss personnel matters and spoke on condition of anonymity.Pruitt has come under scrutiny for the cheap rental rate he received on a condo connected to a fossil fuels industry lobbyist as well as his travel and big raises for two aides.But Pruitt has support from a number of influential conservatives lobbying Trump to keep him on.By Jonathan Lemire___1:54 p.m.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi says the president\'s Environmental Protection Agency administrator must go.Pelosi says Scott Pruitt\'s tenure has been "part of the Trump administration\'s culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence." The top Democrat says in a statement, "Pruitt must resign."Pruitt is under fire for, among other things, news that he was living in a Capitol Hill condo owned by the wife of a lobbyist for the fossil fuel industry, and the big pay hikes that two top aides were given. He has denied knowing about the pay raises and says he did nothing wrong.President Donald Trump told reporters Thursday he has faith in Pruitt but is reviewing the situation. Administration aides say it\'s unclear how long Pruitt can stay on the job.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump plans to skip the White House Correspondents\' Association dinner, marking the second year he has shunned the glitzy gathering of Washington journalists he routinely assails as "fake news."White House Correspondents\' Association president Margaret Talev said in statement Friday that the "White House has informed us that the president does not plan to participate in this year\'s dinner but that he will actively encourage members of the executive branch to attend."Trump had said he "probably won\'t do it" in an interview on the "Bernie and Sid" radio show on 77 WABC Radio taped Thursday and aired Friday. Calling the media "so bad" and "so fake," Trump said: "I want to get it straightened out with the press before I do it."But the president, who has long had an adversarial relationship with the news media, did not elaborate on how he planned to do so. Since his campaign, he has ceaselessly blasted the "fake media" and "dishonest" reporters, singling out specific journalists and news outlets for criticism. He also has avoided holding a traditional news conference for over a year, though he often answers shouted questions from reporters.True to form, Trump tweeted Friday: "So much of the media is dishonest and corrupt!Traditionally, the president and first lady attend the annual dinner, a fundraiser for college scholarships and a venue for reporting awards, which mixes politicians, journalists and celebrities. The televised event requires the president to smile through remarks by a comedian  who typically roasts the president  as well as deliver a humorous address, teasing the press and political opponents.Though notoriously thin-skinned, Trump has subjected himself to ribbing before, including New York\'s Al Smith dinner during the 2016 campaign. But the correspondents\' dinner would return him to the site of past humiliation: Trump attended in 2011 and was relentlessly mocked by President Barack Obama and comedian Seth Meyers.He skipped it in 2016, which came amid the presidential campaign and was the last of the dinners at which Obama was the honored guest. That didn\'t mean Trump wasn\'t the butt of jokes. At one point Obama told guests that Trump "has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world  Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan."This year, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders will attend the April 28 dinner and represent the administration at the head table. Cabinet members and staffers are also free to attend, a message that was welcomed by West Wing aides who were forced to sit out the celebrations last year.Trump did attend the annual Gridiron Club Dinner earlier this year, delivering a speech at the annual white-tie affair featuring journalists and officials. At that event, Trump offered a series of good natured one-liners in his remarks.Among his quips: "I was very excited to receive this invitation and ruin your evening in person. That\'s why I accepted."But he drew a more mixed response at the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner that benefits needy kids, also attended by Trump\'s Democratic presidential rival, Hillary Clinton.Trump began innocently enough. He joked that Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., used to love Trump when he was a Democrat. He poked fun at plagiarism involving the first lady. But Trump\'s remarks soon devolved into bitterness and insults, with the soon-to-be-president earning boos as he accused Clinton of corruption and hating Catholics.
The director Steven Soderbergh summed it up in a tweet on Thursday night, calling the latest episode of the FX show Atlanta the most beautifully photographed half hour of TV Ive ever seen. In addition to being COMPLETELY BANANAS.Another bottle episode in a show made up almost entirely of narrative detours, the sixth chapter of the shows second season, titled Teddy Perkins, was written by Donald Glover, the shows creator and star, and directed by its visual mastermind, Hiro Murai. It centers on Darius (Lakeith Stanfield), who had thus far been mostly relegated to eccentric-sidekick status, as he rents a U-Haul to pick up what we come to learn is a free piano (with multicolored keys) from a dimly lit Southern mansion.A horror movie in miniature, eerie and tense throughout, Teddy Perkins reveals itself slowly as a musing on generational trauma and artistic genius, heavy on allusions  and eventually, explicit references  to Michael Jackson. But while the King of Pop is most fully embodied through the character of Theodore Perkins, Dariuss diminutive and creepy host, whose bleached skin and distinctively molded face could be a nod to no one else, Jackson is far from the only cultural touchstone driving the episode to its violent conclusion.Below is a (surely incomplete) list of the other Easter eggs, obvious and not, scattered throughout the episode.For a show  and episode  about music, Teddy Perkins is most effective, tonally, with silence. But the episode is book ended by two songs, both from Stevie Wonder, beginning with Sweet Little Girl, the side-one closer from his 1972 album Music of My Mind.Upon arriving at Perkinss mansion, Darius initially bonds with his bizarre host over their shared love of the album. But later, after all variety of increasingly menacing behavior by Perkins, he and Darius disagree about the source of the musics spiritual might. Debating the necessity of the abuse Perkins and his brother, the ailing pianist Benny Hope, suffered at the hands of their hard-driving father, Perkins says: Stevie had his own sacrifices. He was blind. Darius counters: Yeah, but he wasnt blinded. He saw through his music, to which Perkins says: Thats beautiful. But wrong.As the scene turns bloody, Music of My Mind returns in the form of the side-two closer, Evil, with Mr. Wonder singing, Evil, why have you engulfed so many hearts/evil/evil, why have you destroyed so many minds.Also name-dropped in the episode are these titans of black music, who serve to cement the bona fides of Benny Hope, the fictional charge and onetime virtuoso who looms over the entirety of Teddy Perkins. Allegedly friends and collaborators of Hope and his brother, these stars of jazz and R&B are referenced or seen in vintage photographs, including one that seems to have been altered from an actual photo of a young Michael Jackson. (Another features Bill Clinton.)In one of the episodes carefully deployed comic-relief moments, Perkins also plays a voice recording reminding himself to finish that hat for Dionne Warwick, bizarre headgear being another recurring motif in the episode. (Earlier, Darius, frustrated by a Confederate flag cap reading Southern Made, buys it and uses a red marker to make it read U Mad.)In another back and forth about the merits of certain music, Perkins and Darius spar over the validity of rap, with Darius offering that sometimes people just want to have a good time. Perkins contends that the genre never quite grew out of its adolescence, adding, Dont you find it insufficient as an art form? Darius shoots back: We got Jay-Z  hes like 65, a rare light moment in this episode where it feels O.K. to exhale.When Darius calls his friends to alert them to his peculiar situation  before laying eyes on the reclusive Benny Hope himself  he posits that Perkins and his brother are one in the same. I think Benny created Teddy to make up for the fact that he made himself look like a ghoul, he says, before offering a topical example: He looks like somebody left Sammy Sosa in the dryer.Since his retirement, Mr. Sosa, the former Chicago Cubs slugger, has become an object of derision online as his skin has appeared lighter and lighter. (Mr. Sosa has said he uses a bleaching cream, but insisted, I dont think I look like Michael Jackson.) After Googling Sammy Sosa hat  go ahead, try it  Dariuss friends participate in a mini-roasting session that will ring familiar to anyone whos read a tweet about Sammy Sosa in recent years.As for Perkinss own apparent skin-bleaching, many viewers have guessed that the character is played by Donald Glover himself in whiteface  and, despite his Jackson-like high-pitched voice, the vocal patterns do match  although the end credits list, in a final punch line, Teddy Perkins as himself.Darius is right to worry that Perkins seems like he wanna keep me here, as he relays in his phone call. It also happens that Lakeith Stanfield, who plays Darius, played a similarly captive role in the similarly unsettling, race-oriented horror film Get Out. When Perkins snaps a Polaroid of Darius entering the peculiar gift shop he has dedicated to his brother, Darius says, Im not a big photo person, recalling his brainwashed character Logan King in Jordan Peeles Get Out.The stack of books lingering near Dariuss head during a crucial moment was probably not arranged haphazardly, given the attention to visual detail throughout Atlanta, and especially this episode. Among a pile that also includes Joseph E. Stiglitzs The Great Divide: Unequal Societies and What We Can Do About Them are a few books by Stuart Woods, a novelist from Georgia who happens to have created a recurring villain named Teddy.In the scene that cracks open this often-befuddling episode, Perkins, who aims to turn he and his brothers mansion into a museum, shows Darius a faceless mannequin in a suit  a stand-in for the father that drove the siblings to musical greatness. He wanted the best out of us, Perkins explains, stating plainly that there would be physical punishment if they failed.Dad used to beat you to be good at piano? Darius asks. Perkins responds: To be good at life, adding, To make an omelet, you have to break a few eggs. (This metaphor is particularly rich given the earlier, ominous scene of Perkins picking at an oozing soft-boiled ostrich egg.) He goes on to say that he wants the museum dedicated not only to his father, but also to Marvin Gaye Sr., Tiger Woodss father, Serena Williamss father and the father who drops Emilio Estevez off in The Breakfast Club.While Darius contends later that not all great things come from great pain  sometimes its love, Perkins has a catchall retort in defense of his own suffering and what it wrought: Most people wouldnt understand.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to back up his claim."China, which is a great economic power, is considered a Developing Nation within the World Trade Organization. They therefore get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.," Trump wrote on Twitter.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to back up his claim."China, which is a great economic power, is considered a Developing Nation within the World Trade Organization. They therefore get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.," Trump wrote on Twitter.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don\'t call it a "timeline."Wary of charges of hypocrisy for publicly telegraphing military strategy after criticizing former President Barack Obama for the same thing, the White House has ordered Trump\'s national security team not to speak of a "timeline" for withdrawal. That\'s even after Trump made it clear to his top aides this week that he wants the pullout completed within five or six months.It wasn\'t the result top national security aides wanted. Trump\'s desire for a rapid withdrawal faced unanimous opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence community, all of which argued that keeping the 2,000 U.S. soldiers currently in Syria is key to ensuring the Islamic State does not reconstitute itself.But as they huddled in the Situation Room, the president was vocal and vehement in insisting that the withdrawal be completed quickly if not immediately, according to five administration officials briefed on Tuesday\'s White House meeting of Trump and his top aides. The officials weren\'t authorized to discuss internal deliberations and requested anonymity.If those aides failed in obtaining their desired outcome, it may have been because a strategy that\'s worked in the past  giving Trump an offer he can\'t refuse  appears to have backfired.Rather than offer Trump a menu of pullout plans, with varying timelines and options for withdrawing step-by-step, the team sought to frame it as a binary choice: Stay in Syria to ensure the Islamic State can\'t regroup, or pull out completely. Documents presented to the president included several pages of possibilities for staying in, but only a brief description of an option for full withdrawal that emphasized significant risks and downsides, including the likelihood that Iran and Russia would take advantage of a U.S. vacuum.Ultimately, Trump chose that option anyway.The president had opened the meeting with a tirade about U.S. intervention in Syria and the Middle East more broadly, repeating lines from public speeches in which he\'s denounced previous administrations for "wasting" $7 trillion in the region over the past 17 years.What has the U.S. gotten for the money and American lives expended in Syria? "Nothing," Trump said over and over, according to the officials.The intensity of Trump\'s tone and demeanor raised eyebrows and unease among the top brass gathered to hash out a Syria plan with Trump, officials said: Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary James Mattis, CIA chief Mike Pompeo and acting Secretary of State John Sullivan.At one point, Dunford spoke up, one official said, telling Trump that his approach was not productive and asked him to give the group specific instructions as to what he wanted.Trump\'s response was to demand an immediate withdrawal of all American troops and an end to all U.S. civilian stabilization programs designed to restore basic infrastructure to war-shattered Syrian communities.Mattis countered, arguing that an immediate withdrawal could be catastrophic and was logistically impossible to pull off in any responsible way, without risking the return of the Islamic State and other terrorist groups in newly liberated territories, the officials said. Mattis floated a one-year withdrawal as an alternative.Trump then relented  but only slightly, telling his aides they could have five or six months to complete the mission to destroy the Islamic State and then get out, according to the officials. Trump also indicated that he did not want to hear in October that the military had been unable to fully defeat the Islamic State and had to remain in Syria for longer.The president had spoken. But what to say about it publicly?In a brief and vague statement released the day after the meeting, the White House said the U.S. role in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" and emphasized that the U.S. was counting on other countries and the U.N. to deal with Syria\'s future. But it offered no specificity as to the timing of a U.S. withdrawal."The president has actually been very good in not giving us a specific timeline," Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Staff, said Thursday. "We\'ve always thought that as we reach finale against ISIS in Syria, we\'re going to adjust the level of our presence there. So in that sense, nothing has actually changed."Pentagon officials stressed that no formal order had been handed down to the military to alter course or start a withdrawal. Nonetheless, the officials said Trump was clear in his intent.For Trump, any notion of a "timeline" comes with significant political risk. After all, he had regularly bashed Obama on the campaign trail for forecasting his military moves in advance. In fact, Trump was so critical of Obama for putting an arbitrary deadline on the 2011 Iraq withdrawal that he dubbed Obama "the founder of ISIS," arguing that Obama had signaled to al-Qaida sympathizers in Iraq that they need only wait the U.S. out.And Trump\'s whole strategy for dealing with Afghanistan, for example, is based on the idea that the U.S. presence should be "conditions-based" and not time-based."I\'m not like other administrations, where they say we\'re going to do this in four weeks and that. It doesn\'t work that way," Trump said last year, shortly after becoming president.___Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump, who has feuded with several media personalities and organizations, will not attend the White House Correspondents\' Association annual black-tie dinner for the second straight year, the president of the group said on Friday.Last year, Trump was the first U.S. president to skip the event in 36 years. Most officials in his administration also snubbed the dinner."The White House has informed us that the president does not plan to participate in this year\'s dinner but that he will actively encourage members of the executive branch to attend and join us as we celebrate the First Amendment," Margaret Talev, the president of the White House Correspondents\' Association, said.The First Amendment is the section of the U.S. Constitution that mentions freedom of the press.Talev, a correspondent for Bloomberg, said White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders would represent the Trump administration at the April 28 dinner.Trump had said in an interview aired on Friday on New York radio station 77 WABC that he probably would not attend the dinner, which normally features big names from the worlds of politics and entertainment as guests of media organizations.Trump had attended the dinner before becoming president, notably in 2011, when former U.S. President Barack Obama publicly ribbed Trump about questioning whether Obama was born in the United States. Obama was born in Hawaii.But in 2017, Trump, who frequently complains about media coverage of his administration, said he would sit out the event, adding that reporters had treated him unfairly. He said at the time that he would "absolutely" attend this year.Reporters for The New York Times and CNN, along with news website Politico and Reuters, were granted awards by the White House Correspondents\' Association this year.(Reporting by Doina Chiacu and Roberta Rampton; Writing by Makini Brice; Editing by Bill Trott)
ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE   In his first public comments about Stormy Daniels, President Donald Trump said he didn\'t know about the $130,000 payment his personal attorney had made to the porn actress who alleges she had an affair with him.He also said he didn\'t know why his longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen, had made the payment and didn\'t know where Cohen had gotten the money."You\'ll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael is my attorney. You\'ll have to ask Michael," he said Thursday aboard Air Force One while returning from West Virginia for an event on the new tax overhaul law.Until now, Trump had avoided questions on Daniels, though the White House has consistently said Trump denies a relationship. Still, he has been dogged by the focus on the adult-film actress, who says she had a sexual encounter with the president in 2006 and was paid to keep quiet about it as part of a nondisclosure agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election. Daniels is now seeking to invalidate that agreement.Her attorney, Michael Avenatti said in a statement: "Our case just got that much better. And we very much look forward to testing the truthfulness of Mr. Trump\'s feigned lack of knowledge concerning the $130k payment as stated on Air Force One."Avenatti, who has sought to have Trump give sworn testimony, added, "It is one thing to deceive the press and quite another to do so under oath."He later argued on MSNBC that Trump\'s statement could create legal problems, saying: "If the president didn\'t know anything about the payment, then he obviously didn\'t know anything about the agreement, in which case you can\'t have an agreement. And then there is no such thing as an NDA."Cohen didn\'t respond to requests for comment Thursday.Daniels, one of several women pursuing potentially damaging legal action against Trump, has kept up the highest profile in the media, helped by a punchy Twitter feed, a widely viewed interview on CBS\' "60 Minutes" and a camera-ready attorney who has become a fixture on cable news.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, has offered to return the $130,000 as she tries to "set the record straight." She\'s said she had sex with Trump once in 2006, a few months after the birth of his youngest son, and their relationship continued for about a year. Trump married his current wife, Melania, in 2005, and their son, Barron, was born in 2006.On "60 Minutes," Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with her suggesting he should be spanked with a magazine that featured his picture on the cover and then giving him a "couple swats." She also said she was threatened to keep silent about the relationship while out with her young daughter.Daniels argues the nondisclosure agreement is legally invalid because it was signed by her and Cohen only, not by Trump.Cohen has said that he paid the $130,000 out of his pocket and that neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.However, Avenatti told "60 Minutes" that Cohen used his Trump Organization email address in setting up the payment and that the nondisclosure agreement was sent to Cohen at his Trump Organization office in Trump Tower.Earlier this week, Trump asked a federal judge to order private arbitration in the case. Trump and Cohen filed papers in federal court in Los Angeles asking a judge to rule that the case must be heard by an arbitrator instead of a jury.Avenatti said they would oppose private arbitration, arguing it should be heard by the American public.Avenatti also wants Trump to give sworn testimony in the case, but a federal judge ruled this week that those efforts were premature. If ultimately successful, it would be the first deposition of a sitting president since Bill Clinton had to answer questions in 1998 about his conduct with women.Trump faces a number of allegations about his sexual exploits long before he ran for president.Former Playboy model Karen McDougal recently told CNN that she had an affair with Trump that started in 2006 and ended in 2007. She filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.Trump is also facing a New York defamation lawsuit filed by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on "The Apprentice." Zervos has accused Trump of unwanted sexual contact in 2007 and sued him after he dismissed the claims as made up.A judge ruled the lawsuit can move forward.
AUSTIN, Texas   The Latest on states deploying National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border (all times CDT):8:45 p.m.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has approved using Defense Department money to pay for as many as 4,000 National Guard personnel to perform border security missions.Mattis made the decision Friday night. It means the federal government will foot the bill for the National Guard missions, which will be performed under the command and control of the participating states.A Pentagon memo said the authorization is valid through the current budget year, which ends Sept. 30. It did not indicate how much the missions are expected to cost.The memo said the National Guard personnel will not perform law enforcement functions or "interact with migrants or other persons detained by" the Department of Homeland Security without Mattis\'s approval. It said "arming will be limited to circumstances that might require self-defense," but it did not further define that.___7:05 p.m.President Donald Trump has signed a memorandum to take steps to end "catch-and-release" policies as he pushes Congress to act on immigration.The White House says Trump signed the memo that directs his administration to study ways of ending the practices. The policies generally refer to the release of unauthorized immigrants while they await immigration hearings instead of keeping them in custody.The Trump administration is targeting "catch-and-release" after setbacks on immigration in Congress, including the failure of the president\'s plan to grant a pathway to citizenship for an estimated 1.8 million people in exchange for $25 billion for border security and sharp cuts to legal immigration.___7 p.m.The Arizona National guard says a team of planners has been activated to coordinate deployment of 150 Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border.The Guard says in a Friday news release that the troops will be dispatched next week to help free U.S. Border Patrol agents to work in the field. The troops will provide air, reconnaissance, operational and logistics support and construct border infrastructure.Gov. Doug Ducey announced the troop call-up and said he was working closely with the defense and homeland security departments.The announcement comes two days after President Donald Trump said he wanted to deploy the military along the border with Mexico. In previous border deployments, Arizona troops did border watch missions, supported border wall construction and helped with administrative and other support tasks___6:50 p.m.Texas has started sending troops to the U.S.-Mexico border, with 250 members of the National Guard expected to deploy within the next 72 hours.Brig. Gen. Tracy Norris, commander of the Texas Army National Guard, announced the deployment Friday.Norris said state and federal officials were still determining what the responsibilities of the Guard members would be, but that the Guard would work to support Border Patrol and other agents in the field.Texas already has 100 National Guard members stationed on the border under a state mission.___4:55 p.m.Arizona will deploy about 150 members of the state National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border next week.Gov. Doug Ducey announced the troop call-up in a tweet Friday and said he was working closely with the defense and homeland security departments. More details are expected to come from the state Guard.The announcement comes two days after President Donald Trump said he wanted to deploy the military along the border with Mexico.Ducey spokesman Daniel Scarpinato said he had no details on what the troops would be assigned to do. In previous border deployments, Arizona troops did border watch missions, supported border wall construction and helped with administrative and other support tasks.___4:20 p.m.The Texas National Guard says it is preparing to deploy to the U.S.-Mexico border in response to a call from President Donald Trump.The Texas Military Department, the umbrella agency over the Texas\' National Guard branches, said on its Twitter account that it would hold a Friday night news conference on the deployment. Further details were not immediately available.Trump told reporters Thursday that he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the border to help fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking.That would be lower than the roughly 6,000 National Guard members that former President George W. Bush sent during another border security operation.Texas already has 100 Guardsmen deployed as part of an existing state mission at the border.
WASHINGTON   When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn\'t on the line.When Trump tapped John Bolton to be his next national security adviser, Kelly wasn\'t in the room.And when Trump spent a Mar-a-Lago weekend stewing over immigration and trade, Kelly wasn\'t in sight.Kelly, once empowered to bring order to a turbulent West Wing, has receded from view, his clout diminished, his word less trusted by staff and his guidance less tolerated by an increasingly go-it-alone president.Emboldened in his job, Trump has rebelled against Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely. It\'s all leading White House staffers and Trump allies to believe that Kelly is working on borrowed time.In recent weeks, Trump has governed at breakneck pace, ousting aides and issuing surprise policy announcements on Twitter, recreating the helter-skelter feel of his first months in office. Kelly\'s allies maintain that his retreat is strategic. They suggest that the belief that Kelly was Trump\'s savior was an overstated idea all along and that the chief of staff is now content to loosen the reins and allow an increasingly comfortable president to govern from his gut.But those close to the president say that Trump has increasingly expressed fatigue at Kelly\'s attempts to shackle him and that while Trump is not ready to fire Kelly, he has begun gradually freezing out his top aide.Trump recently told one confidant that he was "tired of being told no" by Kelly and has instead chosen to simply not tell Kelly things at all, according to a person who was not authorized to publicly discuss private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity.In Trump\'s West Wing, once the rumors begin that an aide\'s exit is forthcoming, the "stink" on that staffer never leaves, according to one of the nearly dozen White House aides, former administration officials and outside advisers who spoke to The Associated Press under the same conditions.As Kelly\'s public profile and behind-the-scenes influence has faded, speculation has risen that chaos could return."It\'s not tenable for Kelly to remain in this position so weakened," said Chris Whipple, author of "Gatekeepers," a history of modern White House chiefs of staff. "More than any of his predecessors, Donald Trump needs an empowered chief of staff to tell him what he does not want to hear. Trump wants to run the White House like the 26th floor of Trump Tower, and it\'s simply not going to work."Kelly was once a fixture at the president\'s side, but Trump has now cut him out of a number of important decisions.For months, Kelly made it a practice to listen in to many of the president\'s calls, particularly with world leaders. While he is still on the line for some of those conversations, Kelly was not part of the call Trump made to Putin last month from the White House residence during which Trump ignored advisers\' advice against congratulating the Russian president on his re-election.Although Kelly had agitated for the removal of outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster, he counseled Trump against hiring Bolton, a neo-conservative media commentator. Trump did it anyway, offering the job to Bolton in a one-on-one meeting in the Oval Office and telling his chief of staff about it later.As Trump spent the Easter weekend at his Florida resort and tweeted about his tariffs plan, Kelly was out of state, though the men did consult by phone. While Kelly has fumed about the ethics questions swirling around Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, Trump was at least initially more supportive of Pruitt, telling him, "We\'ve got your back."The president also has cast aside the constraints the retired four-star Marine general tried to place on Trump about whom he could see and speak to. Those restrictions led shunned advisers to try to undermine the chief of staff in the press and with Trump. For months, former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was barred from the White House, only to return when Kelly was overruled by Trump, according to four White House aides and outside advisers.Many in the West Wing believed that Kelly\'s attempts to curtail Trump\'s interactions with Lewandowski, as well as Trump allies such as David Bossie and Anthony Scaramucci, were always destined to fail and alienate the president, who has privately contemplated recreating the freewheeling nature of his campaign and Trump Tower office. Kelly also has clashed with Trump\'s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, who had his security clearance downgraded after a policy change written by the chief of staff.Some White House aides contend that Kelly has been intentionally giving Trump more leeway to be himself and that Kelly recognizes that\'s what Trump wants. But allies acknowledged Kelly\'s receding power and said he\'s trying to keep his head down and focus on policy, such as the plan to mobilize the National Guard along the U.S. border with Mexico.The White House declined to make Kelly available for an interview. In public, Trump praises his chief of staff, telling Marines in California last month that Kelly probably "likes what you do better than what he does, but he\'s doing a great job."The speculation surrounding Kelly echoes the treatment of his predecessor, Reince Priebus, who was the subject of months of questions about how long he would last on the job. Priebus eventually resigned under pressure.Kelly also no longer commands the same respect among some quarters of the staff. His role came under harsh scrutiny this year over his handling of the controversy surrounding ousted White House aide Rob Porter, who was accused of domestic abuse.Kelly\'s shifting version of events elicited frustration from former communications director Hope Hicks, who had been dating Porter, and dismayed a number of West Wing staffers. That episode frustrated Trump, who still remains agitated about an interview that Kelly gave to Fox News months ago in which he suggested that Trump had "evolved" in his thinking about the need for a wall on the Mexican border.Kelly, who took the job last July, had previously told confidants he hoped to be on the job for a year. One person familiar with his thinking said the chief of staff recently voiced doubt he would make it that far.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Jill Colvin contributed to this report.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Lucey at http://twitter.com/@catherine_lucey
WASHINGTON   Unwilling to yield, President Donald Trump and China\'s government escalated their trade clash Friday, with Beijing vowing to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.Trump made his out-of-the-blue move when China threatened to retaliate for the first round of tariffs planned by the United States. But for someone who has long fashioned himself as a master negotiator, Trump left it unclear whether he was bluffing or willing to enter a protracted trade war pitting the world\'s two biggest economies against each other, with steep consequences for consumers, businesses and an already shaken stock market."They aren\'t going to bully him into backing down," said Stephen Moore, a former Trump campaign adviser who is now a visiting fellow at the Heritage Foundation. He said the Chinese "are going to have to make concessions  period."The White House sent mixed signals on Friday as financial markets slid from investor concern about a significant trade fight. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told CNBC he was "cautiously optimistic" that the U.S. and China could reach an agreement before any tariffs are implemented but added, "there is the potential of a trade war."White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters the U.S. was "not in a trade war," adding, "China is the problem. Blame China, not Trump."Trump\'s latest proposal intensified what was already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle for more than a half century. The U.S. bought more than $500 billion in goods from China last year and now is planning or considering penalties on some $150 billion of those imports. The U.S. sold about $130 billion in goods to China in 2017 and faces a potentially devastating hit to its market there if China responds in kind.Global financial markets have fallen sharply as the world\'s two biggest economies squared off  the Dow Jones industrial average sank 572 points Friday.Trump told advisers Thursday he was unhappy with China\'s decision to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods.Rather than waiting weeks for the U.S. tariffs to be implemented, Trump backed a plan by Robert Lighthizer, his trade representative, and was encouraged by Peter Navarro, a top White House trade adviser, to seek the enhanced tariffs, upping the ante.White House chief of staff John Kelly and Mnuchin concurred with the move, as did Kudlow, who traveled with the president to West Virginia.China said negotiations were impossible under the circumstances but Trump officials said the president and his team remained in contact with President Xi Jinping and expressed hope to him of resolving the dispute through talks. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the two sides remained in "routine contact."In Beijing, a Commerce Ministry spokesman said China doesn\'t want a trade war  but isn\'t afraid to fight one."If the U.S. side announces the list of products for $100 billion in tariffs, the Chinese side has fully prepared and will without hesitation counterattack with great strength," spokesman Gao Feng said. He gave no indication what measures Beijing might take.Trump has also pushed for a crackdown on China\'s theft of U.S. intellectual property, and he criticized the World Trade Organization, an arbiter of trade disputes, in a tweet Friday for allegedly favoring China. Trump asserted the WTO gives the Asian superpower "tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S."U.S. officials have played down the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. But economists warn that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could keep growing. Worry is intensifying among Republicans, who traditionally have favored liberalized trade."The administration needs to be thinking about the unintended consequences and what are those ripple effects, those domino effects, and what are the retaliatory actions that are likely to be taken," said South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the Senate\'s No. 3 Republican, in an interview with KDLT-TV in Sioux Falls.The standoff over the trade penalties began last month when the U.S. slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. China countered by announcing tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. products. The next day, the United States proposed the $50 billion in duties on Chinese imports, and Beijing lashed back within hours with a threat of further tariffs of its own.Further escalation could be in the offing. The U.S. Treasury is working on plans to restrict Chinese technology investments in the United States. And there\'s talk that the U.S. could also put limits on visas for Chinese who want to visit or study in this country.Kudlow told reporters the U.S. may provide a list of suggestions to China "as to what we would like to have come out of this," and those issues were under discussion."Negotiations are better than tariffs," Kudlow said. "A solution in the next three months would be better than anything. I think that\'s eminently doable." He added: "But Trump is not just using tariffs as a negotiating card. He said that to me."For Trump, the dispute runs the risk of blunting the economic benefits of his tax overhaul, which is at the center of congressional Republicans\' case for voters to keep them in power in the 2018 mid-term elections. China\'s retaliation so far has targeted Midwest farmers, including growers of soybeans, corn and wheat. That could specifically harm core Trump supporters."With respect to the Trump administration, its political success will rise and fall with the economy," Kudlow said. "And the economy is doing rather well now and I expect it to do even better."___Associated Press writers Gillian Wong and Henry Hou in Beijing, and Jill Colvin, Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak in Washington contributed to this report.__
WASHINGTON   Dozens of Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday urged President Donald Trump in a letter to ask embattled Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt to resign.Reps. Don Beyer and David Cicilline led 64 House Democrats in calling for Pruitt's dismissal. The letter said he behaved unethically in renting a room from the wife of an energy lobbyist, wasted taxpayer money, and had taken numerous actions that contravened the EPA's mission, including a trip to Morocco to promote U.S. exports of natural gas. Three Republicans in the 435-member House have called for Pruitt to resign.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner; Editing by Richard Chang)
WASHINGTON   Preparations for a meeting between U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin will not be affected by  sweeping U.S. sanctions imposed on Friday on Russian government officials and businessmen, the White House said.White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said U.S. officials would continue to work toward a meeting with Putin at some point. "As the president has said, he wants to have a good relationship with Russia but that\'s going to depend on some of the actions by the Russians," she said at a news briefing.(Reporting by Steve Holland and Doina Chiacu; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   Embattled Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt met with President Donald Trump on Friday to lay out his case for why he should remain in his post amid a stream of questions about his ethical standing.Pruitt visited the White House to discuss his agency\'s recent steps to roll back Obama-era fuel efficiency standards for cars, but he also fought for his job in his meeting with the president, according to two administration officials. While White House aides are increasingly fed up with Pruitt and chief of staff John Kelly has advocated firing him, Trump remains less certain. Pruitt is one of the most effective members of his Cabinet in undermining his predecessor\'s regulatory agenda, and Trump enjoys his hard-charging style.The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive internal discussions.Kelly and other White House aides are frustrated by the steady drip of negative press Pruitt is attracting over a seemingly below-market lease on an apartment owned by the wife of a leading lobbyist, reports that he instructed his security detail to use emergency lights and sirens to beat traffic, and the continuing fallout from using private and first-class air travel last year. Pruitt has vigorously denied any wrongdoing and blamed the accusations on political opponents of the policies he is enacting.Agency sources and documents reviewed by The Associated Press found the EPA spent millions of dollars for a 20-member full-time security detail that is three times the size of his predecessor\'s part-time security contingent. An EPA official said that total security costs for Pruitt approached $3 million when pay was added to travel expenses.Though Pruitt has few allies in the White House, his team has activated a network of conservative activists and lawmakers to rally behind him. Pruitt has also sat for a series of interviews with largely conservative news outlets to defend himself  though even supporters acknowledge he did himself no favors with a Fox News interview this week in which he seemed unable to fend off some of the allegations.As the White House looks into the claims against Pruitt, administration officials say they have felt blindsided by the news reports, believing Pruitt hasn\'t "come clean." Earlier this week, two administration officials touted a pair of supposedly laudatory calls to Pruitt from Trump and Kelly, including the encouragement that he "keep fighting." But two other officials said the praise had to do with Pruitt\'s work and not the ethical cloud surrounding him  and that Kelly took a far sterner tone with Pruitt than initially reported, warning that the EPA job was in jeopardy if he couldn\'t put an end to the distracting coverage."We\'re continuing to review any of the concerns we have," said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. She declined to engage on the specific accusations against Pruitt, calling them "hypotheticals.""The president feels that the administrator has done a good job at EPA," she added. "He\'s restored it back to its original purpose of protecting the environment. It\'s gotten unnecessary regulations out of the way."The scrutiny surrounding Pruitt comes just a week after another Cabinet member, Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin, was ousted amid ethical questions. White House aides believed that Shulkin had misrepresented the coming findings of a critical inspector general report, but an official said that, at least so far, Trump had not equated that with Pruitt\'s omissions of his own alleged transgressions.Several other Trump appointees, including Housing and Urban Development head Ben Carson and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, have also faced questions about their expenditures and behavior.On Capitol Hill, where some Republican lawmakers have already called for Pruitt\'s firing or resignation, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said Pruitt must go.Pruitt\'s tenure, she said, has been "part of the Trump administration\'s culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence."___Associated Press writers Michael Biesecker and Catherine Lucey contributed reporting.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Miller at http://twitter.com/@zekejmiller
NEW YORK   U.S. President Donald Trump will review a list of potential changes to the nation\'s renewable fuel laws at a meeting with members of his cabinet on Monday, two sources said, as biofuels groups warned against any action that would weaken ethanol demand.Trump in recent months has waded deep into the controversial issue of reforming the U.S. Renewable Fuel Standard, a 2005 law requiring refiners to blend increasing amounts of biofuels into their fuel pool each year, or buy credits from those who do.Merchant refiners like Valero and PBF Energy pulled Trump into the debate, arguing that complying with the regulation has grown too costly and will kill off the types of blue-collar jobs Trump had promised to defend.But Trump\'s efforts to reform the law have been met by fierce opposition from corn farmers and ethanol producers who are quick to remind the president that he also vowed to preserve the RFS during corn-belt campaign stops.Monday\'s meeting will include Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt and Agricultural Secretary Sonny Perdue. Pruitt heads into the meeting under pressure from lawmakers to resign over allegations he broke ethics rules by renting a room in a Washington condo owned by the wife of an energy industry lobbyist.Pruitt and Perdue have spent the last several weeks compiling a list of options for Trump to consider on the RFS, ranging from more aggressive tactics like capping the prices of blending credits, called RINs, to lifting seasonal restrictions on high-ethanol gasoline sales."A waiver or cap on RIN prices would fundamentally undermine the Renewable Fuel Standard and deal a massive blow to rural America," Iowa Republican Senator Chuck Grassley said in a statement on Friday.In recent weeks, advisers have urged Trump to let lawmakers tackle the issue, and only use the threat of executive action to coerce them to make it a priority.Iowa farmers and biofuel groups sent a letter to Grassley and fellow Iowa Republican Senator Joni Ernst on Friday, urging them to reach out to Trump to express their anger."Any Administration action to waive or cap RINs will be viewed as nothing less than a declaration of war on rural America and a complete abdication of his repeated promises to protect the RFS, said the letter, orchestrated by the Iowa Renewable Fuels Association.Biofuel groups are also frustrated with the administration over reports that the EPA was exempting small refineries from the program, including three owned by one of the nation\'s largest refining companies, Andeavor.(Reporting by Jarrett Renshaw; editing by Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is considering ways to require imported automobiles to meet stricter environmental standards in order to protect U.S. carmakers, according to two sources familiar with the administration\'s thinking.White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said President Donald Trump "will promote free, fair and reciprocal trade practices to grow the U.S. economy and continue to (bring) jobs and manufacturers back to the U.S.Two U.S. automotive executives said Friday they believed the idea had been floated in White House talks last week by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, but said the auto industry had not asked for the changes or backed them.A Commerce Department spokesman referred a Reuters request for comment back to the White House, which has not responded.U.S. automakers have long urged removal of non-tariff barriers in Japan, South Korea and other markets that they believe unfairly hinder U.S. exports. There are also concerns that any new non-tariff U.S. barriers could violate WTO rules.The story was first reported Friday by the Wall Street Journal.Citing unnamed senior administration and industry officials, the Journal said Trump had asked several agencies to pursue plans to use existing laws to subject foreign-made cars to stiff emission standards.It appears such non-tariff barriers could have a greater potential effect proportionately on European automakers, which collectively import a greater percentage of cars from plants outside the United States, according to sales figures from Autodata.In comparison, Japanese and Korean brands made about 70 percent of the vehicles they sold last year in the United States  at North American plants. European brands built only 30 percent in North America.Foreign automakers operate 17 assembly plants in the United States, 12 of which are owned by Asian manufacturers. Virtually all of those are non-union plants, many of them in southern states.Imported vehicles accounted for about 21 percent of the 17.2 million sold last year in the United States, according to Autodata.The White House initiative was still in the planning stage, with officials at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency working to craft a legal justification for the policy, the paper said.The EPA and the Commerce Department, which the newspaper said was also involved in the effort, did not immediately respond to requests for comment from Reuters. Neither did representatives for Ford Motor Co and General Motors, nor for the United Auto Workers union, which represents workers at those automakers.(Additional reporting by Tim Ahmann and David Lawder in Washington and Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Frances Kerry and James Dalgleish)
MILAN   European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.The pan-European STOXX 600 fell 0.5 percent by 07.58 GMT, erasing part of Thursday\'s 2.4 percent gain. It remained on track for a weekly advance of 0.9 percent. Germany\'s exporter-heavy index DAX fell 0.7 percent.Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify another $100 billion of tariffs on Chinese imports, escalating a confrontation between the world\'s two largest economies. However, investors remained doubtful that a full-blown trade war would break out."Markets will now watch both the rhetoric from Trump\'s cabinet members and China\'s response to assess whether risk of a trade war is materially higher," Credit Suisse said. "We continue to see a trade war as unlikely".Caution still dominated, boosting defensive stocks. French utility Suez led the sector higher, up 2.8 percent, further boosted by a bullish broker note.Elsewhere among top movers, Dufry rose 3.5 percent after the Swiss retailer proposed a higher-than-expected dividend and announced a share buyback.UK\'s Marks & Spencer fell 3.3 percent and Next lost 2.1 percent after Citi downgraded both stocks, among other retailers.Telecom Italia rose 2.2 percent after Italian state lender CDP said it would buy a stake of up to 5 percent in the telecoms company.Chip makers like Infineon fell after losses overnight by Samsung Electronics shares. The South Korean tech giant was hit by growing concern that a semiconductor boom is about to end.The trade-exposed auto sector was the leading sectoral loser, down 2 percent.Later in the day, the focus will turn to the U.S. jobs report for more clues on how fast monetary policy will normalise in the United States.That could affect the outlook for the dollar, whose weakness has pushed up the euro, clouding prospects for European earnings. According to the Thomson Reuters IBES data, first- quarter earnings growth for the STOXX is seen at 3.4 percent, compared with 18.5 percent for the S&P 500.(Reporting by Danilo Masoni, editing by Larry King)
BEIJING   The Chinese government\'s top diplomat hopes that planned summits between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and the presidents of South Korea and the United States will "take the fuse" out of the situation on the Korean peninsula.After a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow, China\'s State Councillor Wang Yi said he hoped the summits would bring the issue of North Korea\'s nuclear program back into the realm of dialogue and negotiations."We all welcome and support the apparent improvement in the situation on the peninsula and appreciate the efforts of all parties," Wang, who is also China\'s foreign minister, said on Thursday, in comments posted on his ministry\'s website.He hoped the three leaders would take the opportunity to completely defuse the situation, he added.South Korean President Moon Jae-in and U.S. President Donald Trump have both agreed to meet Kim. Trump has traded barbs with the North Korean leader for much of his time in office as Pyongyang pursues development of nuclear weapons capable of hitting the United States.North Korea was "suffocating" under international sanctions,  Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said on Thursday, adding, "They need an out."Speaking at Duke University in North Carolina, Haley said, "When the president ends up speaking with Kim, the conversation has to be about denuclearizing. Not some of it, all of it. We don\'t want an irresponsible actor to have nuclear weapons."She added, "But we\'re going into this very cautiously, very much knowing that he\'s looked at the Iran deal, he\'s seen what he can get and he\'s seen how he can push through loopholes, and we\'re not going to let that happen again."Last month, China said it won a pledge from Kim, who was on a surprise visit to Beijing for talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping, to denuclearize the Korean peninsula.China and Russia are both permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, which has imposed sanctions on North Korea in a bid to force negotiations with Pyongyang.Tension on the peninsula has eased following a flurry of diplomatic activity in the lead-up to February\'s Winter Olympics held in South Korea.North and South Korea have agreed to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, while Trump has said he would meet Kim by the end of May.Trump has threatened to withdraw the United States from an accord between Tehran and six world powers, signed in 2015 before he took office, unless France, Britain and Germany help to agree a follow-up pact by that date. Trump does not like the deal\'s limited duration, among other things.(Reporting by Tom Daly and Min Zhang; Additional reporting by Michelle Nichols at the United Nations; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
SALEM, Ore.   President Donald Trump\'s plan to deploy National Guard troops to the Mexico border has drawn resistance from some governors, most of them Democrats, and the law he invoked creates an opening for them to turn him down, officials said Friday.But so far, three of the border states with Republican governors have endorsed the plan, and two, Arizona and Texas, quickly announced troop deployments. The Democratic governor of the fourth border state, California, has been silent on the issue.Trump\'s order invoked a federal law called Title 32, under which governors retain command and control of Guard members from their state, with the federal government paying for the deployment.Another statute, known as Title 10, establishes that National Guard personnel operate under the president\'s control and receive federal pay and benefits. The law also forbids them from performing tasks of civilian law enforcement unless explicitly authorized, according to the Congressional Research Service. Trump\'s order issued Wednesday did not mention Title 10.Arizona\'s Republican Gov. Doug Ducey said about 150 Guard members will deploy next week. The GOP governors of New Mexico and Texas also back the plan. The Texas Army National Guard planned to deploy 250 people to the border within three days.Trump said Thursday that he wants to send 2,000 to 4,000 Guard members to the border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said on Twitter that she had a "productive conversation" about the deployment with governors of the Southwest border states.It\'s unclear if Trump will ask for troops from states other than those along the border.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders described the deployment as "a good first step." If the administration determines that more troops are needed, "we\'ll make that decision at that time."Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval, also a Republican, on Friday became one of the latest leaders to oppose Trump\'s plan. His spokeswoman, Mary-Sarah Kinner, said in an email that Sandoval does not believe the mission would be "an appropriate use" of the Nevada Guard.But North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum said his state would "answer the call," just as it has done in other times of need, like historic floods."We North Dakotans know from experience how critical it is for states to support each other in times of need," Burgum said.Oregon Gov. Kate Brown has said she would deny Trump\'s request."As commander of Oregon\'s Guard, I\'m deeply troubled by Trump\'s plan to militarize our border," Brown tweeted.Her spokesman, Bryan Hockaday, said that if Trump invoked Title 10, the president "can federalize the National Guard forces, and there\'s not much the governor can do to prevent that."However, under Title 32, a governor could try to reject a request for troops or order Guard members to remain in rear staging areas and not participate."If the president were to deploy under Title 32, he\'d obviously have to have the approval of the governor," Hockaday said, citing an assessment from the governor\'s attorney. Lawyers reviewed all the pertinent legal provisions as soon as Brown\'s office heard the announcement about the deployment plan, he added.While California Gov. Jerry Brown has not spoken publicly about Trump\'s plan, California National Guard spokesman Lt. Col. Tom Keegan said any request "will be promptly reviewed to determine how best we can assist our federal partners."Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey, a Republican, said Friday that she will consult with the head of the Alabama Guard to see what resources are available.The deployments will not be the first time the National Guard has gone to the U.S.-Mexico border.Almost every U.S. state and territory contributed Guard members to Operation Jump Start, announced by President George W. Bush in 2006. Around 30,000 Guard members eventually participated, according to a 2008 National Guard analysis, including more than 1,000 each from Kentucky, North Carolina and South Carolina.During Operation Phalanx, ordered by President Barack Obama in 2010, 1,200 Guard members deployed to the border, most of them from Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas.In the mid-1980s, National Guard troops were deployed even farther south, in Honduras, where they carried out military maneuvers. The missions happened as Sandinista forces in neighboring Nicaragua battled Contra rebels who were backed by Washington and had clandestine bases in Honduras.___Associated Press writers Bob Christie in Phoenix, Doug Glass in Minneapolis, Nomaan Merchant in Dallas and Jonathan Cooper in Sacramento, California, contributed to this report.___Follow Andrew Selsky on Twitter at https://twitter.com/andrewselsky .
BEIJING   China said on Friday it is fully prepared to respond after U.S. President Donald Trump instructed trade officials to consider imposing tariffs on another $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.China will not hesitate to respond if the United States adds further tariffs, Commerce Ministry spokesman Gao Feng told a media briefing in Beijing, describing the tariff row as a struggle between multilateralism and unilateralism.Economic officials of both sides have not recently held any trade negotiations, which are impossible under current conditions, he said.(Reporting by Tom Daly; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SPOKANE, Wash.   Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year in farm products, is also certain of the result."It\'s a strategy that\'s working," he said.If farmers are worried, so are Republican politicians, who depended on small-town America to hand them control of Congress and know how quickly those voters could take it away. Just seven months before the 2018 midterm elections, Trump\'s faceoff with China over trade has exposed an unexpected political vulnerability in what was supposed to be the Republican Party\'s strongest region: rural America.The clash with China poses a direct threat to the economies in both red and blue states, from California\'s central valley to eastern Washington through Minnesota\'s plains and across Missouri and Indiana and into Ohio.They are regions in which the GOP\'s quest to retain its House and Senate majorities this fall is tied directly to Republican voters\' views about their pocketbooks and Trump\'s job performance. The signs of fear and frustration about both are easy to find.In southwestern Minnesota, soybean farmer Bill Gordon says the volatility in the markets makes it harder for farmers like him to market their crop and lock in profitability. The state is the country\'s fourth-largest exporting state, and the state\'s top farm export market is China.A Trump voter, Gordon said right now he\'s disappointed, not angry, over what\'s happening. But the trade tensions could affect his vote in the open race for the region\'s congressional seat, where the farm vote is significant."I vote for the people who represent rural America," he said. "It\'s not a party line."Trump says he\'s simply fighting against unfair business practices with a geopolitical rival.After the Trump administration announced plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports Tuesday, China lashed back within hours, matching the American tariffs with plans to tax $50 billion of U.S. products, including soybeans, corn and wheat.Trump escalated the standoff further on Thursday by asking the U.S. trade representative to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, which had previously released plans to impose retaliatory tariffs on frozen pork, nuts and wine in response to Trump\'s intent to apply duties to imported aluminum and steel.The soybean industry, perhaps more than any other, illustrates the potential harm to Republican candidates in the fall.Soy production is concentrated in the Midwest. Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Indiana and Missouri account for over half of all soy produced in the United States. And more than 60 percent of U.S. soy exports have been sent to mainland China in recent years.Trump won 89 percent of America\'s counties that produce soy, according to an Associated Press analysis of Agriculture Department and election data. In those counties, on average, two out of three voters supported Trump in 2016.Many Republican candidates who represent rural areas Trump won in 2016 are being forced to choose between his trade policies and community interests. Vulnerable Republicans are walking a tightrope.In eastern Washington, seven-term Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers had already found herself in an unexpectedly tight race. She has urged the White House to "reverse course" on the Chinese tariffs in recent days.Jared Powell, a spokesman for McMorris Rodgers, said her office had asked the Trump administration for clarification on the effects of the tariffs."She is doing what she can to speak out publicly," Powell said.Overall, an estimated 2.1 million jobs could be affected by the trade dispute nationally, with a majority coming from counties that Trump won, according to an analysis by Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution."We\'re in kind of a farm crisis," said Bob Worth, who grows soybeans, corn and spring wheat with his son on 2,200 acres (3.4 square miles) near Lake Benton in southwestern Minnesota. He wouldn\'t say how he voted in 2016, but he offered kind, if measured, words for Trump."I\'m going to believe in the man," added Worth, who\'s also on the board of the Minnesota Soybean Growers Association. "He\'s doing this for business reasons only. I don\'t know if he knows how much he\'s hurting agriculture."Matt Aultman, a grain salesman and feed nutritionist in Greenville, Ohio, west of Columbus, said farmers there are keeping a close watch on the talk in Washington. Farmers pay attention to two things: prices and weather. And a trade fight that affects prices won\'t go unnoticed."It directly affects our pocketbooks and the way we plan for the following years," he said. "Are we going to pay all the bills this year? Are we going to buy a new piece of equipment? Do you get your kids a couple new pair of shoes?"In California\'s central valley, Republican Rep. Jeff Denham has avoided the issue altogether in recent days. His opponent, Democrat and longtime family farmer Michael Eggman, said Trump\'s trade policies would shatter his community.The district is home to Blue Diamond Almonds, among smaller nut producers, who send much of their product to China and suddenly face the prospect of 15 percent tariffs."We all know how hard it is to make ends meet as a small family farmer, and Trump is not making it easier," Eggman said. "Jeff Denham, who claims to be a local farmer, hasn\'t said one word about it. Where\'s the outrage?"Denham, through a spokeswoman, did not address the president\'s moves directly but said the congressman supports "free and fair trade" and a plan that\'s "carefully thought out."___Peoples reported from New York. Karnowski reported in Minneapolis. AP data journalist Larry Fenn in Seattle contributed to this report.
BEIJING/WASHINGTON   China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.Trump, in light of what he called China\'s "unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade actions, had upped the ante on Thursday by ordering U.S. officials to identify extra tariffs, escalating a tit-for-tat confrontation with potentially damaging consequences for the world\'s two biggest economies.China\'s Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, calling the U.S. action "extremely mistaken" and unjustified, said the spat was a struggle between unilateralism and multilateralism and that no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances."The result of this behavior is to smash your own foot with a stone," Gao told a news briefing in Beijing. "If the United States announces an additional $100 billion list of tariffs, China has already fully prepared, and will not hesitate to immediately make a fierce counter strike."The dueling trade threats rattled Wall Street on Friday, ending a volatile week with major indexes closing down more than 2 percent on the day. The dollar also fell, while safe havens such as the Japanese Yen and gold futures rose.The week started with China imposing $3 billion of tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts, wine and pork, and rapidly escalated to threats that could seriously curtail hundreds of billions of dollars in trade between the world\'s two largest economies.While U.S. officials said they were prepared to talk the issues through with China, there was no clear path to negotiations. Both Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Trump economic advisor Larry Kudlow were on television to promote the idea of talks, with Mnuchin telling CNBC "we are in communication regularly".Gao\'s comments came shortly after Trump defended his proposed tariffs, saying the move might cause "a little pain" but the United States would be better off in the long run.Asked in an interview with New York radio station WABC about the effect on U.S. stock markets, Trump said the market has gone up (since he took office) "so we might lose a little bit of it.""So we may take a hit and you know what, ultimately we\'re going to be much stronger for it."Kudlow told Bloomberg Television Trump and America\'s top trade official Robert Lighthizer were "thinking about submitting a list of suggestions to the Chinese."On Wednesday, China unveiled a list of 106 U.S. goods including soybeans, whiskey, frozen beef and aircraft targeted for tariffs, just hours after the Trump administration proposed duties on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products.Washington called for its initial $50 billion in extra duties after it said an investigation had determined Chinese government policies are designed to transfer U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies and allow them to seize leadership in key high-technology industries of the future.China said it was not afraid of a trade war, even though it did not seek one, and accused the United States of provoking the conflict. Gao said comments from U.S. officials about ongoing talks about trade issues were incorrect."Under these conditions, the two sides cannot conduct any negotiations on this issue," Gao said, without elaborating.Kudlow, who has repeatedly sought to soothe markets with mention of possible talks, told Bloomberg Television there were always ongoing bilateral discussions on trade but that negotiations on tariffs had not begun.Seeking to tamp down alarm, he told reporters outside the White House, "so nothing\'s happened. Nothing\'s been executed ... There\'s no \'there\' there yet, but there will be."CHINA\'S ROLEWhile Beijing calls Washington the aggressor and says it is spurring global protectionism, China\'s trading partners have complained for years that it abuses World Trade Organization rules and propagates unfair policies that lock foreign firms out of some sectors. China has promised repeatedly to open up sectors such as financial services.President Xi Jinping is expected to unveil reform measures next week and his country\'s opening up while attending the Boao Forum, China\'s equivalent of Davos, in the southern island province of Hainan.So far, U.S. information technology products from mobile phones to personal computers have largely escaped the ire of Beijing, as well as telecoms equipment and aircraft larger than the equivalent of a Boeing 737.Among sectors most affected by a trade war could be technology, particularly chipmakers. The U.S. semiconductor industry relies on China for about a quarter of its revenue.It also remains to be seen if the dispute would trigger a nationalistic backlash. When ties between Beijing and Seoul chilled, Chinese tourism to South Korea plummeted and Chinese consumers shunned Made-in-South-Korea products.On Chinese social media on Friday, among the most searched phrases were "China hasn\'t grown up afraid" and "China will follow through to the end."The China Chamber of International Commerce said the Chinese business community would firmly support government efforts to counter "irrational and erroneous" U.S. words and actions, the official Xinhua news agency reported, and urged Washington not to go "further and further down the wrong path."DAMAGING CONSEQUENCESAnalysts at Oxford Economics, referring to the fact that  the tariffs are not yet in effect, said in a note to clients that, "Importantly, these threatened tariffs will be subject to negotiation, and therefore shouldn\'t be considered as final."However it added a full-blown trade war "would have a more pronounced effect. The U.S. and China would suffer significant slowdown in real GDP growth  a cumulative loss around 1.0 percentage point." It cut global economic growth to 2.5 percent in 2019 from 3.0 percent in its baseline scenario."This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start," said National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay."We are on a dangerous downward spiral and American families will be on the losing end," Shay added in a statement, urging Trump "to stop playing a game of chicken with the U.S. economy."(Reporting by Tom Daly, Michael Martina and Min Zhang in BEIJING and Steve Holland, David Lawder and Doina Chiacu in WASHINGTON; Additional writing by Ryan Woo, Alex Richardson, Lindsay Dunsmuir and David Chance; Editing by Frances Kerry and James Dalgleish)
(Reuters) - The White House said late Thursday that President Donald Trump intends to nominate a top auto-safety agency official to run the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as regulators debate reducing planned fuel efficiency increases through 2025.Heidi King, who was named deputy administrator in September, is slated to run the agency known as NHTSA that oversees auto safety and fuel efficiency rules.King must be confirmed by the U.S. Senate before she can assume the position and will face questions on the agency\'s approach to overseeing self-driving cars, the massive Takata recall and the agency\'s lagging pace of completing some regulations required by Congress.The biggest issue may be the agency\'s plans to soften planned automaker fuel efficiency increases that have been met with furious resistance from environmentalists and many Democrats.King told a Senate panel in March that the agency expected to propose fuel economy standards in April for a five-year period and is working "to make sure that the federal family is aligned in the path forward."NHTSA and the Environmental Protection Agency in 2011 in tandem set aggressive annual increases in fuel efficiency and emissions requirements, requiring a fleetwide estimated average of more than 50 miles per gallon by 2025.The EPA agreed to conduct a "mid-term review" by April 2018 to determine if the 2022 through 2025 model year requirements are appropriate.This week, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said those requirements are "not appropriate and should be revised."Car companies hope to avoid a potential legal battle among federal regulators, many state attorneys general and environmental groups. Automakers want rule changes to address lower gasoline prices and a shift in U.S. consumer preferences to larger, less fuel-efficient vehicles.King, who joined the agency as deputy administrator last year, previously served in the White Houses Office of Management and Budget and also served two years as chief economist on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Asked for comment Thursday before the announcement after officials told Reuters Trump planned to make the nomination, a spokeswoman for King declined to comment.NHTSA has a number of significant auto-safety investigations underway and is currently probing a fatal crash involving a self-driving Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] vehicle in Arizona and a fatal crash involving a Tesla Inc vehicle in semi-autonomous "Autopilot mode."NHTSA also must decide whether to approve a petition filed by General Motors Co in January that seeks approval for a fully autonomous car - one without a steering wheel, brake pedal or accelerator pedal - for use in the automaker\'s commercial ride-sharing fleet in 2019.NHTSA previously came under fire for not doing more to uncover deadly defects involving GM ignition switches and Toyota Motor Corp unintended acceleration issues.During the Obama administration, NHTSA boosted staffing levels and took a more aggressive stance than under previous administrations as automakers recalled a record number of vehicles.The agency imposed record-setting fines on automakers who failed to quickly recall vehicles and often demanded companies agree to additional monitoring and oversight as the agency pushed for additional vehicle callbacks.At a Senate hearing last month, King said more needs to be done to address the nearly 30 million U.S. vehicles that remain unrepaired in the Takata air bag inflator recall impacting 19 automakers.At least 22 deaths and hundreds of injuries worldwide are linked to Takata inflators that can explode, unleashing metal shrapnel inside cars and trucks. The defect led Takata to file for bankruptcy protection in June.(Reporting by David Shepardson in San Francisco; Editing by Robert Birsel)
LONDON   The latest salvo in a trade row between the U.S. and China weighed on Britain\'s FTSE 100 on Friday, though the damage was limited as mining and bank stocks fell while utilities made gains.President Donald Trump upped the ante by directing U.S. officials to consider tariffs on a further $100 billion of Chinese imports.The blue chip FTSE 100 index ended the session down 0.2 percent at 7,183.64 points, but outperformed the broader European equity market slightly.The dip hardly dented Thursday\'s 2.4 percent gains, posted after Sino-U.S. tensions appeared to have eased, and the index stayed near a three-week high, suggesting investors are growing more confident that a full-blown trade war can be averted.Likewise Friday\'s comments from White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow that there are ongoing talks on trade between the United States and China helped soothe investor nerves.Mining and financials stocks, which have been especially sensitive to trade concerns, led losses once again.Antofagasta, Glencore, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Anglo American all fell, as did     HSBC and Barclays.Retailers were among the worst performers on the FTSE 100 as downgrades from Citi sent Marks & Spencer and Next shares down 1.8 and 1 percent respectively.Strategists at the U.S. bank downgraded Next to a "sell" and M&S to "neutral". In general retail, they said "investors should buy online over offline, Europe over UK and brands over retailers".Deutsche Bank shifted to a more positive view on general retail, arguing the strengthening of the pound would boost the European sector, which makes a quarter of its sales in Britain.Investors favoured defensive stocks such as utilities, tobacco companies and telecoms, sought after in volatile markets due to their solid cash-flow and dividends.United Utilities, SSE and Centrica gained 1.3 to 2.3 percent. British American Tobacco was up 0.6 percent, while BT shares rose 1 percent.Becoming the latest investment house to be relatively more positive on British stocks, UBS closed its overweight in euro zone equities relative to UK equities on Friday."Year-to-date euro zone equities have outperformed their UK counterparts by more than 4 percentage points, and we no longer see the catalysts for further outperformance," wrote UBS Wealth Management\'s Chief Investment Officer Mark Haefele.On Thursday Citi had upgraded UK equities to "overweight", saying recent underperformance and cheap valuations made the market attractive.(Reporting by Helen Reid and Kit Rees; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
TOKYO   More than six decades after the troops died for their country, the repatriation of the remains of thousands of U.S. military personnel missing in action and presumed dead from the Korean War may finally get a boost now that President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un are expected to hold the first-ever summit between their countries.Nearly 7,800 U.S. troops remain unaccounted for from the Korean War. About 5,300 were lost in North Korea.Efforts to recover and return the remains have been stalled for more than a decade because of the North\'s development of nuclear weapons and U.S. claims that the safety of recovery teams it sent during the administration of President George W. Bush was not sufficiently guaranteed.There are indications, however, that Trump may raise the issue directly with Kim when they meet. There is also a chance Kim might return some remains even before the summit. The location and date of the summit have yet to be announced, though officials have suggested the meeting should take place by May."Hopefully, the North Koreans will turn over some remains as a goodwill gesture before the summit," said Bill Richardson, a former U.N. ambassador and New Mexico governor who secured the return of six sets of remains from North Korea in 2007. "This would help enormously to diffuse some tension."Frank Metersky, a Korean War veteran and a leading advocate of efforts to recover the remains with Korea Cold War Families of the Missing, one of three main support groups for families of service personnel missing in action, said he has been told by administration officials dealing with the matter that it is tentatively high on the summit agenda."The MIA issue, recovery of remains from the Korean War is the third item on the list if they get to it," he said by phone from New York. "If the meeting takes place and they get past the nuclear and missile issues, it\'s the third item on the agenda."Trump\'s decision to meet Kim has come under criticism amid skepticism over whether he will be able to negotiate a nuclear deal with the North.An agreement from Kim to return remains or allow future search missions would allow Trump to claim a concrete success. Hopes are high that Kim might also be willing to release three Americans of Korean descent it is now holding in custody for what it calls "anti-state" activities.According to the Pentagon\'s Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency , most of the missing Americans died in major battles or as prisoners of war. Others died along the wayside or in small villages. Many of the losses from aircraft crashes also occurred near battle zones or roads connecting them.North Korea and the United States remain technically at war because the 1950-53 fighting ended with an armistice, not a peace treaty. But between 1996 and 2005, joint U.S.-North Korea military search teams conducted 33 joint recovery operations and recovered 229 sets of American remains.Washington officially broke off the program because it claimed the safety of its searchers was not guaranteed, though the North\'s first nuclear test, in 2006, was likely a bigger reason. Critics of the program also argued the North was using the deal to squeeze cash out of Washington, calling it "bones for bucks."The total cost to the U.S. to carry out the joint missions was $19.5 million.Talks to restart recovery work resumed under President Barack Obama in 2011, only to fall apart after North Korea launched a rocket condemned by the U.S. as a banned test of ballistic missile technology. There has been essentially no government-to-government progress since.Richard Downes, president of the Coalition of Families of Korean and Cold War POW/MIAs, said the North had expressed a willingness to return remains as recently as 2016, when he traveled to Pyongyang as a private citizen with a non-profit headed by Richardson."If progress is made, even without the remains issue being raised, windows may open sometime afterward," he said in an email to The Associated Press.The passage of time is making recovery efforts more difficult.In 2016, the AP visited a site about 160 kilometers (100 miles) north of Pyongyang were villagers have buried what they claimed to be dozens of sets of remains that were unearthed during the construction of the Chongchon River No. 10 Hydroelectric Power Station.The villagers collected the remains that had been dug up, put them in large burlap bags and buried them in three separate places on a nearby hill overlooking a valley that was to be flooded as part of the construction project. Whether the remains are actually of Americans, of course, can\'t be determined until they are recovered, separated and probably DNA tested.But the U.S. government has estimated as many as 270 sets of American remains are likely recoverable in the area, which is now called Kujang County. Searching for them was one of the top priorities when the U.S. missions were still going to North Korea. Nearly a dozen joint searches were conducted in the area from 1998-2000.___Talmadge, currently in Tokyo, is the AP\'s Pyongyang bureau chief. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram: @EricTalmadge

WASHINGTON   Longtime Trump confidant Roger Stone has agreed to provide documents to the Senate Judiciary Committee  even though he says the request is "approaching absurd."In a letter obtained by The Associated Press, Stone says that he\'s now "happy to co-operate with" a request made by Sen. Dianne Feinstein in November 2017.Feinstein requested a long list of documents as part of the committee\'s Russia investigation, including any communications with WikiLeaks and its founder Julian Assange (ah-SAHNJ\'), Russian officials, and all Trump campaign officials.Stone says the request was "founded on numerous presumptions" that "are, at best, specious and, at worst, outright false, if not totally fantastic, and demonstrably so."But, he says, his counsel will be in touch.Stone has denied working with Russia to influence the campaign.
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates   President Donald Trump\'s two elder sons have visited Dubai, attending the wedding of the daughter of a billionaire Emirati developer and business partner of the Trump Organization.Hussain Sajwani shared a picture Friday on Twitter of himself standing with Eric and Donald Trump Jr., saying he was delighted to host the two for the occasion of his daughter\'s wedding. He described them as "dear friends and business partners."Last year, Eric and Donald Jr. opened the Trump International Golf Club in Dubai, the first of two to be built in the United Arab Emirates by DAMAC Properties, which is majority-owned by Sajwani.Eric on Thursday shared a picture of himself and his brother visiting the Trump-branded golf club in Dubai, but made no mention of attending the wedding.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on a U.S. trade dispute with China (all times local):3:15 p.m.Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell says some business executives have begun to express concerns to Fed officials about the impact of a possible trade war with China.In an appearance before the Economic Club of Chicago, Powell says the issue was discussed at the Fed\'s March meeting. He said while business executives were saying that rising trade tensions had become a bit of a risk to the economic outlook, Fed officials felt it was too early to determine what the impact will be in such areas as inflation.In response to a question, Powell said "tariffs can push up prices but ... it is too early I think to really say whether that is going to be something that happens or not"___2:35 p.m.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says the Trump administration is talking with Chinese officials and is willing to negotiate to resolve the trade dispute. But he says President Donald Trump will remain steadfast on protecting U.S. economic interests.Mnuchin tells CNBC, "We\'re absolutely willing to negotiate." Mnuchin says in the interview that U.S. officials are in communication with the Chinese. But he adds, "On the other hand, the president is absolutely prepared to defend our interests." He says those interests include protecting U.S. farmers.The treasury secretary acknowledges that the escalation of tensions between the two countries has brought "the potential of a trade war." But he says the current standoff is not the beginning of a trade war, and that he\'s "cautiously optimistic that we\'ll be able to work this out."___10:40 a.m.The top White House economic adviser is saying, "Blame China, don\'t blame Trump," for any trade fight.Larry Kudlow said President Donald Trump means "enough is enough" and is demanding that China stop "stealing" American intellectual property.Kudlow spoke Friday outside the White House. He dismissed the notion that a trade war is inevitable, stressing that it\'s just a proposal to raise U.S. tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.Trump tweeted moments later, criticizing the World Trade Organization and suggesting it\'s "unfair" to the U.S.Kudlow started his job as director of the national economic council this week. He says he hopes differences can be mended through negotiations. But China said earlier Friday that that it would "counterattack with great strength."___9:45 a.m.China\'s government says it will "counterattack with great strength" if President Donald Trump goes ahead with plans to raise U.S. tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.A Commerce Ministry spokesman said Friday that negotiations were impossible after Trump responded to Beijing\'s protests about his earlier plan to raise duties on $50 billion of Chinese goods by announcing still more possible tariff hikes.The spokesman, Gao Feng, said at a news conference: "If the U.S. side announces the list of products for $100 billion in tariffs, the Chinese side has fully prepared and will without hesitation counterattack with great strength."Gao gave no details of what measures Beijing might take.Gao said, "under these circumstances, the two sides cannot possibly conduct any negotiations about this issue."___8:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is pleased that that aluminum prices are down after he imposed new tariffs. He tweets, "People are surprised, I\'m not!"Trump tweeted Friday: "Despite the Aluminum Tariffs, Aluminum prices are DOWN 4%. People are surprised, I\'m not! Lots of money coming into U.S. coffers and Jobs, Jobs, Jobs!"In March, Trump imposed tariffs on imported steel and aluminum but exempted most major countries except China and Japan.The trade dispute between the U.S. and China has escalated in recent days.Trump spoke about the clash in an interview with the "Bernie and Sid" radio show on 77 WABC Radio that was taped Thursday and aired Friday. He said there "could be a little pain." But he added, "We\'re going to have a much stronger country when we\'re finished."___1:30 a.m.China\'s commerce ministry says Beijing is prepared to fight the U.S. "at any cost" as a trade dispute between the world\'s two largest economies escalated with President Donald Trump ordering the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods.The ministry said in a statement Friday that if Washington persisted in what Beijing describes as protectionism, China would "dedicate itself to the end and at any cost and will definitely fight back firmly."Trump\'s surprise directive Thursday came a day after Beijing announced plans to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.___1 a.m.President Donald Trump has instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese goods.The move comes a day after China issued a $50 billion list of U.S. goods including soybeans and small aircraft for possible tariff hikes in an escalating and potentially damaging dispute.The White House says Trump has instructed the Office of the United States Trade Representative to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate under section 301 and, if so, to identify which products they should apply to.He\'s also instructed his secretary of agriculture "to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests."Trump argues China\'s trade practices have led to the closure of American factories and the loss of millions of American jobs.

WASHINGTON   As hundreds of people stood outside the White House and cheered, outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster strode out of the West Wing on Friday for the final time.He shook hands with staff and waved to clapping onlookers, his warm exit a stark contrast to the unceremonious departure of so many prior senior Trump aides. McMaster left after meeting for the final time with his successor, neo-conservative television commentator John Bolton, and then received a traditional "clap out" by staffers arrayed on West Executive Avenue.Press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said McMaster and his family were met by President Donald Trump, who thanked him for his yearlong service in the post. Sanders also praised McMaster during the daily White House briefing, saying it had been a "real privilege" to work with and travel the world with the outgoing aide.In a statement, McMaster praised the National Security Council\'s strategic roles in addressing a number of international hot spots, including North Korea, China, Iran, Russia and Afghanistan. He thanked Trump for the opportunity to serve and offered his best wishes to Bolton.A three-star general, McMaster is set to retire from the Army later this year. Bolton will be Trump\'s third national security adviser.Trump never formed a close personal bond with McMaster and the two men frequently clashed on policy. After weeks of rumors, his departure was announced last month soon after someone at the White House leaked that Trump was urged in briefing documents not to congratulate Russian President Vladimir Putin about his recent re-election win. Trump did it anyway.The White House said McMaster\'s exit had been under discussion for some time and stressed it was not due to any one incident. The national security adviser, who took over last year after Michael Flynn was fired for lying about his contacts with Russian officials, had previously withstood an assault from figures in the conservative media who accused him of not being sufficiently supportive of Israel.A number of Trump senior aides did not receive a similarly warm exit.Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was fired last month via tweet soon after returning from a trip to Africa. Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin was ousted last week amid ethics violations and not permitted to bid his staff farewell. But former communications director Hope Hicks, Trump\'s closest and longest-serving aide, received a kiss on the cheek from the president when she left the West Wing for the final time last week.Bolton, probably the most divisive foreign policy expert ever to serve as U.N. ambassador, has been a hawkish voice in Republican foreign policy circles for decades.___Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire
MEXICO CITY   Central American migrants headed to Mexico City late Friday to give thanks to the Virgin of Guadalupe, the last stop for many on a caravan that drew criticism from President Donald Trump.The caravan itself never intended to reach the U.S. border. But Mexico has given many participants transit or humanitarian visas which could allow some to reach the border.Some plan to ask for asylum in the United States, others plan to stay in Mexico. Still others split off from the caravan last week, apparently to try their luck at crossing on their own.The busloads of migrants were headed to Mexico City\'s Basilica de Guadalupe, dedicated to Mexico\'s patroness.  From there, the migrants will be pretty much on their own.Also Friday, Mexico\'s secretary of the interior said he had called in U.S. Ambassador Roberta Jacobson for consultations regarding Trump\'s statement Thursday about migrant women being raped on the journey to the United States.In a speech Thursday, Trump mused about the threat of violence among immigrants and appeared to make reference to the migrants\' caravan."Remember my opening remarks at Trump Tower when I opened? Everybody said, \'Oh, he was so tough,\' and I used the word rape," he said. "And yesterday it came out where this journey coming up, women are raped at levels that nobody has ever seen before. They don\'t want to mention that."It was not clear what Trump was referring to. White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said Trump wasn\'t talking about the caravan but rather about extreme victimization of those making the journey north with smugglers in general.And press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders later said that she was "not sure why the media is acting like this isn\'t a well-established fact  women and young girls are brutally victimized on the journey north."But Interior Secretary Alfonso Navarrete Prida said Friday that Jacobsen had been called in to explain what Trump meant."The Foreign Relations department called in the ambassador yesterday, which is diplomatic mechanism we have, to cite concrete cases where there supposedly had been rapes of Hondurans, given that is part of an aggressive rhetoric, and express very clearly the rejection of that," said Navarrete Prida.
WASHINGTON   Washington and Beijing are slapping each other with tit-for-tat tariff threats, with U.S. President Donald Trump proposing another escalation of the dispute late on Thursday.Here is a timeline of events.March 8Trump announces import tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent for aluminum, but exempts Canada and Mexico and offers the possibility of excluding other allies.March 18Forty-five U.S. trade associations representing some of the largest companies in the country urge Trump not to impose tariffs on China, warning it would be "particularly harmful" to the U.S. economy and consumers. The group includes the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Retail Federation and the Information Technology Industry Council.April 1China increases tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, from frozen pork and wine to certain fruits and nuts, escalating the dispute in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel. The tariffs were slated to take effect on April 2.April 3Trump raises the stakes, proposing 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices. The products represent about $50 billion of estimated 2018 imports.April 4China announces it will impose additional tariffs of 25 percent on 106 U.S. goods including soybeans, autos, chemicals, some types of aircraft and corn products and other agricultural goods. The products targeted by the tariffs were worth $50 billion in 2017, according to a separate statement from the commerce ministry.In Washington, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders notes the tariffs did not go into effect immediately and says she hopes China will change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that will avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs.April 5The World Trade Organization says China sought consultations with the United States, the first step in a WTO dispute, over Washington\'s announced tariffs on the $50 billion worth of Chinese imports.The notification to the Geneva-based watchdog triggers a 60-day deadline for the two sides to settle the complaint or face litigation at the WTO by a neutral panel of arbitrators.Trump says he has instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China. In a statement, he announces the U.S. Trade Representative has determined that China "has repeatedly engaged in practices to unfairly obtain Americas intellectual property."(Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Peter Cooney)
SALEM, Ore.   The Latest on President Donald Trump\'s plan to send up to 4,000 National Guard members to the Mexico border to combat illegal immigration and drug trafficking (all times local):1:50 p.m.Former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson sent National Guard units to the Mexican border in 2010 to combat drugs and violence, but the Democrat says President Donald Trump\'s pledge to send troops for immigration control is a "terrible idea."Richardson told The Associated Press Friday that he had used troops in a targeted manner and at a time of emergency, versus what he described as Trump\'s politically-based motivations meant to boost support for the Republican\'s proposed border wall.Richardson says the deployment he ordered as governor involved a small number of troops and lasted "just for a few days."News reports at the time said Richardson deployed 82 members of the New Mexico National Guard for what was scheduled to be a 10-month deployment.Richardson says the move was effective in restoring calm along the U.S.-Mexican border and that he had worked with his counterpart at the time in the Mexican state of Chihuahua as part of a cross-border partnership aimed against drug violence.___1:40 p.m.New Hampshire has not been contacted regarding President Donald Trump\'s plan to deploy National Guard troops to the Mexican border and the governor\'s office isn\'t saying whether the state\'s troops would be deployed if requested.The plan has drawn resistance from several Democratic governors but only one Republican governor.A spokesman for Gov. Chris Sununu, a Republican, said Friday sending troops will depend "on the details of the specific request."Trump wants to send up to 4,000 Guard members to the border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking.The White House is moving forward with the plan but provided no timeline for deployment. The Republican governors of border states Arizona, New Mexico and Texas back the deployment.___1:30 p.m.Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker\'s spokeswoman says the state "stands ready to support our nation" if asked to send National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border.President Donald Trump said Thursday he wants to send up to 4,000 Guard members to the border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking.Walker spokeswoman Amy Hasenberg said Friday that while "no mission has been brought to the State of Wisconsin at this time," Wisconsin stands ready "if called."Trump\'s plan to deploy National Guard troops has drawn resistance from some governors, most of them Democrats.Democratic U.S. Rep. Mark Pocan of Wisconsin sent Walker a letter urging him not to send troops if asked, calling Trump\'s plan "grossly irresponsible" and would politicize their service.___1:15 p.m.The White House says it will continue to move forward with plans to deploy National Guard troops on the southwest border in Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas even if California refuses to cooperate.Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sander tells reporters that regardless of what California decides "we\'ll continue moving forward with the other border states."California has yet to respond to the plan Trump announced this week. Gov. Jerry Brown\'s office has referred repeated requests for comment to the California National Guard, which says it needs more information to weigh in.Sanders says the administration is working with California and hopes they\'ll "do the right thing and help protect our borders."She also says the administration hopes the Guardsman will be in place "as soon as possible," but that the timeline is to be determined.___12:45 p.m.President Donald Trump\'s plan to deploy National Guard troops to the Mexican border has drawn resistance from several Democratic governors and Nevada\'s Republican governor.But a growing number of Republican leaders said Friday that they back Trump\'s plans. Opponents may not be able to prevent the president from calling on their state National Guard troops if Trump employs a federal law.The so-called "Title 10 duty status" allows Trump to assert federal control over state guard units even if the governors of those states object.Oregon Gov. Kate Brown, a Democrat, said she will not send troops to the Mexico border if asked, but her spokesman Bryan Hockaday said that Trump could assert federal control over the state\'s Guard members.___12:30 p.m.Mississippi Republican Gov. Phil Bryant says he "fully supports" President Donald Trump\'s decision to deploy the National Guard to patrol the U.S.-Mexican border.Bryant said Friday in a statement that Mississippi\'s National Guard "will stand ready to receive the president\'s orders."Mississippi National Guard spokesman Lt. Col. Christian Patterson says about 3,500 Mississippi soldiers are now training in Texas for deployment later this year to the Middle East.Patterson says he can\'t immediately say how many of remaining members of the 12,500-member force might be suited to border deployment.As of Friday afternoon, Patterson says the state has not received orders to send troops to the border.Patterson says individual guard members have been deployed to patrol the border in the past, but says Mississippi never has had a "large presence."___11:20 a.m.Alabama\'s governor says she\'ll work with military leaders to determine whether her state\'s National Guard has spare troops to send to the Mexican border if requested by the White House.President Donald Trump wants to send as many as 4,000 Guard members to the border.Republican Gov. Kay Ivey says she will consult with the head of the Alabama Guard to see what resources are available.A statement issued Friday by Ivey\'s office cites the need not to impede Guard missions in the state.It also quotes Ivey as saying: "Alabama has a long history of supporting our military and supporting our country in times of need."Trump carried Alabama easily in the 2016 presidential election and remains very popular in the heavily Republican state.___10:30 a.m.Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval is the latest governor to oppose President Donald Trump\'s proposal to send thousands of National Guard members to the Mexico border to help fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking.Sandoval\'s spokeswoman, Mary-Sarah Kinner, said Friday in an email to The Associated Press that the Trump administration has not contacted the Republican governor\'s office about the idea.She says Sandoval doesn\'t believe the current proposal would be "an appropriate use" of the Nevada Guard.Oregon Gov. Kate Brown and Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, both Democrats, also said this week that they would say no to requests for troops from their national guards.Trump wants to send up to 4,000 Guard members to the border.The Republican governors of border states Arizona, New Mexico and Texas back the deployment.___8 a.m.North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum says he will send National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border if asked.President Donald Trump said Thursday he wants to send up to 4,000 Guard members to the border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking.The Republican Burgum said in a statement from his office Friday that governors of states along the border with Mexico are in the best position to say whether Guard troops are needed.But he says North Dakota supports those states and will help if asked.The North Dakota Guard provided air, ground and engineering support along the Mexico border under Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump first tried to disarm Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago with smooth talk and hospitality. A year later, he\'s resorted to hardball and found that Xi is willing to throw it back.The growing acrimony over trade is deepening mistrust between the two governments and roiling global markets. But at least for now, it is unlikely to spill over into sensitive national security issues, former U.S. officials and China experts say.China has no interest in escalating the dispute over tariffs and wants to reach a trade compromise with the U.S., they say. The White House also says it hopes differences can be mended through negotiations. But when Trump on Thursday doubled down on his threat to tax Chinese imports, the path to resolution appeared to narrow. China vowed Friday to "counterattack with great strength" and said negotiations were impossible under current conditions.So far, both sides have outlined plans for $50 billion in tariffs on each other\'s exports. On Thursday, Trump said he had instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider imposing $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese goods, despite opposition from some of his supporters who could be hit hard by a trade war."The Chinese have to assume that Trump is willing to go through with this," said Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, "but at the same time, a lot of it just seems he\'s trying to get leverage to force the Chinese to give him a better deal" to dramatically reduce the U.S. trade deficit with China.The barrage of tough rhetoric belies a personal rapport forged between Trump and Xi when they met at his Florida resort last April 6-7, when Trump sought Xi\'s help on North Korea and on trade.China has cooperated to an unexpected degree on North Korea by agreeing to and applying international sanctions to punish its wayward ally for developing nuclear weapons. Trump has often praised Xi for that  rhetoric that is welcomed in China\'s authoritarian political system, where great importance is vested in leadership ties.But in recent months, Washington has adopted an increasingly adversarial stance toward Beijing, and not just on trade. That trend could be intensified as Trump replaces moderates in his administration with hawks such as incoming national security adviser John Bolton, who has advocated a tougher approach toward China."The relationship is spiraling downwards, and the risk of a miscalculation or accident is only increasing," wrote Elizabeth Economy, director for Asia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.In December, the Trump administration adopted a national security strategy that identified China, along with Russia, as a "revisionist power" intent on challenging American interests. The U.S. has ruffled Beijing\'s feathers by stepping up the tempo of naval operations in the South China Sea. And Trump signed legislation last month that calls for Cabinet-level official visits to Taiwan, a self-governing island that Beijing regards as part of Chinese territory.Doug Paal, who handled Asian affairs at the White House under the Republican administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, said China views this as a gambit by Trump to exact concessions on trade. Speaking earlier this week, Paal said it hasn\'t undermined China\'s belief that Trump, who has avoided criticizing China on human rights, is someone they can work with.But Daniel Russel, who was President Barack Obama\'s point man on Asia, said Trump\'s trade gambit was playing into the Chinese perception of the U.S. as a malevolent rival bent on containing China\'s rise as a world power."The Chinese know how to play this game and have had abundant time to prepare a counterstrike strategy. It includes grabbing the moral high ground and getting other countries to look at China as a victim, not the offender, and as the defender of the international trading system," he said. "It is a ridiculous turn of events."Under Obama, the U.S. exacted an agreement from China that reduced  but did not halt  cybertheft of U.S. commercial secrets. The U.S failed to narrow the trade deficit with China, which hit a record $337.2 billion last year."We chose not to blow up the relationship," said Russel, now at the New York-based Asia Society Policy Institute. "We chose not to put the global economy at risk through some sort of suicide-vest type of challenge."Compromise on the trade dispute remains possible. The U.S. tariffs won\'t take effect for about two months, and China says it is waiting to see what Washington does."What we are seeing so far, although it\'s ugly and it\'s confrontational, it\'s still posturing," said Yun Sun, China expert at the Stimson Center think tank. "We have not yet seen the ax falling."She said the differences go beyond the level of import taxes: It\'s also about ascendancy in the high-technology economy, where China seeks global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields."Trump has made clear he wants to strike deals, but the bar is so high that the Chinese don\'t know whether they can meet it," Yun said.
DES MOINES, Iowa   Iowa ethanol and biodiesel producers warned President Donald Trump on Friday that imposing restrictions on biofuels production "would be viewed as a declaration of war on rural America."The Iowa Renewable Fuels Association, a group representing the state\'s 43 ethanol and 12 biodiesel refineries, wrote a letter to Sens. Charles Grassley and Joni Ernst on Friday. It called on them to tell Trump that limiting biofuel production would be a "complete abdication of his repeated promises" to protect the renewable fuel standard, a federal law that mandates a minimum volume of biofuels to be mixed in the nation\'s gasoline and diesel fuel supply.The group said it has heard that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt will push Trump on Monday for a proposal advocated by Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas that would significantly reduce demand for biofuels.The EPA and the White House did not immediately respond to messages seeking confirmation of a meeting.Cruz has tried to get Trump to waive some of the requirements in the federal Renewable Fuel Standard law that would ease gasoline and diesel refiners\' volume mandates. That would reduce demand for the biofuels and violate the RFS, the biofuels producers said.The biofuels producers allege that Pruitt already has taken action to lift some of the mandated blending requirements through secretive waivers to some petroleum refiners exempting them from compliance and destroying more than a billion gallons of biofuels demand."Since taking the helm at the EPA, Pruitt has repeatedly and relentlessly sought ways to subvert the President\'s RFS promises and to undermine, if not destroy, the effectiveness of the program. His anti-RFS actions must be put to an end because today Scott Pruitt is essentially making a liar out of President Trump," the group said.Trump gained early support in Iowa during his presidential campaign in part of emphasizing his support for the decades-old RFS program, which is managed by the EPA.Corn, soybeans and animal fat are used in the production of biofuels and farmers rely heavily on markets for their products created by the fuel additives.Farmers already are stinging from Trump\'s tariff fight with China which has affected pork exports and prices and the export of ethanol to China. The next round of tariffs could impact exports of soybeans for which prices already have fallen in anticipation of Chinese tariffs.Pruitt was closely aligned with the oil and gas industry as an elected Republican official in his home state of Oklahoma. He proposed modest cuts last summer to production quotas for ethanol and other biofuels, despite promises from Trump to leave the RFS alone."EPA is chipping away at the Renewable Fuel Standard by issuing secret \'hardship\' waivers to oil refining corporations making billions of dollars in profits," Grassley said in a statement, adding further erosion of the RFS would "deal a massive blow to rural America."Ernst said in a statement that she and Grassley have had countless meetings with Trump and the administration on ethanol and she is "fully committed to protecting the RFS and will not support anything that will harm the 88,000 farms in Iowa or the 50,000 jobs tied to the renewable fuels industry."The American Petroleum Institute, a trade group for the oil and natural gas industry, said it continues to work with leaders in Congress to come up with a comprehensive approach "to fixing the outdated and broken ethanol mandate.""We appreciate the president elevating this important consumer issue and support efforts to seek a legislative overhaul of the RFS," the group said in a statement.___
OVERLAND PARK, Kansas   The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is looking to find ways to shield farmers from the growing trade conflict between the United States and China, a department official said Thursday evening, without providing details of options under review."There\'s a lot of different options out there" to protect farmers, said USDA Farm Production And Conservation Under Secretary Bill Northey, speaking to Reuters after a commodity conference in Kansas.Northey was speaking after President Donald Trump ordered officials to come up with an additional round of tariffs directed at China.China responded to an initial U.S. salvo by targeting numerous goods, including agricultural staples like soybeans, the most valuable U.S. agricultural export to China.Northey says the USDA needs to "see the reaction of what tariffs will be and what the reaction of markets are".In terms of how the Trump Administration could shield farmers, Northey said there were no specific proposals yet, but "there certainly are discussions".(Reporting by Tom Polansek; writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell)
MOGADISHU, Somalia   The U.S. military says it has carried out an airstrike in Somalia against al-Shabab extremists that left three dead.A statement by the U.S. Africa Command says the latest strike was carried out Thursday afternoon near Jilib town in Middle Juba region. It says the U.S. assesses that no civilians were killed.The U.S. military has carried out 11 such airstrikes in Somalia so far this year against the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab.The U.S. carried out more than 30 drone strikes last year in Somalia after President Donald Trump approved expanded military efforts. The strikes late last year also began targeting a small presence of Islamic State group-affiliated fighters in the northern part of the Horn of Africa nation.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster leaving his job as national security adviser (all times local):4:20 p.m.Outgoing national security adviser H.R. McMaster is being "clapped-out" of the West Wing on his final day on the job by hundreds of cheering White House and National Security Council staffers arrayed on West Executive Avenue.Press secretary Sarah Sanders says McMaster and his family were greeted by President Donald Trump, who thanked him for his year-long service in the post. A three-star general, McMaster is set to retire from the Army later this year.Sanders says McMaster also held his final transition meeting Friday with his replacement, former U.S. ambassador to the UN John Bolton. Bolton starts in the job on Monday.___3 p.m.The White House is praising Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster as a "terrific person" on his last day as national security adviser.Press secretary Sarah Sanders paid tribute to McMaster, who is leaving after just over a year in office. He\'ll be replaced Monday by John Bolton, a former ambassador to the UN.Sanders says it has been "a real privilege" to work with him.Trump told McMaster last month he wants a change in his foreign policy team. They differed on policy and never developed a strong personal relationship.Trump was still fond of McMaster and had hoped to find him a suitable place in the military. But McMaster says he is retiring from the Army.
ALT-RIGHT From 4chan to the White House By Mike Wendling 294 pp. Pluto Press. Paper, $18.As Donald Trump went from reality television star to United States president, an obscure, fervently Trump-backing right-wing movement calling itself the alt-right gained wide attention. That raised a question: How should journalists, politicians or even ordinary citizens think about this group?In his book Alt Right: From 4chan to the White House, the BBC journalist Mike Wendling demonstrates that good old reporting is the answer. By paying close, critical attention to the alt-right  most important, doing so long enough to see through its fog of lies, misdirection and trolling  he has developed a well-rounded understanding of the movement, and created an important guide to one of the most disturbing political developments of our time.Each chapter in his short book takes on one aspect of the alt-right. Wendling writes about the Intellectuals (like the democracy-hating Curtis Yarvin), the Racialists (peddlers of racist pseudoscience), the Channers (4chan forum posters) and the Meninists (male anti-feminist activists). He discusses the movements abuses of language and its obsession with the media. Finally, he describes the neo-Nazis and other violent white supremacists who have come more to the front since the election of Trump. What united all these groups was a (sometimes irony-cloaked) attachment to hard-right politics, especially on race and gender, together with a seething hatred of liberals, leftists and above all social justice warriors, those campus leftists supposedly obsessed with political correctness, safe spaces and trigger warnings. The fact that the basic agenda of the alt-right is making America a safe space for white men and that its major political activity is whining on the internet when someone disrespects its cultural totems are only two signs of many of how this crowd projects its own insecurities onto others.Although Trumps victory was a tremendous boost for the alt-right, Wendling argues convincingly that it is already cracking up under the weight of its own contradictions. Winning the presidency sapped much of the strength of a movement that defines itself almost exclusively through what it hates. Wendling shrewdly notes that despite its edgy, countercultural pretensions, the alt-right is almost entirely culturally sterile. Endless piles of ephemeral internet memes aside, it has produced little or no music, literature, film or poetry.During the campaign, more moderate members like Milo Yiannopoulos presented themselves as merely trolling when making bigoted or hateful comments. But after the election the extreme elements of the movement stepped up their abuse and terrorism, as seen in Charlottesville, Va., and elsewhere. Later Buzzfeed uncovered documents showing Yiannopoulos himself had been working hand in glove with outright white supremacists to promote their views under his moderate facade.But the dishonest void at the heart of the alt-right meant it could not unite around any realistic policies, which has severely hampered it politically. The most significant representative of the movement within the Trump administration, the former Breitbart publisher Steve Bannon, was easily outmaneuvered by traditional Republicans and pushed out of the administration. Now Trumps cabinet is heavily skewed toward wealthy financiers, and the only major legislation the Republican government has managed to pass is a huge tax cut tilted toward the rich. The entire right has been duped, Wendling finds one 4chan poster concluding.However, Wendling is perhaps a little too sanguine about the alt-rights future prospects. The fact that a shameless huckster like Donald Trump managed to turn such a disparate movement into a somewhat effective political force does not bode well. The alt-right would be easy pickings for a more competent demagogue.
WASHINGTON   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt held 25-times more meetings with industry representatives than environmental advocates during his first seven months in office, according to a Reuters analysis of his schedule, reflecting the agency\'s pro-business approach under his tenure.The newly released record of Pruitt\'s schedule, obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request by the Environmental Integrity Project watchdog group, come as the White House probes allegations against Pruitt. These include his rental of a room in a Washington, D.C. condo owned by the wife of an energy industry lobbyist.The pressure mounted late on Friday as 64 Democratic members of the 435-member House of Representatives called for President Donald Trump to immediately dismiss him over a host of ethics issues and for acting to counter the mission of his agency.Three fellow Republicans in the House have also called on Pruitt to resign, but the EPA chief has widespread support from conservatives.Pruitt, a vocal doubter of mainstream climate change science, has also faced criticism for frequent first-class air travel, spending on costly items in his office - including a $43,000 soundproof telephone booth - and a trip to Morocco where he promoted U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas, something outside the remit of an environmental regulator.PRESIDENTIAL PRAISEPresident Donald Trump has praised Pruitt for aggressively pursuing his agenda to roll back regulations he sees as unnecessary to pave the way for more oil, gas, and coal production as well as removing environmental hurdles to a revival in domestic manufacturing.Trump on Thursday said Pruitt was doing a "fantastic job," and was well-loved in "coal and energy country." While Trump appears to support Pruitt, the president can change his mind quickly.Last autumn, Trump said he had confidence in Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, even after their relationship was strained over Iran and Russia policy. Trump fired Tillerson last month.Trump\'s Chief of Staff John Kelly had advocated last week for Trump to fire Pruitt, a White House official said. Trump met with Pruitt early on Friday, said the same official, who declined to say what the meeting concerned.According to the calendar, Pruitt met with representatives of the industries EPA regulates at least 105 times from Feb. 22 to Aug. 10 of last year, making up about 77 percent of his total meetings during that period.About half of those industry meetings were with representatives of the oil, gas, coal and mining industries, according to the records, including executives from companies such as oil major BP Plc, refiner Valero Energy Corp, coal producer Murray Energy and miner BHP Billiton.\'I PROSECUTE POLLUTERS\'Most of the rest of Pruitt\'s industry meetings were with representatives of agriculture, including farm groups like the National Cattlemen\'s Association, and biofuels producers like Growth Energy and POET, according to the records.But Pruitt met only four times with environmental groups eager to see the EPA limit pollution from those industries, the records show - Trout Unlimited, the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, a nonprofit association of state environmental agency leaders called ECOS, and the Alliance to Restore Our Waterways.Past EPA administrators have been criticized by conservatives for spending too much time with environmental lobbying groups and too little with industry.Pruitt, a former attorney general of Oklahoma, said through a spokesman that he does not spend any time with polluters. "I prosecute polluters. What I\'m spending time with are stakeholders who care about outcomes," he said."It\'s Washington, D.C.-think to look at folks across the country - from states to citizens to farmers and ranchers, industry in general - and say they are evil or wrong and were not going to partner with them," Pruitt said.Liz PurchiaGannon, a spokeswoman for former EPA administrator Gina McCarthy, who served under Democratic President Barack Obama, said the ratio of Pruitt\'s industry to environmental group meetings was a contrast to the ratio of meetings McCarthy held. McCarthy met frequently with utility groups while the agency worked to form the Clean Power Plan, Obama\'s top proposal to curb greenhouse gas emissions, Gannon said."As head of EPA she always met with environmental and public health groups and industry and business leaders. She believed strongly in meeting regularly with all sides, said Gannon, who did not provide data on the meetings.Pruitt also held a number of meetings with conservative policy think tanks like the Heritage Foundation, and the Family Research Council, a religious group that argues that homosexual conduct is harmful to society, according to the records.A portion of Pruitt\'s schedule covering his first few months in office had already been released by the EPA, but the latest batch covers the broadest period so far.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner, Richard Valdmanis in Boston, and Steve Holland; editing by Bernadette Baum, Susan Thomas and G Crosse)
SEOUL   South Korea said on Friday it has notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) that it seeks to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods worth $480 million, in response to U.S. measures against South Korean imports.U.S. President Donald Trump slapped a steep tariff on imported washing machines and solar panels in February to protect American manufacturers, prompting a fierce backlash from South Korea and China.South Korea's trade ministry said in a statement that it has informed the WTO Council for Trade in Goods that its plan to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods, which are equal in value to the South Korean washing machines and solar panels affected by U.S. tariffs.The trade ministry said it plans to produce details on which U.S. products will be subject to the suspension closer to when it takes effect. Under the WTO framework, a country's right of suspension on concessions of a trading partner cannot be exercised for up to three years from when the trading partner's safeguards take effect.U.S. President Trump has stepped up trade protectionist actions by raising tariffs to guard U.S. manufacturing. Amid escalating fears of a trade war, Trump said on Thursday he had ordered an additional $100 billion new tariffs on China.He has also taken issue with U.S. trade imbalances with South Korea. In March, the two countries agreed to revise an existing bilateral trade agreement in principle, with Seoul giving more market access to U.S. autos, while Korean steelmakers avoided hefty steel tariffs.(Reporting By Jane Chung and Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Sam Holmes)
NEW YORK   The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):4 p.m.Another flare-up in trade tensions between the U.S. and China sent the stock market sharply lower for the second time this week.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 572 points Friday, having traded down as much as 767. It fell modestly for the week.Caterpillar dropped 3.5 percent, the most in the Dow. Caterpillar and other industrial companies rely heavily on overseas sales and could suffer if commerce is curtailed by rising trade barriers.The latest market swing came after President Donald Trump proposed tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.The Dow recovered some of its worse losses to end down 2.3 percent at 23,932.The S&P 500 fell 58 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604. The Nasdaq composite dropped 161 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.___2 p.m.Stocks are falling sharply again as trade tensions heat up between the U.S. and China.The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 620 points in afternoon trading Friday, its latest big swing this week.Aerospace giant Boeing fell the most in the Dow, dropping 3.4 percent. Boeing and other industrial companies rely heavily on overseas sales and could suffer greatly if global commerce is curtailed by rising trade barriers.Technology companies and banks also fell. Apple lost 2 percent and JPMorgan Chase gave up 2.9 percent.The Dow fell 588 points, or 2.4 percent, at 23,909.The S&P 500 fell 56 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,607. The Nasdaq composite dropped 139 points, or 2 percent, to 6,937.___11:45 a.m.Stocks are falling again as trade tensions heat up between the U.S. and China.Technology companies, banks and industrial stocks were falling the most in midday trading Friday. Apple lost 1.4 percent and Boeing fell 2.6 percent.The market has been on a bumpy ride this week as traders try to get a sense of whether a trade dispute between the two nations will escalate. President Donald Trump has proposed more tariffs on Chinese goods.The S&P 500 fell 27 points, or 1 percent, to 2,635. The index is now down for the week.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 346 points, or 1.4 percent, to 24,158. The Nasdaq composite declined 59 points, or 0.9 percent, to 7,016.The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.78 percent.___9:35 a.m.Stocks are opening lower after President Donald Trump proposed more tariffs on Chinese goods.Industrial companies were especially hard hit by the escalation in trade tensions Friday. Aerospace giant Boeing fell 1.1 percent.There wasn't much for investors to like in the government's latest jobs report either. Employers added 103,000 jobs last month, the weakest showing in months, and January and February's numbers were also revised lower.The S&P 500 fell 11 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,651.The Dow Jones industrial average lost 152 points, or 0.6 percent, to 24,347. The Nasdaq composite declined 20 points, or 0.3 percent, to 7,056.Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.80 percent.
MOGADISHU   The U.S. military said on Friday it had killed three militants after launching an air strike in Somalia against al Shabaab, a militant Islamist group allied with al Qaeda.The military\'s Africa Command (Africom) said they carried out the strike on April 5 near the town of Jilib, about 230 miles (370 km) southwest of Mogadishu."In coordination with the Federal Government of Somalia, U.S. Forces conducted an air strike against Al-Shabaab militants near Jilib ... killing three terrorists and destroying one  vehicle with a mounted heavy machine gun," it said in a statement.Washington has expanded its operations in the Horn of Africa country after President Donald Trump eased combat rules last year.Since withdrawing from the capital Mogadishu in 2011, al Shabaab lost control of most of Somalia\'s cities and towns. But they retain a strong presence in regions outside the capital.On Friday, one soldier was killed by a militant who attacked a checkpoint in Mogadishu. A car bomb in the same place injured two other soldiers.Al Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack.(Reporting by Abdi Sheikh; Writing by Aaron Maasho; Editing by Richard Balmforth)
WASHINGTON   Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump\'s campaign played any role in providing it, three sources familiar with the inquiries said.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had deleted 70 Facebook accounts, 138 Facebook pages and 65 Instagram accounts that it said were "controlled" by the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a  Russian propaganda arm based in St. Petersburg.Last September, Facebook disclosed that it had suspended about 470 "inauthentic accounts" that it believed were "likely operated out of Russia" and had purchased 3,000 ads which "appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages."And on Wednesday, the social media platform said the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify on April 10 and 11 to Congress.In an indictment in February, Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating possible Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, charged IRA and 13 Russians with conspiring to interfere in U.S. politics and elections. Moscow denies tampering in U.S. elections and President Trump denies any coordination between his campaign and Russian officials.Among the issues investigators on the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee and Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee are digging into are whether IRA and other Russian organizations used any Facebook data, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Also, whether the use of such data had any impact on the U.S. election, and how much Facebook data may have been acquired by Russian entities, the sources said.Zuckerberg last month disclosed that in 2013, Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, who ran a company called Global Science Research (GSR), created a personality quiz app that was installed by about 300,000 Facebook users.Zuckerberg said that because of the way the Facebook platform worked at the time, this gave Kogan access to data of "tens of millions" of friends of users who took the quiz.On Wednesday, Mike Schroepfer, Facebook\'s Chief Technology Officer, acknowledged in a public posting that "the Facebook information of up to 87 million people - mostly in the US - may have been improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg said Facebook learned in 2015 that Kogan shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. The London-based consulting firm received millions of dollars from the Trump campaign and a political action committee supported by financier Robert Mercer, who supported Trump. Zuckerberg said Kogan "misused" Facebook\'s data.Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Wednesday that it "did not use any" data it acquired from Kogan\'s company in work related to the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. The firm added that it took legal action against GSR, and that it "immediately deleted the raw data" from its server when it learned from Facebook that the data had been "improperly obtained."Representative Adam Schiff, the House intelligence committee\'s top Democrat, sent Kogan a letter requesting correspondence and message traffic on his dealings with Cambridge Analytica and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, any material related to Russia, and that Kogan agree to an interview.Kogan said in an email to Reuters that he knows nothing about Facebook data being obtained by Russia and had never heard of the Internet Research Agency "until a few weeks ago."(Reporting By Mark Hosenball; editing by John Walcott and Grant McCool)
WASHINGTON/NEW YORK   U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions ramped up calls on Friday to criminally prosecute immigrants who cross illegally into the United States, adding to a barrage of statements on immigration by the administration of President Donald Trump this week.Pointing to an upswing in border crossings to levels seen during former President Barack Obama\'s tenure, Sessions said he was ordering U.S. attorneys offices near the Southwest border to prioritize bringing cases against first-time offenders.Once border crossers are charged with illegal entry and deported, they can be charged with a felony carrying significant jail time if they are caught crossing illegally again.Trump signed a memorandum on Friday ordering the end of the policy known as "catch and release," in which illegal immigrants are released from detention while awaiting a court hearing on their status.Ending "catch and release" was one of Trump\'s central promises during the 2016 campaign, but immigration authorities have faced a shortage of space to house people who have been detained.Among the measures outlined in the memo, Trump directed the departments of Defense and Homeland Security to produce a list of military facilities that could be used to detain illegal immigrants.Earlier this week Trump pledged to deploy the National Guard to assist with border operations because he has not been able to secure funding to fulfill a central campaign promise of building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis signed a memo on Friday authorizing the deployment of up to 4,000 National Guard troops. The memo said the troops "will not perform law enforcement activities or interact with migrants."About 150 National Guard members from Arizona will deploy to the border next week, Arizona Governor Doug Ducey said on Twitter. The Texas National Guard said it was preparing to send about 250 troops to the border within three days.The United States has sent military to the border a number of times over the years.Sessions directed the U.S. attorneys offices in southern California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas to prosecute all the cases referred to under the criminal entry statute, known as 1325, "to the extent practicable."Sessions in April 2017 had instructed prosecutors to increase their focus on criminally charging first-time offenders as well as people with multiple entries.Some federal prosecutors, defense attorneys and judges have expressed concerns that charging border crossers en masseis a drain on court resources.Supporters of Session\'s approach have said that criminal penalties deter repeat crossers, while detractors have said the prosecutions can deny legitimate asylum seekers the ability to properly file claims."This will be assembly-line justice, where large numbers of defendants are forced through the system without adequate time to consult counsel," Cecillia Wang, a deputy legal director at the American Civil Liberties Union, said in a statement.In December 2017, a group of immigrant advocacy organizations filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security\'s Civil Rights and Civil Liberties division claiming that some immigrants being criminally prosecuted for crossing the border were being forcibly separated from their children.A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment on the complaint.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch in Washington and Mica Rosenberg in New York; Additional reporting by Reade Levinson in New York and Eric Beech in Washington; Editing by Leslie Adler)
WASHINGTON   Higher prices. Slower growth. Farmers losing access to their biggest foreign market.Even President Donald Trump is warning that Americans might have to accept "a little pain" before they enjoy the fruits of his escalating trade fight with China.On the pain part, if not necessarily on the "little" part, most economists agree with the president: The tariffs the United States and China are preparing to slap on each other\'s goods would take an economic toll.For now, optimists are clinging to tentative signals from the Trump administration that it may be prepared to negotiate with Beijing and avert a trade war.But Wall Street is getting increasingly nervous. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 572 points Friday after being down as much as 767."There are no winners in trade wars," said Nathan Sheets, chief economist at PGIM Fixed Income. "There are only losers."On Thursday, Trump ordered the U.S. trade representative to consider imposing tariffs on up to $100 billion worth of Chinese products. Those duties would come on top of the $50 billion in products the U.S. has already targeted in a dispute over Beijing\'s sharp-elbowed drive to supplant America\'s technological supremacy.China has proposed tariffs of $50 billion on U.S. products that will squeeze apple growers in Washington, soybean farmers in Indiana and winemakers in California. And Beijing warned Friday that it will "counterattack with great strength" if the United States ups the ante.Of course, it may not come to that."We\'re absolutely willing to negotiate," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Friday on CNBC, adding, "I\'m cautiously optimistic that we\'ll be able to work this out."At the same time, Mnuchin warned, "There is the potential of a trade war."Economists are already calculating the potential damage if talks collapse and give way to the biggest trade dispute since World War II.The dueling tariffs could shave 0.3 percentage points off both U.S. and Chinese annual economic growth, according to estimates by Gregory Daco, head of U.S. economics for the research firm Oxford Economics.In the United States, Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody\'s Analytics, said the dispute could wipe out half the economic benefits of the tax cut Trump signed into law with great fanfare in December."There\'s lots of different channels through which this hurts the economy," Zandi said. "The most obvious is, it raises import prices. If American consumers have to spend more on Chinese imports, they have less to spend on everything else."In the first $50 billion in planned tariffs, the Trump administration was careful to limit the impact on American consumers, sticking mostly to industrial products such as robots and engine parts.But if the administration tries to triple the tariffs, they will be more likely to hit the low-price Chinese products that American households have come to rely on, namely electronics, toys and clothing.The administration appears to be betting that China will back down because it has more to lose. It sent $375 billion in goods to the U.S. last year, while the United States sent only $130 billion worth of products to China.But China has other ways to retaliate. It could cancel aircraft orders from Boeing. It could meddle with U.S. supply chains by disrupting shipments from Chinese factories to American companies. Or it could raise U.S. interest rates by selling Treasury bonds or buying fewer of them.The Chinese appear confident they can withstand more pain than Americans can. In a democracy like the U.S., "if people start to hurt, they\'re going to complain," said Sheets, who was undersecretary for international affairs in the Obama administration Treasury Department.They\'re complaining already.Zippy Duvall, president of the American Farm Bureau Federation lobbying group, warned that the dispute has "placed farmers and ranchers in a precarious position.""We have bills to pay and debts we must settle, and cannot afford to lose any market, much less one as important as China," Duvall said.Last year, the United States sold $12.4 billion in soybeans to China  nearly 60 percent of all U.S. soybean exports.Trump, who received overwhelming support in rural America in the 2016 presidential election, has directed Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue "to implement a plan to protect our farmers and agricultural interests." But a move to support American farmers could widen the trade dispute."Farmers in countries like Australia, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and Europe would now find it difficult to compete with newly subsidized U.S. agriculture," said Chad Bown, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "As a result, they might demand retaliation against U.S. exports or subsidies of their own."___AP Business Writer Marcy Gordon in Washington contributed to this report.___

OVERLAND PARK, Kan.   U.S. lawmakers and the farm industry were skeptical of the Trump administrations promise to shield farmers from the rapidly escalating trade dispute between the United States and China,  concerned about the lack of details in protecting the U.S. agricultural export sector now embroiled in the back-and-forth.Major farming states supported U.S. President Donald Trump in big numbers in the 2016 election, but lawmakers from those states were harsh in their criticism on Friday of proposed tariffs that have unsettled both the industry and agricultural trading markets.It is unclear what types of options exist to protect the sector, though expectations were that the omnibus farm bill, the U.S. government\'s main food and agricultural policy tool, could include crop insurance and potentially other subsidies that could address the concerns. That bill is up for renewal this year."This is not a good situation. It just isn\'t," said U.S. Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee.However, no specific proposals for protecting farmers have been suggested, and farming industry representatives were leery of tariff relief."We have heard no specific proposals and haven\'t offered any," said Will Rodger, director of policy communications at the American Farm Bureau Federation, the largest farm lobby group in the nation. "Our preferred outcome is a negotiated solution so that neither China nor the U.S. actually imposes tariffs."Beijing rattled markets on Wednesday by threatening extra levies on U.S. goods including soybeans, the most valuable U.S. farm export to China, in retaliation for earlier U.S. trade actions. Fears later eased as many cited China\'s reliance on U.S. soybeans.But on Friday, China warned it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" if the United States follows through on Trump\'s latest threat on Thursday to impose tariffs on an extra $100 billion in Chinese goods.White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the dispute might be resolved in a matter of months but that Trump\'s threat was not a bluff. U.S. stocks tumbled on Friday as investors worried about an escalating trade war.The administration has said it would find a way to protect farmers, but U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary Bill Northey told Reuters on Thursday there were no specific plans yet. "There\'s a lot of different options out there," he said.U.S. Senator Jerry Moran of Kansas, a Republican, said on the sidelines of a commodities conference in Kansas on Friday that he would support help for farmers, even though taxpayers would have to foot the bill for additional support for agriculture. Kansas was the nation\'s largest producer of wheat and sorghum in 2016, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.He added that the "better way to handle this is not to put the farmer in the damaging position in the first place."On Thursday, before Trump threatened extra tariffs, Roberts said the trade conflict created a background of uncertainty for negotiating the farm bill. The current bill was passed in 2014 and was expected to cost $489 billion over five years; it expires at the end of 2018."Farmers have to have some degree of predictability and stability," he said on the sidelines of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission conference in Kansas. "This kind of environment certainly doesn\'t provide that."U.S. farmers  particularly those who grow commodity grains and oilseeds, such as corn and soybeans  already benefit from a number of government-backed programs. These include subsidized premiums for federal crop insurance, which helps protect farmers against weather and insect damage and against low prices for their crops.But whatever options the White House chooses, they could cause more problems than they solve, said Chad P. Bown, a trade expert with the Peterson Institute for International Economics. He said tariff-specific subsidies to U.S. farmers could incentivize them to produce more goods at a time when global grain supply is at near-historic highs.In the previous century, farm bills subsidized farmland and grain purchases, a practice that was eventually ended.The question is: What kind of support would he have in mind? Bown said, referring to Trump.Soybean futures have dropped 1.5 percent over the last five days as the dispute has heated up."If (farmers) are worried about the price that theyre going to get eventually, theyre going to invest less, theyre less likely to spend on fertilizer and seed, though most of those decisions have been made already," said Jonas Oxgaard, senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co."It is my hope the Trump Administration will reconsider these tariffs and pursue policies that enhance our competitiveness, rather than reduce our access to foreign markets," U.S. Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa said in a statement.Iowa is the No. 2 U.S. agriculture state in terms of farm cash receipts, led by corn, hogs, soybeans, cattle and dairy products. Its soybean production was valued at nearly $6 billion in 2016, according to the USDA.(Reporting by Tom Polansek in Overland Park, Kansas; P.J. Huffstutter and Karl Plume in Chicago, Ayenat Mersie in New York and Richard Cowan in Washington; Writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Susan Thomas and Matthew Lewis)
LONDON   Euro zone government bond yields dipped as a trade dispute between the U.S. and China flared up again.Government bonds in major developed economies, considered a safe investment in uncertain times, have seesawed this week as U.S. President Donald Trump wrangles with Beijing over tariffs, raising prospects of a full-blown trade war between the world\'s two largest economies.An apparent easing in tensions earlier in the week pushed euro zone yields higher as investors shed safe-haven assets. That move reversed on Friday after Trump directed U.S. trade officials to identify options for tariffs on $100 billion more of Chinese imports.Beijing warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States followed through, adding that no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances.The news benefited euro zone borrowing costs, which dropped 2-4 basis points on the day.The yield on 10-year German government debt, the euro zone benchmark, dipped 2.7 basis points in late trades to 0.494 percent, erasing much of Thursday\'s rise <DE10YT=RR>."Yesterday, yields were rising on hopes that China and the U.S. will find a solution, but with the change in sentiment, yields are retracting," DZ Bank strategist Sebastian Fellechner said. "But the bigger picture is that the market is pricing in trade tensions, if you look at where Bund yields are now."European Central Bank board member Benoit Coeure said on Friday that fears of a trade war triggered by U.S tariffs are already raising borrowing costs and pushing down share prices, and have "contributed to tighter financial conditions".Persistently low inflation and a scaling back of  expectations for European economic growth are also fuelling demand for euro zone bonds.German 10-year yields are about 30 basis points below the high they reached in February, and most other euro zone yields are similarly below equivalent highs, hit on expectations the European Central Bank would tighten policy.The Bank of Italy urged the ECB on Friday to be cautious in tightening monetary policy, warning of the risks of a sudden end to asset buying or sharp rises in interest rates.Elsewhere, U.S. Treasury prices gained on Friday after employers added fewer jobs than expected in March.The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries was 5.5 bps lower at 2.7789 percent in European trade, and the gap over the German equivalent was 228 bps, just a few basis points below the one-year high in March.The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as the boost from mild temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market.(Reporting by Abhinav Ramnarayan; Additional reporting by Fanny Potkin; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
NASHVILLE, Tenn.   A federal immigration raid that took 97 people into custody at a Tennessee meat processing plant may be the biggest employment crackdown under President Donald Trump\'s administration, civil rights activists said Friday.Eleven people were arrested on criminal charges and 86 were detained for being in the country illegally, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Tammy Spicer said in a statement Friday.The Thursday raid on Southeastern Provision, a meat processing plant in Bean Station in eastern Tennessee, is the largest single worksite immigration enforcement action since the administration of President George W. Bush, said Jessie Hahn, labor and employment policy attorney at the National Immigration Law Center."This is part of the stepped-up Trump mass deportation enforcement agenda for sure," Hahn said.The current administration has promised to crack down on employers who hire immigrants living in the country illegally, and several raids have taken place across the country. A total of 21 people were arrested after immigration agents raided 7-11 stores nationwide in January.A Tennessee activist said the processing plant raid is another example of the emphasis on enforcement."What we saw here, while it is the largest and certainly credibly egregious raid, it does fit in the larger practice and patterns of the Trump administration of targeting workers, indiscriminately arresting immigrants and really terrorizing communities across the country," said Stephanie Teatro, co-executive director of the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights Coalition.Spicer declined to confirm whether it is largest workplace raid under the current president.Officials with ICE, Homeland Security, the IRS Criminal Investigation Division and the Tennessee Highway Patrol executed a federal search warrant on the meat processing plant Thursday morning, Spicer said. During the search, Homeland Security officials encountered 97 people who are subject to removal from the U.S., she said. Ten workers were arrested on federal criminal charges, and another was arrested on a state charge. Of the 86 people arrested and placed in deportation proceedings, ICE kept 54 in detention and released 32 from custody, Spicer said.An affidavit filed with the search warrant and signed by a special agent with the IRS says the government has probable cause to believe that the company and its owners have committed tax evasion and are employing immigrants in the country illegally. An undercover police officer was hired at the company using a false name and he was paid in cash, the affidavit filed by IRS Special Agent Nicholas Worsham said.Court records say James Brantley is the president of the business and his wife, Pamela,  is listed as an employee. Public records do not list their phone number. The Associated Press left phone and email messages with company but they were not returned.Several children had both parents placed in detention and many did not show up for school Friday because of fear in the immigrant community, Teatro said.Many of the people employed at the plant had worked there for years and are long-standing members of this rural community, she said.Rights activists have mobilized to help with donations and legal assistance and people have rallied to help the workers and their families, Teatro said."That\'s because in the face of the threats of the Trump administration, communities have been organizing and coming together to defend their rights and we\'re not going to stop organizing, and the community isn\'t going to stop standing with these families until they\'re returned home."
MEXICO CITY   A "caravan" of Central American migrants pressed on through Mexico on Friday, greatly diminished in size a day after hundreds of exhausted members left a field where they had been stranded all week, pressured by government officials who have been under fire from U.S. President Donald Trump.About 800 people were left in the caravan, said Irineo Mujica, director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, a group that has since 2010 been staging annual caravans to ensure safe passage for migrants and draw attention to their rights.This year\'s caravan had about 1,500 migrants at its peak, but people began to leave the group after immigration authorities stalled it in the southern town of Matias Romero and screened men, women, and children following pressure from Trump.Organizers later decided to end the caravan in Mexico City instead of the U.S. border as had previously been intended.Pueblo Sin Fronteras director Mujica told Mexican radio from Campo Nuevo in the eastern state of Veracruz that he was with about 150 migrants from the caravan who were waiting to board a train on Friday.Another 600 migrants, he said, mostly from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, had already made it to the central city of Puebla for a conference with U.S. and Mexican immigration lawyers who were due to give instructions on how to seek asylum.Earlier, he had told Reuters the group was struggling to find transportation for the migrants. By Thursday evening, most of the women and children had boarded buses, leaving the park which since Sunday had been littered with piles of clothes and makeshift tents. The men, packs on their backs and lacking bus fare, prepared to board a freight train or to walk 24 hours to the next city.Though not all of the migrants in the caravan who spoke with Reuters said they wanted asylum in the United States or Mexico, at least a dozen described facing lethal threats from gangs or even their own authorities."Even in the night, it\'s not hot, but the cold assaults you," Carlos Francisco Portillo, a former soldier from El Salvador, said of the long walk. "You can\'t advance much," added another migrant from Nicaragua.The train was barely safer, added Portillo, unless you strapped yourself to the roof for sleep to avoid falling off. His choice was to either take the freight train, walk all night, or head home to near certain death from a gang.(Editing by David Gregorio)
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   California Gov. Jerry Brown has been silent on President Donald Trump\'s call this week for National Guard troops to help protect the southern border with Mexico.That contrasts with the Democratic governor\'s quick response when Trump\'s administration recently sued over the deep blue state\'s immigration policy days before the president journeyed to San Diego to view his border wall prototypes earlier this year. That was just the latest jousting in the escalating feud between the Trump administration and California, which has resisted the president at almost every turn on issues from marijuana policy to climate change.Here are some of the questions and answers on relations between the Trump administration and California:WHAT DOES TRUMP WANT FROM CALIFORNIA?The president wants to send 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border to help federal authorities combat illegal immigration and drug trafficking. It isn\'t clear how many he would seek from California. They would provide support but not go on patrols or make arrests. Republican governors in the other border states of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas backed the deployment. Even Iowa\'s Republican governor offered to send National Guard troops from the Midwest. Democratic governors in Oregon and Montana have said they wouldn\'t send troops.The California Guard already has 55 employees helping fight drug trafficking, surveillance in the San Diego Harbor, repairing fences, roads and culverts, and analyzing criminal activity in cooperation with state and federal law enforcement agencies.HOW HAS BROWN RESPONDED?Brown has personally spoken with U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and other federal officials, but he hasn\'t publicly commented or made a decision. His office has instead referred questions to a spokesman for the California National Guard, which has said it needs more details.That\'s in contrast to Brown\'s sharp response last month when U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions sued to block three California laws to protect immigrants who are in the country illegally, which Brown called "a political stunt."The National Guard says it can\'t respond until it has more information, including who would pay for the deployment, how long it would last, and what it is expected to accomplish.Brown\'s decision might depend on the mission: would California troops be fighting international drug smugglers, or helping block immigrants from crossing the border?WHY IS BROWN KEEPING HIS POWDER DRY?He may just be weighing the state\'s policy and waiting for those answers, says Claremont McKenna College political science professor Jack Pitney. "Trump\'s plan is pretty vague. It\'s possible at the end that Trump\'s request is somewhat reasonable," Pitney says. "In contrast to his 1970s persona as an eccentric, Jerry Brown is actually a pretty cautious warrior and he\'s probably just weighing the policy merits of this move."ARE THERE POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS?Yes, on both sides, says San Jose State University political science professor says Larry Gerston. Trump is appealing to his conservative base, he says, not only on immigration but on issues as broad as gay rights and automobile emissions, all touchstones for California\'s liberal majority. "The list goes on and on and on and so the governor from his perspective has to ask himself \'Why? Why should I be interested in cooperating when I\'m getting nothing back from the federal government,\'" he said. "So I do think that policy and politics come together here."WHAT\'S THE WHITE HOUSE SAY?Trump spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the administration will "absolutely" move forward with other border states if California balks at providing National Guard troops."We\'re working with states\' governors right now to go through this process and we hope to have National Guard on the ground as soon as possible," she said Friday. "And we\'re going to continue to work with California and we\'re hopeful that they\'ll do the right thing and help protect our borders."
BEIJING   Chinese state media on Friday slammed Donald Trump\'s threat of more trade action against China as "ridiculous" after the U.S President called for an additional $100 billion of tariffs, escalating an already high-stakes trade dispute between the two nations."This latest intimidation reflects the deep arrogance of some American elites in their attitude towards China," the state-run Global Times said in an editorial.Trump said on Thursday he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, upping the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world\'s two biggest economies.In making the call for extra tariffs, Trump wanted to vent his anger with a "bomb-like" statement, the newspaper said, adding that whether the tariffs are actually put into effect and what the consequences will be "are secondary to him."Washington on Tuesday proposed $50 billion in duties on Chinese goods aimed at forcing Beijing to address what the United States says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies.China hit back within hours with its own threatened tariffs on U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals.The widely read Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Partys official Peoples Daily, although its stance does not necessarily reflect Chinese government policy.Financial markets have been unnerved for days by the trade fight and Trump\'s management of it, with the president\'s latest salvo sending U.S.  stock futures tumbling and pushing up the safe-have yen.Earlier on Friday, the People\'s Daily described the U.S. trade action against China as akin to "climbing a tree to catch fish."Washington\'s attempts at reducing its trade deficit by engaging in a trade war were compounding its mistakes, it added."History and reality have repeatedly proved that economic globalization has provided a strong impetus for the development of international trade and economics," the newspaper said, adding that the United States was "one of the biggest beneficiaries" of this.Instead of asking China to reduce its exports to address the trade imbalance, the United States should increase its own exports, the editorial said, adding that Washington was already restricting its exports to China, especially of high-tech products.In Moscow on Thursday, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi also accused the United States of picking the "wrong target" with its tariffs against China."The United States thought that it would be cheaper to engage in protectionism and it was a miscalculation," he said, according to comments posted on the Chinese foreign ministry\'s website."China and the United States are both big countries in the world and should respect each other and treat each other as equals," he added.(Reporting by Tom Daly and Min Zhang; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON   The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington\'s most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "malign  activity."The action, taken under pressure from the U.S. Congress, freezes the U.S. assets of oligarchs such as aluminium tycoon  Oleg Deripaska, a close associate of Putin, and lawmaker Suleiman Kerimov, whose family controls Russia\'s largest gold producer, Polyus.The sanctions largely respond to what U.S. intelligence agencies have said was Russian interference in the presidential election, although the Treasury Department painted them as a response to a series of adversarial actions by Moscow.U.S. President Donald Trump has been under fire for not taking strong action against Russia after a series of diplomatic disputes reminiscent of the Cold War era. The sanctions could complicate his hopes for good relations with Putin.Relations already had worsened recently as the United States expelled Russian diplomats over a poisoning case in Britain and imposed sanctions on Russians for alleged links to cyber attacks.The latest move is aimed at seven Russian oligarchs and 12 companies they own or control, plus 17 senior Russian government officials. They freeze the U.S. assets of the people and companies named and forbid Americans in general from doing business with them.Trump has faced criticism - including from fellow Republicans - for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling. The U.S. Treasury Department said the sanctions were in response to Russia\'s "malign activity," including its actions in Ukraine, its support of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria\'s civil war and subverting Western democracies.U.S. intelligence agencies last year accused Russia of using hacking, false information and propaganda to disrupt the 2016 elections and try to ensure Trump defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. Russia denies interfering in the election.Preparations for a meeting between Trump and Putin will not be affected by the sanctions, the White House said."As the president has said, he wants to have a good relationship with Russia but that\'s going to depend on some of the actions by the Russians," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters.Russia said it would respond firmly to the sanctions."Of course we will not leave this current and any new anti-Russian attack without a harsh answer," Russia\'s foreign ministry said in a statement. "But first of all we would like to recommend that Washington discard illusions that we can be spoken to in the language of sanctions."OLIGARCHS AND ELITESThe sanctions could hurt the Russian economy, especially the aluminium, financial and energy sectors, and are a clear message to Putin and his inner circle of U.S. displeasure.Others on the sanctions list include Viktor Vekselberg, key owner of Renova holding group who Forbes magazine ranks as Russia\'s 9th richest businessman. He is famous for bringing back a collection of Faberge eggs to Russia.Also targeted is Kirill Shamalov, a minority shareholder with petrochemical company Sibur. Shamalov married Putin\'s youngest daughter Katerina in 2013 but unconfirmed media reports say they have since split.The CEO of Russia\'s gas exporter Gazprom, Alexei Miller, said he was proud to be targeted by sanctions."Not being included in the first list I even had some doubts - maybe something is wrong (with me)? But I am finally included. This means that we are doing everything right," Miller said through his spokesman, referring to an earlier U.S. list of Russian oligarchs.Gazprom has relationships with major foreign companies, especially in Europe. Gazprom itself is not under sanctions, but the inclusion of Miller on the blacklist could create complicated legal dilemmas for partner companies. Although they are under European Union jurisdiction, they will not want to fall foul of any U.S. legislationDeripaska\'s blacklisting will also reverberate around the world because his empire has a global footprint and counts major multinationals as partners, including German automaker Volkswagen.Deripaska called the decision to target him "very unfortunate but not unexpected.""Certainly the grounds for putting my name on the list of SDNs as provided by U.S. officials are groundless, ridiculous and absurd," he said, in a statement sent to Reuters by a spokesperson for his industrial group Basic Element. SDN stands for "Specially Designated National."A Cyprus-based company tied to Deripaska sued Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, two former aides to Trumps presidential campaign, in a New York state court in January, accusing them of misappropriating more than $18.9 million earmarked for deals in Ukraine in 2008.Shares in some Russian companies targeted by the sanctions plummeted. EN+ Group, which manages Deripaska\'s aluminium and hydropower assets, ended down 20.9 percent on the London stock exchange.Rusal, a Russian aluminium giant fell 10 percent on the Moscow Exchange.Douglas Jacobson, an attorney with Jacobson Burton Kelley firm in Washington, said most international Western banks would shy away from helping the companies targeted on Friday to raise capital. These companies now are radioactive," he said.The Treasury Department has told investors they have until May 7 to divest any stocks, bonds or other holdings of the Russian companies En+ <ENP.q.L>, GAZ,and Rusal. For the 12 companies named on Friday, Treasury said any contracts and activities must be terminated in 60 days.RUSSIA AND TRUMPBob Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, urged Trump to set out a clear strategy."Nearly 15 months into this administration, the American people and our allies are still questioning whether the president is willing to fully defend our democracy and our national security," said Menendez, co-author of the law under which Friday\'s sanctions were imposed.U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller is investigating whether Trump\'s election campaign colluded with Russia, something that Trump denies.Trump angered many members of Congress by failing for months to implement sanctions on Russia that lawmakers passed nearly unanimously last year. But Daniel Fried, the U.S. governments former coordinator of sanctions policy under President Barack Obama, said the sanctions list "is a solid piece of work.Putin\'s government has been blamed for the poisoning of a former Russian double agent living in Britain last month and the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and Patricia Zengerle; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu, Tim Ahmann and Susan Heavey in Washington, Nathan Lane, Michael Erman and Karen Freifeld in New York and Andrew Osborn, Katya Golubkova, Gleb Stolyarov and Oksana Kobzeva, Denis Pinchuk, Christian Lowe and Gabrielle Tetrault-Farber in Moscow; Writing by Alistair Bell and Mary Milliken; Editing by Yara Bayoumy, Bill Trott and Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON   When Liu He, Chinese President Xi Jinping\'s top economic adviser, came to Washington in late February, he was expected to make arrangements for restarting trade talks that President Donald Trump had put on ice.But just as Liu arrived, the Trump administration announced  global steel and aluminum tariffs aimed at punishing China for what Washington says is its overproduction of steel that hurts U.S. steel makers. The announcement came a day ahead of a meeting planned with Trump\'s economic point men, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and then White House adviser Gary Cohn.Pessimistic Trump officials had said the Liu meeting would probably go nowhere. "People expect that whatever the Chinese offer it will be insufficient," a White House official told Reuters just hours ahead of the meeting.The timing of the announcement, whether deliberately aimed at embarrassing Liu or not, was emblematic of the Trump administration\'s more confrontational approach to what the United States has long viewed as China\'s unfair trade practices.It was the opening salvo in a pattern of escalation that continued this week as Trump slapped first $50 billion in tariffs on China and then said he would seek $100 billion more after Beijing struck back.(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2GXE9qr)The rapid tit-for-tat escalation, which has brought the world\'s two biggest economies to the edge of a trade war, is being driven by anti-China economist Peter Navarro and U.S trade negotiator Robert Lighthizer, who cut his teeth in trade deals with Japan in the 1980s.Navarro has moved from the sidelines to center stage following the departure of Trump\'s economic adviser Cohn, who quit in protest over the punitive steel tariffs on China. While Cohn shared Navarro\'s view that China\'s unfair trade practices must end, he had instead advocated enlisting help from Europe and Japan to pressure Beijing, sources said.Cohn failed to persuade Trump to that point of view. One White House official said that Navarro is now the dominant voice in the room on China trade. "Once they (Navarro and Lighthizer) get his (Trump\'s) ear, it\'s hard to walk him back to a more reasonable place," said one person close to the White House.Trump does not need much convincing. He has long criticized China\'s trade practices and it was a recurrent theme in his 2016  election campaign. With Cohn and other moderating voices now gone from his administration, White House officials say he now feels more able to keep his campaign promises.Trump\'s negotiating style, honed in his years as a real estate developer, is to take extreme positions to force concessions from his opponents. So far that approach has had mixed results at home and abroad.\'WE CAN\'T JUST TRUST\'While the Trump administration has signaled it is open to negotiating with China to avoid a trade war, it is no mood for talks that produce vague promises but no verifiable results."We can\'t just trust. We need to verify and we need to make sure that if we do get into a negotiation situation where China is making commitments, they have to be commitments that we know that theyre going to follow through on," an administration official told Reuters on Thursday."We cant simply just take, \'Dont worry well stop,\' as an acceptable outcome any more, said the official, who could not be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.U.S. trade officials now largely echo Trump\'s view that as the importer, the United States holds the whip hand in any talks, citing Chinese exports to the U.S. of $500 billion a year versus American exports to China of just $130 billion.With tempers running hot on both sides, there is little imminent prospect of getting Washington and Beijing to the negotiating table.China\'s Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, on Friday called the punitive steps by the United States as "extremely mistaken," threatened a "fierce counter strike" and said no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances.While Beijing claims that Washington is the aggressor and is spurring global protectionism, China\'s trading partners have complained for years that it abuses World Trade Organization rules and propagates unfair policies at home that lock foreign firms out of some sectors as domestic champions are being nurtured.\'SPIRALING DOWNWARDS\'Along with Navarro, Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Representative, is also pushing for a more combative approach to  toward China.A veteran trade lawyer who built dozens of steel industry anti-dumping cases against Chinese producers, he has been plotting a trade confrontation with China for years. In 2010, he argued in testimony before a congressional commission that some WTO rules may need to be ignored to "force change" in China\'s practices."Wringing our hands and hoping for the best is not the answer. We need strong leaders who are prepared to make tough decisions, and who will not be satisfied until this crisis has been resolved," he said at the time.Lighthizer has adopted a similarly tough stance in talks to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, one of the world\'s biggest trade pacts that spans the United States, Canada and Mexico. He has relentlessly pushed for tough concessions. But in six months of talks, little or no progress has been made.Mexico and Canada have blamed Lighthizers hardline negotiating stance for the lack of progress. They say he has  repeatedly told them to swallow tough concessions on autos, investor protection and other issues. Lighthizer has said he is determined to rebalance NAFTA trade to restore lost U.S. manufacturing jobs. The worry is that these negotiating tactics may not work with China, now the worlds second largest economy and one that is not as easy for Washington to sway as its neighbors and longstanding NAFTA allies."The relationship is spiraling downwards, and the risk of a miscalculation or accident is only increasing," the Council on Foreign Relations Asia studies director Elizabeth Economy wrote.(This story corrects Cohn\'s name in seventh paragraph)(Writing by David Chance; Additional reporting by Ginger Gibson, Chris Sanders and Lesley Wroughton; Editing by Ross Colvin)
WASHINGTON   The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington\'s most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "malign  activity."The action, taken under pressure from the U.S. Congress, freezes the U.S. assets of oligarchs such as aluminum tycoon  Oleg Deripaska, a close associate of Putin, and lawmaker Suleiman Kerimov, whose family controls Russia\'s largest gold producer, Polyus.The sanctions largely respond to what U.S. intelligence agencies have said was Russian interference in the presidential election, although the Treasury Department painted them as a response to a series of adversarial actions by Moscow.U.S. President Donald Trump has been under fire for not taking strong action against Russia after a series of diplomatic disputes reminiscent of the Cold War era. The sanctions could complicate his hopes for good relations with Putin.Relations already had worsened recently as the United States expelled Russian diplomats over a poisoning case in Britain and imposed sanctions on Russians for alleged links to cyber attacks.The latest move is aimed at seven Russian oligarchs and 12 companies they own or control, plus 17 senior Russian government officials. They freeze the U.S. assets of the people and companies named and forbid Americans in general from doing business with them.Trump has faced criticism - including from fellow Republicans - for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling. The U.S. Treasury Department said the sanctions were in response to Russia\'s "malign activity," including its actions in Ukraine, its support of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria\'s civil war and subverting Western democracies.U.S. intelligence agencies last year accused Russia of using hacking, false information and propaganda to disrupt the 2016 elections and try to ensure Trump defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. Russia denies interfering in the election.Preparations for a meeting between Trump and Putin will not be affected by the sanctions, the White House said."As the president has said, he wants to have a good relationship with Russia but that\'s going to depend on some of the actions by the Russians," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters.Russia said it would respond firmly to the sanctions."Of course we will not leave this current and any new anti-Russian attack without a harsh answer," Russia\'s foreign ministry said in a statement. "But first of all we would like to recommend that Washington discard illusions that we can be spoken to in the language of sanctions."OLIGARCHS AND ELITESThe sanctions could hurt the Russian economy, especially the aluminum, financial and energy sectors, and are a clear message to Putin and his inner circle of U.S. displeasure.Others on the sanctions list include Viktor Vekselberg, key owner of Renova holding group who Forbes magazine ranks as Russia\'s 9th richest businessman. He is famous for bringing back a collection of Faberge eggs to Russia.Also targeted is Kirill Shamalov, a minority shareholder with petrochemical company Sibur. Shamalov married Putin\'s youngest daughter Katerina in 2013 but unconfirmed media reports say they have since split.The CEO of Russia\'s gas exporter Gazprom, Alexei Miller, said he was proud to be targeted by sanctions."Not being included in the first list I even had some doubts - maybe something is wrong (with me)? But I am finally included. This means that we are doing everything right," Miller said through his spokesman, referring to an earlier U.S. list of Russian oligarchs.Gazprom has relationships with major foreign companies, especially in Europe. Gazprom itself is not under sanctions, but the inclusion of Miller on the blacklist could create complicated legal dilemmas for partner companies. Although they are under European Union jurisdiction, they will not want to fall foul of any U.S. legislationDeripaska\'s blacklisting will also reverberate around the world because his empire has a global footprint and counts major multinationals as partners, including German automaker Volkswagen.Deripaska called the decision to target him "very unfortunate but not unexpected.""Certainly the grounds for putting my name on the list of SDNs as provided by U.S. officials are groundless, ridiculous and absurd," he said, in a statement sent to Reuters by a spokesperson for his industrial group Basic Element. SDN stands for "Specially Designated National."A Cyprus-based company tied to Deripaska sued Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, two former aides to Trumps presidential campaign, in a New York state court in January, accusing them of misappropriating more than $18.9 million earmarked for deals in Ukraine in 2008.Shares in some Russian companies targeted by the sanctions plummeted. EN+ Group, which manages Deripaska\'s aluminum and hydropower assets, ended down 20.9 percent on the London stock exchange.Rusal, a Russian aluminum giant fell 10 percent on the Moscow Exchange.Douglas Jacobson, an attorney with Jacobson Burton Kelley firm in Washington, said most international Western banks would shy away from helping the companies targeted on Friday to raise capital. These companies now are radioactive," he said.The Treasury Department has told investors they have until May 7 to divest any stocks, bonds or other holdings of the Russian companies En+, GAZ,and Rusal. For the 12 companies named on Friday, Treasury said any contracts and activities must be terminated in 60 days.RUSSIA AND TRUMPBob Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, urged Trump to set out a clear strategy."Nearly 15 months into this administration, the American people and our allies are still questioning whether the president is willing to fully defend our democracy and our national security," said Menendez, co-author of the law under which Friday\'s sanctions were imposed.U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller is investigating whether Trump\'s election campaign colluded with Russia, something that Trump denies.Trump angered many members of Congress by failing for months to implement sanctions on Russia that lawmakers passed nearly unanimously last year. But Daniel Fried, the U.S. governments former coordinator of sanctions policy under President Barack Obama, said the sanctions list "is a solid piece of work.Putin\'s government has been blamed for the poisoning of a former Russian double agent living in Britain last month and the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and Patricia Zengerle; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu, Tim Ahmann and Susan Heavey in Washington, Nathan Lane, Michael Erman and Karen Freifeld in New York and Andrew Osborn, Katya Golubkova, Gleb Stolyarov and Oksana Kobzeva, Denis Pinchuk, Christian Lowe and Gabrielle Tetrault-Farber in Moscow; Writing by Alistair Bell and Mary Milliken; Editing by Yara Bayoumy, Bill Trott and Tom Brown)
SINGAPORE   Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are confident of their economic growth outlook despite rising global trade tensions, Singapore Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat said on Friday.Heng\'s comments at the end of a meeting of the region\'s finance ministers and central bank governors come against the backdrop of tit-for-tat trade disputes between the world\'s two biggest economies - the United States and China - which has the potential to disrupt supply chains around the world."We sounded the warning about the risk of rising protectionism and the possibility of trade disputes deteriorating," Heng said."But at the same time we had very detailed briefings from the IMF, the World Bank, and...the assessments done by many private sector economists have been quite consistent that the growth momentum for 2018, into 2019, is likely to be maintained.""That gives us confidence that the central scenario remains valid."Singapore, a key trading hub and financial centre, is often seen as a bellwether for the global economy because its exports equate to around 200 percent of its GDP.China warned on Friday it would fight back "at any cost" with fresh trade measures if the United States continues on its path of protectionism, hours after President Donald Trump threatened to slap an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods.The ASEAN region - which includes Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam - grew 5.2 percent in 2017. In a joint statement, ASEAN said it expects that growth momentum to be sustained in 2018.(Reporting by John Geddie; Editing by Kim Coghill)
NEW YORK   "Don\'t overreact," President Donald Trump\'s chief economic adviser told investors on Wednesday, when U.S. stocks were deep in the red over worries about the administration\'s plan for $50 billion of import duties aimed at China.Wall Street seemed to take heart from National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow\'s calming words in a Fox Business Network interview during his first week on the job, and the market turned itself around. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied more than 700 points from the day\'s low.That trust looked misguided a day later, when Trump - seemingly unbeknown to Kudlow - said he had instructed an additional $100 billion of tariffs to be imposed on Chinese goods. Equities swooned again, with the Dow dropping roughly 600 points.It wouldn\'t be the first time that traders and investors got caught out by a seeming 180-degree turn on Trump policy, but Wall Street may have to get far more selective in terms of which statements, and from whom, they listen to."More typically, there\'s a lot more cohesion in the messaging between the White House and the markets," said  Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research. "Certainly this administration is taking an entirely different tack. It\'s been much more volatile in trying to understand what they\'re trying to tell us."With rapid turn-about in the White House a regular occurrence, investors have made costly decisions based on the words of a rotating door of advisers and policy makers.Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville, Virginia, said there was some "good cop, bad cop action" between the President and advisers."Obviously you listen to them both and you hope cooler heads eventually prevail," said Tuz. "It makes you sit on your hands a little bit more and not make any decision that might come back to bite you should these tariffs really sink in."A similar to-and-fro has played out with the dollar. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in January that he welcomed a weaker currency, Trump said he wanted to see a strong dollar, and then Kudlow in March said he would like the greenback a "wee bit stronger than it is currently." The dollar got whipsawed.NOISE BEGETS VOLATILITYWhile long-term investors may be finding navigation tricky, the higher volatility that the remarks on trade have produced could be benefiting those traders that have short-term positions on higher volatility."I don\'t think you really want to rearrange portfolios based on this type of volatility," said Paul Nolte, Portfolio Manager At Kingsview Asset Management In Chicago. "This is a trader market and not an investor market."Wall Street\'s main gauge of volatility, the CBOE VIX index, has spiked back above the closely watched 20 level."Any investment style that relies on volatility should now be roaring back to life, whether you\'re an options trader, a momentum driven hedge fund, you need volatility to make money and you have it now," said Colas.As the trade rhetoric escalates, investors are trying to work out whether the endgame is a full-on trade war or just rhetoric that leads to negotiations - and that is causing some investor inaction.If comments from China\'s Commerce Ministry on Friday are an indication, then escalation could be in order: the ministry said that under the current conditions, the two sides could not conduct any negotiations.Ive never subscribed to the theory that this is some position to get a better negotiating stance," said Oliver Pursche, vice chairman and chief market strategist, Bruderman Asset Management in New York, who is not changing investment strategy on the basis of the recent rhetoric. "I\'ve looked at it a little more critically and warily than that."Trump himself seems resigned to the notion that all the trade talk could put a serious dent in a stock market rally he\'s touted since his election in November 2016.In a WABC Radio interview Friday, he said: "I\'m not saying there won\'t be a little pain but the market\'s gone up 40-42 percent, so we might lose a little bit of it, but we\'ll have a much stronger country when we\'re finished."Most U.S. equity indexes are grinding through choppy corrections after falling 10 percent or more from their record highs earlier in the year. The S&P 500 remains about 9.5 percent lower.Most investors are standing pat, though, despite the noise. John Surplice, pan-European fund manager at Invesco Perpetual in London, said he also had not changed portfolio positions even if policy clarity is lacking."It\'s quite difficult to have a definitive view," Surplice said. "Trying to pick winners is a bit tricky because if a trade war really takes hold it will lead to lower global growth which is negative for pretty much all companies."(Reporting by Megan Davies, Lewis Krauskopf, April Joyner, Sinead Carew in New York and Helen Reid and Abhinav Ramnarayan in London; Editing by Dan Burns and Susan Thomas)
AUSTIN, Texas   Arizona and Texas announced Friday that they would send 400 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border by next week in response to President Donald Trump\'s call for troops to fight drug trafficking and illegal immigration.Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey said about 150 Guard members would deploy next week. And the Texas National Guard said it was already sending Guardsmen to the border, with plans to place 250 troops there in the next 72 hours as an "initial surge," according to a Guard spokesman. Two helicopters lifted off Friday night from Austin, the state capital, to head south.The total so far remains well short of the 2,000 to 4,000 National Guard members that Trump told reporters he wants to send. New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez\'s office said Friday that it had not yet deployed any Guard members. The office of California Gov. Jerry Brown did not respond to questions about whether it would deploy troops.Trump\'s proclamation Wednesday directing the use of National Guard troops refers to Title 32, a federal law under which Guard members remain under the command and control of their state\'s governor. This leaves open the possibility that California\'s Brown could turn him down.Defense Secretary James Mattis Friday night approved paying for up to 4,000 National Guard personnel from the Pentagon budget through the end of September. A Defense Department memo says the National Guard personnel will not perform law enforcement functions or "interact with migrants or other persons detained" without Mattis\'s approval. It said "arming will be limited to circumstances that might require self-defense," but it did not further define that.Deployments to the border under former presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama both occurred under Title 32. Bush sent around 6,000 troops in 2006, and Obama sent 1,200 Guard members in 2010.Trump\'s proclamation blamed "the lawlessness that continues at our southern border." Trump has suggested he wants to use the military on the border until progress is made on his proposed border wall, which has mostly stalled in Congress.After plunging at the start of Trump\'s presidency, the numbers of migrants apprehended at the southwest border have started to rise in line with historical trends. The Border Patrol said it caught around 50,000 people in March, more than three times the number in March 2017. That\'s erased a decline for which Trump repeatedly took credit. Border apprehensions still remain well below the numbers when Bush and Obama deployed the Guard to the border.News reports of a caravan of Central American migrants passing through southern Mexico also sparked angry tweets from the president. The caravan of largely Central American migrants never intended to reach the U.S. border, according to organizer Irineo Mujica. But Trump has repeatedly cited it as an example of what he called America\'s weak immigration laws.Department of Homeland Security officials have said Guard members could support Border Patrol agents and other law enforcement agencies. DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said this week that guard members could "help look at the technology, the surveillance," and that the department might ask for fleet mechanics. Federal law restricts the military from carrying out law enforcement duties.From 2006 to 2008, the Guard fixed vehicles, maintained roads, repaired fences and performed ground surveillance. Its second mission in 2010 and 2011 involved more aerial surveillance and intelligence work.Leaders in both Arizona and Texas said Friday that they were working with federal planners to define the Guard members\' mission.The Arizona National Guard said in a statement Friday that it would "provide air, reconnaissance, operational and logistics support and construct border infrastructure."As the helicopters were taking off Friday in Texas, Guard spokesman Lt. Col. Travis Walters said that the 250 troops going "is what our initial surge is so that we can then very quickly roll in a larger amount of forces as needed." Walters did not specify where the first round of troops would be stationed.About 100 Guardsmen remain deployed as part of the existing state mission in Texas\' Rio Grande Valley, the busiest corridor for unauthorized crossings on the southwest border.Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, now Trump\'s energy secretary, originally sent about 1,000 Guard members to the border in 2014 in response to a surge in the number of unaccompanied immigrant children crossing the Rio Grande.___Associated Press writers Bob Christie in Phoenix and Susan Montoya Bryan in Albuquerque contributed to this report. Nomaan Merchant reported from Houston.
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean published in the past week.As Easter weekend wound down, Roman Catholics in the region celebrated the death and resurrection of Jesus by participating in processions, stations of the cross and passion plays.Former Brazilian President Luis Inazio Lula da Silva was rejected by the nation\'s highest court in his bid to stay out of prison while appealing a corruption conviction, a decision that could lead to him being barred from October\'s presidential election, in which he has been the front-runner in opinion polls.In Mexico, Central American migrants traveling in the annual "Stations of the Cross" caravan camped out in a soccer field at a sports club after drawing angry tweets from U.S. President Donald Trump even though it had no means of reaching the U.S. border.People grieved in Valencia, Venezuela, after 68 people died during a fire at a police station where prisoners were being kept in crowded cells.Guatemalan army officers carried the coffin of former dictator Efrain Rios Montt, who seized power in a 1982 coup and presided over one of the bloodiest periods of the country\'s civil war.In soccer, fans of the Uruguay club Penarol cheered before the start of a Copa Libertadores match against Argentina\'s Atletico Tucuman. Isaac Brizuela of Mexico\'s Chivas de Guadalajara scored the only goal against the New York Red Bulls during the first leg of a semifinal match in the CONCACAF Champions League tournament.___This photo gallery was curated by photo editor Tomas Stargardter in Mexico City.___AP photographers and photo editors on Twitter at https://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographers
WASHINGTON   The United States punished dozens of Russian oligarchs and government officials on Friday with sanctions that took direct aim at President Vladimir Putin\'s inner circle, as President Donald Trump\'s administration tried to show he\'s not afraid to take tough action against Moscow.Seven Russian tycoons, including aluminum magnate Oleg Deripaska, were targeted, along with 17 officials and a dozen Russian companies, the Treasury Department said. Senior Trump administration officials cast it as part of a concerted, ongoing effort to push back on Putin, emphasizing that since Trump took office last year, the U.S. has punished 189 Russia-related people and entities with sanctions.Rather than punishing Russia for one specific action, the new sanctions hit back at the Kremlin for its "ongoing and increasingly brazen pattern" of bad behavior, said the officials, who weren\'t authorized to comment by name and briefed reporters on condition of anonymity. The officials ticked through a list of complaints about Russia\'s actions beyond its borders, including its annexation of Crimea, backing of separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine, support for Syrian President Bashar Assad, and cyber-hacking.Above all else, Russia\'s attempts to subvert Western democracy prompted the U.S. sanctions, officials said, in a direct nod to concerns that the U.S. president has failed to challenge Putin for alleged interference in the 2016 election that brought Trump to power.Deripaska, whose business conglomerate controls assets from agriculture to machinery, has been a prominent figure in special counsel Robert Mueller\'s Russia investigation over his ties to former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort. The Treasury Department said Deripaska was accused of illegal wiretaps, extortion, racketeering, money laundering and even death threats against business rivals.On the London Stock Exchange, global depositary receipts of En+, an energy company majority-owned by Deripaska, dropped by 19 percent on news of the sanctions. Deripaska\'s conglomerate, Basic Element, said it regretted the sanctions and was analyzing them with its lawyers.Putin\'s government dismissed the sanctions as "absurdity," arguing that the U.S. was punishing companies that have longstanding business ties to the U.S. The Russian Foreign Ministry said the U.S. was "striking at ordinary Americans" by jeopardizing "thousands of jobs.""American democracy is clearly degrading," the ministry said. "Of course, we will not leave the current and any new anti-Russian attack without a tough response."To the dismay of Trump\'s critics and of Russia hawks, the president has continued to avoid directly criticizing Putin himself and recently invited the Russian leader to meet with him, possibly at the White House. Yet in recent weeks Trump\'s administration has rolled out a series of actions  including several economic and diplomatic steps  to increase pressure on Putin and those presumed to benefit from his power."Nobody has been tougher on Russia than I have," Trump said at a news conference on Tuesday.Yet even as it rolled out the new penalties, Trump\'s administration left open the possibility of "a good relationship with Russia" in the future. And at the White House, spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said discussions with Moscow about a Trump-Putin summit would not be called off."Not at all," Sanders said. "We\'ll continue."Those being punished aren\'t necessarily involved in the Russian actions in Syria, Ukraine or elsewhere that have drawn consternation from the West. But officials said the goal was to put pressure on Putin by showing that those who have benefited financially from his position of power are fair game.The target list includes some who are closely tied to Putin himself, including top-tier officials involved in Kremlin decision-making and heads of the top state-controlled business entities. Yet others on the list are far from the Kremlin\'s orbit, including some who long have fallen out of favor or hold technical positions.Targets include:Kirill Shamalov, who is reportedly Putin\'s son-in-law, married to his daughter Katerina Tikhonova, although neither Putin nor the Kremlin have acknowledged that she is his daughter.Igor Rotenberg, the son of Arkady Rotenberg, a friend of Putin\'s since they were teenagers.Andrey Kostin, named among government officials, heads the nation\'s second-largest bank, VTB, which is controlled by the state.Alexei Miller, the longtime head of Gazprom, the state-controlled natural gas giant. Both Miller and Kostin are longtime key members of Putin\'s team.A state-owned arms-dealing company, accused by the U.S. of selling to Assad, was also targeted, along with a subsidiary bank. Many other targets were associated with Russia\'s energy sector, including parts of Gazprom.The sanctions freeze any assets that those targeted have in U.S. jurisdictions and bar Americans from doing business with them. But the administration said it would give guidance to Americans who may currently have business with them about how to wind down that business and avoid running afoul of the sanctions. Some, but not all, of the individuals sanctioned will also be prohibited from entering the United States.It was not clear whether any of those hit have significant holdings in the U.S. that could be seized, and if they did previously, they may have already moved their money elsewhere in anticipation of the sanctions. In January, lists of Russian officials and oligarchs were published by the State Department and Treasury. The lists, required under a law passed last year, were informally seen as lists of potential future sanctions targets, even though the public version of the oligarchs list was merely a reprint of Forbes\' list of billionaires in Russia.The U.S. also has punished Russia for other troubling activity, including its alleged involvement in the poisoning an ex-spy with a military-grade nerve agent in Britain. In tandem with European allies, the Trump administration expelled dozens of Russian diplomats and shut down the Russian consulate in Seattle. And last month, the U.S. targeted 19 Russians and five Russian entities with sanctions in the first use of the new sanctions powers Congress passed last year in response to the election meddling.___Associated Press writers Matthew Lee and Catherine Lucey in Washington and Vladimir Isachenkov, Nataliya Vasilyeva and Jim Heintz in Moscow contributed.
CHICAGO   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade fight with China could affect the U.S. economy.In his first speech as Fed leader, Powell noted that the central bank raised its key rate by a quarter-point at its March meeting, just the sixth increase since late 2015. He depicted that rate hike as "another step in the ongoing process of gradually scaling back" the ultra-low rates it employed to lift the economy out of the Great Recession.This "patient approach has paid dividends and contributed to the strong economy we have today," Powell said in remarks to the Economic Club of Chicago.He said the Fed will continue to balance the risks of moving too slowly in raising rates and running the risk that inflation gets out of control and moving too quickly, which could hurt growth.Asked during a question and answer session about the economic impact of higher trade tariffs, Powell said the issue was discussed at the Fed\'s meeting last month. Fed officials noted that business executives around the country were expressing concerns."People really don\'t see yet any implications in the near term for the outlook because we don\'t know the extent to which the tariffs will actually go into effect," Powell said. "Tariffs can push up on prices, but again, it is too early, I think, to really say whether that is going to be something that happens or not."Powell spoke on a day when stock prices were tumbling because of new worries about a trade war with China after the Trump administration announced late Thursday that it was considering imposing tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese goods. The Chinese government pledged it would "counteract with great strength" should broader tariffs be imposed.In a separate appearance in California, John Williams, who has been tapped to take over as president of the Fed\'s New York regional bank, said that the "right direction for monetary policy" includes "three to four rate increases this year and further gradual rate increases over the next two years."Williams, currently the president of the Fed\'s San Francisco regional bank, will take over as head of the New York bank in June.Powell, who was tapped by President Donald Trump to succeed Janet Yellen as Fed leader, took over on Feb. 5. He presided over his first Fed meeting last month when the central bank boosted its key rate to a still-low level of 1.5 percent to 1.75 percent.At the meeting, the Fed signaled that it expected to raise rates a total of three times this year, matching the number of rate hikes it approved in 2017.Many private economists believe that the economic stimulus stemming from $1.5 trillion in tax cuts and increased government spending will ultimately prompt the Fed to raise rates at a slightly faster pace.But Powell did not give any indication Friday that the central bank felt a need to accelerate its pace. He stressed that if economic conditions changed, the Fed would be ready to respond to those changes."As long as the economy continues broadly on its current path, further gradual increases in the federal funds rate will best promote these goals," Powell said, noting that the central bank seeks to pursue policies to achieve maximum employment and stable prices, which it defines as inflation rising at 2 percent annually.After his speech, Powell toured mHub, a facility that seeks to boost manufacturing in the Chicago area by giving start-up companies access to equipment. He was asked by a reporter if he would elaborate on the tariff battle with China. He declined to answer.___Crutsinger reported from Washington.
PARIS   When French President Emmanuel Macron flew into Riyadh for hastily arranged talks with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in November it was all smiles in public, but in private a tough dialogue over Iran signaled a change between the allies.Whether that was a momentary tiff or a longer-lasting complication may become clear when Prince Mohammed arrives in Paris on Sunday for a two-day visit that will focus on the crises in Yemen, Syria and Qatar and the Iran nuclear deal.After trips to Britain and the United States with major contracts envisaged, the prince, or MBS as he is also known, will attend cultural events, political meetings and an economic forum. While a tourism project between the two countries will be announced, MBS is not expected to clinch any mega-deals.French officials dismiss any notion that the absence of huge contracts reflects any weakening in the relationship, saying they seek a new "method" of working with the world\'s largest oil exporter that does not depend on eye-catching new business.A warm relationship between Riyadh and Macron\'s predecessor Francois Hollande did not result in the sharp expansion of business Paris had sought."Competition is fierce so we had to rethink the models of relationships. Less talk about major contracts and more focus on sectors that are less spectacular such as health, education and tourism," said a senior French diplomat.But analysts note the 32-year-old Prince Mohammed has emphasized closer ties with U.S. President Donald Trump just at a time when Macron has in turn sought to improve relations with Iran and vowed to preserve the nuclear deal.Several Western and Arab diplomats describe the November exchange as tense. According to three officials, the meeting was dominated by Prince Mohammed threatening to curb relations with France if Macron did not alter his desire to dialogue with Iran, Riyadh\'s regional rival, and push business interests there.Macron, the officials said, reminded Prince Mohammed of France\'s position in the world as a nuclear power, permanent member of the Security Council member and that France was free to do what it wanted.WEAPONS SALESIn recent years, France had nurtured new links with the Sunni-ruled Gulf Arab states due to its tough stance on Iran in nuclear negotiations, and the broad similarity of their policies on conflicts across the Middle East.However, Prince Mohammed\'s uncompromising efforts to counter Iran\'s growing influence in the combustible Middle East are sometimes perceived as reckless in Paris."The relationship could go either way, but it\'s clear that Prince Mohammed feels more love from Trump than Macron," said a second French diplomat."While Macron recognises the reforming aspirations, he sees that MBS could be a real loose cannon and what he is doing in Yemen and Qatar and the talk on Iran has potential to add fuel to regional fire."The visit comes amid growing pressure on Macron at home from lawmakers and rights groups over France\'s weapons sales to the Saudi-led coalition fighting Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen.A private letter sent to Macron from 12 international non-governmental organizations urged him to pressure MBS to ease a blockade on Yemeni ports and suspend French arms sales."It is a bit of a new method of cooperation with Saudi Arabia that relies less on contracts, admittedly important but intermittent, and which will translate into a common vision. This is the general tone that will be given," an official in the French presidency said.(Additional reporting by Marine Pennetier, Michel Rose and Stephen Kalin in Riyadh, Editing by William Maclean)
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Antonio Villaraigosa, the former mayor of Los Angeles, is a leading Democratic candidate for governor. California Today has been doing occasional question-and-answer sessions with candidates for office, and today we turn to Mr. Villaraigosa. The interview, edited and condensed for clarity, was done for our article on the race.Q: Does Gov. Jerry Brown deserve any blame for the increase in poverty and homelessness?A: No. I dont think so. The state was in free-fall when he came in. And it took, what, four years, the first term at least, really five years, to get us back on the footing that we are on now. We werent in a position to do what we needed to do. The next administration needs to focus a lot more on building on that template of homelessness, affordable housing and economic development.Q: Do you support the bill proposed by Senator Scott Wiener that would override local zoning laws to permit more dense housing construction near transit lines?A: There are two problems with the Wiener bill. It starts out with a stick. I think you need to start out with incentives. And it only focuses on places where there is transit-oriented development. So Marin County, as an example, would be exempt. Marin has probably led the state in fighting affordable homeless.Q: You have criticized the pledge by one of your opponents, Gavin Newsom, to pass single-payer health care system for California.A: Im for it in concept. But it would require waivers from Trump so you can get Medicare. Thats not going to happen. Thats why I call it snake oil.Q: Is this an effective campaign issue for Mr. Newsom?A: Hes the darling of the nurses. It is very, very effective with those who are just so disenchanted with whats going on with Trump and want to believe that we can somehow do something about this without Trumps cooperation and notwithstanding our own budgetary constraints.Q: Do you support impeaching President Trump?A: No. Its become crystal clear that we are on our way to establishing that Donald Trump obstructed justice. But in order to impeach, that means you have to convince not just Democrats, you have to convince Republicans, too. You cant just call for impeachment. We have to build for it.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) The Trump White House and California are in an escalating legal war; heres an expert analysis of the biggest standoffs (with handicapping) from our legal correspondent, Adam Liptak. (The New York Times) Some of those tensions might be easing. The state and White House are in talks on a deal over a major point of contention: whether California would continue getting a waiver to impose its own stricter emission standards. (The New York Times) A 5.3 magnitude earthquake rattled buildings and nerves around Los Angeles. Its right on the edge of being an earthquake that could be dangerous. No serious damage or injuries were reported. (The Los Angeles Times) Drought? Presidio Terrace in San Francisco is lush with trees and flowers, as the neighborhood uses up to one million gallons of city water a year. Guess whos paying? (The San Francisco Chronicle) Six months after the wildfires, Sonoma County is struggling to recover. I have never experienced a disaster quite like this. (The San Francisco Chronicle) A look at what happened to homeless people rousted from the Santa Ana River Trail after their motel vouchers expired. (The Orange County Register) Merle Haggard, a Central California native, is getting a building: A post office is being named in his honor in Bakersfield. He died in 2016. (Bakersfield.com) The decision by Orange County officials to back the Trump administrations lawsuit against Californias so-called sanctuary city laws risks branding the G.O.P. as anti-immigrant, just as Latinos and Asian-Americans transform the county, says the political analyst Ronald Brownstein. (CNN) Governor Brown has been quiet on the police shooting of Stephon Clark in Sacramento, but candidates to succeed him have spoken out. (The Sacramento Bee) The Clark shooting was not an anomaly in California, an Op-Ed writer argues. Day-to-day life for generations of black residents there has long been shaped by discrimination and inequality. (The New York Times) The Los Angeles Times editorial board says lawmakers should proceed with caution as they debate a bill to raise the standard for police officers using deadly force. (The Los Angeles Times) The California Chamber of Commerces annual job killer list is out: the bills the chamber wants the Legislature to kill (think regulations and taxes). The chambers kill record is pretty good. (The Sacramento Bee) Glindas house is for sale. She was the Good Witch in The Wizard of Oz, played by Billie Burke. Built in 1938 (making it older than the movie), it was Ms. Burkes longtime residence. Yours for $2.9 million. (Brentwood Patch) The King Tut exhibition is coming to Los Angeles, and heres a cool video on what to look for if you brave the crowds. (The Los Angeles Times)When Gov. Jerry Brown turned 40  that happened 40 years ago, the first time Mr. Brown served as governor  The Los Angeles Times marked the moment with a story. The young governor becomes a middle-aged governor today, the first paragraph reads.Mr. Brown turns 80 on Saturday. He is the oldest governor in the United States, according to the authoritative source on such things (Wikipedia). He plans to head to a gym to pump some iron and weather permitting, take a bike ride with his wife, Anne Gust Brown. Theres dinner with staff on Friday night and another one with friends and family, including his sisters Kathleen and Barbara, at the Governors Mansion in Sacramento on Saturday.Per tradition, the first lady will also be baking his mothers famous banana cake, said Evan Westrup, Mr. Browns press secretary.The writer of that original story observed that in the four years since Mr. Brown had taken office at age 36, his sideburns grayed, and keeping his weight down has become a problem. Forty years later, the sideburns are gone. All the hair is gone. We wont say anything about the weight, except blame that famous banana cake.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
NEW YORK   Oil prices fell about 2 percent on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump threatened new tariffs on China, reigniting fears of a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies that could hurt global growth.Trump said on Thursday he had ordered U.S. trade officials to consider tariffs on an extra $100 billion of imports from China, escalating tensions with Beijing.China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on Trump\'s threat."The heightened possibility of an outright tariff war is conjuring up images of slowed economic growth that could curtail the strong oil demand that has helped to revive a strong pricing environment during the past couple of months," Jim Ritterbusch, president of Ritterbusch and Associates, said in a note.Brent crude futures settled down $1.22 at $67.11 a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures fell $1.48 to $62.06 a barrel, a 2.3 percent loss.Brent crude dropped 2.8 percent in the week while U.S. crude fell 4.4 percent, the biggest weekly decline since early February.U.S. stock indexes also fell on trade war jitters, which weighed on oil prices. Crude futures have recently tracked with equities.OPEC member Libya\'s oil output is at around 1.05 million barrels per day despite a continuing outage since February at its 70,000 bpd El Feel oilfield, a Libyan oil source told Reuters on Friday.U.S. drillers added 11 oil rigs in the week to April 6, bringing the total count up to 808, the highest level since March 2015, General Electric Co\'s Baker Hughes energy services firm said in its closely followed report on Friday.The Permian basin in Texas is leading the way as U.S. oil production has reached an all-time high, but the prolific output is causing bottlenecks as pipelines transporting the crude have filled up more quickly than expected, depressing prices in the region.Some market participants are still optimistic on the oil sector."We\'re cautiously bullish here," said Dan Hussey, a market strategist at RJO Futures in Chicago. "It\'s the fundamentals."U.S. crude inventories unexpectedly fell last week, data showed on Wednesday.Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said that an arrangement under which Moscow cooperates with the OPEC oil group could become indefinite once a current deal to curb oil production expires at the end of the year.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other large oil producers led by Russia have agreed to curtail their combined output by around 1.8 million barrels per day until the end of 2018 to smooth out bloated oil inventories.OPEC and its allies should keep the cuts to ensure healthy price levels as a way to boost investment in the industry and avoid a supply and price shock in the long run, Qatar\'s energy minister said.Asian oil traders are stumped by how Saudi Arabia derived its official selling prices (OSP) for May after the world\'s top oil exporter unexpectedly raised the price for its flagship Arab Light crude sold to Asian refiners.(Additional reporting by Shadia Nasralla in London, Jane Chung in Seoul and Koustav Samanta in Singapore; Editing by  Will Dunham and Tom Brown)
LOS ANGELES   The instant-hit status of "Roseanne" is triggering the enduring Hollywood impulse to copycat success.Even with series pilots nearing completion for the 2018-19 TV season, producers are eagerly pitching revivals of sitcoms that, like "Roseanne," had their day 20 or 30 years ago, according to an industry insider. There are networks and streaming services trying to figure out how to create projects that similarly resonate with viewers, said veteran movie and TV screenwriter Lionel Chetwynd.The ABC sitcom is part of a still-expanding reboot trend that\'s brought TV back to the future and includes revamped versions of "Will & Grace," \'\'One Day at a Time" and "The X-Files," and the upcoming "Murphy Brown."That doesn\'t mean viewers should prepare for a wave of newcomers aping "Roseanne," about a working-class family whose matriarch is a supporter of President Donald Trump  as is star and producer Roseanne Barr. Timing aside, there\'s the challenge of deciphering and recreating a show\'s appeal, especially one led by a brassy personality like Barr and the strong viewpoint she brings to her work.Some outlets are trying. Chetwynd, an Oscar and Emmy nominee who counts himself among Hollywood\'s rare political conservatives, said he received queries from cable channels and streaming networks about developing blue-collar series after Trump\'s election and again when "Roseanne" debuted March 27 with exceptional ratings. Initial skepticism about whether viewers would welcome such fare "is now diminished significantly," he said.Broadcast networks aren\'t likely buyers at this point. They\'re getting close to deciding on next season\'s lineups, with schedules to be presented to advertisers in May.Even if there\'s interest down the road, skepticism exists about how much the back-and-forth between Barr\'s character and her anti-Trump sister, the most partisan element so far, is an attraction. It\'s certainly made the show stand out among carefully apolitical series and other programs that thrive on skewering the president and his policies, including late-night talk shows and "Saturday Night Live."The Trump factor also has earned the show a wealth of media and other attention, including from the president himself. He called to congratulate Barr on its 18 million-plus debut audience and in a speech said the show "was about us."ABC Entertainment President Channing Dungey said the topicality of "Roseanne" is part of its success."I think the reason it\'s connecting with audiences is that it\'s bringing a conversation to the forefront that I feel a lot of people are having in their own lives. But it\'s not really taking place on (series) television at this moment," Dungey said this week."Roseanne" may only be skimming the surface of what\'s to come, predicted Robert Thompson, director of Syracuse University\'s Bleier Center for Television and Popular Culture."I think we are going to see, within the next year or two, a real attempt to show a no-holds-barred Trump family, and I don\'t know exactly what that means," he said, "but something that really does address the specifics of what the news keeps showing us as the Trump supporter. As people are looking at, \'How are we going to top "Roseanne?\' I think that\'s probably what they\'re looking to do. How that\'s going to be executed could be very dicey."Tim Winter, president of the Parents Television Council media watchdog group, sees other reasons for the audience\'s embrace of "Roseanne," back two decades with the original 1988-97 cast including John Goodman, Laurie Metcalf and Sara Gilbert."I know there\'s been much ado about the whole partisan angle," Winter said. "I don\'t think that had much to do with it. I think what has more to do with it is that it\'s entertaining ... (and) we can actually laugh without resorting to the more crude dialogue that seems so pervasive in a lot of programming."Others point to the built-in brand recognition that "Roseanne" has among viewers who watched it the first time around or in reruns. But nostalgia alone isn\'t selling "Roseanne" to the 18.4 million viewers who tuned in for its premiere and the still-impressive 15.4 million who came back for week two  numbers that don\'t reflect the millions more watching on a delayed-viewing basis.In contrast, NBC\'s sitcom "Will & Grace" returned this season with a 10.1 million debut audience and has settled into an average of under 6 million weekly viewers, enough in today\'s overloaded TV landscape to make it worthy of a quick renewal for multiple seasons. (Politics helped resurrect the show about a circle of gay and straight friends when its stars taped a 2016 campaign spot for Hillary Clinton that went viral and reasserted their appeal. On the flip side, one of its four stars  Megan Mullally, who plays Karen Walker  is a Trump supporter in the reboot.)ABC and broad-appeal network CBS could reasonably argue they aren\'t slighting characters who, like the Conners of "Roseanne," are small-town, not coastal urbanites. Among their evidence: ABC\'s "The Middle," about an Indiana family and in its ninth and final season, and CBS newcomer "Young Sheldon," set in a working-class household in Texas.In the early going, "Roseanne" has shown its greatest strength in TV markets that include Kansas City, Missouri; Milwaukee; Raleigh and Durham, North Carolina; and Dayton, Ohio. But the country is not so neatly divided in its TV viewing as it may be in its party registration. CBS\' "The Big Bang Theory," which gave rise to prequel "Young Sheldon" but is set in suburban Southern California, overlapped with "Roseanne" in the most recent ratings in 12 of the ABC\'s show top 20 TV markets  and "Big Bang" earned its top household tune-in in Dayton, not Los Angeles.If that suggests there\'s no easy answer to what viewers may find appealing or relatable, screenwriter Chetwynd ("The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz," \'\'Ike: Countdown to D-Day") is not surprised. Networks or studios that think slapping "conservative" on a character or story line to draw in viewers feeling ignored by TV are missing the point, he said."It\'s not about politics. It\'s about recognizing yourself in what you see on television, and people creating a world that is so alien to people who watch television that they stop watching broadcast TV," Chetwynd said.____Lynn Elber is a national television columnist for The Associated Press. She can be reached at lelber@ap.org and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/lynnelber.
NEW YORK   U.S. stocks dropped about 2 percent on Friday, with the Dow falling more than 570 points, as U.S. President Donald Trump\'s latest tariff threat on Chinese imports fueled increasing concern over a U.S. trade war with China.Stocks added to losses and hit session lows in afternoon trading after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the U.S. central bank will likely need to keep hiking interest rates to keep inflation under control and said it was too soon to know if rising trade tensions would hit the U.S. economy.Fears of a trade war since Trump announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports more than a month ago have kept investors on edge over concerns that such protectionist measures would hit global economic growth."It\'s a reaction to concerns about the administration\'s approach to trade. The market has vacillated between writing it off as just talk and assuming there could be a serious problem," said Rick Meckler, president of investment firm LibertyView Capital Management in Jersey City, New Jersey.He and others said investors also appeared to be reducing risk ahead of the weekend."If the market is down it often tends to accelerate on Friday. Investors don\'t want to take the risk of coming in Monday after having something happen over the weekend," Meckler said.Trump late Thursday threatened to slap $100 billion more in tariffs on Chinese imports, while Beijing said it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike".U.S. companies seen as more likely to be hit by trade tensions with China were among the biggest drags on the Dow, including Boeing, down 3.1 percent. The S&P 500 industrials index, down 2.7 percent, had the biggest losses among sectors, though selling was broad-based.Chipmakers, which as a group rely on China for about a quarter of their revenue, also declined. The Philadelphia semiconductor index fell 3.1 percent.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 572.46 points, or 2.34 percent, to 23,932.76, the S&P 500 lost 58.37 points, or 2.19 percent, to 2,604.47 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 161.44 points, or 2.28 percent, to 6,915.11.The trade war worries continued to pressure stocks even as Trump administration officials sought to dampen concerns. Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said in various interviews that he learned of the new tariffs on Thursday night, but also said there are ongoing talks on trade between the United States and China.U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin in an interview on CNBC said he was cautiously hopeful the United States will reach an agreement with China on trade.The S&P 500 ended just above its 200-day moving average after trading well below that key support level that is watched by technical analysts.Powell, who was speaking on the U.S. economic outlook in Chicago, also said the labor market appeared close to full employment. It was his first speech on the economic outlook since taking over as chairman on Feb. 5.Before the session started, a Labor Department report showed nonfarm payrolls increased by a smaller-than-expected 103,000 last month. While annual growth in average hourly earnings rose to 2.7 percent, it stayed below the 3 percent that economists estimate is needed to lift inflation toward the Federal Reserve\'s 2-percent target."There was a hope that if he had a more dovish tone that that might be a counterbalance to the trade headwinds out there," said Michael O\'Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading in Greenwich, Connecticut.For the week, the S&P 500 was down 1.4 percent, the Dow was down 0.7 percent and the Nasdaq was down 2.1 percent.Facebook share were down 1.3 percent. It backed for the first time proposed legislation requiring social media sites to disclose the identities of buyers of online political campaign ads and introduced a new verification process for people buying "issue" ads, which have been used to sow discord online.Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 3.77-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 3.59-to-1 ratio favored decliners.The S&P 500 posted two new 52-week highs and seven new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 40 new highs and 64 new lows.About 7.2 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges. That compares with the 7.3 billion daily average for the past 20 trading days, according to Thomson Reuters data.(Additional reporting by Sinead Carew in New York, and Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru, Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   Online retail giant Amazon is ignoring Donald Trump\'s barrage of taunts and threats, focusing instead on expanding its reach into a swath of industries that the president\'s broadsides haven\'t come close to hitting.Trump has hurled one charge after another at the company over the last week. He\'s assailed Amazon\'s contract with the U.S. Postal Service as a "scam," accused the company of not paying enough taxes, and declared that its large lobbying operation gives it an unfair advantage. Much of this isn\'t new for Trump, who suggested during the presidential campaign that Amazon could face antitrust scrutiny if he were elected.Trump\'s attacks have targeted what Amazon is best known for: rapidly shipping just about any product you can imagine to your door. But the company CEO Jeff Bezos founded more than two decades ago is now a sprawling empire that sells groceries in brick-and-mortar stores, hosts the online services of other companies and federal offices in a network of data centers, and even recently branched into health care.Amazon relies on a nearly 30-member in-house lobbying team that\'s four times as large as it was three years ago as well as outside firms to influence the lawmakers and federal regulators who can help determine its success. The outside roster includes a retired congressman from Washington state who was a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee when he stepped down."Amazon is just not on an even playing field," Trump told reporters Thursday aboard Air Force One. "They have a tremendous lobbying effort, in addition to having The Washington Post, which is as far as I\'m concerned another lobbyist. But they have a big lobbying effort, one of the biggest, frankly, one of the biggest."Overall, Amazon spent $15.6 million on lobbying in 2017. That\'s less than Boeing, Comcast and AT&T spent during the same period, according to the political money website Open Secrets.Amazon does not own the Post. Bezos does. He and the newspaper have previously declared that Bezos isn\'t involved in any journalistic decisions.Trump\'s charge that Amazon pays "little or no taxes" may have merit. Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the left-leaning Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, said in February that Amazon "has built its business model on tax avoidance." Amazon reported $5.6 billion of U.S. profits in 2017 "and didn\'t pay a dime of federal income taxes on it," according to Gardner.The company declined to comment on Trump\'s remarks or its lobbying operations.Amazon has grown rapidly since it launched in 1995 as a site that sold books. It has changed the way people buy paper towels, diapers or just about anything else. And its ambitions go far beyond online shopping: its Alexa voice assistant is in tablets, cars and its Echo devices; it runs the Whole Foods grocery chain; the company produces movies and TV shows and it designs its own brands of furniture and clothing.The company is in the midst of launching an independent business with JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway that is seeking to lower health care costs for employees at the three companies. Given the three players\' outsize influence the alliance has the potential to shake up how Americans shop for health care and the initiative sent a shudder through the industry when it was announced in January.Amazon Web Services is angling for a much larger share of the federal government\'s market for cloud computing, which allows massive amounts of data to be stored and managed on remote servers. The CIA signed a $600 million deal with Amazon in 2013 to build a system to share secure data across the U.S. intelligence community.A partner of Amazon Web Services, the Virginia-based Rean Cloud LLC, in February scored what appeared to be a lucrative cloud computing contract from the Pentagon. But the contract, initially projected to be worth as much as $950 million, was scaled back to $65 million after Amazon\'s competitors complained about the award.Lobbying disclosure records filed with the House and Senate show Amazon is engaged on a wide variety of other issues, from trade to transportation to telecommunications. The company also lobbied lawmakers and federal agencies on the testing and operation of unmanned aerial vehicles. Amazon has been exploring the use of drones for deliveries, but current federal rules restrict flying beyond the operator\'s line of sight.The $15.6 million Amazon spent on lobbying last year was $2.6 million more than in 2016, according to the disclosure records. The bulk of the money  $12.8 million  went for Amazon\'s in-house lobbying team. The nearly 30-member unit is led by Brian Huseman, who worked previously as chief of staff at the Federal Trade Commission and a Justice Department trial attorney.As most large corporations do, Amazon also employs outside lobbying firms  as many as 14 in 2017.In Amazon\'s corner is former Washington congressman Norm Dicks of the firm Van Ness Feldman. Dicks was serving as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee when he ended his 36-year congressional career in 2013. He represented the company on information technology matters and "issues related to cloud computing usage by the federal government," according to the records, which show Van Ness Feldman earned $160,000 from Amazon last year.___Associated Press writer Joseph Pisani in New York contributed to this report.___
BERLIN   German industrial output fell by the most in more than two years in February and the sector is losing momentum, the Economy Ministry said, as factories in Europe\'s largest economy throttle back in the face of the rising threat of protectionism.Output fell by 1.6 percent after rising by a revised 0.1 percent in January, data from the Economy Ministry showed. February\'s drop was the biggest since August 2015 and compared with a Reuters consensus forecast for a rise of 0.3 percent.A breakdown of the data showed a big slump in the production of capital goods, down 3.1 percent on the month, with output of consumer goods falling 1.5 percent and intermediate goods down 0.7 percent. Construction activity was also weaker overall.UniCredit economist Andreas Rees said the weakness across industries suggested a wave of flu might have hit production. The ministry said industry was losing some of its drive."Industrial production has lost momentum. However, the good orders situation and the positive mood among companies suggest the industrial sector will remain on an upward path," the ministry said in a statement. "Growth momentum is nonetheless likely to be weaker than in the previous year."Official data released on Thursday showed industrial orders rose less than expected in February because of weak domestic demand.The DIHK Chambers of Commerce and Industry struck a cautionary note, saying escalation of a dispute between China and the United States over import duties could harm the global economy and weaken demand for German goods and services."On the demand side, the main question is how the current trade conflict develops," said Sophia Krietenbrink at the DIHK."If the duties cut or hinder global value chains, this could also affect the sales opportunities of German companies in the medium term," she said.German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to shift production of their sports utility vehicles out of the United States as a result of Washington\'s tensions with China.In March, German business confidence deteriorated for a second straight month, dropping to its lowest level in nearly a year, as managers in Europe\'s largest economy became more concerned about the rising threat of protectionism.German Chancellor Angela Merkel will visit U.S. President Donald Trump on April 27, a senior U.S. official said on Thursday, as differences over trade and a nuclear deal with Iran cast a shadow over the transatlantic relationship.Merkel\'s trip, three days after French president Emmanuel Macron\'s state visit to the U.S. capital, will come just before the expiry of an exemption for the European Union from U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium.The visits will give the EU\'s two leading national leaders an opportunity to lobby for the bloc to be exempted permanently from the steel and aluminium tariffs. The tariffs are suspended for the EU until May 1.(Additional reporting by Rene Wagner, editing by Larry King)
(Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department said on Friday it might formally enter a lawsuit accusing Harvard University of discriminating against Asian-American applicants as the agency probes its admissions policies for potential civil rights violations.The department disclosed its plan in a brief urging a federal judge in Boston to not allow the Ivy League school to file pre-trial court papers and documents provisionally under seal.Harvard had cited the need to protect the privacy of applicants and students as well as the inner workings of its admissions process, arguing that various documents should be initially filed under seal pending the judge\'s review.The Justice Department said it opposed Harvard\'s request, joining Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA), the group behind the case, which has urged the disclosure of "powerful" evidence showing Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard is violating Title VI of the Civil Rights Act."Harvard College is responsible for protecting the confidential and highly sensitive personal information that prospective students - none of whom asked to be involved in this dispute - entrust to us every year in their applications," Harvard spokeswoman Rachael Dane said in a statement."We are committed to safeguarding their privacy while also ensuring that the public has the access that it is entitled to under the law," Dane said.William Consovoy, a lawyer for SFFA, declined to comment.The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled universities may use affirmative action to help minority applicants get into college. Conservatives have said such programs can hurt white people and Asian-Americans.The Justice Department under Republican President Donald Trump has been investigating a complaint by more than 60 Asian-American organizations which say Harvard\'s policies are discriminatory because they limit the acceptance of Asian-Americans."The public funds Harvard at a cost of millions of dollars each year, and thus has a paramount interest in any proof of these allegations, Harvard\'s responses to them, and the Court\'s resolution of this dispute," Justice Department lawyers wrote in Friday\'s filing.The department said that while it had obtained much of the case\'s evidence through its own separate probe, it wanted to review the court records as it considers whether to file a "statement of interest" arguing a position in the case.A hearing before U.S. District Judge Allison Burroughs is scheduled for Tuesday.Harvard says its admissions policies comply with U.S. laws and that it has worked to increase the financial aid it offers to ensure economic, as well as racial, diversity in its classes.(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Richard Chang and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt\'s concern with his safety came at a steep cost to taxpayers as his swollen security detail blew through overtime budgets and at times diverted officers away from investigating environmental crimes.Altogether, the agency spent millions of dollars for a 20-member full-time detail that is more than three times the size of his predecessor\'s part-time security contingent.New details in Pruitt\'s expansive spending for security and travel emerged from agency sources and documents reviewed by The Associated Press. They come as the embattled EPA leader fends off allegations of profligate spending and ethical missteps that have imperiled his job.Shortly after arriving in Washington, Pruitt demoted the career staff member heading his security detail and replaced him with EPA Senior Special Agent Pasquale "Nino" Perrotta, a former Secret Service agent who operates a private security company.An EPA official with direct knowledge of Pruitt\'s security spending says Perrotta oversaw a rapid expansion of the EPA chief\'s security detail to accommodate guarding him day and night, even on family vacations and when Pruitt was home in Oklahoma. The EPA official spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation.Perrotta also signed off on new procedures that let Pruitt fly first-class on commercial airliners, with the security chief typically sitting next to him with other security staff farther back in the plane. Pruitt\'s premium status gave him and his security chief access to VIP airport lounges.The EPA official said there are legitimate concerns about Pruitt\'s safety, given public opposition to his rollbacks of anti-pollution measures.But Pruitt\'s ambitious domestic and international travel led to rapidly escalating costs, with the security detail racking up so much overtime that many hit annual salary caps of about $160,000. The demands of providing 24-hour coverage even meant taking some investigators away from field work, such as when Pruitt traveled to California for a family vacation.The EPA official said total security costs approached $3 million when pay is added to travel expenses.EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox said late Friday that Pruitt has faced an "unprecedented" amount of death threats against him and his family."Americans should all agree that members of the President\'s cabinet should be kept safe from these violent threats," Wilcox said.A nationwide search of state and federal court records by AP found no case where anyone has been arrested or charged with threatening Pruitt. EPA\'s press office did not respond Friday to provide details of any specific threats or arrests.Pruitt has said his use of first-class airfare was initiated following unpleasant interactions with other travelers. In one incident, someone yelled a profanity as he walked through the airport.The EPA administrator has come under intense scrutiny for ethics issues and outsized spending. Among the concerns: massive raises for two of closest aides and his rental of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a lobbyist who represents fossil fuel clients.At least three congressional Republicans and a chorus of Democrats have called for Pruitt\'s ouster. But President Donald Trump is so far standing by him.A review of Pruitt\'s ethical conduct by White House officials is underway, adding to probes by congressional oversight committees and EPA\'s inspector general.Pruitt, 49, was closely aligned with the oil and gas industry as Oklahoma\'s state attorney general before being tapped by Trump. Trump has praised Pruitt\'s relentless efforts to scrap, delay or rewrite Obama-era environmental regulations. He also has championed budget cuts and staff reductions at the agency so deep that even Republican budget hawks in Congress refused to implement them.EPA\'s press office has refused to disclose the cost of Pruitt\'s security or the size of his protective detail, saying doing so could imperil his personal safety.But other sources within EPA and documents released through public information requests help provide a window into the ballooning costs.In his first three months in office, before pricey overseas trips to Italy and Morocco, the price tag for Pruitt\'s security detail hit more than $832,000, according to EPA documents released through a public information request.Nearly three dozen EPA security and law enforcement agents were assigned to Pruitt, according to a summary of six weeks of weekly schedules obtained by Democratic Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island.Those schedules show multiple EPA security agents accompanied Pruitt on a family vacation to California that featured a day at Disneyland and a New Year\'s Day football game where his home state Oklahoma Sooners were playing in the Rose Bowl. Multiple agents also accompanied Pruitt to a baseball game at the University of Kentucky and at his house outside Tulsa, during which no official EPA events were scheduled.On weekend trips home for Sooners football games, when taxpayers weren\'t paying for his ticket, the EPA official said Pruitt flew coach. He sometimes used a companion pass obtained with frequent flyer miles accumulated by Ken Wagner, a former law partner whom Pruitt hired as a senior adviser at EPA at a salary of more than $172,000. Taxpayers still covered the airfare for the administrator\'s security detail.Pruitt\'s predecessor, Gina McCarthy, had a security detail that numbered about a half dozen, less than a third the size of Pruitt\'s. She flew coach and was not accompanied by security during her off hours, like on weekend trips home to Boston.Pruitt was accompanied by nine aides and a security detail during a trip to Italy in June that cost more than $120,000. He visited the U.S. Embassy in Rome and took a private tour of the Vatican before briefly attending a meeting of G-7 environmental ministers in Bologna.Private Italian security guards hired by Perrotta helped arrange an expansive motorcade for Pruitt and his entourage, according to the EPA official with direct knowledge of the trip. The source described the Italian additions as personal friends of Perrotta, who joined Pruitt and his EPA staff for an hours-long dinner at an upscale restaurant.Perrotta\'s biography, on the website of his company, Sequoia Security Group, says that during his earlier stint with the Secret Service he worked with the Guardia di Finanza, the Italian finance police.The EPA spent nearly $9,000 last year on increased counter-surveillance precautions for Pruitt, including hiring a private contractor to sweep his office for hidden listening devices and installing sophisticated biometric locks for the doors. The payment for the bug sweep went to a vice president at Perrotta\'s security company.The EPA official who spoke to AP said Perrotta also arranged the installation of a $43,000 soundproof phone booth for Pruitt\'s office.At least five EPA officials were placed on leave, reassigned or demoted after pushing back against spending requests such as a $100,000-a-month private jet membership, a bulletproof vehicle and $70,000 for furniture such as a bulletproof desk for the armed security officer always stationed inside the administrator\'s office suite.Those purchases were not approved. But Pruitt got an ornate refurbished desk comparable in grandeur to the one in the Oval Office.Among the officials who faced consequences for resisting such spending was EPA Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations Kevin Chmielewski, a former Trump campaign staffer who was placed on unpaid administrative leave this year.The prior head of Pruitt\'s security detail, Eric Weese, was demoted last year after he refused Pruitt\'s demand to use the lights and sirens on his government-owned SUV to get him through Washington traffic to the airport and dinner reservations.___
WASHINGTON/OTTAWA   The United States, Mexico and Canada still have to resolve major issues around NAFTA, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Friday, casting doubt that the quick deal sought by Washington would materialize.Freeland met with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo for several hours on Friday but made clear there was a lack of consensus on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)."We had some constructive conversations both yesterday and today ... and that intensive pace of work, which has been happening over the last couple of weeks, will continue in the days to come," she told reporters outside the Washington building where the talks took place."We are going to keep on working until we get a good deal," she added, saying negotiations would continue at the level of officials.Lighthizer, citing the need to reach a deal an agreement before the Mexican presidential election on July 1, says he wants the outlines of a deal soon to update the regional trade agreement.A brief statement from Lighthizer\'s office said the talks had been positive and added that "we will continue working to achieve an agreement that benefits our three countries."Mexico\'s economy ministry said the three countries agreed on Friday that their negotiating teams should press on with technical work in coming days and try to find "the balance that enables the process to move forward in its entirety."Mexican business lobby CCE said in a statement that it would accompany the country\'s negotiating team."The continuation of the meetings is a positive sign, and  there is a window of opportunity to advance substantially toward an agreement," Juan Pablo Castan, president of the business lobby, said in the statement.U.S. President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly threatened to walk away from the $1.2 trillion pact unless major changes are made, on Thursday said the three nations should have something to announce fairly soon.Unveiling the outlines of a deal -- which Canadian and Mexican officials had initially suggested might happen at a regional summit in Peru next week -- would allow leaders to claim a political victory while leaving officials to work out the precise details in the months to come.It would also enable Trump and his trade team to focus on a widening trade dispute with China that could hurt the world\'s two biggest economies.But there are major challenges to overcome, in particular a contentious U.S. demand that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA countries be increased to 85 percent from 62.5 percent."We continue to work in that area and to make some good progress and advances," said Freeland, who gave no details.Insiders say the issue of automotive content has to be nailed down before an agreement in principle can be struck."We are dealing in black and white. You can\'t leave things gray," said one source with direct knowledge of the talks, citing the huge complexity of the industry."The last thing you want to do is to be making something that isn\'t compliant and to be told in an audit, \'You\'re not NAFTA compliant and you owe duties,\'" said the source, who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation.Talks to modernize NAFTA started last August but have made little progress, prompting the United States to suggest at the end of the seventh formal round last month that the three nations aim in the first instance for a deal in principle.The lack of clarity over the pact\'s future has hit the Canadian and Mexican currencies in recent months as well as worried financial markets, which are on edge about possible damage to the highly integrated North American market.The chief executive of Royal Bank of Canada, Dave McKay, on Friday said uncertainty over the pact was a concern for customers of the bank, Canada\'s biggest lender, but he remained hopeful a deal would be reached.(Additional reporting by Sharay Angulo and Anthony Esposito in Mexico City, Matt Scuffham in Toronto; Editing by Leslie Adler and Sandra Maler)
NEW YORK   Crude oil and global equity markets tumbled on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump upped the ante in a trade dispute with China, reviving investor jitters about the impact a tariff war could have on the world economy.MSCI\'s gauge of worldwide equity markets fell more than 1 percent and stocks on Wall Street skidded more than 2 percent after Trump threatened late on Thursday to add another $100 billion of tariffs on Chinese goods.China warned it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on Trump\'s latest threat.The U.S. equity rout picked up during a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell in Chicago on the U.S. economy. Powell said it was too early to tell if the threatened tariffs would materialize or the effect they might have."What Powell is signaling to market participants is that the Fed is not swayed or rattled by equity market volatility at this point. That\'s the reason for the additional selling pressure," said Chad Morganlander, a portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors in Florham Park, New Jersey."The Fed has the intestinal fortitude to wait until it creeps into credit conditions and causes financial stress," he said.The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index, which closed before Powell\'s speech, fell 0.4 percent but ended the week 1.15 percent higher.The STOXX Europe index of companies in 17 European countries fell 0.35 percent, with the trade-exposed auto sector the leading sectoral loser, down 1.7 percent.Earlier in Asia, Japan\'s Nikkei nudged down slightly  to regain a measure of calm after an initial knee-jerk reaction to Trump\'s latest tariff proposal.Defensive stocks such as utilities or telecoms were among a handful of European sectors to end the day in higher.MSCI\'s all-country index of stock performance in 47 countries fell 1.2 percent, led lower by Apple, Microsoft, Amazon.com and JPMorgan - the same as on the benchmark S&P 500 index.On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 572.46 points, or 2.34 percent, to 23,932.76. The S&P 500 lost 58.37 points, or 2.19 percent, to 2,604.47 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 161.44 points, or 2.28 percent, to 6,915.11.The market\'s decline is due more to its current vulnerable state than the prospect of a trade war, said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at The Leuthold Group in Minneapolis."It\'s got higher values; financial liquidity is contracting. You came into the year with a little too much optimism. You got rising rates going on, you got rising inflation fears," he said.Powell said the U.S. central bank will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control.A weak U.S. unemployment report, which nonetheless highlighted underlying labor market strength, helped push U.S. Treasury prices higher as the economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March.Oil prices tumbled, with U.S. crude falling more than 2 percent.Brent crude futures fell $1.22 to settle at $67.11 a  barrel, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled down $1.48 at $62.06.U.S. Treasury and euro zone government bond yields dipped as   the trade spat raised the prospect of a full-blown trade war between the world\'s two largest economies.The yield on 10-year German government debt, the euro zone benchmark, dipped 2.7 basis points in late trading to 0.494 percent, erasing much of Thursday\'s rise.Benchmark 10-year notes last rose 15/32 in price to push yields down to 2.7753 percent.Mike Terwilliger, portfolio manager of Resource Liquid Alternatives for the Resource Credit Income Fund, said nearly every news event seems to register on the market\'s Richter scale, though investors have been dealing with some relatively weighty challenges this year."The recent decline in Treasuries is largely \'Tweet related\' versus some fundamental shift in the view of inflation or economic growth," he said.The dollar index fell 0.37 percent, with the euro up 0.36 percent to $1.2282. The Japanese yen firmed 0.45 percent at 106.90 per dollar.U.S. gold futures for June delivery settled up 0.6 percent at $1,336.10 an ounce.(Reporting by Herbert Lash; additional reporting by April Joyner in New York; Editing by Dan Grebler)
SAN DIEGO   The U.S. National Guard faces a vastly different environment than it did on its last two deployments to the border with Mexico, with far fewer illegal crossings and more Central Americans than Mexicans coming.Still, its role is shaping up much the same: moving more Border Patrol agents from behind-the-scenes jobs to the front lines.President Donald Trump told reporters Thursday that he wants to send between 2,000 and 4,000 National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border to help federal officials fight illegal immigration and drug trafficking. That estimate is lower than the 6,400 Guard members that former President George Bush sent to the border.From 2006 to 2008, the Guard fixed vehicles, maintained roads, repaired fences and performed ground surveillance. Its second mission in 2010 and 2011 involved more aerial surveillance and intelligence work. People involved in both operations say the Guard was the Border Patrol\'s "eyes and ears."Federal law limits military involvement in civilian law enforcement, creating a supporting role for the Guard. The Trump administration and governors haven\'t said precisely what the troops will do, but Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen anticipates vehicle maintenance and aerial surveillance will be in the mix.Operation Jump Start, from May 2006 to July 2008, sent 6,000 troops to the border in its first year and 3,000 the second year and was framed as a way to buy time amid an unprecedented Border Patrol hiring spree and heavy political pressure for immediate action. The Border Patrol ballooned by thousands of agents during the operation to about 20,000, roughly where it is today.About 40 percent of troops went to Arizona, the busiest corridor for illegal crossings at the time, followed in order by Texas, California and New Mexico. The Border Patrol made about 1.1 million arrests the year Jump Start began, nearly four times what it did last year.The Guard was assigned to observation posts some distance from the border for safety reasons, using binoculars and other gear to spot people crossing. Richard Barlow, then a top Border Patrol official in San Diego, said their success as lookouts varied because they were unarmed and needed protection in more dangerous areas."They aren\'t allowed to have contact (with people arrested), so they\'re basically eyes," Barlow said.Arrests had fallen by about half and hundreds of miles of border barriers were added by May 2010, when Operation Phalanx sent 1,200 troops to the border amid backlash to the killing of an Arizona rancher. Crossers were still largely Mexican men entering the country through Arizona deserts.The Guard flew planes at high altitudes to identify people crossing, said Barlow, then the Border Patrol\'s top agent in Tucson, Arizona. It also responded by helicopter to agents who asked for help when closing in on a group.A bigger focus on intelligence work involved mining for trends and collaborating with investigators from other agencies, Barlow said.Since then, crossings have shifted to Central American women and children crossing in Texas\' Rio Grande Valley, many of whom turn themselves in to authorities and seek asylum or other protection. Mexicans accounted for only about four of every 10 arrests last year, down from about nine of 10 during the Guard\'s previous deployments.A shared border means Mexicans can often quickly be turned around, but the Border Patrol holds Central Americans until another agency takes custody, typically within three days."The numbers are the numbers, but the type of numbers is what\'s critically important today," said David Aguilar, Border Patrol chief during the Guard\'s first deployment and deputy commissioner of parent agency Customs and Border Protection during the second.Then-Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan testified in 2016 that he never imagined his job would entail procuring baby powder and baby wipes. Agents\' tasks include ensuring burritos are served at the right temperature."It takes a tremendous amount of resources to do this," Morgan said.Aguilar, who retired in 2013, said he expected the Guard to take on surveillance work again  this time by air, ground and water. It\'s unclear if federal law allows troops to run detention facilities, but Aguilar doesn\'t see that happening."Is (the Department of Defense) and National Guard equipped to do that, trained to do that?" he said. "Just like the Border Patrol, the answer is no, nor should they be encumbered with those responsibilities. That\'s not what our military does."
PLAINSBORO, N.J.   Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on Friday acknowledged there is "a lot of opposition" to President Donald Trump\'s plan to open most of the nation\'s coastline to oil and gas drilling.Speaking at a forum on offshore wind energy in Plainsboro, New Jersey, Zinke touted Trump\'s "all of the above" energy menu that calls for oil and gas, as well as renewable energy projects.But he noted strong opposition to the drilling plan, adding there is little to no infrastructure in many of those areas to support drilling."There is a lot of opposition, particularly off the East Coast and the West Coast, on oil and gas," Zinke said.He said on the East Coast, only the Republican governors of Maine and Georgia have expressed support for the drilling plan, which has roiled environmentalists but cheered energy interests. Maine Gov. Paul LePage has endorsed the plan, but Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal has hesitated to take a public position on it."The rest of the governors are strongly opposed," Zinke said, promising to consider the desire of coastal states when deciding on the drilling plan.Zinke also took note of the growing number of states that are employing state-level laws to thwart the possibility of drilling off their coasts by banning infrastructure that would support drilling in state waters."If local communities don\'t want it in state waters, the states have a lot of leverage," Zinke said.Zinke said oil and gas production seems to be moving to waters off Latin America where regulations are less stringent, and added that oil and gas drilling is more environmentally risky than renewable energy such as wind projects, which he said have the greatest growth potential of all the options on America\'s energy menu.Yet Zinke would not commit to giving any state an exemption from the program, and specifically noted that Florida has not been exempted. In January, he said "Florida is different" and indicated the state would not be part of the drilling plan.On Friday in New Jersey, Zinke said Florida has a drilling moratorium already in place."No one was exempted," he said.While the secretary was far from waving the white flag on the drilling proposal, elected officials and environmentalists smelled blood in the water. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo applauded the interior department\'s plan to solicit interest in wind projects off the New York and New Jersey coasts, which was announced Friday, but renewed his request to be exempted from the drilling plan."We believe offshore wind is a better direction for our economy, for our environment and for our energy future," the Democratic governor said.New Jersey Rep. Frank Pallone Jr., a Democrat representing part of the Jersey shore, was ready to ring the death knell for the drilling plan  even if Zinke wasn\'t."While it is encouraging that Secretary Zinke has implied that the administration understands that drilling for oil and gas off of the East Coast is not a viable option, it is concerning that the secretary has not provided concrete assurance to New Jerseyans" about being left out of the plan, Pallone said.Cindy Zipf of the Clean Ocean Action environmental group said Zinke should "back off and tell President Trump the Atlantic is a no-go zone for offshore oil and gas development."The federal Bureau of Ocean Energy Management also announced Friday it is proposing lease sales for two additional areas off Massachusetts for commercial wind energy projects totaling nearly 390,000 acres.___
SAN FRANCISCO/WASHINGTON   Facebook Inc backed for the first time on Friday proposed legislation requiring social media sites to disclose the identities of buyers of online political campaign ads and introduced a new verification process for people buying "issue" ads, which have been used to sow discord online.The change in stance, announced in a Facebook post by Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, comes a few days before he is scheduled to answer questions in congressional hearings about how the company handles its users\' data.The steps are designed to deter the kind of election meddling and online information warfare that U.S. authorities have accused Russia of pursuing, Zuckerberg said. Moscow has denied the allegations."Election interference is a problem that\'s bigger than any one platform, and that\'s why we support the Honest Ads Act," Zuckerberg wrote in his post.That legislation, introduced last October but not yet passed, is aimed at countering concerns about foreign nationals using social media to influence American politics, which is part of the investigation into possible Russian meddling during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.Zuckerberg said that he also wanted to shed more light on "issue ads," or ads that discuss a political subject such as gun laws or racism but do not directly relate to an election or a candidacy, and would require every such advertiser to confirm their identity and location."Any advertiser who doesn\'t pass will be prohibited from running political or issue ads," Zuckerberg wrote.Facebook disclosed in September that Russians under fake names had used the social network to try to influence U.S. voters in the months before and after the 2016 election, writing about inflammatory subjects, setting up events and buying ads.In February, U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies with interfering in the election by sowing discord on social media.The requirement to verify the identity of such ad buyers was important to counter activity by organizations such as Russia\'s Internet Research Agency, a so-called online "troll farm," said Democratic Senator Mark Warner, a sponsor of the Honest Ads Act."Most of the paid ads the Internet Research Agency ran on Facebook prior to the 2016 election didn\'t mention Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump - but they did mention divisive political issues like guns, LGBT rights, immigration, and racial issues," Warner said in a statement.UPHILL FIGHTThe Honest Ads Act would expand existing election law covering television and radio outlets to apply to paid internet and digital advertisements on platforms like Facebook, Twitter Inc and Alphabet Inc\'s Google.Google declined comment. Twitter could not immediately be reached for comment.Facebook had previously stopped short of backing the legislation, saying it wanted to work with lawmakers further and announcing attempts at self-regulation.The bill\'s sponsors said they welcomed Facebook\'s support. They have faced an uphill fight so far because Republicans, who are generally sceptical of political ad regulations, have majorities in the House and Senate.The Senate legislation has one Republican sponsor, Senator John McCain.Zuckerberg is scheduled to appear on Tuesday before a joint hearing of two U.S. Senate committees, and on Wednesday before a U.S. House committee.Under the Honest Ads Act, digital platforms with at least 50 million monthly views would need to maintain a public file of all electioneering communications purchased by anyone spending more than $500.The legislation would also require online platforms to make "all reasonable efforts" to ensure that foreign nationals and entities are not buying political ads to influence the U.S. electorate.Facebook will also require verification of people who manage Facebook pages with large followings, Zuckerberg wrote.(Reporting by David Ingram in San Francisco and Dustin Volz in Washington; Editing by Bill Rigby)
KABUL, Afghanistan   Pakistan\'s prime minister arrived in Afghanistan on Friday for a day-long visit many see as an effort to ease strained relations between the two neighbors and revive a push for peace talks with the Taliban.Shahid Khaqan Abbasi was welcomed by Afghan President Asharf Ghani and the two inspected an honor guard at the Presidential Palace in Kabul before heading in for meetings.A statement issued by the Afghan presidential palace after the meeting said the two sides discussed counterterrorism, Afghan-led peace talks and border violations. They also discussed refugee and repatriations issues, the exchange of prisoners and finalization of the Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for peace and solidarity.Abbasi, accompanied by several other top Pakistani officials on the trip, his first to Kabul since becoming prime minister last year, is to hold meetings with a string of Afghan officials, according to Ghani\'s spokesman, Shah Hussain Murtazawi.Pakistan has been under pressure from Kabul and Washington to stop offering safe havens to militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan, a charge Islamabad denies.Pakistan, widely believed to be the only party that can bring the Taliban to the negotiating table, also insists its influence over the insurgents has been exaggerated.Kabul and Islamabad regularly trade accusations of harboring the other country\'s militants and the harsh language has underscored the strains between them.Late on Thursday, Pakistan\'s Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement rejecting a claim made by Kabul that Pakistan violated Afghan airspace with Pakistani Air Force raids inside Afghan territory during counter-terrorism operations earlier in the week.The statement said information about the ongoing "operations is shared with the Afghan security forces on a regular basis." In the latest military actions, Pakistan told the Afghan about them and stressed that these operations were on Pakistani side of the border, it said.Islamabad accuses Kabul of failing to take action against militant groups who continue to attack Pakistan from their sanctuaries across the border in Afghanistan."Pakistan urges Afghanistan to focus on taking effective counter-terrorism actions, including plugging in of large gaps existing along the Afghan side of Pakistan-Afghanistan border," the statement said, adding that "it is also important that the Afghan government should refrain from the blame game."Also on Thursday, Javid Faisal, deputy spokesman for Afghanistan\'s chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, said that Pakistan\'s support was critical to talks with the Taliban and that Abbasi\'s visit would help improve the troubled Afghan-Pakistan relations.In January, President Donald Trump lashed out at Pakistan, saying the United States had "foolishly" given Pakistan more than $33 billion in aid over the last 15 years and had gotten nothing in return but "lies & deceit." Washington later confirmed it is withholding $255 million in U.S. military aid to Pakistan this year.___Associated Press writers Kathy Gannon in Islamabad and Amir Shah in Kabul, Afghanistan, contributed to this report.
SAO PAULO   A federal judge ordered the arrest of former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, giving him until Friday afternoon to turn himself into authorities. Being forced to begin serving a corruption conviction while he appeals it increases the chances that da Silva, who leads presidential preference polls, will not be able to run in October's elections. Here is a look at how his jailing could impact Brazil's political landscape.THE ELECTORAL COURTEven if judge Sergio Moro had not issued an arrest warrant for da Silva, he could still be ineligible to run for office under the country's Clean Slate Law, which bars candidates who have had a criminal conviction upheld. However, the Superior Electoral Tribunal, Brazil's electoral court, makes final decisions on candidacies in August. Da Silva's leftist Workers' Party has said it will register him as its candidate even if he is jailed. The party could also swap in a Plan B candidate up until mid-September.OTHER CANDIDATESRunning second to da Silva in the polls is Congressman Jair Bolsonaro, a former army captain who has been compared to President Donald Trump. Bolsonaro defends Brazil's military dictatorship, has been fined for making sexist and racist comments, and is a staunch supporter of loosening Brazil's gun laws. If da Silva is out of the race, many of his supporters would likely go to more left-leaning candidates like Marina Silva or Guilherme Boulos. Still, many analysts believe Bolsonaro's overall chances could improve if da Silva is barred from the election, though others think his divisiveness could encourage the coalescing around a different candidate.DA SILVA'S PLANOn Thursday, da Silva held an emergency meeting with other leaders of the Workers' Party. The group, which included former President Dilma Rousseff, party president Gleisi Hoffmann and former Sao Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad, came up with three main tactics to back da Silva: a permanent camp-out by supporters in front of his home in a Sao Paulo suburb, mobilization of a national campaign and continued pressure on the Supreme Federal Tribunal.CAMPAIGN FROM JAIL?Even if he is jailed, da Silva will have the right to campaign after being registered as an official candidate in August. He has already been traveling Brazil in a pre-candidate campaign tour. In many places he has been welcomed warmly, but not all. Two of the buses in his caravan were shot at during a recent leg of his trip that took him to the southern state of Parana. Da Silva was not in either vehicle, which were carrying journalists and guests. No one was hurt, but the incident underlined the divisive mood in the country.POLARIZED NATIONProtesters for and against da Silva took to the streets in several cities before and during the Supreme Federal Tribunal's deliberations. October's general elections and the lead-up to them won't be any different. Tensions are high and political opinions are more divided than ever, adding to frictions among Brazilians.
WASHINGTON   U.S. law enforcement agencies have seized the sex marketplace website Backpage.com as part of an enforcement action by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, according to a posting on the Backpage website on Friday.Groups and political leaders working to end forced prostitution and child exploitation celebrated the shutdown of Backpage, a massive ad marketplace that is primarily used to sell sex. But some internet and free speech advocates warned the action could lead to harsh federal limits on expression and the press.The website posting said U.S. attorneys in Arizona and California, as well as the Justice Department\'s section on child exploitation and obscenity and the California and Texas attorneys general had helped shut down the website.The Justice Department said late on Friday that a court in Arizona ruled the case remains sealed, which puts any legal information under wraps. In the posting about the seizure, the department had originally said more information would be made public on Friday evening.A Phoenix FBI official said that there was "law enforcement activity" at the Sedona, Arizona home of Michael Lacey, one of the founders of Backpage, but referred further inquiries to the Justice Department.Reuters was unable to reach representatives of Backpage for comment."Today, Backpage was shutdown. It\'s a huge step. Now no child will be sold for sex through this website," tweeted Senator Heidi Heitkamp.Heitkamp helped draft legislation passed by the Senate last month that makes it easier for state prosecutors and sex-trafficking victims to sue social media networks, advertisers and others that fail to keep sex trafficking and exploitative materials off their platforms..President Donald Trump will sign the bill into law next week, said Heitkamp. The legislation, featured prominently in the popular Netflix documentary "I am Jane Doe," amends the Communications Decency Act, which has shielded website operators from state criminal charges or civil liability if they  facilitate sex ads or prostitution."Shutting down the largest online U.S. marketplace for sex trafficking will dramatically reduce the profitability of forcing people into the commercial sex trade, at least in the short term," said Bradley Myles, chief executive of Polaris, an international anti-slavery group that runs the National Human Trafficking Hotline.There would be "a dramatic shift in the marketplace starting tonight," he added.Backpage and advocacy groups say the ads are free speech protected by the U.S. Constitution.Backpage has affiliates across the country and around the world, and by 2014 brought in annual revenue of $135 million, the New York Times has reported.The Supreme Court in January 2017 refused to consider reviving a lawsuit against Backpage that was filed by three young women, who accused it of facilitating their forced prostitution.The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has told Congress that nearly three quarters of the cases submitted to the center relate to ads posted on the site. The state of California has said that 90 percent of the site\'s income were attributable to "adult ads."In 2016, Texas and California authorities raided the company\'s Dallas headquarters and arrested chief executive Carl Ferrer and other former company executives on pimping-related charges. The judge in the case ruled the website was protected by the First Amendment, and it was not liable for the speech of third parties.(Reporting by Sarah Lynch and Lisa Lambert, Additional reporting by David Schwartz in Phoenix and Justin Mitchell in Washington, Editing by Toni Reinhold and Rosalba O\'Brien)
MOSCOW   The U.S. government\'s decision to include Russian magnate Oleg Deripaska on its sanctions blacklist on Friday will reverberate around the world because his business empire has a global footprint and counts major multinationals as partners.Washington imposed sanctions on seven Russian oligarchs, 12 companies they own or control, as well as 17 senior Russian government officials because, it said, they were profiting from a Russian state engaged in "malign activities" around the world.Deripaska, estimated by Forbes magazine to have a net worth of $6.7 billion, is the main owner of the conglomerate EN+, which in turn is the co-owner of some of the world\'s biggest metals producers, Rusal and Nornickel.Deripaska\'s inclusion on the U.S. sanctions list could potentially create complications too for companies with which he does business; they include German car giant Volkswagen and commodities trader Glencore.Deripaska called the U.S. decision "very unfortunate but not unexpected.""Certainly the grounds for putting my name on the list of SDNs as provided by U.S. officials are groundless, ridiculous and absurd," he said, in a statement sent to Reuters by Basic Element, one of his businesses. SDN stands for "Specially Designated National."Hong Kong-listed Rusal is one of the world\'s biggest aluminum producers. It says exports to the United States account for over 10 percent of its output.Rusal owns assets in Italy, Ireland, Sweden, Nigeria, Guyana, Guinea. It owns a stake in Australian QAL, the worlds top alumina refinery.Nornickel has assets in Finland, in Australia, where itholds alicense todevelop the Honeymoon Well Project, and in South Africa, where it has a 50 percent stake in the country\'s only nickel concentrate producer, Norilsk Nickel Nkomati.A Nornickel representative declined to comment on the risks resulting from the sanctions on their shareholder.FOREIGN PARTNERSIn its statement announcing the sanctions, the U.S. Treasury Department said U.S. entities will be "generally prohibited from dealings with" the people and firms on the sanctions list.In addition, it said, companies outside the United States "could face sanctions for knowingly facilitating significant transactions for or on behalf of" sanctioned entities.Volkswagen has a joint plant with GAZ, a Russian carmaker which is a subsidiary of Basic Element, which was also sanctioned on Friday. Under a contract that runs until 2025, the plant assembles vehicles from the Volkswagen stable.The German automaker has been in talks to buy a stake in GAZ, five sources familiar with the discussions told Reuters in December last year.Swiss-headquartered Glencore is a shareholder in Rusal, and his said it plans to switch those shares to Deripaska\'s newly-created holding company, EN+.According to a Rusal prospectus, its major customers include Glencore, Toyota, and Rio Tinto Alcan.Other foreign firms with ties to Deripaska\'s empire include Austrian construction company Strabag, in which the Russian\'s firm Rasperia has a blocking stake, and Singapore\'s Changi Airports International, which is a partner with a Deripaska-owned airports firm.KREMLIN CONNECTIONSIn his life and career, Deripaska has frequently intersected with the Kremlin and Russian officialdom.He holds regular meetings with President Vladimir Putin, he invested heavily in building infrastructure for Russia\'s 2014 Sochi winter Olympics, and has said his own interests are indivisible from the state\'s interests.The mother of Deripaska\'s children, Polina, is the daughter of Valentin Yumashev, who was presidential chief of staff under former Russian president Boris Yeltsin. Yumashev later married Yeltsins daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko. Yeltsin and his entourage were instrumental in elevating Vladimir Putin to power as the anointed successor to the ailing president.In February, the website of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny published a report alleging that Deripaska met Sergei Prikhodko, Russias deputy prime minister, on a yacht belonging to the businessman off the coast of Norway in 2016.Deripaska accused Navalny and others of spreading lies that he had committed unlawful actions and obtained an injunction from a court requiring media outlets stop disseminating the disputed content. The Russian state telecoms watchdog blocked Navalnys website.TRUMP CAMPAIGN MANAGERDeripaska did business in the 2000s with Paul Manafort, who later became campaign manager for Donald Trump when he was running for president.At the time he was doing business with Deripaska, Manafort, a Republican operative, was providing campaign advice to Viktor Yanukovich, a pro-Moscow challenger for the presidency of Ukraine. Yanukovich was elected president in 2010.A Cyprus-based company tied to Deripaska, Surf Horizon Limited, sued Manafort and his aide Rick Gates, in a New York state court in January, accusing them of misappropriating more than $18.9 million earmarked for deals in Ukraine in 2008.That lawsuit emanated from a business partnership that dates to 2006 when Manafort and Gates convinced Deripaska to invest in a private equity fund that would make investments primarily in Russia and Ukraine, according to an offering memorandum referenced in the lawsuit.Jeffrey Eilender, who is representing Manafort in the lawsuit, told Reuters last month he planned to argue for dismissal based in part on the assertion that Surf Horizons claims are past the statute of limitations.On Friday, Eilender said he believed the sanctions would make the pursuit of the lawsuit meaningless. As a practical matter, he cant take money or assets out of the United States, Eilender said, referring to Deripaska. Gates currently does not have counsel in the Surf Horizon case.Despite the lawsuit, Manafort sought to stay in contact with the oligarch. Last year the Washington Post reported that Manafort sent an email in July 2016 through an intermediary offering Deripaska private briefings about Donald Trumps presidential campaign. Manafort was chairman of the campaign at the time.Manafort spokesman Jason Maloni has said the email exchanges were innocuous and aimed at collecting money owed by past clients.(Additional reporting by Anastasia Lyrchikova in MOSCOW, and Nathan Layne and Karen Freifeld in NEW YORK; Writing by Christian Lowe; Editing by Robin Pomeroy and Tom Brown)

___Workers benefit as US businesses struggle to fill jobsWASHINGTON (AP)  More American employers are struggling to find enough workers to fill jobs, which might have contributed to slower hiring last month. And workers are benefiting in the meantime: More people who had given up looking for work are renewing their job hunts, more employees are confident enough to quit to look for other jobs and pay is gradually picking up. U.S. employers added just 103,000 jobs in March, the Labor Department said Friday, the fewest in six months.___Powell says Fed expects to stick with gradual rate hikesCHICAGO (AP)  Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade fight with China could affect the U.S. economy.___Stocks dive as US proposes more China tariffs; Dow falls 572NEW YORK (AP)  Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. That came with the U.S. considering duties on an additional $100 billion in goods imported from China.___China vows to 'counterattack' US as trade spat worsensWASHINGTON (AP)  China vows to 'counterattack with great strength' if President Donald Trump hikes tariffs on an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating trade dispute between the world's two largest economies. Trump's surprise directive for the U.S. trade representative to consider more tariffs came a day after Beijing announced planned increases in duties on U.S. soybeans, aircraft and other items in response to American tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports.___Did Cambridge Analytica get your data? You'll know soonNEW YORK (AP)  Facebook will begin alerting users whose private data may have been compromised in the Cambridge Analytica scandal starting Monday. All 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice with a link to information on which Facebook apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. In addition, 87 million users whose data might have been shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of that fact.___Nine West files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protectionNEW YORK (AP)  Nine West Holdings Inc. has become the latest retailer to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in an attempt to restructure its debt. The shoe chain says the move was made to help with the sale of its Nine West and Bandolino footwear and handbag business and so it can focus more on its profitable businesses, which include One Jeanswear Group, The Jewelry Group, the Kasper Group and Anne Klein.___Boss buzzing you after hours? NYC might let you say buzz offNEW YORK (AP)  Technology that offered the promise of freedom from the confines of an office has instead become a ball and chain in its own right, blurring the lines between work hours and well, any other hours. A New York City Council member wants to put a stop to that with a proposal that would bar employers from requiring employees to check and respond to non-emergency electronic communications sent outside of regular work hours.___US consumer debt rose a slight 3.3 percent in FebruaryWASHINGTON (AP)  US consumers increased their debt by just 3.3 percent in February, the weakest monthly change in nearly seven years despite an otherwise healthy economy. The Federal Reserve said Friday that consumer borrowing rose $10.6 billion in March to nearly $3.9 trillion. The gains have slowed sharply from a 10.3 percent jump in debt levels in November. February's increase was the smallest since August 2011, when consumer credit levels declined.___Foreign worker saves 7 lives as Hawaii fishing boat sinksHONOLULU (AP)  A federal contractor who was aboard the fishing vessel Princess Hawaii when it sank off the Big Island credits a Vietnamese crewman with saving his life. Khanh Huynh was acting as the de facto captain of the doomed fishing boat. The 28-year-old fisherman is one of hundreds of foreigners who work aboard American-owned fishing vessels in Hawaii. The workers lack visas and live on the boats for the duration of their contracts  often for years at a time.___The Standard & Poor's 500 lost 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76. The Nasdaq composite slid 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks dipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.Benchmark U.S. crude dropped $1.48, or 2.3 percent, to $62.06 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost $1.22, or 1.8 percent, to $67.11 per barrel in London. In other energy trading, wholesale gasoline dipped 3 cents to $1.95 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.96 a gallon. Natural gas rose 3 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.
NEW YORK   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to face Congress on Tuesday, and No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg is on a media blitz as the company tries to contain swirling concerns about how it protects the data of its 2.2 billion members.Facing its most serious challenge in its 14-year-history, the social media juggernaut is seeking to maintain people\'s trust and avoid a user exodus.Here\'s a look at the scandal and what it means.___HOW DID THIS START?In mid-March, news broke that Cambridge Analytica, a London-based data-mining firm with ties to U.S. President Donald Trump, lifted the Facebook profiles of tens of millions of users without their permission in an attempt to sway elections.A former Cambridge Analytica employee, Christopher Wylie, said the firm got Facebook information through an app in order to build psychological profiles on a large portion of the U.S. electorate. That app vacuumed up information from users who gave the app permission to access their accounts  as well as additional data from their Facebook friends. About 270,000 people were paid to take part; tens of millions of their friends were also caught in the data dragnet.___WHY ARE PEOPLE MAD AT FACEBOOK?The crisis appears to have crystallized the anxiety many people feel about Facebook\'s enormous sway over daily life and its massive data trove.It comes on the heels of a revelation that Russia used the service to meddle in U.S. elections. It has also deepened concerns about the social media network\'s ability to avoid being exploited to spread propaganda and sway elections.And it has renewed questions about Facebook\'s ability to protect the privacy of its users while also exploiting their personal details to fuel its lucrative advertising business.Facebook\'s stock has fallen about 14 percent since the Cambridge Analytica story broke, more than the rest of the stock market has fallen . Some advertisers and users have left Facebook, although the company has said it hasn\'t been a significant number yet.___WHAT\'S THE SCOPE OF THIS SCANDAL?The number of people affected seems to keep ballooning. On Wednesday, Facebook said that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed  up from the 50 million disclosed in previously published reports.And Facebook said it believes most of its 2.2 billion users have had their public profile information scraped by "malicious actors" at some point. That\'s through a feature that lets people search for users through their email address or phone number. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says malicious actors have also used this technique. Outside experts believe they could have been identity thieves, scam artists or shady data brokers assembling marketing profiles.On top of that, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting phone call logs and text histories.___HOW HAS FACEBOOK RESPONDED?Zuckerberg and Sandberg were silent for five days following the initial report. Zuckerberg also was criticized for initially failing to apologize when he did break the silence.Since then, they\'ve been on a major offensive, apologizing on national TV and rolling out new privacy policies. In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world.___IS FACEBOOK CHANGING ITS PRACTICES?Facebook has outlined a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly. It\'s also restricting access that apps can have to data about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content. In addition, the company is removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address.Facebook is trying to be more upfront with users. On Monday, all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that.___WHY IS WASHINGTON INVOLVED?Congress has been interested in increasing regulation on Facebook due to its size and the myriad of issues it\'s facing. That includes data privacy, fake news and Russian meddling in the U.S. elections.Zuckerberg is set to testify on the privacy scandal Tuesday before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.Meanwhile, special counsel Robert Mueller is scrutinizing the connections between Trump\'s campaign and Cambridge Analytica so he\'ll be interested in whatever Zuckerberg has to say, too.___AP Business Writers Alexandra Olson and Barbara Ortutay in New York contributed to this report.
Today in HistoryToday is Friday, April 6, the 96th day of 2018. There are 269 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 6, 1968, 41 people were killed by two consecutive natural gas explosions at a sporting goods store in downtown Richmond, Indiana.On this date:In 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized by Joseph Smith in Fayette, New York.In 1862, the Civil War Battle of Shiloh began in Tennessee as Confederate forces launched a surprise attack against Union troops, who beat back the Confederates the next day.In 1896, the first modern Olympic games formally opened in Athens, Greece.In 1909, American explorers Robert E. Peary and Matthew A. Henson and four Inuits became the first men to reach the North Pole.In 1917, the United States entered World War I as the House joined the Senate in approving a declaration of war against Germany that was then signed by President Woodrow Wilson.In 1943, "Le Petit Prince" (The Little Prince) by Antoine de Saint-Exupery was first published by Reynal & Hitchcock of New York.In 1954, Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy, R-Wis., responding to CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow\'s broadside against him on "See It Now," said in remarks filmed for the program that Murrow had, in the past, "engaged in propaganda for Communist causes."In 1965, the United States launched Intelsat I, also known as the "Early Bird" communications satellite, into geosynchronous orbit.In 1971, Russian-born composer Igor Stravinsky, 88, died in New York City.In 1988, Tirza Porat, a 15-year-old Israeli girl, was killed in a West Bank melee. (Although Arabs were initially blamed, the army concluded Tirza had been accidentally shot by a Jewish settler.)In 1998, the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 9,000 points for the first time, ending the day at 9,033.23. Country singer Tammy Wynette died at her Nashville home at age 55.In 2014, actor Mickey Rooney, 93, died in North Hollywood.Ten years ago: Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama, speaking at a private fundraiser in San Francisco, spoke of voters in Pennsylvania\'s Rust Belt communities who "cling to guns or religion" because of bitterness about their economic lot; Democratic rival Hillary Rodham Clinton seized on the comment, calling it "elitist." President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin, meeting at the Black Sea resort of Sochi, failed to overcome sharp differences over a U.S. missile defense system as they closed their seven-year relationship.Five years ago: Iran and six world powers failed to reach agreement during talks in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on how to reduce fears that Tehran might use its nuclear technology to make weapons. Militants killed six Americans, including diplomat Anne Smedinghoff, 25, and an Afghan doctor in a pair of attacks in Afghanistan, the deadliest day for the United States in the war in eight months.One year ago: President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping (shee jihn-peeng) opened a two-day summit at Trump\'s Florida beach resort. The National World War I Museum and Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri, hosted a centennial observance of the day the U.S. entered the global conflict. Don Rickles, the big-mouthed, bald-headed "Mr. Warmth" whose verbal assaults endeared him to audiences and peers and made him the acknowledged grandmaster of insult comedy, died at his Beverly Hills home at age 90.Today\'s Birthdays: Nobel Prize-winning scientist James D. Watson is 90. Composer-conductor Andre Previn is 89. Actor Billy Dee Williams is 81. Actor Roy Thinnes is 80. Movie director Barry Levinson is 76. Actor John Ratzenberger is 71. Actress Patrika Darbo is 70. Baseball Hall of Famer Bert Blyleven is 67. Actress Marilu Henner is 66. Olympic bronze medal figure skater Janet Lynn is 65. Actor Michael Rooker is 63. Former U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., is 62. Rock musician Warren Haynes is 58. Rock singer-musician Frank Black is 53. Actress Ari Meyers is 49. Actor Paul Rudd is 49. Actor-producer Jason Hervey is 46. Rock musician Markku Lappalainen (mar-KOO\' lap-uh-LAN\'-en) is 45. Actor Zach Braff is 43. Actor Joel Garland is 43. Actress Candace Cameron Bure (buhr-RAY\') is 42. Actor Teddy Sears is 41. Jazz and rhythm-and-blues musician Robert Glasper is 40. Actress Eliza Coupe is 37. Folk singer-musician Kenneth Pattengale (Milk Carton Kids) is 36. Actor Bret Harrison is 36. Actor Charlie McDermott is 28.Thought for Today: "If fifty million people say a foolish thing, it is still a foolish thing."  Anatole France, French author and critic (1844-1924).
NEW YORK   Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. The latest drop came as the White House proposed tripling the amount of goods from China that will be subject to tariffs.The stock market changed direction again and again this week as investors tried to get a sense of whether the trade dispute between the world\'s two largest economies will escalate. On Friday technology companies, banks, industrial and health care stocks sank. The market didn\'t get any help from a March jobs report that was weaker than expected.With administration officials sounding conciliatory one day and hostile the next and the president quick to fire off yet another tweet, investors simply don\'t know what the U.S. wants to achieve in its talks with China, said Katie Nixon, chief investment officer for Northern Trust Wealth Management."The process itself seems to be quite chaotic," she said. "We\'re not quite sure what the long-term strategy is."The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76. It\'s down 10 percent from its record high in late January.The S&P 500, which many index funds track, lost 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47. The Nasdaq composite slid 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks dipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.President Donald Trump\'s administration spent the past few days reassuring investors that it\'s not rushing into a trade war, and China\'s government has done the same. But late Thursday, Trump ordered the U.S. Trade Representative to consider tariffs on another $100 billion in Chinese imports. China said it would "counterattack with great strength" if that happens.Each nation proposed tariffs $50 billion in imports from the other at the start of this week. Stocks plunged on Monday, but they rallied over the next few days as officials from both countries said they were open to talks and that the tariffs might never go into effect.The Dow average, which contains numerous multinational companies including industrial powerhouses Boeing and Caterpillar, swung dramatically this week, with almost 1,300 points separating its lowest point Monday afternoon from its high late Thursday. It fell 0.7 percent for the week.On Friday Caterpillar, a construction equipment maker, slid $5.14, or 3.5 percent, to $142.99 and Boeing, an aerospace company, lost $10.28, or 3.1 percent, to $326.12. Among technology companies, Apple gave up $4.42, or 2.6 percent, to $168.378 and PayPal shed $3.09, or 4 percent, to $73.86.Jason Pride, chief investment officer for Glenmede\'s private client business, said Trump\'s latest order caught investors off guard."It shows a willingness to go to the mat on this and fight it out," he said. Still, Pride said all of the proposed tariffs add up to a pretty small fraction of trade between the U.S. and China, and overall, they wouldn\'t affect the nation\'s economy that much if they do go into effect.Nixon, of Northern Trust, said businesses also support the idea of making changes in America\'s trade relationship with China. Even though investors are optimistic about the state of the global economy and company profits continue to grow, Nixon said the administration is creating the thing investors hate the most: uncertainty.The government reported that U.S. employers added 103,000 jobs in March, a weaker pace than the last few months. The Labor Department also said fewer jobs were added in January and February that it initially estimated. The unemployment rate remained low and the job market looks fundamentally healthy, but it\'s possible some employers are struggling to find workers.Benchmark U.S. crude dropped $1.48, or 2.3 percent, to $62.06 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost $1.22, or 1.8 percent, to $67.11 per barrel in London. Oil prices fell almost 5 percent this week as investors wondered if an increase in trade tensions will reduce demand for oil by slowing down the global economy.Bond prices rose, sending yields lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.77 percent from 2.83 percent. The lower yields mean banks can\'t make as much money from lending, and that sent bank stocks lower.In other energy trading, wholesale gasoline dipped 3 cents to $1.95 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.96 a gallon. Natural gas rose 3 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.Gold rose $7.60 to $1,336.10 an ounce. Silver edged up 1 cent to $16.36 an ounce. Copper fell 2 cents to $3.06 a pound.The dollar fell to 106.85 yen from 107.12 yen. The euro rose to $1.2285 from $1.2256.Germany\'s DAX was down 0.5 percent while France\'s CAC-40 fell 0.3 percent lower. The FTSE 100 in Britain lost 0.2 percent.Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index dipped 0.4 percent while South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.3 percent but Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng rose 1.1 percent after trading resumed following a holiday as investors caught up with the previous day\'s global gains.____AP Markets Writer Marley Jay can be reached at http://twitter.com/MarleyJayAP . His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/marley%20jay
LONDON   Following are five big themes likely to dominate the thinking of investors and traders in the coming week, and the Reuters stories related to them.1/THE POWER OF EARNINGSThe earnings season that kicks off in earnest next week will be the first to reflect President Donald Trump\'s tax cuts, and pundits have been falling over themselves to up their forecasts. Earnings growth is tipped to be the highest in seven years - Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S sees Q1 at 18.4 percent (back in January forecasts were for 12.2 percent), helping cushion markets from ongoing trade tensions. Credit Suisse reckon a third of Q1 earnings growth will be down to the tax cuts. And already three- quarters of S&P500 firms to report Q1 have beaten forecasts (around 64 percent is the norm per quarter).Next week seven SPX firms report, including BlackRock, JP Morgan, Citigroup and Wells Fargo, while over 60 reports are due the following week.The downside to all this? If earnings hopes are propping up stocks, the scope for disappointment is high. And sharp negative surprises could turn the recent market volatility into a rout.High stakes, high expectations as U.S. earnings season heats up(GRAPHIC: Big first quarter seen for Corporate America https://reut.rs/2q8lxdE)2/INFLATION - MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING?A scary U.S. inflation print in February sent shares sliding and raised fears of four, rather than three, interest rate rises in 2018. Since then though, inflation has failed to spook markets the same way; worries about trade and Big Tech regulation have instead come to the fore. Next week, with U.S. CPI data due, markets may find themselves back thinking about price rises and wondering if those February fears were justified.There is no sign yet of those fears resurfacing. Latest jobs data showed the United States created the fewest jobs in six months, even if higher wage gains signalled tight labour markets. Bond markets\' inflation expectations gauge --  10-year inflation breakeven rates -- extended a recent drop.CPI next week is expected to be up 0.2 percent, the same as its as-consensus rise in February. That could soothe volatile stocks -- if earnings hold up and trade tensions abate.U.S. jobs gains slowest in six months, wage growth picks upU.S. TIPS breakeven rates extend fall as payrolls disappoint(GRAPHIC: U.S. inflation https://reut.rs/2qc8gQG)3/AFTER YOU!Next week\'s March trade data from China will probably show the economy extending its impressive run-up in exports: it\'s too early to see any impact from the tit-for-tat tariff salvos the Trump administration and Beijing have been firing off in recent days. China\'s Feb exports rose 44.5 percent versus year-ago levels -- well above the forecast 13.6 percent gain -- and another strong print may evoke fresh ire from Trump.Global stocks have been volatile but on the whole, seem to believe all this is just noise. Discerning equity investors with shares in Chinese tech giants Baidu, Tencent or Alibaba also know the Sino-U.S. trade balance vastly overstates China\'s direct stake in those exports, which include components from Taiwan, Korea and elsewhere in Asia. Which means that U.S. tariffs on Chinese telecoms and electronics are negative for Asia as a whole.In a worst-case scenario, trade wars may affect Japanese markets more than China if they boost the safe-haven yen and depress the Nikkei.- BREAKINGVIEWS-China brings a gun to its U.S. trade gunfight - China Feb exports surge most in 3 years as global trade war fears build(GRAPHIC: Emerging Asia\'s trade with China and the United States https://reut.rs/2IxkyKO)4/MIND THE GAP, TURKEYAfter another week in which the Turkish lira plumbed record lows against the dollar <TRY=>, investors are awaiting current account data to see just how big a hole the economy is in.January\'s current account deficit was $7.096 billion, worse than forecast, highlighting how dependent Turkey is on foreign capital. Higher interest rates could help fix that by luring overseas flows and reducing inflation, which is in the double digits. But there are fears President Tayyip Erdogan -- a self-declared "enemy" of interest rates -- is escalating his campaign for lower borrowing costs.The lira has already fallen 6 percent to the dollar this year and a bigger current account gap than expected could tip it lower still. The central bank has little firepower to support it. Its next rate-setting meeting on April 25 could become even more crucial after next week.Turkish Jan current account deficit $7.096 billionTurkish lira touches record low on interest rate concernTurkey\'s economic troubles in five charts(GRAPHIC: Turkish current account gap and lira https://reut.rs/2GGti52)5/NOT SO STERLINGIt has been a testing week for sterling bulls and next week promises to be no better. Positioning data indicates that net long sterling bets are near the highest in more than three years; forecasters predict more gains for the currency which is up 4.3 percent this year and is tipped by a recent Reuters poll to rise to $1.44 in the next 12 months (it\'s currently at $1.41). But risks may be growing.Heavy snow - brought by the "Beast from the East" cold weather bout - and weak consumer demand weighed on services in March, with the IHS Markit/CIPS services Purchasing Managers\' Index (PMI) tumbling to 51.7 from February\'s reading of 54.5.Next week will offer industrial output and manufacturing data for February, all key inputs for the Bank of England. Though market expectations for a May rate hike are nearly a done deal, further weakness in data or any escalation in the trade war rhetoric could cause some unwinding in sterling bets.UK economy sags under weight of snow in March - IHS MarkitSterling forecasts at post-Brexit high on BoE, negotiation hopes(GRAPHIC: Sterling positions and GBP https://reut.rs/2uPo1Cx)(Reporting by Megan Davies and Lewis Krauskopf in New York; Vidya Ranganathan in Singapore; Claire Milhench and Saikat Chatterjee in London; Compiled by Sujata Rao; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
WASHINGTON   U.S. Representative Nancy Pelosi, the top Democrat in the House of Representatives, on Friday called for Scott Pruitt to resign as head of the Environmental Protection Agency amid a growing scandal involving a condo he rented at well-below-market rates from a lobbyist\'s wife as well as his spending of public money.Nancy Pelosi said that Pruitt\'s "tenure has been a part of the Trump administrations culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence.""Pruitt must resign," she said in a statement.(Reporting by Lisa Lambert, editing by G Crosse)
MOSCOW   Some of Russia's richest and most influential people were hit with sanctions Friday by U.S. President Donald Trump's administration.In total, 24 Russian officials and tycoons face new restrictions while a dozen companies were targeted as Washington stepped up its condemnation of Russia's actions in recent years, including its 2014 annexation of Crimea, support for Syrian President Bashar Assad, hacking attacks and meddling in Western elections.A look at some of those targeted by the new U.S. sanctions:___OLIGARCHS- Kirill Shamalov: At 36, he is Russia's youngest billionaire and reportedly married to President Vladimir Putin's daughter Katerina Tikhonova. The Treasury Department states directly that he is Putin's son-in-law, although the Kremlin has never acknowledged that Tikhonova is Putin's younger daughter. Media reports earlier this year said the couple had split. In 2014, Shamalov acquired a large share of Russian petrochemical company Sibur, later selling most of his stake for an undisclosed sum. Forbes magazine estimated his wealth at $1.4 billion.- Igor Rotenberg: He is the 44-year-old son of billionaire Arkady Rotenberg, Putin's friend since both started practicing judo as teenagers in the 1960s. He began his career as a partner of his father and later came to control the oil and gas exploration company Gazprom Burenie and an operator of a nationwide toll system for heavy trucks. Forbes estimated his wealth at over $1.1 billion.- Oleg Deripaska: The metals tycoon controls a business empire with assets in aluminum, energy and construction and is worth $5.3 billion, according to Forbes. Deripaska, 55, figured in the Russia investigation over his ties to former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who once worked as his consultant.- Viktor Vekselberg: The magnate built his fortune, currently estimated by Forbes at $14.6 billion, by investing in aluminum and oil industries. More recently, he has expanded his assets to include industrial equipment and high technologies. Vekselberg, 60, also gained notoriety in 2004 by buying the world's largest private collection of imperial Faberge eggs  nine in total  and bringing it back to Russia.___OFFICIALS- Andrei Kostin: He heads Russia's second-largest bank, VTB, which is majority-owned by the state and plays a pivotal role in the Russian economy. Kostin, 61, is part of the Kremlin elite and is involved in making key economic decisions.- Alexei Miller: The CEO of Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled natural gas giant, is a longtime associate of Putin's. Miller, 56, has played a key role in spearheading Gazprom's expansion, including its booming gas sales to Europe.- Nikolai Patrushev: The KGB veteran is the secretary of the presidential Security Council, a body that includes Cabinet members and chiefs of intelligence agencies. Patrushev, 66, known for his hawkish anti-Western stance, has been involved in preparing key foreign policy decisions and is believed to be one of Putin's closest and most influential advisers.- Viktor Zolotov: He began his career as a KGB bodyguard in the 1970s and served as the chief of the presidential security service for 13 years from 2000. Zolotov, 64, is another powerful representative of Kremlin hawks. As the National Guard chief, he commands a force that numbers hundreds of thousands of troops.- Alexei Dyumin: He served as Putin's chief security guard and assistant before being promoted to lead the Russian military's special operations forces. In 2014, he oversaw the annexation of Crimea and the following year became a deputy defense minister. Since his 2016 appointment as governor of the Tula region, Dyumin, 45, has received unusually prominent coverage by state media, fueling speculation Putin is grooming him as a possible successor.- Yevgeny Shkolov: He reportedly has known Putin since the 1980s when they worked together as KGB officers in Dresden, East Germany. In 2012, Putin named Shkolov to a key Kremlin position overseeing personnel and later put him in charge of anti-corruption efforts. Shkolov, 62, has kept a low profile but is believed to be close to Putin.- Vladimir Kolokoltsev: A career police officer, he became Russia's interior minister in charge of the entire national police force in 2012. Kolokoltsev, 56, is considered to be a good professional who doesn't have much political clout.- Mikhail Fradkov: Now 67, he began his career as a Soviet foreign trade official and then held a succession of government jobs, serving as prime minister from 2004 to 2007 during Putin's second presidential term. For the following decade, he headed Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service, the KGB successor agency dealing with spying abroad. In 2017, he was given an honorary position at the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies, a government-funded think tank that was reportedly involved in Russia's alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.- Alexander Zharov: The 53-year-old head of Roskomnadzor, the state communications oversight agency, has directed its efforts to shut down some online media and other resources critical of the Kremlin, but he's not perceived as someone who wields any political influence.- Konstantin Kosachev: He is a 55-year-old career diplomat who held various Foreign Ministry positions until his election to parliament in 1999. As the chairman of the foreign affairs committee in the upper house of parliament, Kosachev has actively promoted the Kremlin foreign policy agenda, but like other members of the rubber-stamp parliament he's not seen as close to decision-making.___COMPANIESThe U.S. list includes several companies owned and controlled by Deripaska, including Basic Element Limited and EN+ Group, which is registered in Jersey. The list also includes companies controlled by Shamalov, Rotenberg and Vekselberg. In addition, the sanctions target the state-controlled arms trader, Rosoboronexport, and the Russian Financial Corporation Bank owned by it.
GAZA   Gaza is a coastal strip of land that lay on ancient trading and maritime routes along the Mediterranean shore. Held by the Ottoman Empire until 1917, it passed from British to Egyptian to Israeli military rule over the last century and is now a fenced-in enclave inhabited by two million Palestinians.Here are some of the major milestones in its recent history.1948 - Refugees and Egyptian military ruleAs British colonial rule came to an end in Palestine in the late 1940s, violence intensified between Jews and Arabs, culminating in war between the newly created State of Israel and its Arab neighbors in May 1948.Tens of thousands of Palestinians took refuge in Gaza after fleeing or being driven from their homes. The invading Egyptian army had seized a narrow coastal strip 25 miles (40 km) long from the Sinai to just south of Ashkelon. The influx of refugees saw Gaza\'s population triple to around 200,000.Egypt held the Gaza Strip for two decades under a military governor, allowing Palestinians to work and study in Egypt.In the 1950s and 1960s armed Palestinian "fedayeen" - many of them refugees - mounted attacks into Israel, drawing reprisals. The United Nations set up a refugee agency, UNRWA, which today provides services for 1.3 million registered Palestine refugees in Gaza, around 70 per cent of the population, as well as for Palestinians in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and the West Bank. 1967 - War and Israeli military occupationIsrael captured the Gaza Strip in the 1967 Middle East war. An Israeli census that year put Gaza\'s population at 394,000, at least 60 percent of them refugees. It found that 65 percent of working-age men in the 145 sq. mile (375 sq. km) territory were employed in Gaza before the 1967 conflict, mainly in agriculture, fishing, industry and quarries.With the Egyptians gone, the focus of many Gazan workers shifted. Thousands took jobs in the agriculture, construction and services industries inside Israel, to which they could gain easy access at that time. Israeli troops remained to administer the territory, and to guard the settlements that Israel built in the following decades. These became a source of growing Palestinian resentment.1987 - First Palestinian uprising. Hamas formedTwenty years after the 1967 war, Palestinians launched their first intifada, or uprising. It began in December 1987 after a traffic accident in which an Israeli truck crashed into a vehicle carrying Palestinian workers in Gaza\'s Jabalya refugee camp, killing four. Stone-throwing protests, strikes and shutdowns followed.Seizing the angry mood, the Egypt-based Muslim Brotherhood created an armed Palestinian branch - Hamas - with its power base in Gaza. Hamas, dedicated to Israel\'s destruction and restoration of Islamic rule in what it saw as occupied Palestine, became a rival to Yasser Arafat\'s secular Fatah party that led the Palestine Liberation Organization.1993 - The Oslo Accords, and Palestinian semi-autonomyIsrael and the Palestinians signed an historic peace accord in 1993 that led to the creation of the Palestinian Authority. Under the interim deal, Palestinians were first given limited control in Gaza, and Jericho in the West Bank. Arafat returned to Gaza after decades in exile.The Oslo process gave the newly created Palestinian Authority some autonomy, and envisaged statehood after five years. But that never happened. Israel accused the Palestinians of reneging on security agreements, and Palestinians were angered by continued Israeli settlement-building.Hamas and Islamic Jihad carried out bombings to try to derail the peace process, leading Israel to impose more restrictions on movement of Palestinians out of Gaza. Hamas also picked up on growing Palestinian criticisms of corruption, nepotism and economic mismanagement by Arafats inner circle.2000 - Second Palestinian IntifadaIn 2000, Israeli-Palestinian relations sank to a low with the outbreak of the second Palestinian intifada. It ushered in a period of suicide bombings and shooting attacks by Palestinians, and Israeli air strikes, demolitions, no-go zones and curfews.One casualty was Gaza International Airport, a symbol of thwarted Palestinian hopes for economic independence and the Palestinians only direct link to the outside world that was not controlled by Israel or Egypt. Opened in 1998, was deemed a security threat by Israel three years later. Israel destroyed its radar antenna and runway a few months after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.Another casualty was Gaza\'s fishing industry, a source of income for tens of thousands. Gaza\'s fishing zone, set by the Oslo deals at 20 nautical miles, was reduced by Israel to between three and 12 nautical miles. Israel said the restrictions were necessary to stop boats smuggling weapons. Palestinians accused Israel of reneging on Oslo.2005 - Israel evacuates its Gaza settlementsIn August 2005 Israel evacuated all its troops and settlers from Gaza, which was by then completely fenced off from the outside world by Israel.Palestinians tore down the abandoned buildings and infrastructure for scrap. The settlements\' removal led to greater freedom of movement within Gaza, and the "tunnel economy" boomed as armed groups, smugglers and entrepreneurs quickly dug scores of tunnels into Egypt.But the pullout also removed settlement factories, greenhouses and workshops that had employed some Gazans.2006-2007: Isolation under HamasIn 2006, Hamas scored a surprise victory in Palestinian parliamentary elections.Later that year, Hamas militants captured an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, and killed two others in a tunnel raid. In 2007 Hamas seized full control of Gaza, overthrowing forces loyal to Arafat\'s successor, President Mahmoud Abbas.Much of the international community cut aid to the Palestinians in Hamas-controlled areas because they regard Hamas as a terrorist organization.Israel stopped tens of thousands of Palestinian workers from entering the country, cutting off an important source of income, and closed an industrial zone on the Gaza border. Israeli air strikes crippled Gazas only electrical power plant, causing widespread blackouts. Citing security concerns, Israel and Egypt also imposed tighter restrictions on the movement of people and goods through the Gaza crossings.Gazas economy increasingly went underground, becoming more dependent on a network of smuggling tunnels under the border with Egypt. Ambitious Hamas plans to refocus Gaza\'s economy east, away from Israel, foundered before they even started.2013 - Coup in EgyptIn 2011 the Arab Spring brought a window of opportunity for the Islamist-led government in Gaza. The Muslim Brotherhood won parliamentary and presidential elections in Egypt, bolstering Hamas. But the Egyptian army slowed the flow of cash, food, building supplies, cars, petrol - and weapons that used to come through tunnels.Egypt\'s newly elected president, Mohammed Mursi, was overthrown after just a year. Viewing Hamas as a threat, Egypts new military-backed leader, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, closed the border with Gaza and blew up most of the tunnels. Once again isolated, Gazas economy went into reverse.2008 - 2014 - WarsGaza\'s economy has suffered repeatedly over decades in the cycle of conflict, attack and retaliation between Israel and Palestinian militant groups, from the 1970s to recent years.Israel and Gaza militants led by Hamas fought three wars since 2008 which resulted in widespread destruction and the killing of thousands of Palestinians and about 100 Israelis.The worst fighting was in 2014. Hamas and other groups launched rockets at heartland cities in Israel. Israel carried out air strikes and artillery bombardment that devastated neighborhoods in Gaza. More than 2,100 Palestinians were killed, mostly civilians. Israel put the number of its dead at 67 soldiers and six civilians.2017 PALESTINIAN SPLIT WORSENEDIn 2017, Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas launched a series of economic sanctions on Hamas in a bid to force the group to relinquish control of Gaza. He orchestrated a reduction of electricity for Gaza and slashed salaries of 60,000 Palestinian Authority employees there by 30 percent, weakening buying power.2018 U.S. CUTS AID TO PALESTINIANSPresident Donald Trump announced the United States would withhold some future aid payments to Palestinians, accusing them of unwillingness to talk peace with Israel. Washington held back  $65 million of a first scheduled payment to UNRWA, the U.N. agency that cares for Palestinian refugees. It is unclear how much more, if any, it will contribute. UNRWA received $355 million from the United States in the 2017 fiscal year. UNRWA is funded mainly by voluntary contributions from U.N. member states, with the United States by far the largest donor.For a graphic on UNRWA funding, click http://tmsnrt.rs/2CLooyv(Writing by Stephen Farrell, Jeffrey Heller and Nidal al-Mughrabi, Editing by Mark Heinrich)
WASHINGTON   White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Friday it was possible that an escalating trade dispute with China could be resolved within three months, but he said President Donald Trump\'s threat to impose tariffs was not a bluff.Kudlow, speaking to reporters at the White House, said the United States and China were not in a trade war while acknowledging that foreign policy "can go awry."(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Editing by Frances Kerry)
WASHINGTON   Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi is not welcome in Trump country, which was probably one reason another top Democrat  her long-term rival Steny Hoyer  was zipping through Republican-friendly corners of western Wisconsin this week.Hoyer, the Maryland centrist and perpetual leader-in-waiting in the House of Representatives, was on a mission to woo blue-collar voters and help his party win back control of the House.He was also looking for what could be his last shot."Would I like to be speaker? Of course. Would I be disappointed if it doesn\'t happen? No," the No. 2 House Democrat said by phone, reflecting on his long career as he cut through snow-covered rolling hills, a world away from his Chesapeake Bay home turf.Hoyer has been eying the top spot for more than a decade, living in the shadow of a San Francisco Democrat who has a white-knuckle grip on power. Now, as the party wrestles with its ideological impulses and younger lawmakers push for a generational shift  both he and Pelosi are 78 years old  Hoyer may be looking for one more play.Replacing one longtime leader with another is not what many Democrats have in mind. Still, Hoyer is actively, if quietly, seeking lawmakers\' support. His allies put him forward as a possible "bridge" leader, who might ease a transition to a next generation  if Pelosi ever steps aside. Others find far-fetched the notion that a white, male centrist from blue Maryland would be the new face of the Democratic Party.Those questions, Hoyer insisted, are for another day. On Thursday, he was dashing to keep a lunch date at the Eau Claire Area Chamber of Commerce in Wisconsin to listen to a crowd of Midwestern voters, including those who backed Trump."I\'m going in to talk to Americans," he said. "It\'s not Trump country or Hoyer country. These are Americans."As Democrats battle to win back some two dozen House seats, the fight for majority control is also a struggle between the liberal and centrist wings over how best to frame the party\'s image and priorities in the age of Trump.Several House candidates face bruising primary contests this spring that will showcase the divide. But perhaps nowhere is it more apparent than in the simmering saga of House Democratic leadership.Younger lawmakers talk about sweeping all the top leaders from office as they hunger for fresh faces. New York Rep. Joe Crowley is among those often mentioned among up-and-comers, but others are in the wings, and a person close to him said he is focused right now on helping Democrats win the House.Pelosi meanwhile shows no signs of retiring, especially as she has the chance to wield the speaker\'s gavel if Democrats regain the House. Nearly a year younger than Hoyer  they were on staff together in the Capitol decades ago  Pelosi is undeterred by the constant chatter or year-round GOP attack ads pillorying her leadership.Asked recently how she felt about no-votes from Democratic candidates like Conor Lamb, who won a special election in a Trump-district in Pennsylvania but said he wouldn\'t back Pelosi, she quipped it\'s just not as important as winning the seat and the House majority.That leaves Hoyer\'s allies floating the unusual idea of him becoming a short-term leader  someone who could temporarily take the helm, if and when Pelosi steps down, to ease the transition.It\'s a hard sell.While few lawmakers or aides will talk openly about what\'s to come, some dismissed the idea as setting up a lame-duck leader who would have little control over the caucus and only prolong the day when younger members could rise.Republicans scoff at Hoyer\'s attempt influence the fall midterms by swooping in to Trump districts to drum up support for Democrats."It\'s not like... \'Ladies and Gentlemen, the Majority Whip!\' and he comes out to strobe lights," said Matt Gorman, a spokesman for the GOP\'s campaign committee in the House. "People don\'t know who Steny Hoyer is."Then again, Hoyer\'s ability to show up with his "Make it in America" listening tour can\'t hurt. He has stopped in Pittsburgh; Toledo, Ohio; Kansas City, Missouri, and other places this election cycle, and while he may not move masses, lawmakers welcome his ability to make inroads in places where Democrats don\'t always tread."Steny Hoyer went to Peoria, Illinois, it\'s sort of the epicenter of America," said Rep. Cheri Bustos, who represents a Trump-won district in the northwestern part of the state and is also often mentioned for a future party leadership role."We have to pick up 23 seats to win back the majority, and most of those are right here in the heartland of America. This is where we need to pay attention."As Hoyer made his way to Eau Claire this week, he spotted an outbuilding on the landscape that reminded him of the tobacco barn on his own property back home in Mechanicsville, Maryland, in the southern part of the state where he is seeking re-election to a 20th term in office."I\'m glad that people welcome me to our districts," he said. "We are the party of the people, we are the party of workers... men and women in this country who are the reason this country is great  historically, and now."Hosting his arrival was Rep. Ron Kind, one of four Democrats who voted against Pelosi during the last leadership race, at the Chamber luncheon."Steny\'s been at the forefront of this, the message works incredibly well around here," Kind said in an interview. "Showing up, being respectful and listening."___
WASHINGTON   The White House said on Friday that it may consider sending more than 4,000 National Guard troops to the border with Mexico and will continue to work with California, which has resisted President Donald Trump\'s call to use the reserve military to support the border patrol."The president thinks it\'s a good first step to have 2,000 to 4,000 and if we determine we need more, we\'ll make that decision at the time," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters.(Reporting by Justin Mitchell and Makini Brice; Editing by Lisa Lambert)

Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHO\'S NOT TAKING MORE U.S. TARIFFS SITTING DOWNChina vows to fight the U.S. "at any cost" after President Trump proposed slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating trade dispute.2. AGENTS FACING NEW CIRCUMSTANCES AT MEXICAN BORDERThe U.S. National Guard faces a vastly different environment than it did on its last two deployments to the border with Mexico, with far fewer illegal crossings and more Central Americans than Mexicans coming.3. ASIAN LEADER GIVEN LONG PRISON TERM FOR GRAFTFormer South Korean President Park Geun-hye was formally convicted and sentenced to 24 years in prison and fined 18 billion won ($16.8 million) in a corruption scandal.4. RALLIES TO CONTINUE IN BIBLICAL LANDIsrael and Hamas geared up for another showdown on the Gaza-Israel border, amid concerns about renewed bloodshed.5. CHIEF OF STAFF GETTING COLD SHOULDER FROM COMMANDER IN CHIEFEmboldened in his job, President Trump has rebelled against John Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely.6. DOWNPOUR EXPECTED TO CHALLENGE OROVILLE DAMNorthern California is bracing for a major spring storm expected to dump several inches of rain, a possible first test of the partially repaired spillway at the nation\'s tallest dam.7. EDUCATORS\' WALKOUT MAY CONTINUE FOR DAYSA teachers strike in Oklahoma stretches into a fifth day and pending proposals to increase revenue may not be enough to stop it from extending into next week.8. NEW UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES ON THE HORIZONDid March provide another month of blowout hiring? Was pay growth healthy? Experts are looking for answers in the government\'s monthly jobs report.9. RAP STAR RELEASES FIRST ALBUMAnticipation around "Invasion of Privacy," Cardi B\'s debut, has been scorching hot.10. STRUGGLING BUT HOPEFUL IN AUGUSTATiger Woods plodded through an unspectacular opening round at the Masters, settling for a 1-over 73 that left him far off the lead but still feeling good about his chances.

Each week, Kevin Roose, technology columnist at The New York Times, discusses developments in the tech industry, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Its hard to imagine now, but at one point, long ago, Facebook did not monopolize the entire tech news cycle  a heady and innocent era when you could read an entire days news without encountering the words Cambridge Analytica or third-party developers.I confess that, like many of you, I have been obsessed with the fallout from Facebooks latest privacy scandal, to the point that I had a stress dream that I overslept and missed covering Mark Zuckerbergs testimony on Capitol Hill next week. (Related: I need to get out more, and possibly take up yoga.)But despite the wall-to-wall news of the past few weeks, lots of important things are happening in the tech world that dont involve Facebook. So lets run down a few of them?I thought this article by Scott Shane and Daisuke Wakabayashi, about thousands of Google employees who are protesting the companys involvement in a Pentagon A.I. program, was fascinating on a number of levels.First, its an unusually clear example of the double-edged nature of artificial intelligence. Google has spent billions of dollars teaching computers to play Go, drive cars and translate languages on the fly. The company has been extremely proud of its advances in machine learning, even releasing some of its tools to the public via open-source frameworks like TensorFlow, which provides a fascinating contrast to whats happening inside the company now. When its image-classification algorithms are used to spot tumors on radiology scans, Google puts out a press release, and engineers cheer. But when these same types of algorithms are used by the Pentagon to improve the accuracy of drone strikes, its a moral outrage.Yonatan Zunger, a former Google engineer, had an interesting op-ed the other day in The Boston Globe about the reckonings that various scientific fields have undergone, as the scientists who develop powerful tools begin to see how those tools can be used for evil purposes. He used the examples of the atomic bomb, which forever changed the way that physics was taught in universities, and dynamite, which made chemists aware of the consequences of their expertise. Its not hard to see A.I. as a similar kind of turning point for computer scientists  and if it is, the Google-Pentagon issue might be the first of many similar fights.Second, the Google-Pentagon incident is a revealing story about the leverage that Silicon Valley engineers have over their companies. Because the labor market for engineers in the Bay Area is so tight, and because companies live and die on their ability to attract and retain talent, these employees have much more say in how a company like Google governs itself than, say, regulators or outside activists. If an antiwar group protests outside Googles headquarters, its an annoyance. But if 3,000 engineers walk out, its a crisis. And as the tech industry goes through its moral reckoning, executives of these companies should bear in mind that their biggest risk isnt regulation, its rebellion from within.Ive also been following the feud between Amazon and President Trump this week, which has led to a bull market for explainers about the business models of the United States Postal Service. My colleague Nick Wingfield wrote that, contra President Trump, the available evidence suggests that Amazon has been a boon to the Postal Service. But Voxs Jen Kirby added that, because the exact details of the contract between Amazon and the Postal Service arent known, its possible that President Trump is partly right: Maybe the U.S.P.S. isnt actually making the best deals. Meanwhile, Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute, says President Trump is actually right that Amazon is ripping off the federal government through its U.S.P.S. contracts.Im a nonexpert on the subject of parcel shipping, so my opinion on Amazons the -U.S.P.S. probably isnt worth one first-class stamp. But its possible, and maybe plausible, that all of these analyses are partly correct  that the Postal Service benefits from Amazons dominance, and that Amazon is getting a sweetheart deal that should be re-examined. Anyway, Amazons stock dipped sharply after President Trump started tweeting angry things about it, but it has now recovered to its pre-tweetstorm levels, meaning that investors may be as confused as I am.Last, and most obvious, the horrific shooting at YouTube on Tuesday, which injured three people and left the company badly shaken. As more details have emerged on Nasim Najafi Aghdam, whom the police have identified as the attacker, it has become increasingly clear that this was a new kind of violence  an act of revenge by an internet creator against the platform that she felt controlled her economic destiny. As my colleagues Nellie Bowles and Jack Nicas wrote, Ms. Aghdams complaints echoed what a wide range of YouTube posters  from self-described animal rights activists like her to right-wing political provocateurs  have increasingly been protesting over the last year.Its a tragic reminder that social platforms arent just websites anymore. Theyre powerful economies unto themselves, and even seemingly minor policy decisions can alter the lives of millions of people, a few of whom might be disturbed enough to act on their darkest impulses.Kevin Roose writes a column called The Shift and is a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. You can follow him on Twitter here: @kevinroose.
It is H-1B visa season, and American companies seeking high-skilled foreign workers have been rushing to submit applications for visas since the government started accepting them on Monday. For the sixth consecutive year, the federal government was flooded with so many petitions that it announced Friday that it had already reached its annual cap of 85,000 of these visas in just five days.Hailed by proponents as vital to American innovation, the program has also been criticized for displacing United States workers with cheaper foreign labor.[Read how a planned change by the Trump administration puts the jobs of thousands on Indian women in jeopardy.]Critics also want to end special work permits issued to some spouses of workers on H-1B visas.It is a temporary visa that employers use to hire foreigners in specialty occupations for which there are not enough skilled American workers to fill available jobs. The workers must have at least a bachelors degree. It enables those employed to legally work in the United States for three years, with the possibility of extensions.Companies identify a worker they wish to hire and submit a petition on the candidates behalf. The typical petition is a collection of forms and documents describing the job and the unique qualifications of the person chosen to fill it.Many are software engineers, computer programmers and other workers in the technology sector. However, H-1B recipients work in a variety of jobs. They can be architects, scientists, models and tattoo artists. Some are math and science teachers in rural school districts that have trouble recruiting American instructors.Congress established that 65,000 H-1B visas are available each year for workers with bachelors degrees, and 20,000 more are earmarked for those with masters degrees or higher. Universities and research organizations are exempt from the cap.In the past several years, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services has received more petitions than there are visas. If the maximum number of applications is reached during the first five business days of April, the agency holds a lottery to randomly select which petitions it will process.Very often they do. Companies can choose to sponsor an H-1B worker for permanent residence. The green card applications are often approved, though they can take years to be issued.India is the country of origin for more than 80 percent of H-1B recipients, with China a distant second. Next in line during the 2016 fiscal year were the Philippines, South Korea and Canada.Supporters of the visa program say they fill a critical need for talent that is not available in the United States, especially when the economy is strong and the labor market is tight. Employers must attest that an H-1B worker will not adversely impact the wages and working conditions of American workers.Critics say that employers often hire H-1B workers for lower salaries than they would pay Americans to do the same job. They point to Americans who have been displaced when companies have outsourced areas like technology maintenance to a company that brings in H-1B workers.As usual with immigration policy, its complicated. More than 40,500 companies sponsored workers for H-1B visas in the 2017 fiscal year. Many employers specifically target a worker with hard-to-find expertise whom they wish to hire to do specialized work  obviously because they could not find someone in the United States to do the job. In many cases, H-1B workers have gone on to create start-ups and develop cutting-edge technology that keeps America competitive.But there are questions about whos benefiting, collectively. About 20 companies accounted for 32 percent of approved H-1B petitions, according to an analysis by the Migration Policy Institute. Many of the employers are global outsourcing companies from India that supply entry-level workers to retailers, insurance companies and banks. Not all. Among them are also American firms who appear to be using the program to create a pool of cheap labor.Big household-name American companies are just as culpable as the outsourcing companies of abusing the program, said Norman Matloff, a professor at the University of California, Davis, who studies the H-1B program.Almost everybody agrees that there has, though it is probably not as widespread as critics claim. Abuses rarely result in penalties for the companies, experts say. In one highly publicized case in 2015, some Disney employees said they were told to train their foreign replacements if they wanted severance payments. Workers filed suit, but the judge dismissed the case; new litigation is pending in state court. Workers at other companies, including Toys R Us and New York Life Insurance Company, also said they lost their jobs to imported workers.Last May, the former acting director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said the agency had started multiple investigations into possible misuse of the H-1B visa program and would turn the findings over for enforcement as warranted.Ultimately, though, it is up to Congress to change laws that govern the program, since in most cases, practices that workers may claim as abusive are not necessarily illegal as the law is written.At campaign rallies, Mr. Trump introduced laid-off Americans who had been asked to train their foreign successors, saying, We wont let this happen anymore.Once in office, he ordered a review of the H-1B and other visa programs. In April 2017, he signed a Buy American, Hire American executive order, which has served to justify several recent changes.For one thing, United States Citizen and Immigration Services, the federal agency that reviews the petitions, has tightened its oversight. Between January and August of last year, it issued 45 percent more challenges or requests for more evidence. That has delayed the issuance of visas, and some immigration lawyers report an increase in denials.The agency has also stepped up the number of surprise visits by fraud teams to sites where large numbers of H-1B workers are employed. And in a policy memo earlier this year, it expanded its review of H1-B workers who are employed at third-party work sites. Now, it is requiring more details about what work will be performed, why a foreigner is needed to do it, and what wages are being paid.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program that has allowed spouses of H-1B visa holders to work, as long as they had been approved and were waiting for a green card. Those work permits have been issued under a program known as H-4EAD.Federal authorities have also suggested they may change the selection process for H-1B visas to ensure that they are granted to the most skilled or highest-paid job candidates.Finally, Trump says he would like to scrap the lottery.More sweeping changes can occur only if Congress passes new laws or overhauls the immigration system. The Trump administrations call to end the lottery and raise wages for H-1B visa candidates as a means of recruiting qualified American workers has support among some Democrats and Republicans.
CHICAGO   It is too early to say how the prospect of tariffs could impact the U.S. economic outlook, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said on Friday."The discussion about tariffs is at a relatively early stage...people really don\'t see yet any implications in the near term for the outlook because we don\'t know the extent to which the tariffs will actually come into effect and, if so, how big that effect will be," Powell said following a speech in Chicago."It really is too early to say," he added.China warned on Friday it could respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.(Reporting by Jason Lange and Lindsay Dunsmuir; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didnt help matters  it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says theres a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russias richest oligarchs  and 17 top government officials. Its the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian trolls ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trumps chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitts success in achieving items on the presidents agenda  including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations  may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.He likes the work product, she said of Mr. Trump.____4. Were doing it for the kids.That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trumps plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women  many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills  to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Heres how the visas work.)We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted, said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.____6. Park Geun-hye, South Koreas impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the countrys government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last weeks, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israels blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says its changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genres orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing  mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well  against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.What I am doing, he once explained, is creating a language. A different American language.____10. Finally, as the hit show Fixer Upper ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didnt have high hopes for President Trumps trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, Wait, theres more than one America? What is this?On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, Invasion of Privacy.Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has been under fire for his extravagant spending on things like office furniture and private jet travel.But President Trump has resisted calls, including from John F. Kelly, his chief of staff, to fire Mr. Pruitt, who appears to have punished or pushed out five agency officials who attempted to rein in his spending.Here are some of the big-ticket items Mr. Pruitt, a former Oklahoma attorney general, wanted  some of which he got.Mr. Pruitts team wanted to buy a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership that would let him take an unlimited number of trips in a private jet when he was traveling for official business.An aide objected and the membership was not purchased, but even without it Mr. Pruitt spent an unusually large amount on travel.He regularly flies first class and has had trips specially routed so he could spend time at a home he owns in Oklahoma.Two weeks of travel for him and his aides cost taxpayers more than $120,000 last June, and in December he took aides on a five-day, $40,000 trip to Morocco.Once, he spent $5,719 on a 40-minute private jet flight from Denver to Durango, Colo. He did not request approval for the flight until after he had already taken it.Mr. Pruitts head of security wanted to spend about $70,000 to replace two desks in his office suite, one with a bulletproof model. An aide objected and the bulletproof desk was not purchased, but two other expensive desks were.One was a brown maple wood stand-up desk, with brass locks, that was purchased from a craftsman. The second was an oversize desk with decorative woodworking that some E.P.A. employees compared to the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office. Mr. Pruitt had it refurbished for $2,075.Mr. Pruitt expanded his security detail to 20 members, almost three times as many as guarded his predecessor under President Obama, Gina McCarthy. Unlike Ms. McCarthy, Mr. Pruitt also ordered his security detail to work overnight and to follow him wherever he went.Mr. Pruitts team also wanted to be issued a bulletproof sport utility vehicle with so-called run flat tires, which allow a vehicle to keep moving even when its tires have been hit by gunfire.The bulletproof S.U.V. was not purchased. Instead, a regular S.U.V. was retrofitted with some protective features.Mr. Pruitt, who has a reputation for running late, wanted to use flashing lights and sirens with his motorcade so he could travel across Washington faster. Some of the trips were to the airport, but at least one took him to Le Diplomate, a trendy French restaurant in an upscale neighborhood.A motorcade with flashing lights and sirens is a traffic-stopping perk usually associated with the presidency, and using one to go to a fancy restaurant is not consistent with E.P.A. policy.Mr. Pruitt wanted to build a special security booth in his office so he could have conservations without being overheard by E.P.A. employees.An aide suggested turning a broom closet into a secure room at a cost of $10,000 but Pasquale Perrotta, a new security chief at the E.P.A. whose immediate predecessor had objected to Mr. Pruitts spending, shot down that idea.Mr. Perrotta wanted a more elaborate chamber that included technology that would keep voice or data transmissions from being intercepted. In the end it cost almost $43,000.He wanted to be treated like he was the president, said David Schnare, a prominent conservative lawyer and climate change skeptic, who served on the Trump administration transition team at the E.P.A., after an earlier 30-year stint at the agency that started in the late 1970s.
NEW YORK   Anyone who\'s been wondering if their private Facebook data might have been swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal will soon get their first clues.Starting Monday, all 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice on their feeds, titled "Protecting Your Information," with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. If they want, they can shut off apps individually or turn off third-party access to their apps completely.In addition, the 87 million users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of this. Facebook says most of the affected users (more than 70 million) are in the U.S., though there are over a million each in the Philippines, Indonesia and the U.K.Reeling from its worst privacy crisis in history  allegations that this Trump-affiliated data mining firm may have used ill-gotten user data to try to influence elections  Facebook is in full damage-control mode, with CEO Mark Zuckerberg acknowledging he\'s made a  "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world. He\'s set to testify before Congress next week.Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie previously estimated that more than 50 million people were compromised by a personality quiz that collected data from users and their friends.That Facebook app, called "This is Your Digital Life," was a personality quiz created in 2014 by an academic researcher named Aleksander Kogan, who paid about 270,000 people to take it. The app vacuumed up not just the data of the people who took it, but also  thanks to Facebook\'s loose restrictions  data from their friends, too, including details that they hadn\'t intended to share publicly.Facebook later limited the data apps can access, but it was too late in this case.Zuckerberg said Facebook came up with the 87 million figure by calculating the maximum number of friends that users could have had while Kogan\'s app was collecting data. The company doesn\'t have logs going back that far, he said, so it can\'t know exactly how many people may have been affected.Cambridge Analytica said in a statement Wednesday that it had data for only 30 million people.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A legal challenge for Spain, questions in Britain and the long arm of Turkey. Heres the latest: Spain faces a new obstacle in its political battle against the Catalan separatist movement after a German court ruled that Carles Puigdemont, Catalonia's former leader, cannot be extradited on a charge of rebellion.In a boon to his supporters, Mr. Puigdemont was released on bail while the court decides whether he can be handed over on a corruption charge. The ruling throws a wrench into the Spanish governments efforts to recover and prosecute Catalan leaders who fled to other European nations.Meanwhile, Spaniards are aghast over footage, above, of what appears to be a rare public spat between Queen Sofa and her daughter-in-law, Queen Letizia._____ Getting closer to a trade war. President Trump threatened to hit China with an additional $100 billion in tariffs, further escalating a trade standoff that could have global economic ramifications.While Chinese leaders say they are not afraid of a trade war, our correspondent says China is more vulnerable than officials admit.Heres a blow-by-blow account of the conflict so far. And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers worry about the implications for U.S. agriculture._____ This is some kind of theater of the absurd.That was Russias ambassador to the United Nations, who is leading an aggressive campaign to discredit Britain over the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian spy, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia, above, which the British authorities have attributed to Moscow.Russias latest salvo: a recording, said to be of Yulia, claiming that both Skripals are healthy, contradicting Britains public case for international retaliation.Separately, British universities are growing increasingly nervous about the potential loss of E.U. funding and students as Brexit negotiations lurch along._____ The French government appears poised to expel one of Frances most radical  and long-tolerated  Muslim preachers.El Hadi Doudi, above, has for decades berated Jews, women and the modern world, yet the French authorities occasionally cultivated him as an ally.The move signals that President Emmanuel Macron is willing to use his broad powers to pressure Muslim clerics and, in some cases, to deport them.By expelling the imam, Mr. Macron also looks tough as his government struggles to battle radical Islam and counter far-right accusations of weakness._____ Turkish secret agents in 18 countries seized 80 Turkish citizens who the government claims are linked to a group it has accused of plotting a failed coup in 2016. Above, Turkish government supporters in Istanbul on the anniversary of the coup in July.The scope of the arrests conjured up comparisons to the Central Intelligence Agencys covert seizures and imprisonments of suspects after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.The admission by the Turkish deputy prime minister followed reports that Kosovo had deported six Turks, provoking a political uproar that prompted the Kosovar prime minister to dismiss high-ranking officials. Looking terrible. Britains push to end the gender pay gap has revealed that some major fashion and beauty companies, which largely employ and market to women, pay men more money. Among the worst offenders: Victorias Secret, Burberry and Cond Nast. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. A judge has made the settlements public. Bumble and Tinder, two of the worlds most popular dating apps, are at war. U.S. stocks were up. Heres a snapshot of global markets. President Trump denied knowing about a $130,000 hush payment his lawyer made to the porn actress Stormy Daniels, above, his first public remarks on the matter. [The New York Times] He also criticized the E.U.s trade policies as very solidly against us, despite the fact that the bloc was the top export market for American-made goods in 2016. [Politico] The Danish inventor charged with sexually assaulting and killing the Swedish journalist Kim Wall has psychopathic traits and showed no remorse about dismembering Ms. Walls body, according to a report read out in court. [The Guardian] Zero tolerance: Frances defense minister vowed to root out sexism in the military, following reports that women were forced to drop out of an elite military academy by ultranationalist male recruits. [BBC] The European Court of Human Rights rejected the complaint of a man convicted in Germany of posting a photo of Heinrich Himmler, the Nazi war criminal, wearing an SS uniform bearing a swastika. Nazi symbols are illegal in Germany. [Deutsche Welle]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: This weekend, plan to make a batch of one-pot meatballs and sauce. Can coffee rev up your workout? Distracted by Facebook Messenger, or just worried about its intrusions into your phone? Heres how to uninstall. Sumo wrestling forbids women to enter the ring  even to save a life. The rule led to an outcry in Japan after women, including a nurse, were shooed away from helping a politician who had collapsed.Were doing an open casting call for the new season of our animated video series on parenting, Conception. We want to hear from parents around the world and across the political spectrum about the issues affecting your families. Were interested in stories from those who have chosen not to become parents, too. Check your closet: An old painting found in an Iowa storeroom turned out to be by Otto Van Veen, a 16th-century Dutch master. Its worth millions.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary, above, claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Correction: Thursdays briefing misstated Arthur Murrays birthday. It was April 4, 1895, not April 5.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

The young Han Solo will make his debut at the Cannes Film Festival in May.Lucasfilm announced on Friday that Solo: A Star Wars Story, which depicts Solos life before the events of Star Wars: A New Hope, would have its premiere at the festival before opening in France on May 23 and in the United States two days later.The films director, Ron Howard, is expected to attend the festival, along with the cast members Alden Ehrenreich, Donald Glover and Emilia Clarke, among others. Mr. Ehrenreich plays Han Solo and Mr. Glover plays Lando Calrissian. Ms. Clarke will be featured as Qira, a childhood friend and accomplice of Solo.Mr. Howard took over directing duties in June 2017 after the films original directors, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller, left the production. Kathleen Kennedy, the Lucasfilm president, said at the time, Its become clear that we had different creative visions on this film, and weve decided to part ways.Mr. Lord and Mr. Miller will, however, be credited as executive producers.Solo: A Star Wars Story, written by Lawrence Kasdan and Jonathan Kasdan, is the second stand-alone Star Wars feature film. The first, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, opened in December 2016 and grossed more than $1 billion worldwide.The Cannes Film Festival has hosted representatives of the Star Wars galaxy before: The second installment of George Lucass prequel trilogy, Star Wars: Attack of the Clones (2002), screened there after having a premiere in New York. Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith, the culmination of the prequel trilogy, debuted at Cannes in 2005.The Cannes festival is scheduled for May 8 through May 19. Asghar Farhadis new movie Everybody Knows, starring Penlope Cruz and Javier Bardem, is slated to open the festival.
Student loans are central to financing college educations, yet millions of borrowers are in default. That is clear evidence that the system is in dire need of improvement.In fact, new research on student loans is reinforcing a key lesson of behavioral economics: Seemingly minor details matter in a major way. Who answers the phone at the loan company, what choices youre offered and how they are framed can have profound effects on your financial well-being.Federal policy ignores these simple truths. While the federal government owns the loans, private companies collect payments, keep records and communicate with borrowers.It might seem trivial to worry about who collects payments on student loans. How complicated can it be to send out a monthly bill and credit a borrowers account?But seemingly small missteps can send a borrower spiraling into default. The loan companies have misdirected payments, lost paperwork and charged the wrong interest rate, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Government Accountability Office have shown.Say a borrower has fallen behind on her monthly payments, and her loan company calls to check in. The rules are complicated, and the responses of an individual call agent are critical.One agent might guide her into enrolling in an income-based repayment plan that resets her payment to zero, with the balance eventually forgiven. Even if she qualifies for the income-based plan, a different agent might put her onto a less desirable path: what is known as forbearance, with her payments suspended, interest mounting and no progress made toward ending her obligation.In a carefully designed study published in January, Daniel Herbst, a doctoral student in economics at Princeton University, examined thousands of records at a large student-loan servicer. He found that the arbitrary process of assigning a call to one operator instead of another has real effects on a borrowers loan status. Simply being placed in an income-based repayment program slashed loan delinquency by 21 percentage points to essentially zero. Those enrolled in the income-based program were 2 percentage points more likely to hold a mortgage (a substantial increase given the baseline of 20 percent), likely reflecting an increase in homeownership. And they were paying down their student loans faster than those who were enrolled in standard plans, in which payments are fixed for 10 years and do not vary with income.All this points to lower default rates for people on income-based plans. In such plans, payments are zero for the very lowest earners and a percentage of income for those with higher pay. Reducing default matters, because it can have devastating personal consequences, including damaged credit ratings and reduced job and housing prospects because employers and landlords check credit reports.The bottom line is that the decisions made during loan servicing matter enormously to the financial well-being of millions of people. Market pressures alone wont improve the student loan industry because borrowers are locked to the servicer selected for them by the government and cant vote with their feet.This leaves the government as the only real hope for keeping servicers in line. Yet the Trump administration has scaled back oversight of the loan companies. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which acted as a loan watchdog under the Obama administration, has been relatively quiescent the past year. In fact, Mick Mulvaney, its new director, is seeking legislation that would weaken the agency.In the absence of federal action, some states have stepped in to protect borrowers. But in response to industry complaints, the secretary of education, Betsy DeVos, has warned state regulators not to supervise loan companies, claiming her department has sole jurisdiction over them. Even if the states continue to persevere, their actions wont substitute for comprehensive federal oversight.Whats the solution? We could make the loan system less difficult for borrowers to navigate. In particular, borrowers should be enrolled automatically in an income-based program if they fall behind on their payments. The lengthy process for enrolling and staying in these programs should be simplified, with tax records used to automatically determine payments.Even better would be a system of payroll withholding, like those in England and Australia, where loan payments automatically fluctuate with earnings. Some people oppose this approach, arguing that payroll deduction elevates student loans over food and rent as payment priorities. But this misses the strongest protection of payroll withholding: It automatically cuts payments to zero when earnings drop low enough, putting loans at the bottom of the payment hierarchy.As it is, we have a punishing system of garnishment in place for student loans. In 2017, the blandly named Treasury Offset Program seized $2.8 billion from student borrowers who were in default. These funds were taken from federal earned-income tax credit, Black Lung Benefits and Social Security payments that would have gone to retired, disabled or deceased workers and their families.It makes little sense to have the federal government seize money from these most vulnerable families while shying away from a sensible system of payroll withholding for active workers.


SAN DIEGO   Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Friday ordered a "zero tolerance" policy aimed at people entering the United States illegally for the first time on the Mexican border.Sessions told federal prosecutors in border districts to put more emphasis on charging people with illegal entry, which has historically been treated as a misdemeanor offense for those with few or no previous encounters with border authorities. Smugglers and frequent offenders are usually charged with more serious crimes.His one-page order lacks specifics on how the policy will be carried out but signals that major change is in the works. He tells prosecutors to ask for additional resources if needed to prosecute cases.The move caps a week of unusually intense attention to border security that included President Donald Trump\'s order for thousands of National Guard members to head to the border.Sessions said "a crisis has erupted" on the border, requiring more criminal prosecutions. He issued a similar directive a year ago that addressed a larger number of border crimes and used softer language on new offenders, saying that prosecutors "should aim to accomplish the goal of deterring first-time improper entrants."His new order introduces the zero-tolerance terminology and deals exclusively with the statute applied to first-time crossers, saying a recent increase in illegal crossings "requires an updated approach."A conviction for illegal entry carries a maximum penalty of six months in prison for first-time crossers and two years for repeat offenses. In practice, many are deported after pleading guilty and spending a few days in jail.As a model, Sessions pointed to a Border Patrol effort launched in 2005 in Texas, which targeted first-time crossers for criminal prosecution. It eventually spread to federal courts throughout Texas, Arizona and New Mexico but didn\'t reach California.Sessions said the operation contributed to a "decrease in illegal activities" but its success has been debated. In 2015, the Homeland Security Department\'s inspector general called for a fuller account of its impact.Border Patrol figures show Mexicans were much less likely to try crossing again if they were criminally charged than if they were simply turned around. But the operation also severely strained courtrooms and jails and fueled criticism of "assembly-line justice."In Tucson, Arizona, 70 people filled a courtroom to plead guilty in collective hearings that could last less than an hour.Sessions told border prosecutors that he was open to other ideas."Remember, our goal is not simply more cases," he wrote. "It is to end the illegality in our immigration system."Border arrests, a useful but imperfect gauge of illegal crossings, reached 50,308 in March, up 37 percent from February and more than triple the same period last year. That\'s still less than periodic surges during former President Barack Obama\'s second term and far lower than the 1990s and 2000s.Immigration judges overseen by Sessions were told last week of quotas starting Oct. 1, with an expectation to complete 700 cases a year.The Justice Department cast it as an effort to reduce a court backlog of nearly 700,000 cases, but the judges union and immigration attorneys predicted it would deprive people of fair hearings and provide more grounds for appeal, potentially worsening the backlog.
NEW YORK   The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as the boost from mild temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labor market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further this year.March\'s job growth of 103,000 was below the 193,000 forecast. Average hourly earnings rose 0.3 percent, above a consensus of 0.2 percent.COMMENTS:PAUL ASHWORTH, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, CAPITAL ECONOMICS, TORONTO:"The upshot is that even though March was weaker than we were expecting, there is still evidence of an acceleration in the underlying pace of employment growth. The Fed will be primarily focused on the 0.3 percent month-on-month increase in average hourly earnings, which pushed the annual growth rate up to 2.7 percent, from 2.6 percent. As with core inflation, the annual rate is still muted, but there is clear evidence of an acceleration over the past few months in the monthly gains. Overall, looking through the volatility, employment growth is trending higher and wage growth is starting to heat up."SEAN LYNCH, CO-HEAD OF GLOBAL EQUITY STRATEGY, WELLS FARGO INVESTMENT INSTITUTE, OMAHA NEBRASKA"There\'s nothing alarming. Its a dangerous day for data to be released with the tariff news overnight and earnings coming up. But hourly earnings seem to be in line - up a little but not a break away. We\'re not seeing a meaningful slowing in jobs.""It\'s a little below expectations but on the heels of a strong February, and February was revised higher, its a little reversion to the mean and evening out the strong February data.""We get a couple of back to back months of weaker reports and that starts to send some signals to the market. I don\'t think anything out of this will sway the market. They\'ll go back to focusing on tariffs. That\'s the big news today. That may continue through next week until we get the earnings reports then folks may focus on the fundamentals again.""That\'s not showing us wage inflation where the Fed would have to step in. This seems to be a natural improvement. The wage number is important and as important as the jobs number but this month it isn\'t causing us too much concern."MICHAEL ARONE, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, STATE STREET GLOBAL ADVISORS, BOSTONCertainly the headline came in a little light and January and February were quite strong and have been revised a bit lower. Still, those numbers were much better than expected, the unemployment rate stuck at 4.1 percent, thats been a number of months in a row. And average hourly earnings, which is the figure thats most important to these reports these days, ticked up a little bit but not anything that would spook the market in terms of wage inflation.I dont know that this report will change the Feds thinking for their current path of rate hikes this year. Whats happened here this morning is certainly the jobs report is taking a back seat to the trade discussion and back and forth between the U.S. and China, as we know Trump again, think of it as a game of poke and hes raising the stakes a little bit. Thats primarily moving markets and the jobs report is a bit of an afterthought. But that said, the jobs report indicates an economy that continues to add jobs with a low unemployment rate without much in the way of wage gains and that isnt likely to impact the Feds direction all that much."AARON KOHLI, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS, NEW YORKIt was a bit of a mixed read. Average hourly earnings were up in line with consensus, thats probably positive. There is maybe a little bit of a seasonal effect there, we didnt see a big drop off in hours worked, thats a positive sign as well that the gains were real, they werent just optical because of a drop in the amount of time that employees were at work. The disappointing parts of the report, aside from the headline, which could have been a bit of a payback from last months outperformance, was really the drop in the participation rate and the lack of a drop in the unemployment rate. I think its those combinations that made this a disappointing report, but just slightly so.It seems that there is some risk that youll move from political rhetoric to an actual fully blown trade war. I think if that happens youre likely to see many more instances of spot inflation, where you have prices rising due to shortages, but not necessarily for what wed call the right reasons, which is that demand is very strong. So the issues with it are essentially that it forces the Fed into a posture where they have to be more aggressive just to fight inflation and at the same time it depresses long term global economic output.JOSEPH LAVORGNA, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AMERICAS, NATIXIS, NEW YORKIts definitely a little bit softer than expected, the job number and then the downward revision, the fact the unemployment rate didnt fall. To me thats all on the softer side of things. The job weakness is broad-based, the general trend is still decent, youre generating 202,000 (jobs) on the three-month moving average.The economys still good, the issue is what happens in June and is the Fed going to move in June. I do not see any evidence of the economy overheating, and therefore I believe the Fed should allow the economy to run hot which would argue for less hikes, not more hikes. While we focus so much on the trade issues and thats been the dominant news of the last few weeks, to me investors are missing sight of the bigger picture which is the tightening of monetary policy, which is lifting the risk-free rate and the fact liquidity is coming out of the market, and that to me is the real story.GUY LEBAS, CHIEF FIXED INCOME STRATEGIST, JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT, PHILADELPHIA:The headline payroll numbers were all weak, while hourly earnings were about in line with expectations. Knee-jerk reaction was buying in the rates markets, but the size of the buying wasn\'t that significant. There are two reasons for the relatively quiet reaction: one, there\'s an easy excuse for weakness in the bout of winter weather that hit during payrolls data collection week. Two, there\'s more attention being paid to the tariff situation, including a briefing on the matter from Chinese officials immediately after the payrolls data release.MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: Stocks added to losses, but then pared losses, with S&P futures last down 0.7 percent.BONDS:  Benchmark yields fell, then retraced, with the ten-year last at 2.8137.FOREX:  The dollar fell, then rebounded, with the dollar index against a basket of currencies last trading flat.(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300)
The Labor Department released its official hiring and unemployment figures for March on Friday morning, providing the latest snapshot of the American economy. 103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. The Labor Department revised its estimate of Februarys job growth upward, but Januarys figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.Februarys report was a barnburner: Companies added jobs at the strongest pace since 2015, and the labor force gained hundreds of thousands of workers. The report for March wasnt as strong, but still extended a remarkable run in the job market.March was the 90th consecutive month of job growth, by far the longest streak on record. Employers have added an average of just over 200,000 jobs per month so far in 2018, a pace that has held relatively steady for the past two years. The unemployment rate hasnt budged since October, but remains at its lowest level since 2000.The fundamentals still remain solid, said Dan North, chief economist for Euler Hermes North America.The slowdown in March wasnt a surprise. Februarys job growth was probably inflated by a surge in hiring in construction and the retail sector that reflected unseasonably warm weather in much of the country. Both sectors slumped in March as winter storms blew through the eastern United States.Weve had such unsustainably strong results in January and February that it was largely expected that we were due for some payback, said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist for Morgan Stanley. The weak number in headline payrolls does not change the fact that trend job growth is strong.The one dull spot in Februarys report was wage growth, which slowed from January. That figure was revised up slightly on Friday, and earnings rebounded further in March, rising 2.7 percent from a year earlier. Economists caution against reading too much into the month-to-month data on wages, which is volatile and prone to distortions.The bigger picture is that wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. Economists have proposed a long list of possible explanations, from globalization to weak productivity growth. Most still expect employers to have to raise pay eventually to attract and retain workers. But so far, employers are resisting.Its a standoff, almost, on wages, said Jason Guggisberg, a vice president at the staffing firm Adecco. Whos going to go first?The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sectors rebound in the months ahead.President Trump announced late Thursday that he would consider imposing tariffs on an additional $100 billion worth of Chinese products, escalating the rapid-fire exchange of trade actions by the two countries. It isnt yet clear what impact the tariffs could have on the economy. But the threat alone could disrupt some companies plans, economists said.Whether trade tensions and threats come to fruition or not, even if theres not follow-through, the lingering uncertainty and the market volatility that it creates will start to permeate business decisions and household decisions, Ms. Zentner said. Already, she said, there are signs that upper-income households are becoming less confident, a sentiment that could affect consumer spending.Investors and policymakers alike are watching the job market closely for signs that the economy could be starting to overheat. Markets tumbled after a report of unexpectedly strong wage growth in January led to fears of inflation, and the interest-rate hikes it could bring.The market reaction to Fridays report was more muted. The uptick in wages was sufficient to suggest that the job market remains healthy, but probably not big enough to force the Federal Reserve to reconsider its policy of gradual rate increases, said Michelle Meyer, head of United States economics for Bank of America.Indeed, in a speech in Chicago on Friday, the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, suggested his view of the economy had changed little in recent weeks.The labor market remains strong, and my colleagues and I on the Federal Open Market Committee expect it to remain strong, Mr. Powell told the Economic Club of Chicago, according to prepared remarks released by the central bank. He added that he would be looking for an additional pickup in wage growth as the labor market strengthens further.Mr. Powells prepared remarks made no mention of the looming threat of a trade war with China. But Ms. Meyer said the added uncertainty surrounding trade could tend to make policymakers more cautious.The risks have increased given some of the headlines around trade, Ms. Meyer said.Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster report for February was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people. Beyond such monthly gyrations, however, the labor force has been growing gradually, an impressive feat given the ongoing retirement of the baby-boom generation.With available workers increasingly scarce, companies are going to greater lengths to find potential employees. Some are hiring people with criminal records or loosening hiring requirements. Others are trying to entice people previously on the economys sidelines, like at-home parents and recent retirees.Ive had more conversations about retirees in the last month than I have in the last year, said Becky Frankiewicz, president of ManpowerGroup, a staffing firm. Thats an ideal population because theyre still highly skilled and theyre experienced.
MOSCOW  The Trump administration on Friday announced new sanctions against a list of Russian business tycoons, government officials and corporations, part of the continuing political and economic fallout from the nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter in England last month.The roster includes some of the most powerful people and entities in Russia, with ties to President Vladimir V. Putin and his government. Many of them are suspected of corruption sanctioned by the Kremlin.Britain has said that Moscow was likely behind the poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal and Yulia Skripal, and has persuaded its allies on both sides of the Atlantic. Russia denies any connection to the attack.Here are some of the biggest names on the new sanctions list, and where their money came from.Mr. Bogdanov, 66, is the director general and co-owner of Surgutneftegas, the fourth-biggest oil producer in Russia, which has an unusually opaque ownership structure, even by Russian standards. On paper, Mr. Bogdanov, an associate of Mr. Putins since the days when the president was a local official in St. Petersburg, owns just 0.37 percent of the company, with a majority of its shares controlled by a web of noncommercial partnerships.Surgutneftegas keeps cash reserves of about $38.5 billion, more than any other Russian company. Why it would stockpile so much money is a mystery that has fueled speculation that Mr. Bogdanov has helped hide money for Mr. Putin.Those rumors have never been substantiated, but efforts to probe the companys ownership and finances have sometimes proved perilous. Bill Browder, an American-born London-based financier who used to work in Moscow but now faces arrest if he returns, first came under attack from the Russian authorities for tax fraud and other alleged crimes after he started digging into the oil companys affairs in the early 2000s.One of the most secretive Russian tycoons, Mr. Bogdanov avoids flaunting his wealth. He is known as the hermit of Siberia because, unlike many Russian billionaires, he does not live in Moscow, but has stayed close to his Siberian oil fields.Mr. Deripaska controls Basic Element, which in turn owns more than 100 Russian and international companies. He laid the foundation of his empire in the aluminum wars of the 1990s, a vicious struggle for control of natural resources in which he emerged triumphant, becoming the undisputed king of aluminum production in Russia.Mr. Deripaska, 50, married Polina Yumasheva, whose father, Valentin Yumashev, worked for former President Boris N. Yeltsin and married Mr. Yeltsins daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko. Mr. Yumashev and Mr. Putin were both top aides to Mr. Yeltsin in the late 1990s.Later, Mr. Deripaska employed Paul Manafort, the political consultant who later became director of President Trumps 2016 campaign. Mr. Manafort has since offered to testify in an investigation into Russias role in the election. Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Manafort have since feuded, tangling over money that each accuses the other of owing.Mr. Deripaska was at the center of a recent video investigation, put together by Aleksei A. Navalny, an anti-corruption campaigner and a vociferous opponent of President Putin. The investigation found that Mr. Deripaska organized an outing on his luxury yacht, attended by Sergei Prikhodko, deputy prime minister of Russia and a Kremlin foreign policy adviser, and female escorts.Mr. Kerimov, 52, is both the owner of Polyus, Russias biggest gold mining company, and a member of the Federation Council, the upper chamber of Russian parliament. He has been under investigation in France for tax fraud and money laundering, suspected of buying several villas in Cap dAntibes through shell companies.He was one of the main donors to the construction of Moscows cathedral mosque, which was opened by President Putin and Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan in 2015. He is a native of Derbent, Dagestan, an ancient walled town in the North Caucasus, on the border with Azerbaijan.Mr. Rotenberg, 44, is the son of Arkady R. Rotenberg, Putins former judo partner, and their familys business fortunes have gone hand-in-hand with Putins political career. Igor Rotenberg is a junior partner in one of the countrys largest construction companies, controlled by his father and his uncle.The familys company was awarded lavish contracts to build pipelines for Gazprom, the state-controlled energy giant, and a bridge to Crimea, the Ukrainian Black Sea peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014. Igor Rotenberg owns 50 percent of a company that collects tolls from Russian truckers, who protested in vain in 2015 over what they denounced as extortionate fees.His cousin, Roman Rotenberg, is vice president of the Russian hockey federation.Mr. Shamalov, 36, became a high-ranking executive and large shareholder of Sibur, a gas processing and petrochemical company, shortly before he married Katerina Tikhonova, who is widely believed to be Mr. Putins daughter.In 2014, a year after their marriage, the state-owned Gazprombank lent Mr. Shamalov $1 billion, which he used to buy a much larger stake in the company, 17 percent, from Gennady Timchenko, a businessman and member of Putins inner circle. Around the time Mr. Shamalov was reported to have separated from Ms. Tikhonova, he sold roughly the same portion of the companys shares.Mr. Shamalovs father, Nikolai, was a former member of the Ozero dacha compound near St. Petersburg, together with Mr. Putin.Mr. Skoch, 52, is a member of the Russian parliament whose father, Vladimir, is a part owner of a steel company and a shareholder in the investment conglomerate run by Alisher B. Usmanov, a close associate of Mr. Putins, who controls one of Russias largest phone companies.Numerous media reports have linked Mr. Skoch to organized crime  specifically to the syndicate known as the Solntsevo gang.Mr. Vekselberg, 60, who is close to the Kremlin, is the founder and principal owner of Renova Group, a large investment conglomerate with an array of assets around the world, including metals production, energy, telecommunications and banking companies, and a number of Russian airports.Like many of Russias oligarchs, he capitalized on the fire sale of state-owned assets in the 1990s. But unlike some who are known primarily for crony capitalism and corrupt deals, Mr. Vekselberg is seen as a serious businessman.Forbes Magazine estimates his worth at $14.6 billion, making him one of Russias ten wealthiest people, and the richest on the sanctions list.In 2013, he opened the Faberge Museum in St. Petersburg in a lavishly restored former mansion, to display a collection of famed Faberge Imperial Easter eggs he bought from the Forbes family in 2004.
Kenya Barris, the A-list writer-producer behind the ABC comedy black-ish, has grown frustrated with his home network and is examining the possibility of making an early exit from his contract, according to three people familiar with the negotiations.Mr. Barris, 43, has also begun talks with Netflix, the streaming titan that has poached superproducers like ABCs Shonda Rhimes and Foxs Ryan Murphy with eye-popping pay packages and promises of artistic freedom.Mr. Barriss deteriorating relationship with ABC stems, in part, from the networks decision to pull an episode of the show that examined race relations in America in pointed fashion, according to the people briefed on the situation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss behind-the-scenes friction. ABC aired a black-ish rerun in place of the shelved episode on Feb. 27.A critical hit, black-ish centers on the Johnsons, an upper-middle-class family living in a mostly white suburb. The series has increasingly embraced hot-button story lines centered on race. It has delved into police brutality, the fallout from the election of President Trump and the use of the N-word among children. In addition, Mr. Barris is the creator of a spinoff, grown-ish, for Freeform, a cable network that, like ABC, is owned by the Walt Disney Company.Mr. Barris and ABC could find a way to patch up their relationship. But two people briefed on the matter said it was more likely that ABC and Mr. Barris  who is under contract with the network for three more years  would agree to part ways. If that happened, black-ish would continue, as long as its ratings held up. For now, the relationship between the star producer and the network is awkward, especially given that the disagreement  first reported by The Hollywood Reporter  has spilled into public view.Representatives for Mr. Barris, ABC and Netflix declined to comment.A split would mark another high-profile departure for ABC. Ms. Rhimes, the force behind Greys Anatomy, Scandal and How to Get Away With Murder, decamped for Netflix last year. But ABC also has a degree of strength that it hasnt had in years, thanks to the revival of Roseanne, which has scored blockbuster ratings in its first two weeks. ABC also has a new hit drama, The Good Doctor, and its reboot of American Idol has performed solidly.Ever since Netflix poached Ms. Rhimes and Mr. Murphy, many star producers in Hollywood have been expressing some resentment that they do not have similar deals.Black-ish, which is in its fourth season, has been a standout comedy for ABC, praised for its nuanced approach to race relations. It has earned a Golden Globe Award for one of its cast members, Tracee Ellis Ross, as well as a Peabody Award.In the shelved episode, Dre, an advertising executive played by Anthony Anderson, raised socially fraught issues while telling a bedtime story to his baby son, Devante.Dre is on baby duty for the night during a storm, and the household is wide-awake, ABC declared in a news release before the show was pulled. He decides to read a crying Devante a bedtime story, but when that doesnt do the trick, Dre tosses it aside and begins to tell a story of his own about the current state of the country in a way Devante will understand.Mr. Barris co-wrote and directed the episode, which reportedly was also going to examine the National Football Leagues take a knee protest.It is rare for an episode to be pulled, especially in a series as important to a network as black-ish. At the time, ABC and Mr. Barris papered over their tensions with bland pronouncements.Given our creative differences, neither ABC nor I were happy with the direction of the episode and mutually agreed not to air it, Mr. Barris said in a statement last month. Black-ish is a show that has spoken to all different types of people and brought them closer as a community and Im so proud of the series.In its own statement, ABC said: One of the things that has always made black-ish so special is how it deftly examines delicate social issues in a way that simultaneously entertains and educates. However, on this episode there were creative differences we were unable to resolve.Mr. Barris, who also has a hot movie career, co-writing the script for Girls Trip and a coming remake of Shaft, canceled an appearance at a South by Southwest panel in Austin, Tex., the day after the news surfaced that the episode would not air.Making matters more complicated at ABC, the most recent episode of Roseanne, which more than 15 million people watched on Tuesday, included a glib exchange about black-ish and another ABC sitcom, Fresh Off the Boat, which is about an Asian-American family.In the middle of the episode, Roseanne Conner (played by Roseanne Barr, the shows star and co-creator) and her husband, Dan (John Goodman), fall asleep on a couch with the TV on. When Roseanne wakes up, she remarks that they slept all the way from Wheel of Fortune, the syndicated game show that airs before prime time, to Jimmy Kimmel Live!, the ABC late-night show.We missed all the shows about black and Asian families, Dan remarks, to a chorus of laughs from the Roseanne studio audience.Theyre just like us, replies Roseanne, who grabs the remote and turns off the TV. There, now youre all caught up.The reboot of Roseanne was one result of an attempt by ABC to appeal more to Middle America in the wake of Mr. Trumps 2016 election win. That strategy is what helped persuade the network to schedule Roseanne, an ABC hit from 1988 to 1997 that features a white working-class family in Illinois.We had spent a lot of time looking for diverse voices in terms of people of color and people from different religions and even people with a different perspective on gender, Channing Dungey, ABCs entertainment president, said in an interview last week. But we had not been thinking nearly enough about economic diversity and some of the other cultural divisions within our own country. Thats been something weve been really looking at with eyes open since that time.
SANTA ROSA, Calif./CHICAGO   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead.But as global stocks fell on jitters over escalating U.S.-China trade tensions, Powell merely said it was too soon to know if the trade issue would take a toll on the U.S. economy, which has been steadily strengthening.For his part, San Francisco Fed President John Williams, whose appointment to head the Fed\'s New York branch means he will also be vice chair of the Fed\'s policy-setting committee and a permanent voter on the committee, did not mince words.Williams said that although the rhetoric on tariffs so far has been more extreme than the actions taken, he loses sleep over the prospect of an actual trade war, which he warned could result in slower growth, an inflationary spike and lower productivity."My concern here is not who loses more or what happens specifically. Its that if this path goes to one where all of us are pulling away from being open, I think those implications are negative," Williams told reporters, after a speech here. Still, he said, "I havent seen that kind of change yet."The remarks by the two came as the United States and China exchanged new threats on the trade front. China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods. [nL4N1RJ1A5]Williams downplayed the leverage that some believe China\'s vast holdings of U.S. debt give it in trade negotiations, saying he believes it is unlikely China would dump U.S. Treasuries and would do itself great damage if it did.China as of the end of January held around $1.7 trillion of Treasuries, making it the No. 2 overall owner of U.S. government bonds after the Federal Reserve. [nL2N1RH1RX]But Williams said some sectors of the U.S. economy, such as farming, are particularly vulnerable if proposed tariffs on crops like soybeans go into effect. Soybeans are the top U.S. agricultural export to China."It\'s definitely something we are paying close attention to," he said. "The global economy is built on trading with each other, and if we were to try to unwind all of that it would be extremely disruptive and very costly, both for the U.S. and the world."CLOSE TO FULL EMPLOYMENTPowell, in his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank in early February, said the labour market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rise toward the Fed\'s 2 percent objective in the coming months."As long as the economy continues broadly on its current path, further gradual increases in the federal funds rate will best promote these goals," Powell said at an event in Chicago.Powell said the risks to the U.S. economic outlook appeared "roughly balanced."Earlier on Friday the Labor Department reported the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent for a sixth straight month in March as 103,000 jobs were created, the lowest amount in six months. [nLNS6FEEAC]The Fed has been slowly raising interest rates since 2015, most recently in March when policymakers signalled they expected to increase borrowing costs two or three more times in 2018. Prices for interest rate futures have suggested that investors expect the Fed to do just that.Williams\' comments on the economy were similarly rosy, and he suggested he supports continued gradual rate hikes through 2020, by which time rates should be around 3.5 percent.(Reporting by Jason Lange in Chicago and Ann Saphir in Santa Rose, Calif.; Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Editing by Leslie Adler)
SANTA ROSA, Calif./CHICAGO   Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead.But as global stocks fell on jitters over escalating U.S.-China trade tensions, Powell merely said it was too soon to know if the trade issue would take a toll on the U.S. economy, which has been steadily strengthening.For his part, San Francisco Fed President John Williams, whose appointment to head the Fed\'s New York branch means he will also be vice chair of the Fed\'s policy-setting committee and a permanent voter on the committee, did not mince words.Williams said that although the rhetoric on tariffs so far has been more extreme than the actions taken, he loses sleep over the prospect of an actual trade war, which he warned could result in slower growth, an inflationary spike and lower productivity."My concern here is not who loses more or what happens specifically. Its that if this path goes to one where all of us are pulling away from being open, I think those implications are negative," Williams told reporters, after a speech here. Still, he said, "I havent seen that kind of change yet."The remarks by the two came as the United States and China exchanged new threats on the trade front. China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.Williams downplayed the leverage that some believe China\'s vast holdings of U.S. debt give it in trade negotiations, saying he believes it is unlikely China would dump U.S. Treasuries and would do itself great damage if it did.China as of the end of January held around $1.7 trillion of Treasuries, making it the No. 2 overall owner of U.S. government bonds after the Federal Reserve.But Williams said some sectors of the U.S. economy, such as farming, are particularly vulnerable if proposed tariffs on crops like soybeans go into effect. Soybeans are the top U.S. agricultural export to China."It\'s definitely something we are paying close attention to," he said. "The global economy is built on trading with each other, and if we were to try to unwind all of that it would be extremely disruptive and very costly, both for the U.S. and the world."CLOSE TO FULL EMPLOYMENTPowell, in his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank in early February, said the labor market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rise toward the Fed\'s 2 percent objective in the coming months."As long as the economy continues broadly on its current path, further gradual increases in the federal funds rate will best promote these goals," Powell said at an event in Chicago.Powell said the risks to the U.S. economic outlook appeared "roughly balanced."Earlier on Friday the Labor Department reported the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent for a sixth straight month in March as 103,000 jobs were created, the lowest amount in six months.The Fed has been slowly raising interest rates since 2015, most recently in March when policymakers signaled they expected to increase borrowing costs two or three more times in 2018. Prices for interest rate futures have suggested that investors expect the Fed to do just that.Williams\' comments on the economy were similarly rosy, and he suggested he supports continued gradual rate hikes through 2020, by which time rates should be around 3.5 percent.(Reporting by Jason Lange in Chicago and Ann Saphir in Santa Rose, Calif.; Additional reporting by Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Editing by Leslie Adler)
(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a speech on the economic outlook that did not address the economic risks of rising trade tensions.In his first speech on the economic outlook since assuming the helm at the U.S. central bank on February 5, Powell said the labor market appeared close to full employment and that inflation was poised to rebound in the coming months.KEY POINTS:* Fed\'s Powell says he and his colleagues believe U.S. economy will require further gradual interest rates increases* Powell: risks to economic outlook are roughly balanced* Powell makes no mention of trade tensions in speech* Powell: inflation could rise to unwelcome levels if Fed waited for inflation and employment to hit its goals; sees 12-month inflation readings moving up notably this springCOMMENTS:CHAD MORGANLANDER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, WASHINGTON CROSSING ADVISORS, FLORHAM PARK, NEW JERSEY(Powell)\'s going to ignore (trade tensions between the U.S. and China) until it affects the financial system overall. If that was to happen, then he would walk back the rhetoric and signal a more patient view not only for rate hikes but balance sheet readjustment. Yes, the current trade dispute does have a risk, but it doesn\'t have an immediate economic impact, hence the reason he\'s continuing a steady drum beat of rates going higher.Investors are holding on to the hope that the Fed will shift in a rapid manner. What Powell is signaling to market participants is that the Fed is not swayed or rattled by equity market volatility at this point. That\'s the reason for the additional selling pressure. The Fed has the intestinal fortitude to wait until it creeps into credit conditions and causes financial stress. It used to be that any time there was volatility that the Fed would come to the rescue of the system. This looks like a subtle message to market participants that they\'re willing to accept much more volatility within equity markets.CHARLIE RIPLEY, SENIOR INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, ALLIANZ INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, MINNEAPOLIS:He\'s sticking to the script in terms of further gradual rate hikes or the pace of rate hikes remaining the same. Obviously the market has been somewhat alluding to his fourth hike this year which is not quite in the Fed\'s forecast yet. For the most part Powell and the Fed are holding that back for the time being until we see a further trend of inflation moving up. I think he\'s somewhat alluded to that by saying later this spring we should see inflation numbers pick up. If they do change their stance on how many hikes we see this year, we\'ll see that in June or later this year.The whole trade thing in our view is really, you know they obviously will have an impact if these tariffs go into place, but nothing has been put in place yet and a lot of it is headlines talking back to each other. Hopefully we\'ll see some more formal talks between China and the U.S. and get some progress there. But I think in large part this is kind of seeing who is going to back down first. We haven\'t seen any of the tariffs put in place. There is some uncertainty to that and I think equities are reflecting that. Until we can get some of those issues resolved, I think the markets, in general, are going to remain jittery for the time being.ALAN LANCZ, PRESIDENT, ALAN B. LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC., IN TOLEDO, OHIO.It wasnt negative. He said were not going to have four increases, were going to see how it goes, and I think thats reassuring for investors. But I dont think thats on their mind right now.I think it will be this trade talk until maybe earnings. I think that is going to be the dominant factor in the markets.As we approach the weekend, people want to reduce exposure just for what else might come over the weekend as far as on the tweet front or across the headlines. I dont think (the speech) was a big catalyst on the market movement even though it kind of filtered back down since then. I think it is more people unwinding positions and not wanting to go long for the weekend more than what Jay Powell said.RICK MECKLER, PRESIDENT OF INVESTMENT FIRM LIBERTYVIEW CAPITAL MANAGEMENT IN JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY"I don\'t think Powell\'s statement helps because higher rates are ultimately competition for equity investments. However, he\'s been incredibly consistent and there\'s really no surprise in what he said. Maybe some people thought the weak numbers this morning would cause some reflection but the Fed has been on this path and there\'s been no deviation.""On Friday\'s there\'s always concern about what can happen over the weekend. If the market is down it often tends to accelerate on Friday. Investors don\'t want to take the risk of coming in Monday after having something happen over the week."This administration puts out so many controversial statements. The market seemed to ignore for a while but more recently, I don\'t know if its a cumulative effect, investors have become more concerned by it."KARL SCHAMOTTA, DIRECTOR OF GLOBAL PRODUCT AND MARKET STRATEGY, CAMBRIDGE GLOBAL PAYMENTS, TORONTO."It seems like a wait and see approach. I am not seeing a big shift in language here. It certainly confirms market expectations going in. Not really seeing a real change in  strategy. As far as currencies are concerned we are not seeing a lot of momentum in either direction.""The Fed is very committed to looking through current market volatility and to really taking that careful, gradual approach to determining what trade war risks might do to the U.S. economy. That sort of touches on the press conference that followed the last decision during which he was very much emphasizing that trade risks could impact business confidence, but that was difficult to see from a monetary policy perspective. There wasnt anything the Fed could do to model that impact. I think what they are trying to do is really ignore all of that and focus on whats happening from a fundamentals perspective.""Couple of weeks ago we saw a lot of concerns in the market about volatility spiking and the Fed very much looked through that and looked through to the conditions impacting the real economy. And so there hasnt been an elevated level of concern about that either."JIM PAULSEN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, THE LEUTHOLD GROUP, MINNEAPOLIS:The market wouldnt be acting nearly as negative to all the news in general if it (were not) in a vulnerable state already. Last year, we had bad company news, Trump tweets, threats of this and that, the market just went right up. This year, every bit of news is impacting the market, good or bad. Its moving it all over. It really says that the market has a lot more vulnerabilities this year. Its got higher values, financial liquidity is contracting, you came into the year with a little too much optimism, you got rising rates going on, you got rising inflation fears. Its more about that than it is about the trade war.JUAN PEREZ, CURRENCY TRADER, TEMPUS CONSULTING, WASHINGTON: "It is currently a bipolar market for currencies. On the one hand, Powell is saying that the U.S. economy is doing well and we\'re getting these rate increases, even though they\'re at a gradual pace, but the FX market is simply ignoring him. The reason for this is that the FX market is more focused on the trade dispute with China, which has a far greater chance of derailing U.S. growth when you think about the consequences on the economy."JOHN CANAVAN, MARKET STRATEGIST, STONE & MCCARTHY RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, NEW YORK:From a market perspective, there isnt really anything new. He read the party line: further rate hikes are coming and what is the optimum path. They dont want to go too fast or too slowly. Another item he pointed out is that the year-over-year inflation figures will be moving higher later this year from one-off factors. I think he is preparing the market the idea of a bit higher inflation. I think he wants to do it so the market wont over-react to it."There is a great deal of uncertainty with trade. There is no clear direction from the President here. So far nothing has been in place yet. It might be weeks or months before it happens. Also there is also time for negotiation. So it might not be the time (for Powell) to address the issue around tariffs. The trade comments from the U.S. and China are being taken by markets with a bit more grain of salt than a week ago. The individual threats are not as big of a factor. From a fixed income perspective barring any new jawboning on tariffs, supply and inflation data may play a bigger role next week.MARK VITNER, SENIOR ECONOMIST, WELLS FARGO, CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA:"The speech is in the middle of the fairway. There is no question the labor market is improving and the current pace of job growth will reduce the unemployment rate along to what the Fed has been expecting. The big decision is whether the Fed will go three times or four times this year. It\'s a real close call. A lot hangs on the trade discussion. If it ends well, the market will quickly rebound. There won\'t be slower global economic growth. We might end up with faster economic growth."SUBADRA RAJAPPA, HEAD OF U.S. RATES STRATEGY, SOCIETE GENERALE, NEW YORK:"It seems like from reading the headlines that there aren\'t any major changes in the outlook from the Fed\'s perspective. It\'s clearly not overheating or concerns about wage pressures. He seems to be affirming a gradual, steady approach to tightening monetary policy."It\'s a contrast between what Treasury Secretary Mnuchin said that the (stock) selloff is not necessarily on trade wars but more on economic fundamentals, and Powell seems to be suggesting the opposite that they are taking a very even handed approach to monetary policy normalization. It\'s gradual, things are progressing slowly but surely towards the potential for continued rate hikes in a gradual fashion. To me there are really no surprises here."He\'s done a beautiful job both in his press conference as well as in this speech today in not saying anything that\'s going to rattle the market. From that perspective I think he gets high marks."MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: S&P 500 extended losses to the day\'s low; last down about 1.8 pctBONDS: U.S. Treasury yields lower but little changed from earlier levels; 2s <US2YT=RR> at 2.278 pct; 10s <US10YT=RR> 2.783 pct; 2-10 spread flattens to 50.6 basis pointsFOREX: The U.S. dollar index drops to the day\'s lowRATE FUTURES: December fed fund futures contract <FFZ8> gains 1 basis point; implied yield 2.07 pct
WASHINGTON   The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as a boost from milder temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to further raise interest rates this year.Nonfarm payrolls increased by 103,000 last month, with construction and retail sectors shedding jobs, the Labor Department said on Friday. That was the smallest gain since last September and followed a 326,000 surge in February, which was the largest in more than two years.Temperatures returned to normal in March, with snowstorms in some parts of the country. The pullback in job gains is likely  temporary as layoffs are at historic lows and other independent labour market indicators were strong in March."Inclement weather was the primary culprit for the slowdown in the pace of job growth in March," said Joseph Song, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.Employment gains averaged 202,000 jobs per month in the first quarter, highlighting underlying labour market strength. The economy needs to create roughly 100,000 jobs per month to keep up with growth in the working-age population.The unemployment rate held steady at 4.1 percent for a sixth straight month. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the economy adding 193,000 jobs in March and the unemployment rate dropping to 4.0 percent.A broader measure of unemployment, which includes people who want to work but have given up searching, and those working part time because they cannot find full-time employment, fell two-tenths of a percentage point to 8.0 percent last month.With labour market slack diminishing, wage growth picked up a bit in March. Average hourly earnings rose eight cents or 0.3 percent last month after edging up 0.1 percent in February.The gain lifted the annual increase in average hourly earnings to 2.7 percent from 2.6 percent in February. Annual wage growth is inching closer to the pace of at least 3 percent economists say is needed to lift inflation towards the Fed\'s 2 percent target.Fed Chairman Jerome Powell told the Economic Club of Chicago on Friday that lack of robust wage gains suggested the labour market was not "excessively tight" and that he would be "looking for an additional pickup in wage growth as the labour market strengthens further."The U.S. central bank increased borrowing costs last month and forecast two more interest rate hikes this year."In sum, no change in the Fed\'s trajectory," said Steven Blitz, chief U.S. economist at TS Lombard in New York. "If anything, the wage data are beginning to strengthen the argument for three more hikes this year."The step-down in employment gains combined with mounting trade tensions between the United States and China to undercut stocks on Wall Street and the dollar.Beijing warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if Washington followed through with President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.U.S. stocks tumbled, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 650 points, or 2.6 percent. The dollar weakened against a basket of currencies and U.S. Treasury prices <US10YT=RR> rose.MODEST ACCELERATION FOR THE ECONOMYEconomists do not see an impact on hiring in the near term from the stock market selloff, which has caused a tightening in financial conditions.While the weather dampened hiring last month, it did not have an impact on hours worked. The average workweek held at 34.5 hours. That together with the modest job gains and increase in average hourly earnings boosted a proxy for take-home pay."This morning\'s figures may suggest a little less momentum heading into the second quarter, but taken with other data, the continued expansion in total hours worked points to a modest acceleration in activity this quarter, provided we manage to avoid shooting ourselves in the foot on trade policy," said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan in New York.The economy appears to have slowed in the first quarter, with gross domestic product growth estimates mostly below a 2 percent annualised rate. Growth in the January-March period tends to be weak for seasonal reasons.The economy grew at a 2.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter. Growth this year is seen bolstered by a $1.5 trillion income tax cut package and increased government spending, which economists say will offset some of the impact from the stock market\'s gyrations.The unemployment rate has hovered at 4.1 percent since October as people piled into the labour market. The labour force participation rate, or the proportion of working-age Americans who have a job or are looking for one, slipped one-tenth of a percentage point to 62.9 percent in March after rising to a five-month high of 63.0 percent in February.The return of cold weather and a shortage of skilled workers weighed on hiring at construction sites in March. Payrolls in the sector fell 15,000, the first drop since last July, after surging 65,000 in February.Manufacturing employment increased 22,000. The retail sector shed 4,400 jobs after adding 47,300 positions in February.Temporary help, seen as a harbinger of future permanent hiring, slipped by 600. Leisure and hospitality employers added only 5,000 jobs last month, the least since September. Government payrolls rose by 1,000 in March.(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci and James Dalgleish)
On a recent Friday afternoon at an AT&T store in Park Slope, the scene was chaotic. A customer holding a bicycle helmet lingered over the iPhones, browsing; a sixtysomething man knelt on the floor, taking a selfie with a German pinscher named Polo; and a young Orthodox man wrapped a customer in tefillin, traditional Jewish prayer straps, while reading him prayers to repeat. I get an iPhone, and I get tefillin, said the customer, Harvey Rossel, a chiropractor and longtime local.Ari Kirtchuk, 55, the stores owner, took in the action from behind his counter. Theyre monsters from Crown Heights, he said, from the Lubavitch cartel. A wave of laughter passed through the store.Many lament the mallification of New York City, with banks, chain restaurants and anonymous cellphone shops rapidly replacing the beloved mom-and-pops of generations past. But for some ineffable reason, there are certain chain stores that contain the warmth, diversity and conversation once associated with Greek diners or soda fountains. The AT&T authorized retailer owned by Mr. Kirtchuk, near the corner of Union Street and Seventh Avenue, is one. At any moment, only about half of the people inside are there for cellphone problems. The others come to talk. Perhaps its the two soft black chairs by the front window that encourage conversation, or the frequent presence of Polo, Mr. Kirtchuks sons dog. Or perhaps it is the unique energy of Mr. Kirtchuk, who seems to value jokes, long stories and political debate as much as sales commissions.Elegant and handsome, with a lanky physique that resembles his hero Larry Davids, he has a thin smile, carved cheekbones and a deadpan demeanor. On a given day, he helps seniors, delivery men, teenagers, caregivers, the homeless, celebrity locals such as the actor Peter Sarsgaard and the novelist Nicole Krauss, as well as the brownstone bourgeoisie. Though he has one full-time employee, John Rossello, 27, Mr. Kirtchuk himself comes in six days a week and often seven. The reason they come here is because they know me and they need some company, he said. Its a big city with a lot of lonely people.In his Israeli accent, Mr. Kirtchuk likes to insert And? as someone is telling him a story, to cue them for the next detail. His signature phrase is, Gimme a second, and he greets all customers, new and old, with How ya doing.Michael Carr, a 65-year-old handyman, wandered in and sat on a stool near the service desk. He was there only to talk. Aris got respect for the older heads, he said in an accent part Dutch and part West Indian. Hell tell them: This phone is not for you. You cant handle it at this age.The store phone rang. AT&T, said Mr. Kirtchuk. Yes, yes, you can bring it over. The SIM card is $10. But do you need internet? For an additional $10 you get 1G of data.He hung up. People are used to a 1-2-3 situation. When they get extra service, theyre surprised. Im not a diamond but I look like a diamond because of my competition.There are two other AT&T retailers within a mile of his, one part of a large chain and the other owned by an individual. (There are also several other cellphone franchises in proximity.) Mr. Kirtchuk explained that authorized retailers are independent contractors that compete with one another, unlike, say, two branches of one clothing chain. They make commissions on each new activation or upgrade, based on the value of the transaction. The commission on a new activation is higher than that on a phone upgrade. The AT&T competition I can control with my customer service, said he said. Competition with Verizon is not under my control. (AT&T did not respond to requests for comment on this article.)Born in Argentina, Mr. Kirtchuk moved to Israel with his family when he was 3. He arrived in the United States in the late 1980s, when he was in his early 20s. He thought he would work, save some money, and return to Israel to study. He got a job in a clothing store in the South Bronx, and in 1988 he met the woman who would become his wife. They married, had two sons, and moved to Richmond Hill, Queens. A few years later Mr. Kirtchuk dropped his plans to return to Israel.A job in an electronics store led him to open his own business selling and servicing pagers in 1990, and as technology changed, he opened a series of cellphone dealerships. Soon he owned four in Queens. I was looking for stores all the time, he said recently. I thought I could grab the world.One day in 2003 he was driving down Seventh Avenue in Park Slope, looking for future locations. I thought to myself, Nice area, he recalled. I went to the landlord, and half an hour later I signed the lease. After his divorce, he closed all his Queens stores within a few years and installed himself full-time in Park Slope. Even today, he said, several former Richmond Hill customers travel nearly nine miles to see him.On a different weekday he was aiding a married couple, Arta Ukha, 32, and her husband, Ari Nikci, 37, who had come in for new phones. Mr. Kirtchuks mind was on the stock market. If the stocks are down two days in a row, he said, maybe Wall Street knows something we dont. Maybe Trump is on his way out.Mr. Rossello was on the store phone. I cant understand what youre saying, he told the caller.Mr. Kirtchuk took the phone and spoke briefly in Spanish, including the words Apple ID and telfono. Mr. Kirtchuk switches from English to Spanish to Hebrew, sometimes shocking customers who dont expect the guy at the cellphone store to be multilingual.A discussion ensued on different accents. Ms. Ukha, originally from Kosovo, explained the challenges of helping her parents set up a smartphone. In Albania the words are pronounced the way theyre written, she said. I have to tell my parents, Press DO-neh instead of DONE.A pizza delivery man came in and handed Mr. Kirtchuk his phone, leaving within a few minutes. He just needed to wipe it, Mr. Kirtchuk explained. He lost his password. He was philosophical about life as an authorized retailer. If you take care of your customers, youre going to make a few dollars out of it. The money will follow. I represent a big corporation, but they allow me to work in an old-fashioned way, to find a balance between making them happy and doing what I want.What about the unpleasant customers? I recognize them right away, he said. Ill try to encourage them to go to my competition.He often learns about peoples problems as he helps them with their phones. Several months ago a regular, close to tears, came in and asked to pull up her husbands text messages for her. She said, I think he has something going on, Mr. Kirtchuk recalled. I told her, First of all, I cant do that, and even if I could, I wouldnt. I told her to wait 24 hours and cool down to think about it. Maybe she was jumping to conclusions.Later on the hectic Friday of the Jewish prayer ritual, the door burst open and Yanki Reichman, 56, who wore a prayer shawl beneath a TrueValue Hardware hoodie, went to Mr. Kirtchuk, joking with him in Hebrew. He stops in the store on his trips to the bank, often bringing Jewish delicacies from Crown Heights.The chiropractor, Mr. Rossel, who had come in to buy his first smartphone, waited for it to be activated. Phones bring people into the store, he observed. Because they are a capitalistic pursuit they require updates. Since Ari put those chairs here theres always people sitting in them. This is the new barbershop.AT&T is a franchise that swallowed all the smaller ones, said Mr. Reichman, but without Ari, people would get lost. He spends hours and hours trying to help them and he doesnt get paid for it.Mr. Rossello, the full-time employee, asked Mr. Rossel a series of security questions as he set up the device, like his mothers maiden name or the city he was born in. Why dont you have it ask your dream job? Mr. Kirtchuk interrupted. Belly dancer? My dream job was always to be a belly dancer.A tall young man with broad shoulders came in. He carried a gym bag and lingered near the door. Its your lucky day, Ari, he said in a strong Southern accent. I have a hundred dollars in here.Why didnt you bring me a thousand? Mr. Kirtchuk asked.The man was Jonathan Jones, 33, a clothing designer, author and investor who works at the Whole Foods in Gowanus. He moved to New York from Vicksburg, Miss., six months ago and met Mr. Kirtchuk after coming into the store offering his web-building services. They became friendly.On this afternoon he had a loose battery. Mr. Kirtchuk placed a call to a roving repairman and turned to Mr. Jones. Jonathan, 5:30 is good for you? Aw, man, said Mr. Jones. Now is good. But he agreed to return at 5:30.A woman who resembled Laurie Anderson, with a distraught face under her parka hood, came in and announced dramatically, I lost my phone.You have insurance?No.All right, Mr. Kirtchuk said. Gimme a second. They spoke quietly. After typing her number into the computer he determined that she did, in fact, have insurance. She left, and returned 10 minutes with two cups of coffee, one for Mr. Kirtchuk. Good coffee, he said.They approached a display phone together, and an intense, guitar-heavy folk song emanated from the store speakers. It turned out to be a music video by her husband, also a customer. Mr. Kirtchuk complimented the music while he helped her set up a new phone, which would arrive in the mail. (Days later she would find her lost phone.)As afternoon turned to evening, a redheaded young woman came in and told Mr. Rossello she was a Verizon customer, asking him detailed questions about AT&T plans, including the number of gigabytes and international-calling details. Mr. Kirtchuk approached her and said she could switch, explaining how much she would save on a similar AT&T plan and handing her a business card. It seemed uncharacteristically aggressive; he prefers a soft sell. She said she would think about it. When youre ready, Mr. Kirtchuk said.She paused to pet Polo, remarking on his calm demeanor. After the door closed behind her Mr. Kirtchuk said, I think she was a secret shopper, sent by AT&T to check on things. When asked why he said, She knew too much.
Cecil Taylor, a pianist who challenged the jazz tradition that produced him and became one of the most bracing, rhapsodic, abstract and original improvisers of his time, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 89.His death was confirmed by his legal guardian, Adam C. Wilner. No cause was given, but friends said he had been in failing health for some time.Mr. Taylor wrote music, led bands and for decades worked, as many jazz musicians do, in nightclubs and at festivals. But from early on he seemed to have much greater goals.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing  mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well  against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.For Mr. Taylor, a small and vigorous man who in his prime wore athletic clothing onstage  as if to confirm the notion that the audience was watching a physical workout  albums werent merely recording sessions and performances werent merely gigs.At the center of his art was that dazzling physicality and the percussiveness of his playing  his deep, serene, Ellingtonian chords and hummingbird attacks above middle C  which held true well into his 80s.But in concert he also recited his own poems, whose enjambed lines might describe Aztec architecture, paleoanthropology, crocodile reproduction or a womans posture. His motions around the instrument and the bandstand were a part of his performance too.In his system of writing music, working with bands and performing, he was concerned with what he called, in a 1971 interview with the writer Robert Levin, black methodology: oral traditions, music as embodied celebration and spiritual homage.Classically trained, he valued European music for what he called its qualities of construction  form, timbre, tone color  and incorporated them into his own aesthetic.I am not afraid of European influences, he told the critic Nat Hentoff. The point is to use them, as Ellington did, as part of my life as an American Negro.In a long assessment of Mr. Taylors work  one of the first  from Four Lives in the Bebop Business, a collection of essays on jazz musicians published in 1966, the poet and critic A. B. Spellman wrote:There is only one musician who has, by general agreement even among those who have disliked his music, been able to incorporate all that he wants to take from classical and modern Western composition into his own distinctly individual kind of blues without in the least compromising those blues, and that is Cecil Taylor, a kind of Bartok in reverse.Because his fully formed work was not folkish or pop-oriented, did not swing consistently (often it did not swing at all) and never entered the consensual jazz repertoire, Mr. Taylor could be understood to occupy an isolated place. Even after he was rewarded and lionized  he was given a Guggenheim fellowship in 1973, a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Masters award in 1990, a MacArthur fellowship in 1991 and the Kyoto Prize in 2014  his music was not easy to quantify.If improvisation means using intuition and risk in the present moment, there have been few musicians who took that challenge more seriously than Mr. Taylor. If one of his phrases seemed of paramount importance, another such phrase generally arrived right behind it. The range of expression in his keyboard touch encompassed caresses, rumbles and crashes.He was capable of performances full of stillness and awe, suggesting a kind of physical movement through musical phrases, as on the unaccompanied Pemmican (from the 1981 live recording Garden). Or he could go on full attack, as on Taht from the 1984 album Winged Serpent (Sliding Quadrants)  his fingers hammering and flying across the keys and breaking through the sound of a polytonal, polyrhythmic 11-piece band.Some of his greatest musical relationships were with drummers, among them Max Roach, Elvin Jones, Sunny Murray and Ronald Shannon Jackson.Cecil Percival Taylor was born in Long Island City, Queens, on March 25, 1929, and grew up about four miles away, in Corona. His father, Percy, originally from North Carolina, was a chef for Dr. John Kindred, president of the River Crest Sanitarium in Corona. Growing up, Cecil revered his mother, the former Almeida Ragland, for her learning and her high standards. She spoke French and German, took him to see Bill Bojangles Robinson and Ella Fitzgerald, and suggested that he read Schopenhauer.Acknowledging his desire to become a musician, rather than pursuing one of the careers she preferred for him  doctor, lawyer or dentist  his mother insisted that he practice the piano six days a week, then do what he wanted on Sunday. Thats when the organization of my music began, when she wasnt looking, Mr. Taylor said in an interview in the literary journal Hambone.She died of cancer when he was 14.Mr. Taylor studied piano at the New York College of Music in Manhattan and, in the early 1950s, moved to Boston, where he had relatives, to attend the New England Conservatory.While studying piano, arranging, harmony and solfge notation there, he started going to jazz clubs, which he said helped him develop ideas about his music more than anything he learned in school. He prized Ellington for his orchestral approach to the piano and Horace Silver for his rough, vernacular energy; he saw Charlie Parker, Bud Powell, Sarah Vaughan and the relatively little-known pianist Dick Twardzik, all of whom would contribute to his conception of music, as did Stravinsky.(The answer to the question of what music gave rise to Mr. Taylor, and what he liked to listen to, would encompass all those names as well as Marvin Gaye, Gyorgi Ligeti, Betty Carter, Judy Garland and Thelonious Monk. The Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava and the flamenco dancer Carmen Amaya had also influenced him to think about structure, movement and time, he said.)Back in New York, Mr. Taylor formed groups with the vibraphonist Earl Griffith and the soprano saxophonist Steve Lacy. In 1956, with a quartet rounded out by Mr. Lacy, the bassist Buell Neidlinger (who died on March 16) and the drummer Denis Charles, he made his first album, Jazz Advance. Featuring standards as well as his own compositions, it was produced by Tom Wilson, who later worked with Bob Dylan, the Mothers of Invention and the Velvet Underground.The quartet played at the Newport Jazz Festival the next year, a performance released by Verve Records as one side of an album. (The other side featured a group led by the alto saxophonist Gigi Gryce and the trumpeter Donald Byrd.)Mr. Taylors music at that time was steadily swinging and fit recognizably within the modern jazz idiom  its spiky phrases had a clear connection to Monks  but it was also already moving beyond it. Tune 2, for example, from the Newport record, had an 88-bar form, a long way from the 32-bar song structure more commonly used in jazz.He went further in that direction on the 1958 record Looking Ahead!, then recorded a session, originally issued as Hard Driving Jazz, with an ad hoc group, put together by Mr. Wilson, that included John Coltrane.With renown came a particular kind of scrutiny. In 1959, Gunther Schuller devoted a long essay in The Jazz Review to the question of whether Mr. Taylors music was atonal.Listening carefully to his playing leaves no doubt of the fact that Taylor indeed does think tonally, but the result of his thinking most of the time cannot be analyzed on tonal terms, he wrote.Whitney Balliett of The New Yorker described a crowd reacting to Mr. Taylors performance at the Great South Bay Jazz Festival on Long Island in 1958: A few were mesmerized, he wrote, while others fidgeted, whispered and wandered nervously in and out of the tent, as if the ground beneath had suddenly become unbearably hot.By 1961, given the chance to contribute half the music on an album under the arranger Gil Evanss name (the other half showcased the composer Johnny Carisi), Mr. Taylor played only original music: striking pieces with shifting tempos and splintering melodic lines.The next year he formed a bond with the alto saxophonist Jimmy Lyons, who would work with him for more than 20 years; the two were the core of the Cecil Taylor Unit, a group with an otherwise shifting membership. (Mr. Lyons died in 1986.)By 1966, when he recorded the album Unit Structures for Blue Note, Mr. Taylor was forming a syntax where none had existed. He was using blues tonality and dissonance in his improvisations and original structures in his written music, organized in ways that were not traditional for jazz, even for the relatively new avant-garde sort with which he was generally associated.In one piece on Unit Structures, titled Enter Evening, piano, oboe, alto saxophone and bass play staggered and unresolved melodic lines that refer to one another only in a distant sense, coming together loosely only in places. There is percussion, but no steady rhythm.It wasnt the technique and feeling of jazz that Mr. Taylor was rejecting, only its form: the 32-bar song, the theme-solos-theme progression.Instead, his structures often proceeded sequentially, shifting among motifs and tonal centers. When he used written scores for his musicians, melodies were indicated by note letters, but there were no staves or bar lines; this gave musicians more freedom within his music, and, he decided, more investment in it.When you think about musicians who are reading music, he said in All the Notes, a 1993 documentary directed by Chris Felver, my contention has always been: The energy that youre using deciphering what the symbol is is taking away from the maximum creative energy that you might have had if you understood that its but a symbol.There was no academy for what Mr. Taylor did, and partly for that reason he became one himself, teaching for stretches in the 1970s at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and at Antioch College in Ohio. (He was given an honorary doctorate by the New England Conservatory in 1977.) Not until the mid-1970s, Mr. Lyons told the writer John Litweiler, did the Cecil Taylor Unit have enough work that the musicians could make a living from it  mostly in Europe.During this time Mr. Taylor was giving a lot of solo-piano performances, a practice he started around 1967 and refined through albums like Indent (1973), Fly! Fly! Fly! Fly! Fly! (1980) and For Olim (1986).He would occasionally perform in a duo with another improviser: pared-down and sometimes jarring situations if the other performer pushed too hard against Mr. Taylor. Those pairings led to a clashing concert with the swing-era pianist Mary Lou Williams in 1977; memorable performances with Max Roach in 1979, 1989 and 2000; and collaborations with the Japanese butoh dancer Min Tanaka. In 1979, he collaborated with the dancers Mikhail Baryshnikov and Heather Watts on a short ballet.In the summer of 1988, Mr. Taylor played a series of concerts in East and West Berlin  solo, in duos and with groups of various sizes  which were released on the FMP label as an 11-CD set, Cecil Taylor in Berlin 88.Since 1983, Mr. Taylor had lived alone in a three-story home in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn. During that time he would perform occasionally in nightclubs, but more often in theaters or even museums around the world.In 2014, a contractor working on his house, Noel Muir, bilked him out of nearly all of the $500,000 that Mr. Taylor had received for the Kyoto Prize; Mr. Muir was sentenced to one to three years in prison.No immediate family members survive.As uncompromising as Mr. Taylor could be, many musicians bear his influence, directly or by general example; a list of pianists alone would include Marilyn Crispell, Vijay Iyer, Craig Taborn, Chucho Valds and Jason Moran.In 2016, the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York organized a two-week exhibition and residency dedicated to Mr. Taylor; it featured panel discussions, a play, films, dance performances, displays of his written scores and live music. He performed at the beginning and end of the event, playing piano and reading poetry, with Mr. Tanaka and with various ensembles. It was an ambitious attempt to take the full measure of Mr. Taylor as an artist who would not be held to the conventions of any one discipline.What I am doing, he said in 1994, is creating a language. A different American language.

