The Trump Bump is becoming the Trump Slump.In the first year of Donald J. Trumps presidency, ebullient investors propelled stock markets to one record high after another. And Mr. Trump was the bull in chief, celebrating the record-breaking march as validation of his economic policies.Those days are done.Even after a fast start to 2018, stock markets finished the first quarter down for the year  the first quarterly decline since 2015. It suggested that a period of calm and steadily rising markets had given way to a turbulent new era with a bearish bent.The plunge continued Monday, with the Standard & Poors 500-stock index sinking 2.2 percent. Investors jettisoned shares of financial, technology and many other businesses, spooked at least in part by a tweet from Mr. Trump aimed at one of the countrys biggest companies: Amazon.Asian and European markets were down more modestly in midday Tuesday trading.Mondays decline left stocks down more than 4 percent so far in 2018. They are now down more than 10 percent from their peak in late January. That means the market has entered a so-called correction  a term used to indicate that the downward trend is more severe and lasting than simply a few days of bearish trading.The stock market is still up more than 20 percent since Nov. 8, 2016, the day Mr. Trump won the White House  a roller-coaster ride driven in part by expectations about what a Trump presidency could bring to Washington.At first, the prospect of Republicans controlling the White House and both houses of Congress thrilled investors. They anticipated a wave of regulatory rollbacks and the slashing of corporate and personal tax rates. Many of those dreams have been realized, culminating in Mr. Trump signing a huge tax cut into law in December. When the S.&P. 500 notched its high-water mark of 2872.87 on Jan. 26, it represented a roughly 325 percent increase since the bull market began in March 2009.But since February, a toxic stew of factors  many but certainly not all of them emanating from Washington  has polluted what had been the markets placidly rising waters. And theres little prospect of the messes dissipating anytime soon.First there was the risk that the economy might be growing too fast, which could prompt central banks to hike interest rates sooner than expected. Then there was the risk of a trade war ignited by the White House imposing tariffs on certain products, an action that quickly prompted countries like China to erect trade barriers of their own. Next came the threat of a government crackdown on technology companies, after revelations of their misuse of customer data.Mondays dose of unnerving news was a presidential tweet aimed at Amazon, which Mr. Trump accused of hurting the United States Postal Service. Mr. Trumps feud with the company has been going on sporadically since before he became president, but the onslaught has accelerated lately. On Monday, Mr. Trump tweeted that the Post Office loses money by working with Amazon and this will be changed.In the face of these factors, the optimism of just two months ago has all but evaporated.It certainly adds to uncertainty, and the market doesnt like uncertainty, said Ed Clissold, chief United States strategist at Ned Davis Research, a stock market research firm.One thing is clear: The days of calm markets marching steadily higher, shattering one record after another, are gone for now. That carries risks for Mr. Trump, who spent the first year of his presidency as a stock-market cheerleader but in recent months has been mostly silent about the markets gyrations.It also could be a danger for the United States economy. Academic research suggests that long-term market declines can rub off on consumers, leading them to feel less affluent and therefore spend less money. That is bad news for an economy that hinges largely on zesty consumer spending.The markets decline over the past two months has been broad based. Six of the 11 sectors included in the S.&P. 500 index are down more than 10 percent from the market high in late January.On any given day, a particular sector might be clobbered. One day it could be industrial companies such as Boeing or Caterpillar, which export lots of products and therefore could be harmed in a trade war. Another day could bring declines to technology companies like Facebook and Twitter, whose profits are vulnerable to tougher government regulation of social media networks. The next day it could be energy and financial companies, whose fortunes would be diminished if the economy slows.On Monday, just 13 stocks in the S.&P. 500 rose.The meat producer Tyson dropped more than 6 percent, after China imposed duties on pork and fruit from the United States in response to the tariffs that the Trump administration has imposed on products imported from China. China is one of Tysons most important export markets. Lean hog futures  which reflect the anticipated prices of pig carcasses  were down 3.9 percent.After Mr. Trumps complaint about Amazon, it too, was a big loser, falling 5.2 percent. Other giant tech firms were sucked into the downdraft. Microsoft dropped 3 percent. Facebook tumbled 2.8 percent, bringing its year-to-date decline to 14.4 percent. And Intel dove 6 percent after a Bloomberg News report that Apple was planning to use its own chips in its computers instead of Intel processors.And Tesla, reeling amid doubts about its ability to churn out electric vehicles, tumbled more than 5 percent.The tech sector has been the epicenter of stock market pain in recent weeks, hurt by concerns about trade friction with China  a key market and supplier for tech firms  and fears of tighter government regulation. Even before Mondays fall, some $457 billion had been wiped off the sectors total market value.People think that tech is going to go from the Wild West to a much more regulated, scrutinized environment, said Dan Suzuki, an equity strategist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Even the shares of financial institutions  the companies that would most likely benefit from a looser regulatory environment favored by Republicans  have been battered. The sector dropped 2.1 percent Monday, with investors worried about an unfavorable lending environment.For markets, nothing is for sure. They could rebound mightily later this week and shake off jitters about a trade war. But some observers believe conditions may have to get worse before they can get better  and there could be more declines before that happens.In order for the market to bottom, there probably has to be more consternation and more pessimism about the current environment, said Mr. Clissold, of Ned Davis Research.
WASHINGTON  President Trump has begun a new push for legislation to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States, White House officials said Monday, arguing that lax laws have drawn a flood of migrants to the countrys borders.The proposals include toughening laws to make it more difficult to apply for or be granted asylum in the United States, stripping protections for children arriving illegally without their parents so they can be turned back at the border or quickly removed, and allowing families to be detained for longer periods while they await decisions from immigration authorities about their fates.While the steps have long been advocated by Mr. Trumps hard-line aides, including Stephen Miller, his senior policy adviser, focusing on them now opens a new front in the presidents push for immigration restrictions.There is no evidence of an overall increase in people crossing the southern border with Mexico illegally  in fact, the president has often boasted that the number has dropped since he took office, in part because of his administrations policies. But Mr. Trumps renewed legislative effort is a return to the hard-line anti-immigration themes that animated his campaign and much of his presidency at a time when he is facing a backlash from some disenchanted conservatives for signing a $1.3 trillion spending bill that did not include funding for his border wall.As ridiculous as it sounds, the laws of our country do not easily allow us to send those crossing our Southern Border back where they came from, Mr. Trump said in a posting on Twitter on Monday evening imploring, ACT CONGRESS, hours after administration and White House officials announced the legislative effort.A whole big wasted procedure must take place, Mr. Trump added. Mexico & Canada have tough immigration laws, whereas ours are an Obama joke.The message capped a second consecutive day of presidential tweeting on immigration policy that was touched off on Sunday morning when Mr. Trump began venting about dangerous caravans of migrants he said were headed to the United States.Mr. Trump continued the tirade on Twitter and at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll on Monday, tying the problem to DACA, the program that allows undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children to apply for deportation reprieves and work permits, which he moved to shut down last fall.DACA, for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, is dead, Mr. Trump said in one tweet, which seemed to signal he was abandoning any efforts to forge the bipartisan deal he has repeatedly said he wanted to protect a sympathetic group of immigrants he has called incredible kids.DACA is dead because the Democrats didnt care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon, Mr. Trump said. In fact, the program applies only to immigrants who arrived in the United States before 2007.Later, surrounded by children on the South Lawn of the White House for the annual Easter egg roll festivities, Mr. Trump again put the blame on Democrats, who he said had abandoned the Dreamers, as the undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and have benefited from DACA are sometimes called.The Democrats have really let them down, theyve really let them down, Mr. Trump said in response to a question shouted by a reporter, as young children crowded around him at a picnic table where he was signing their artwork. They had this great opportunity, and Democrats have really let them down  its a shame.Now people are taking advantage of DACA, Mr. Trump went on. It should have never happened.The president was venting about the failure of bipartisan talks to enshrine DACAs protections in law. The negotiations became necessary after Mr. Trump moved last fall to end the program, which had been created unilaterally by President Barack Obama.Those deliberations have gone nowhere despite Mr. Trumps stated willingness to provide a path to citizenship for nearly two million undocumented immigrants who could be considered eligible for the program. Democrats offered last month to provide $25 billion for the border wall that Mr. Trump advocates, in exchange for such an extension, but White House officials rejected the deal, demanding additional measures to curb legal and illegal immigration.Democrats said Monday he was deliberately misrepresenting the issue.Instead of working productively to find a bipartisan solution for Dreamers, the president is attempting to rewrite history with a dangerous, anti-immigrant gaslighting campaign aimed at confusing the American people, slandering the DACA program and disparaging asylum seekers, said Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, Democrat of New Mexico and the chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.But Mr. Trumps advisers said that in referring to people taking advantage of DACA, the president was alluding to Central American migrants who have been duped by human smugglers into making a dangerous trek north in the belief they could enter the United States before lawmakers enact permissive new laws.The notion has taken hold, they said, during a season when migration flows from Central America to the United States typically accelerate.In a conference call on Monday afternoon  convened in part to explain the context of Mr. Trumps tweets  administration and White House officials said they were pushing for changes to so-called catch-and-release policies that essentially mandate that many people who are detained arriving illegally in the United States be released from custody while awaiting a decision on whether they can stay.They called for changing a law that affords broad protections to children illegally entering the United States alone who are not from Canada and Mexico, so that they could be promptly removed as long as it is determined that they are not victims of human trafficking.Mr. Obamas administration argued that the measure, enacted at the end of the Bush administration as a way to combat child sex trafficking, had tied its hands in dealing with a surge of unaccompanied minors from Central America beginning in 2013.Another senior official outlined modifications Mr. Trump wants to see in asylum policies to limit the number of people claiming to be political refugees who can apply for protection in the United States.Among the changes would be making it more difficult for asylum seekers to demonstrate credible fear about returning to their home countries before they are given a chance to stay in the United States and adding more reasons  such as membership in a gang or drunken driving accusations  that asylum seekers could be deemed inadmissible.A senior administration official who detailed the asylum changes said they were meant in part to address a backlog of hundreds of thousands of immigration court cases that can delay hearings for years, allowing undocumented immigrants to be released for long periods and to live legally in the United States while they await decisions on their cases.As part of that effort, the Justice Department told immigration judges on Monday that it would impose new quotas on their work, requiring them to complete 700 cases each year in an effort to speed deportation decisions and eliminate the backlog. That is a slight increase from the average of 678 cases a year the judges completed from 2011 to 2016.Mondays briefing also suggested that Mr. Trumps yearlong quest to find a politically palatable solution to the DACA conundrum  which he has often presented as a moral dilemma  is viewed by some of his advisers as a risky gambit that would be justified only with the most restrictive of conditions.One senior White House official said that even a debate in Congress over granting a generous immigration benefit such as DACA creates a major pull factor for new waves of illegal immigrants.In February, the White House and the Department of Homeland Security lashed out against a bipartisan proposal to codify DACA protections, arguing that it would have eviscerated immigration enforcement for people arriving in the United States before June 2018.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, briefed Mr. Trump on the migration situation last week after returning from a trip to Mexico to meet with President Enrique Pea Nieto and other top Mexican officials, one White House official said, and he was concerned by what he heard.That was one reason Mr. Trump spent part of his Easter Sunday complaining on Twitter about caravans of immigrants heading north toward the United States-Mexico border, the official said. The posts also came after Fox News Channel, the presidents favorite, reported on a group of hundreds of Central Americans that has been traveling through Mexico toward the United States, where some hope to seek asylum or sneak across the border.Immigration advocacy groups dismissed Mr. Trumps latest moves as a play to his core supporters that would ultimately backfire for his party, driving away voters.When Trump plays to his base with his xenophobia and bigotry, it drives away tolerant suburban voters, threatens Americas perishable crop industry and energizes young people and voters of color, said Frank Sharry, the executive director of Americas Voice.
WASHINGTON  President Trump on Monday will tap Justin Muzinich, a top aide to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, as the Treasury Departments deputy secretary, a powerful role that includes overseeing a broad portfolio of policy matters like taxes, financial regulation, trade and economic sanctions.The nomination fills a void in the top ranks of the department, which has operated without a full-time deputy secretary since Mr. Mnuchin was confirmed more than a year ago. Mr. Trumps previous picks, the longtime Goldman Sachs executive James Donovan, and Brian Brooks, a Fannie Mae executive who was not formally nominated, withdrew their names from contention last year. Mr. Mnuchin later said that he was not going to fill the position.The ascendance of Mr. Muzinich comes as Mr. Trump reshuffles his economic team, most notably replacing Gary D. Cohn with Larry Kudlow as the director of the National Economic Council. Far from a flamethrower, Mr. Muzinich, who spent most of his career on Wall Street, will add a more moderate voice with traditional conservative economic ideas to the table.Mr. Muzinich, 40, has been serving as Mr. Mnuchins tax counselor and played a central role in crafting and negotiating the terms of the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul that Congress passed late last year. He was previously under consideration to be promoted to under secretary for domestic finance at the Treasury Department, but now is in line to be Mr. Mnuchins No. 2.I am delighted by the presidents decision to nominate Justin to serve as deputy secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Mnuchin said in a statement. Justin has established himself as a leader in the department, and played a key role in the passage of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act.He added: He brings significant experience in financial services and in public policy and has become a reliable and trusted adviser on a number of important issues.A relative newcomer to Washington, Mr. Muzinich has brought a mix of financial and political experience to the Treasury Department. During the 2016 presidential campaign, he served as policy director for Jeb Bush and helped to craft Mr. Bushs tax plan. He also previously taught at Columbia Business School and has published essays on foreign aid and the role of the Federal Reserve.Mr. Muzinich, who holds an M.B.A. from Harvard and a law degree from Yale, has also worked as a banker at Morgan Stanley and was the president of Muzinich & Company, an international investment firm founded by his father.During the development of the tax legislation last year, Mr. Muzinich was frequently by Mr. Mnuchins side or negotiating on behalf of the Treasury Department during meetings with congressional staff members. Tax policy staff members on Capitol Hill often noted that Mr. Muzinich was a good listener and fast learner considering that he was not steeped in the arcana of the tax code.Those abilities will be crucial as deputy secretary, as Mr. Muzinich will have a much wider mandate. While the tax law has been passed, the carrying out of such a major piece of legislation will be a consuming task for an understaffed Internal Revenue Service, which is part of the Treasury Department. The department is also responsible for developing and executing economic sanctions on terrorist groups and on countries such as North Korea and Russia. And the department is at the center of Mr. Trumps effort to prevent China from capturing intellectual property through corporate mergers and acquisitions.Mr. Muzinichs portfolio will also include the departments debt management, a critical role given the governments increasing borrowing needs stemming from the new tax law.It has been mystifying to me that they could go so long without a deputy at Treasury, said Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served as Treasurys deputy secretary during the Obama administration. Its not an easy role to keep vacant. It seems to have taken Treasury off the field in several major policy battles.Mr. Muzinichs nomination will require Senate confirmation. Given his role in the tax law, Democrats are likely to grill him on the merits of deep tax cuts for the rich and for corporations. He will also have to publicly defend the Treasury Departments position that the tax cuts will be self-financing despite many mainstream analyses that project they will add heavily to the deficit.Josh Bolten, a former chief of staff for President George W. Bush who got to know Mr. Muzinich during Jeb Bushs campaign, said that Mr. Muzinichs range of experiences would serve him well in a position that will require him to frequently speak on Mr. Mnuchins behalf.Hes a high-quality person who, I think, will in the most civil of ways always speak up when he thinks something is wrong and will always, again in a very civil way, give a good, reasoned judgment, Mr. Bolten said.
WASHINGTON  When Donald J. Trump was running for president, he promised to open up our libel laws. No one quite knew what he meant.Last month, Mr. Trump started to make good on his campaign pledge. But he did so inadvertently  as a libel defendant on the losing side of a decision that will help victims of sexual misconduct sue when they are called liars.The irony is glaring, said Roy Gutterman, who teaches communications law and journalism at Syracuse University.Before the #MeToo movement, libel lawsuits from people accused of lying were in decline. Indeed, a 2016 law review article chronicled what it called the slow, quiet and troubled demise of liar libel.These days, a remarkable number of libel suits, including ones against Bill Cosby, Bill OReilly, Roy S. Moore and Mr. Trump, have been filed by women who say they were defamed by men who denied their accusations of sexual misconduct.Courts have struggled with such suits. Calling someone a liar can be an insult, an opinion or hyperbole, all of which are protected by the First Amendment. But an assertion of fact soberly presented from someone in a position to know the truth can amount to libel. A lot depends on context, and courts have had a hard time drawing a line.Two recent decisions in libel suits against Mr. Trump have helped clarify matters.In December, a New York appeals court affirmed the dismissal of a lawsuit against him from a political consultant he had mocked on Twitter. Mr. Trump had called the consultant, Cheryl Jacobus, a real dummy and a major loser.Those vague and simplistic insults were opinions, Justice Barbara Jaffe, the trial judge in the case, wrote last year.She cited a 1985 decision that threw out a libel claim from a real estate developer who had sued an architecture critic for saying that a planned building would be an atrocious, ugly monstrosity. That was an opinion, the court ruled.The unsuccessful plaintiff was Mr. Trump. He had asked for $500 million.In the second recent decision, Justice Jennifer Schecter ruled against Mr. Trump on March 20 in a case brought against him by Summer Zervos, a former contestant on The Apprentice. Mr. Trumps repeated and specific denials that he had mistreated Ms. Zervos were, the judge said, assertions of fact.Ms. Zervos came forward in October 2016, after the release of a recording in which Mr. Trump boasted about sexually assaulting women. She said Mr. Trump had kissed and groped her in his office in New York and at a Los Angeles hotel a decade before.Mr. Trump immediately denied Ms. Zervoss account. To be clear, I never met her at a hotel or greeted her inappropriately, he said.In the following days, at campaign rallies, on Twitter and at a presidential debate, Mr. Trump issued other denials, some directed at Ms. Zervos and some calling all sexual-misconduct accusations against him total lies and totally phony stories.All of these liars will be sued when the election is over, Mr. Trump said.Those suits never arrived, but one from Ms. Zervos did. His brutalizing of her a second time  this time falsely condemning her to the world as a liar for having the temerity to reveal his earlier unwanted sexual groping of her body  directly caused serious injury, Ms. Zervoss lawyers wrote.Mr. Trumps lawyers asked the judge to throw out the case, saying he had merely offered his opinions. Political statements in political contexts, they wrote, are nonactionable political opinion.Justice Schechter disagreed. Mr. Trumps statements cannot be characterized simply as opinion, heated rhetoric or hyperbole, she wrote in a decision allowing the case to move forward. That defendants statements about plaintiffs veracity were made while he was campaigning to become president of the United States does not make them any less actionable.Over the weekend, Mr. Trumps lawyers filed an appeal in Ms. Zervoss case. They said his statements were opinions made in quintessentially political forums during a political campaign.Len Niehoff, who wrote the 2016 article on liar libel with Ashley Messenger, said last months decision made an important distinction.Not all liar libel cases are created equal, said Mr. Niehoff, who teaches at the University of Michigan School of Law. The plaintiff has a stronger case where the defendant has personal knowledge of the matter. If the president himself denies having an affair, this is a statement of fact. After all, he knows whether he did or didnt.Mr. Trumps unusual silence in the face of accusations from the adult film star known as Stormy Daniels may be an effort to avoid yet another libel suit, Mr. Niehoff said. Should he deny the encounter, Mr. Niehoff said, it will be the newest count in the amended complaint filed against him.Mr. Trump himself has been an enthusiastic but almost entirely unsuccessful libel plaintiff. A 2016 article from the American Bar Association called him a libel bully and a libel loser.Mr. Gutterman, who has written about libel suits based on accusations of lying, said Mr. Trumps recent loss was in a way fitting. The libel bully, Mr. Gutterman said, is now facing libel liability himself.Susan E. Seager, the author of the bar association article, said Mr. Trump was receiving a bit of divine justice.The libel bully, she said, is getting his comeuppance.
MOSCOW  Russia sought to move beyond last weeks diplomatic confrontation with the West on Monday by pressing President Trump for a White House meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin that would undercut the perception that the angry reaction to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain has left it isolated from the international community.The Kremlin foreign policy adviser, Yuri Ushakov, said in Moscow that Mr. Trump, in a telephone call with Mr. Putin on March 20, proposed that the two leaders meet at the White House in the near future. Mr. Ushakov made clear that the Russian leader would like to take him up on the suggestion. This is a rather positive idea, he said.Mr. Trump mentioned to reporters on the day of the phone call that he expected to be seeing President Putin in the not-too-distant future, and the White House confirmed on Monday that it was among a number of potential venues discussed. But the phone call came before last weeks tit-for-tat mass diplomatic expulsions sparked by the nerve agent attack on Sergei V. Skripal, a former Russian spy living in Britain.It is not clear whether such a meeting is still viable, and both sides issued vague or even conflicting statements on Monday. Within hours of Mr. Ushakovs comment, the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, discounted it, saying the presidents adviser was not correct.In her own statement, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, confirmed that a White House meeting was discussed but played down the prospect, saying, We have nothing further to add at this time.The idea of a personal get-together between the two presidents after each of them expelled 60 diplomats and closed consulates underscored the volatile nature of the Russian-American relationship these days. Mr. Trump has remained on friendly terms with Mr. Putin personally even as ties between their countries spiral toward Cold War depths.But a meeting between the two leaders at this point would seem to conflict with the attitude of Mr. Trumps incoming foreign policy team, including Mike Pompeo, his nominee for secretary of state, and John R. Bolton, his  new national security adviser, both of whom are considered Russia hawks.I think the Russians are looking for an off-ramp at the moment, said Angela Stent, a former national intelligence officer on Russia during President George W. Bushs administration and now director of the Center for Eurasian, Russian and East European Studies at Georgetown University. Perhaps they have followed news accounts about divisions over Russia policy and they want to set a possible meeting in motion before Bolton and Pompeo assume their new jobs.Sarah E. Mendelson, a former State Department official under President Barack Obama now at Carnegie Mellon University, suggested it may be part of a strategy on the Russians part to engage Trump as if he were disconnected from his advisers. Just as Mr. Trump engages Mr. Putin as if there were not tension because of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and the special counsel investigation into contacts with his campaign, Mr. Putin may simply ignore that as well.It all seems to be happening in parallel universes, she said, one in which Russia poisons and interferes, and another in which none of this happened.Other analysts said the discussion of a possible meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin may be more for domestic consumption in a Russia that sees itself excoriated by the international community after the poisoning of Mr. Skripal and his daughter, Yulia.People are realizing what a major hit they took, said John R. Beyrle, a former American ambassador to Russia. Its a way to say, See, its not so bad, Putin is still welcome in polite society. I was in Moscow last month just before the elections and was struck by how fed up some members of the Russian elite are getting at their perpetual pariah status  and this was before Skripal.A White House visit would be a significant gesture toward the Russian leader. Mr. Putin has not been to the White House since 2005, when Mr. Bush hosted him there. Other than United Nations sessions, Mr. Putins last visit to the United States for a presidential summit meeting came in 2007 when Mr. Bush and his father hosted him at the family compound in Kennebunkport, Me. Mr. Obama never invited Mr. Putin to the White House during his eight years in office, and the Russian declined an invitation to Camp David in 2012 for a meeting of what was then called the Group of 8. The two did meet in New York in 2015 during a United Nations session.Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin have met in Germany and in Vietnam on the sideline of international summit meetings and currently have no plans to get together before November, when both are expected to attend a Group of 20 gathering in Argentina.Mr. Ushakov said the two sides had not started any preparatory talks for a White House meeting because of the tailspin in relations. He nonetheless voiced a desire that Mr. Trump not drop the idea. I hope the Americans wont abandon their proposal to discuss the possibility of holding the summit, he said.Just as Mr. Trump has shown a striking reluctance to criticize Mr. Putin, even when the two countries are ejecting each others diplomats, the Kremlin and the Russian news outlets it controls have often avoided criticizing Mr. Trump directly.Soon after news of a possible White House meeting broke on Monday, a discussion on Rossiya 1, a state-controlled television channel, focused on a host of conspiracy theories to explain why the nerve gas attack in Britain had so disrupted relations between Moscow and Washington. Most revolved around the premise that American interest groups opposed to Mr. Trumps desire for rapprochement with Russia had staged the poisoning as a provocation to drive a wedge between Europe and Russia.Particularly popular was the idea that the attack was an attempt to get Europeans to stop importing natural gas from Russia and shift to supplies from the United States. None of the participants in the discussion faulted Mr. Trump for the sharp deterioration in relations.In a debate on state-controlled television on Sunday evening, a weekly shout-fest often dedicated to screaming about American perfidy, Sergey Mikheev, one of the participants, put forward what seems to be the consensus view of Russias establishment: Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin are both eager to meet as soon as possible so they can stabilize relations but are prevented from doing so by opposition in the United States.Its not because Putin isnt ready, and not because Trump doesnt want to meet Putin, he said. No such thing at all. Trump said that he is, in fact, even ready to meet Kim Jong-un. It is internal problems that prevent Trump from meeting anyone. Americas internal political crisis, he added, prevents Trump from solving this problem. Current domestic political situation in the U.S. is such that Trump cant afford meeting Putin.

PATTAYA, Thailand  A pair of self-described sex instructors from Belarus have been stuck in a Thai detention center for weeks. They say that they have evidence demonstrating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign in the United States, and that they have offered it to the F.B.I. in exchange for a guarantee of their safety.Their claim  that they are targets of a covert Russian operation to silence them because they know too much  might seem outlandish, but their case certainly includes some unusual circumstances.They have influential enemies in Russia. They were arrested with the help of a foreign spy, according to the Thai police, and locked up on what is a fairly minor offense: working without a permit. And the F.B.I. tried to talk to the pair, suggesting that American investigators had not dismissed their account out of hand.They know we have more information, one of the pair, Alexander Kirillov, 38, told The New York Times last month in an unauthorized phone call from the detention center, in Bangkok. Mr. Kirillov said his co-defendant, Anastasia Vashukevich, 27, had angered some powerful people. They know she knows a lot, he said. And thats why they made this case against us.Ms. Vashukevich certainly knows how to get attention. In February, a top critic of Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin, released a video that included footage she recorded during a brief affair she had with a Russian aluminum tycoon while working as an escort aboard his yacht in 2016. The evidence included photos she posted of the tycoon and his guest, Sergei E. Prikhodko, a deputy prime minister, and a recording of them talking about relations between the United States and Russia.The aluminum tycoon, Oleg V. Deripaska, has close ties with Mr. Putin and with Paul Manafort, President Trumps former campaign chairman, who has been indicted on money laundering charges by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel looking into election interference.The escort and her seduction coach have been held largely incommunicado since March 5, when reporters for The Times and other news media outlets were kicked out of the detention center for speaking to them. They now face deportation and fear what might happen to them if they are sent home to Russia, where they live, or Belarus, the former Soviet republic where they grew up, which remains firmly within Russias influence. (Mr. Kirillov was traveling on a Russian passport.)Neither of them is accustomed to silence. They and their circle of friends say they make a habit of recording everything they do as they go about their campaign of teaching seduction techniques and trying their skills on strangers, sometimes in public.The two were arrested along with eight others on Feb. 25 when dozens of plainclothes police officers raided a workshop they were conducting for Russian tourists at a hotel in Pattaya, about 70 miles south of Bangkok.The seminar was aimed mainly at male Russian tourists and offered instruction in how to seduce women. It was not illegal.The police arrest report says that a foreign spy infiltrated the Russian-language seminar and provided the Royal Thai Police with information about the training.Cellphone messages show that the agent signaled the waiting officers when it was time to raid the Ibis Pattaya Hotel conference room.The work permit charge is relatively minor, and Mr. Kirillov had been conducting training sessions in Pattaya for years. But high-level officials appeared to take an unusual interest in this case: Six police generals and two colonels had responsibility for the raid, according to the arrest report.Since the arrests, the government has tried to keep a tight lid on information. Friends said they had not been allowed to visit Ms. Vashukevich and Mr. Kirillov for weeks.A law enforcement official said the F.B.I. tried to speak with the two but was not successful.A Thai police spokesman, Lt. Col. Krissana Pattanacharoen, would not comment on whether Russia was behind the arrests, but he said it was not unusual for the police to use foreign operatives.Investigations are not one size fits all, he said. It depends entirely on the situation.Few other police officials have been willing to talk about the case. The American Embassy in Bangkok declined to comment. The Russian Embassy asked that questions be submitted in writing, but did not answer them.After the pairs arrest, Mr. Kirillov sent a handwritten letter to the American Embassy in Bangkok asking for asylum for all 10 detainees. (At the time, Heather Nauert, a State Department spokeswoman, dismissed the case as a pretty bizarre story and indicated that the embassy had no plans to talk with them.)Financial records show that companies controlled by Mr. Manafort owed millions of dollars to Mr. Deripaska, the aluminum tycoon. During the 2016 race, Mr. Manafort offered to give him private briefings about the campaign, though there is no indication that the tycoon took him up on the offer.Ms. Vashukevich, who goes by the name Nastya Rybka online and recounts her story in a book, Who Wants to Seduce a Billionaire, became an escort under the guidance of Mr. Kirillov, better known as Alex Lesley, who has gained popularity in Russia for his advocacy of sexual freedom.At the time of the yacht visit, Ms. Vashukevich had shaved six years off her age to pose as 19. She was sent by a Moscow modeling agency to a yacht off Norway along with six other escorts, according to her account.She said she followed Mr. Kirillovs instruction to record all her interactions with her target, the yachts owner, who turned out to be Mr. Deripaska.Ms. Vashukevich told The Times  in a brief interview last month at the detention center that she had more than 16 hours of recordings from the yacht, including conversations with three visitors who she believes were Americans.She has called herself the missing link in the Russia investigation.Her posts from 2016 came to prominence only after Aleksei A. Navalny, a Russian opposition leader, included them in a video in early February that made accusations about official corruption. Mr. Navalny also charged that Mr. Deripaska had delivered Mr. Manaforts campaign reports to the Kremlin.Deripaska simply transmits this information to Putin, Mr. Navalny said. Hes very close to Putin after all.Before traveling to Thailand, Mr. Kirillov grew worried about repercussions from the expos and asked a childhood friend, Eliot Cooper, to contact United States authorities on his behalf, Mr. Cooper said.Mr. Cooper, who lives in Canada, said in a telephone interview that he called an F.B.I. hotline in February and proposed trading the recordings for the pairs safety.He said he had told the hotline agent about one recorded conversation in which Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Prikhodko discussed wanting Mr. Trump to win.I explained all of that to the F.B.I., he said. They should have a transcript of everything and a recording of my voice.Mr. Cooper said he had never heard back from the agency. The F.B.I. declined to comment.Mr. Cooper said that Mr. Kirillov had hidden copies and instructed associates to release them if he or Ms. Vashukevich were killed or went missing.There is no investigation, Mr. Cooper said. The Americans are not interested. They want them to disappear, and Nastya in particular, because she is a living witness.By the standards of Pattaya, a city notorious for its adult entertainment, the sex seminar for about 30 Russian tourists was tame.A hotel spokeswoman, Joyce Ong, said the workshop was run like a normal corporate seminar, and she denied earlier reports that the staff had called the police.None of those arrested were charged with sexual misconduct. Ms. Vashukevich was both Mr. Kirillovs star pupil and one of the instructors at the seminars.The chief of Thailands Immigration Bureau, Suttipong Wongpin, said his department had restricted the pairs visitors because letting them talk freely could harm Thailands relations with the United States and Russia.The detainees, he said, will just say whatever they want.

WASHINGTON  When President Trump began railing against the current state of American immigration measures over the weekend, it was hard to tell where his thoughts ended and Brandon Judds began.Mr. Judd is the president of the National Border Patrol Council, a frequent guest on Fox News and a reliably vocal supporter of the Trump administrations hard-line immigration agenda. On Sunday, he was interviewed on Fox & Friends, one of the presidents favorite programs.What followed was a public mind meld with the president, one that has frequently occurred since Mr. Trump took office.Our legislators actually have to stand up, and the Republicans control the House and the Senate; they do not need the Democrat support to pass any laws they want, Mr. Judd said during the segment. They can go the nuclear option, just like what they did on the confirmation. They need to pass laws to end the catch-and-release program thatll allow us to hold them for a long time.The president followed up on Twitter shortly after.Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release, the president wrote. Getting more dangerous. Caravans coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW.The president and his advisers are seeking to harden immigration laws. In a call with reporters on Monday, senior White House officials said that Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, had attended over 100 meetings on ways to push forward.But in the meantime, Mr. Judd, a 20-year veteran of the Border Patrol and leader of the estimated 18,000-member labor union, has caught Mr. Trumps eye and earned the presidents praise for his television appearances.Mr. Judd has reiterated the same talking points on Fox News, including urging Republicans to support Mr. Trumps push for a border wall, ending the so-called catch-and-release practice and lauding the administrations efforts on securing borders.Mr. Trump, for his part, has a long habit of zeroing in on people who appeal to him on television. John R. Bolton, who was recently named Mr. Trumps latest national security adviser, is a frequent Fox contributor, and Larry Kudlow, the presidents pick to head the National Economic Council, hails from CNBC.Mr. Judd, of course, has not been elevated to the White House. But he has been publicly spotted in the presidents midst.In an interview on Monday, Mr. Judd said he and the union came to Mr. Trumps attention during the 2016 presidential campaign. After seeing Mr. Judd quoted in a news story, Mr. Trump reached out.Senator Ted Cruz quoted me from either a congressional hearing or a TV interview, Mr. Judd said, and immediately after, the Trump campaign reached out and strongly requested our endorsement.The National Border Patrol Council obliged in what was the first time the union had backed a presidential candidate. Mr. Judd said the primary reasons for the endorsement were rooted in Obama administration policies that he and other agents say impaired their ability to secure the border.Of particular disdain was the catch-and-release policy. We werent allowed to or given the resources to do our jobs, Mr. Judd said. So we decided to make our voices heard.The unions frustrations found a sympathetic ear in Mr. Trump, who appointed Mr. Judd to his transition team. He was standing by as Mr. Trump signed an executive order, days after the inauguration, calling for the construction of a wall at the United States border with Mexico and the hiring of 5,000 additional Border Patrol agents.In January, Mr. Trump publicly praised Mr. Judds continued support.Thank you to Brandon Judd of the National Border Patrol Council for your kind words on how well we are doing at the Border, Mr. Trump tweeted after another Fox segment featuring Mr. Judd. We will be bringing in more & more of your great folks and will build the desperately needed WALL!Among his fellow Border Patrol agents, however, opinions of Mr. Judd diverge.Some rank-and-file agents call Mr. Judd a strong advocate for the force, including pushing for more personnel and better technology. Others say that Mr. Judd has, on occasion, taken positions that some agents call bizarre.Last year, Agent Rogelio Martinez was killed while on patrol in Texas and his partner, Agent Stephen Garland, was seriously injured. Mr. Judd and other National Border Patrol Council officials have repeatedly said the two agents were the victims of a savage attack by smugglers or undocumented immigrants.No evidence of smugglers was ever found in the area, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation said it was possible that the men were hurt accidentally. Oscar Carrillo, the local sheriff, helped investigate the case and concluded that the two men could have been hit by a vehicle.Mr. Judd credits Mr. Trump for improving morale at the Border Patrol, which he said had been demoralized by the Obama administration. Mr. Judd has also used his relationship with the president to push for hiring the additional Border Patrol agents and for the reversal of several Obama-era policies. (The agents have not yet been hired.)And Mr. Judd said he voiced his concerns to the Trump transition team about Mark Morgan, a former F.B.I. agent who was appointed chief of the Border Patrol late in the Obama administration. Mr. Trump ousted Mr. Morgan just days after assuming the presidency.Mr. Judd is a Border Patrol agent stationed in Montana, where he has also forged ties with Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat. He was Mr. Testers guest to Mr. Trumps State of the Union address in January.Brandon Judd has been on the front line securing our border and keeping Montanans safe, Mr. Tester said in a  statement at the time. He is a Montana boy who climbed the ranks from an agent on our northern border to the very top of the National Border Patrol Council. Brandons input will play a critical role as we work toward a tough, bipartisan solution to a stronger border.The Border Patrol union had previously opposed building border walls and fences. In a mission statement on its website, the union said it did not believe in wasting taxpayer money on building fences and walls along the border as a means of curtailing illegal entries into the United States.Still, Mr. Judd said, he never agreed with the statement and the union recently completed a survey of its members who overwhelmingly say a wall system is necessary to securing the border.Mr. Trump is currently exploring ways to pay for the wall, including cutting proven methods for deterring migrants from crossing the border.
The Environmental Protection Agency on Monday took steps to challenge Californias decades-old right to set its own air pollution rules, setting up a showdown between the federal government and a state that has emerged as a bulwark against the Trump administrations policies.The E.P.A. statement was part of the agencys widely expected decision to reconsider, and most likely roll back, Obama-era rules requiring automakers to hit ambitious emissions and mileage standards by 2025. The statement, though, was notable for the forcefulness of its language suggesting that the Trump administration would take on Californias authority to set its own rules.Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, signaled that he aimed to make California fall in line. The Obama administration, he said, made assumptions about the standards that didnt comport with reality, and set the standards too high. Californias history of setting its own emissions rules doesnt mean that one state can dictate standards for the rest of the country, Mr. Pruitt said.A rollback of the rules, which are designed to cut back on emissions of greenhouse gases, would reverse one of the single biggest steps any government has taken to tackle climate change. California has said it will stick with the tougher, Obama-era regulations, a decision that could effectively split the United States into two auto markets: one requiring cars to be more efficient and less polluting than the other.California has long possessed the unique authority under the 1970 Clean Air Act to write its own air pollution rules. Traditionally, a dozen other states follow Californias air pollution rules and together they represent one-third of the nations auto market. That puts California in an extraordinary position to stage a regulatory revolt, with much of the countrys car market in tow.State officials indicated they would fight the Trump administration. This is a politically motivated effort to weaken clean vehicle standards, said Mary Nichols, Californias top air pollution regulator. California, she said, will vigorously defend the existing clean vehicle standards.Xavier Becerra, the states attorney general, said the state was ready to file suit.Adopted in 2012, the standards up for revision would have required automakers to nearly double the average fuel economy of new cars and trucks, to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. If fully implemented, the rules would have cut oil consumption by about 12 billion barrels over the lifetime of all the cars affected by the regulations and reduced carbon dioxide pollution by about six billion tons.The E.P.A. on Monday  announcing its official decision to reverse the rules  said that those standards were too expensive for automakers to meet and would ultimately hurt car owners by making vehicles costlier. The agency said that low oil prices meant savings at the pump would be less than forecast, and alluded to concerns that expensive fuel-saving technology could come at the cost of investments in auto safety.The E.P.A. did not say how far the rules should be rolled back, only that it would start a new rule-making process to set more appropriate standards.The Trump Administrations action on Monday marked the latest in a series of tensions between California and the federal government. The E.P.A.s aim to revise the climate change regulations were announced the same day the Justice Department moved to block a California law that regulates the transfer of federal land.The Justice Department has also filed suit to overturn a California law intended to limit the power of the federal immigration authorities to act against people suspected of being illegal immigrants, and the federal government is seeking to make it easier to drill for oil and gas off the coast of California and other states. Furthermore, the tax overhaul law passed by Congress last year is projected to be particularly damaging for California, because it limits deductions for mortgage interest and state and local taxes, which are particularly high in the state.Mr. Trump recently flew across the country to visit prototypes for a wall he would like to see built between California and Mexico, using the trip to describe California as out of control. And over the weekend, Mr. Trump attacked this states governor, Jerry Brown, in a tweet for pardoning five immigrants facing the threat of deportation.But the fight over auto emissions standards is contentious and unprecedented, said Ann Carlson, a professor of environmental law at U.C.L.A. No administration, Democratic or Republican, has challenged Californias waiver under the Clean Air Act to set its own air quality rules.This is uncharted territory, she said. California has a long history of leading on auto emissions in a way that has been very productive for the country. California gets out in front and sees if regulations will work before the rest of the country adopts it, she continued. The administration is challenging that.Leading Democrats condemned the move. As usual, the administration sides with big, powerful special interests over the interests of average American families, who will pay the price for lower miles per gallon and dirtier air, said Chuck Schumer, the Senate Democratic Leader, in a statement.In its defense of the Obama-era rules, California was joined Monday by a coalition of at least seven state attorneys general, including Eric Schneiderman of New York, as well as more than 30 mayors, who said they would vigorously resist any effort by the Trump administration to prevent states and cities from enforcing emissions standards. We are committed to using our market power and our regulatory authority to ensure that the vehicle fleets deployed in our jurisdictions fully meet or exceed the promises made by the auto industry in 2012, the coalition said.If the Trump administration were to seek a permanent revocation of Californias authority to set its own rules, legal scholars say, it would require the Clean Air Act legislation to be amended, which only Congress could do. However, the Trump administration is more likely to revoke the more limited, specific waiver granted to California to set is own tailpipe emissions rules until 2025  something it could try to settle in court.Automakers on Monday welcomed the E.P.A.s move. The Association of Global Automakers, which represents the worlds biggest automakers, appreciates the agencys decision that adjustments to the standards are needed, said John Bozzella, the industry groups chief executive.It is unclear how the industry would respond to a fractured American auto market if that were the result of the standoff with California. One possibility is that they sell substantially different car designs in the two markets. But they could also decide to adhere to the stricter California standards nationwide, muting the impact of the Trump administrations rollback of federal rules.There have been some signs of discord within the auto industry over the Trump administrations plans.Mr. Pruitt had been expected to publicly announce the effort on Tuesday at a Chevrolet dealership in suburban Virginia. But those plans were complicated by an angry pushback from some Chevy dealerships who were reluctant to see the brand associated with the announcement, according to two Chevy dealers who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing their relationship with General Motors. Late on Monday, the Virginia dealership, Pohanka Chevrolet in Chantilly, said the E.P.A. event it had planned to host had been canceled.They dont want the E.P.A. to highlight Chevy, said Adam Lee, chairman of Lee Auto Malls, which runs Nissan, Honda and Chrysler dealerships in Maine, and who said he was familiar with dealers thinking. They dont want to be the bad guys.Trump has been saying these standards are crushing the auto industry. But weve had record years for the past four or five years, in terms of sales and profit, he said. It almost makes you think he doesnt have the facts.

BEIJING  The Chinese government hit back Monday at President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum by acting on a threat to put tariffs as high as 25 percent on imports of 128 American-made products, including pork and seamless steel pipes.The Chinese Ministry of Commerce indicated that the tariffs, which it first publicly suggested almost two weeks ago, were intended to pressure the Trump administration to back down from a simmering trade war. In addition to imposing additional tariffs on steel and aluminum from China and other countries, President Trump has threatened to put protective duties on other Chinese-made products worth $60 billion.We hope that the United States will rescind its measures that violate World Trade Organization rules as quickly as possible, the ministry said in an online statement about Chinas retaliatory tariffs. China and the United States are the worlds two biggest economies, and cooperation is the only correct choice. Both sides should use dialogue and consultation to resolve their mutual concerns.The Chinese retaliation was no surprise. But Beijing appeared to go a step beyond its initial threat last month to counter the United States tariffs on steel and aluminum.The Ministry of Commerce said then that it could impose tariffs in two stages: first, a 15 percent duty on 120 products, including fruit and wine, and then, after further assessing the impact of the United States tariffs, a 25 percent tariff on eight other products, including pork, an important moneymaker, especially in farming regions in states that voted for Mr. Trump.But the latest announcement said the tariffs taking effect on Monday covered all 128 products, including the 25 percent charge on pork.The ministry said it had Chinese public opinion on its side after asking for views about the trade measures. Over recent weeks, Chinas state-run news media has condemned the Trump administrations protectionist steps and presented China as the innocent defender of open trade. In fact, China imposes relatively high barriers on many imports and on foreign investment in many sectors.Many members of the public voiced their support for the measures and the product list through telephone calls, emails and other means, the ministry said. After an assessment, it was decided to implement the measures described on 128 products imported from the United States.Mr. Trumps threatened tariffs on $60 billion worth of other Chinese-made products are likely to prompt more retaliation from China, which could single out more valuable American exports such as soybeans and hurt Apple and other companies that rely heavily on Chinese consumers.Liu He, a Chinese vice premier and economic adviser to President Xi Jinping, told Steven Mnuchin, the American Treasury secretary, in a phone call just more than a week ago that the two countries should stay rational and work together to maintain the overall stability of their economic and trade relations.But Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has been visiting Beijing, said on Saturday that Chinese officials she met, including Mr. Liu, have not deviated from their talking points about the Trump administrations tariffs.America is waking up to the loss of its technological advantage through Chinas restrictions on access to its internal markets, she told reporters. That is now a place where policy is beginning to change.




WASHINGTON  The Trump administration took aim on Monday at a land use law passed by California lawmakers last year, the latest salvo in a battle between the two governments that prompted Attorney General Jeff Sessions to complain that the states leaders were acting as if they were above the law.The Justice Department sued the State of California, Gov. Jerry Brown and the California State Lands Commission, claiming that the law illegally blocks the federal governments right to buy and sell federal land. The administration asked the federal court for the Eastern District of California to declare the law unconstitutional and block it from being carried out.The lawsuit was the second filed by the Trump administration against California, which has emerged as one of the states most strongly opposed to President Trumps agenda on issues including immigration, criminal justice and environmental protection. Last month, the Justice Department sued the state over its immigration policies, saying they interfered with federal immigration enforcement.The feud has pitted Mr. Sessions, a hard-line conservative, against liberal leaders in California who have emerged as vocal opponents of Mr. Trump, including Mr. Brown and Xavier Becerra, the states attorney general. For his part, Mr. Trump has dismissed Mr. Brown as Governor Moonbeam and labeled him soft on crime.The law at issue gives California the right of first refusal in any sale of public lands, an effort to prevent resource exploitation or development that would hurt the states interests. The state would have to raise the money to buy the property at market value, or find a buyer.Justice Department officials said they were prompted to sue after seeing notes that the state put out to federal agencies. The department said in its lawsuit that Congress had given federal agencies the power to control the purchase and sale of federal land, including the parties involved in the deals, the use of the land and when the sales occurs.According to the lawsuit, the California law has interfered with federal land sales at least four times since it was enacted. In Alameda County, the Army had planned to convey 78 acres of land to a developer who will construct facilities, and the Navy is trying to sell property to a land developer. The Veterans Affairs Department is hoping to lease part of its land in Los Angeles to provide housing for veterans. And the Post Offices plan to auction off a 1.7-acre parcel in Sacramento is at a standstill.Mr. Sessions assailed Californias political leaders in an unusually fiery statement, saying that the fight is distracting Justice Department officials from their work combating illegal gun sales, drug abuse and national security threats. The flurry of legal briefs being filed between the two sides is a waste of taxpayer dollars, he said.I regret the need to file yet another lawsuit against the State of California today, Mr. Sessions said, adding, We are forced to spend our resources to bring these lawsuits against states like California that believe they are above the law.He said the issue was compounded by the fact that other potential plaintiffs who want to sue the federal government are seeking judges in California whom they view as more favorable to their causes.Government-by-litigation isnt what the American people voted for, and attempting to thwart an administrations elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent, he said.California officials vowed to stand firm.Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder, Mr. Becerra said in a statement. Were prepared, as always, to do what it takes to protect our people, our resources and our values.Benjamin Allen, the state senator who was the lead sponsor of the land use bill, pushed for the legislation after former Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, proposed that the Interior Department sell or dispose of more than three million acres of public land. Mr. Chaffetz later withdrew the bill.We wanted to make sure that if the government sold off precious public land in California, we would be able to weigh in, Mr. Allen said. This law created a procedure for us to do that.California also has an economic stake in what happens to federal lands. Federally managed lands in the state generated about $3.3 billion a year, much of it from tourism, according to a 2011 study by BBC Research and Consulting.Tensions between California and federal officials have been building since Mr. Trump was elected. State leaders pushed back on the presidents ban on entry by people from some Muslim-majority nations that was unveiled in the first days of his presidency. The state has sued the government over its immigration policies, and local politicians have put aside money to aid undocumented immigrants.
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.  In many parts of the country, Republican candidates are trying to put distance between themselves and President Trump. In the Indiana Senate primary, the bruising fight is over which candidate is the more authentically Trumpian.As the May 8 primary election approaches, the race here has taken a nasty turn, with candidates attacking one another as insufficiently aligned with the president, or way too late to Team Trump. Some Republicans worry that the tenor has the potential to bloody the winner so badly that he will be weakened in the general election contest against Senator Joe Donnelly, one of this election years most vulnerable Democrats.Of course it helps Donnelly, said Robert T. Grand, a lawyer and powerful figure in state politics for decades. Any division in the Republican Party helps Donnelly.The Indiana primary is among several, including those in West Virginia and Wisconsin, where Republicans are locked in nominating battles in states Mr. Trump won in 2016 and where the party has hoped to add to its slender two-seat majority. In Wisconsin, a Marine Corps veteran and political newcomer, Kevin Nicholson, is taking on a state senator, Leah Vukmir, for the right to challenge the incumbent senator, Tammy Baldwin. Both have deep-pocketed donors ready to bankroll an extended primary fight.In West Virginia, a half-dozen Republicans want to challenge Senator Joe Manchin III, but three have emerged as the most formidable in a drawn-out battle, state Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, Representative Evan Jenkins and the former mining executive Don Blankenship, who went to prison for the deadly Upper Big Branch coal mining disaster in 2010 but emerged unrepentant.Winning in all three of these states has taken on added urgency after the unanticipated retirements of Republican senators in Tennessee, Arizona and Mississippi left open seats that could suddenly be competitive.In Indiana, Representative Todd Rokita started airing a television ad this week that labeled one of his opponents, Representative Luke Messer, a Never Trump lobbyist and the other, Mike Braun, a business executive, as voting for either Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama. His slogan: Defeat the Elite.Its a legitimate three-way race, said John Hammond, a lawyer and member of the Republican National Committee from Indiana, and everybody will probably go right up to the line with rhetoric and negative message. Its happening and its intensifying.He added, All the opposition research will have been done for Joe Donnelly at that point.Mr. Rokita said he had no concerns that the attacks would help the incumbent Democrat. I think this primary is very cleansing, he said. I want voters to know about these two guys. And I want them to know about me.Referring to two previous Republican presidential candidates, John R. Kasich and Mitt Romney, Mr. Rokita added: Messer at this point is like all losing candidates, like Kasich or Romney, if you beat up on me, we are all going to lose. Absolutely wrong. I am not waiting for Joe Donnelly to stick a knife in Luke Messer or Mike Braun in November. I am getting it all out now. Because Donnelly will stick in a knife in them.That kind of language has prompted concern among some of the states most influential Republicans.Mr. Grand, who supports Mr. Messer, was particularly critical of Mr. Rokita trying to claim a populist mantle by deriding so-called elites. Mr. Rokitas elites are something else to Mr. Grand: People that know whats good for the Republican Party, yes, longstanding Republicans, yes. People who know how to elect Republican candidates.Or, he asked, does Mr. Rokita want to go back to the group that gave us Mourdock?That was a reference to Richard E. Mourdock, a candidate whose backing from Tea Party groups and national conservative organizations six years ago led to the defeat of a  longtime incumbent Republican, Senator Richard G. Lugar, in the Indiana primary. Mr. Mourdock went on to lose to Mr. Donnelly.Mr. Mourdock painted Mr. Lugar as out of touch with the state, and emphasized the fact that he lived in Virginia, a theme that Mr. Rokita has reprised against Mr. Messer. He has also made an issue of the fact that Mr. Messers wife, a lawyer, is on the payroll of an Indianapolis suburb even though she, too, lives in Virginia.Mr. Messer, the father of two teenage daughters, said he was raised by a single parent and felt it important to be closer to his children, and said voters would understand.A competitive primary or multicandidate field can sometimes actually reflect party strength and enthusiasm, but if the contest becomes too negative, the party can suffer.Where there are particularly competitive or divisive primaries, it is bad for the parties when they go to the general, said Andrew B. Hall, a political scientist at Stanford University who has studied the subject. Things are getting put on record that make you look weak. You alienate some of your own base. Youve expended some of your resources.Mr. Donnelly has no serious opposition for the Democratic nomination, though he is already under assault from Republican-aligned groups that are spending millions of dollars to defeat him.Each of the Republican candidates has tried to emphasize ties to Mr. Trump in a state  the president won by 19 percentage points. Mr. Braun claims a Trump-like background, having built a logistics company in southern Indiana that now employs 850 people and gave him wealth that he can spend heavily on his own campaign.He said Mr. Messer and Mr. Rokita were professional politicians, lawyers who never practiced but always had their eyes on the next political rung. Mr. Braun served briefly in the State Legislature.In a candidate debate, in which Mr. Braun wore jeans and a denim shirt, he made the case harshly. In a new ad, he uses humor, carrying cardboard cutouts of the two men  dressed identically in white shirt, red tie and dark suit  and asked voters if they could tell the difference between them.Where is your real world experience? Mr. Braun said in an interview. They dont have any. He added: They are creating a large avenue up the middle between two career politicians. That was a gift that kept on giving.Mr. Braun dismissed Mr. Rokita as a smash mouth.Hell do and say things that might impress, he said. If hes trying to act like Trump its kind of a poor impression.He also said there could be lingering damage: When youve got sharp elbows, that creates a long memory for the people hit by those elbows.He rejected Mr. Rokitas charge that he was a recent Republican convert, saying he had never voted for a Democrat for a federal office.Mr. Messer, whose campaign so far has been the most measured of the three, accused Mr. Rokita of trying to make things up.Its crazy, Mr. Messer said. You cant find one interview in the entire campaign where I didnt make the point that we need to elect President Trump. Do I agree with every single President Trump tweet? No. Ive expressed a few times my concerns about the president. But throughout, I have supported him and voted for the president in the primary.All the candidates embrace some of the presidents core positions, like the need for a wall along the Mexican border, and all pledge to be a solid voice for the presidents agenda.Mr. Rokitas opponents say his voting record suggests otherwise: Mr. Rokita voted against the budget deal that Mr. Trump signed this yearHe said he did so because the bill contained too much federal spending. But, Mr. Rokita added, because he supported Mr. Trump before his rivals and has the endorsement of people who ran the Trump campaign in the state, he can disagree with the president, something he said Mr. Messer could not do.Now he has to do everything he can to pander to the president and Mike Pence, Mr. Rokita said. Oh, the president wanted this terrible spending bill. Whereas I, in a very healthy way, can say no to things like the spending bill and still be on the side of the president.Even with all the friction in the primary so far, if there are safe places for the midterm elections to be a referendum on Mr. Trump, Indiana is surely among them. Republicans will pour extraordinary resources into the effort to oust Mr. Donnelly, and the president and Vice President Mike Pence, the former Indiana governor, will be able to give the senate nominee added firepower.That gives Republicans comfort that they can endure a fractious primary. People are very energized, Mr. Grand said. They are not playing into this thing that 18 is going to be a bad year.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):4:20 p.m.Trump administration officials are working on a new package of legislation aimed at closing what they describe as immigration "loopholes."Among the measures they want Congress to address: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children traveling alone from countries that don\'t border the U.S.They also want Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to caretakers while their cases are making their way through immigration court.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House wish list on immigration that was released in October.It\'s unclear, however, whether there is any appetite in Congress for such changes, especially now that the president has said he is no longer interested in protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation.___2:05 p.m.Political groups backed by the conservative Koch brothers are criticizing President Donald Trump for declaring that an effort to protect young immigrants from deportation is dead.Freedom Partners is backed by the wealthy Charles and David Koch. Its executive vice president is James Davis, and he says it would be "irresponsible and represent a grave injustice" not to compromise with Democrats on permanently protecting young "Dreamer" immigrants in exchange for $25 billion for border security.Trump has rejected such a deal.Officials with Americans for Prosperity and The LIBRE Initiative released similar statements. LIBRE Initiative President Daniel Garza says Dreamers "have contributed to our economy and our communities."The Kochs didn\'t support Trump\'s 2016 presidential bid. They\'ve previously criticized his immigration stance but have backed many of his other policies.__12:55 p.m.President Donald Trump is attacking his own Justice Department and the FBI on Twitter, accusing them of withholding information and "slow walking" the production of documents to Republicans in Congress.Trump is also appearing to question the integrity of the Justice Department in his Tweet by putting quotation marks around the word "Justice" in referring to the department. He says the conduct of the agencies overseen by his appointees is an "embarrassment to our country."The criticism comes about a week after Trump-appointed FBI Director Christopher Wray assigned 54 FBI staff to work from 8 a.m. to midnight collecting and reviewing documents requested by various congressional investigations.The president could expedite the release of the documents on his own by declassifying the information in full.__11:20 a.m.President Donald Trump is praising the state of the nation\'s economy at the annual White House Easter Egg Roll.Trump spoke briefly to hundreds of guests on the South Lawn, pointing to a "special year" for the country and progress on the economy.The president and first lady Melania Trump, joined by 12-year-old son Barron, then walked over to the station where kids are rolling dyed, hard-boiled eggs across the lawn.Trump addressed reporters briefly, reiterating that Democrats have "really let" down young immigrants seeking a deal on protections from deportation.Trump has been trying to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Although he says he has been open to a law extending it, he and Congress have been unable to come to terms.__7:45 a.m.President Donald Trump is calling for new border wall and immigration legislation, tweeting that moving to the "nuclear option" in the Senate is only way to muscle such a measure through Congress. But that would require changing Senate rules, something for which Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has shown no enthusiasm.In early morning tweets Monday, Trump says "Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People." He added, "Act now, Congress, our country is being stolen."Trump also tweeted that the U.S. must build a border wall, but argued that "Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime!" He also said that a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants is "dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act."The $1.3 trillion funding package Congress passed last month included $1.6 billion in border wall spending. But much of that money can only be used to repair existing segments, not build new sections. Congress also put restrictions on the types of barriers that can be built.__12:48 a.m.President Donald Trump has declared "NO MORE" to a deal to help "Dreamer" immigrants and threatened to pull out of a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S. He claimed they\'re coming to take advantage of protections granted certain immigrants."NO MORE DACA DEAL!" Trump tweeted Sunday one hour after he began the day by wishing his followers a "HAPPY EASTER!"He said Mexico must "stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" The U.S., Canada and Mexico are participating in tense negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement at Trump\'s insistence. Trump says NAFTA is bad for the U.S.
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration opened the door to a potential White House meeting between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday, raising the possibility of an Oval Office welcome for Putin for the first time in more than a decade even as relations between the two powers have deteriorated.The Kremlin said Monday that Trump had invited the Russian leader to the White House when they spoke by telephone last month. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded that the White House was among "a number of potential venues" discussed. Both sides said they hadn\'t started preparations for such a visit.If it happens, Putin would be getting the honor of an Oval Office tete-a-tete for the first time since he met President George W. Bush at the White House in 2005. Alarms rang in diplomatic and foreign policy circles over the prospect that Trump might offer Putin that venue without confronting him about Russia\'s interference in the 2016 presidential election or allegations that Russia masterminded the March 4 nerve agent attack on a former Russian double agent."It would confer a certain normalization of relations and we\'re certainly not in a normal space," said Alina Polyakova, a foreign policy fellow at the Brookings Institution. "Nothing about this is normal."Much has happened since Trump and Putin spoke in the March 20 phone call. Trump said afterward he hoped to meet with Putin "in the not too distant future" to discuss the nuclear arms race and other matters. But their call was followed by reports that Trump had been warned in briefing materials not to congratulate the Russian president on his re-election but did so anyway.Since the call, two dozen countries, including the U.S. and many European Union nations, and NATO expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain over the poisoning of Sergei Skripal, the former spy, and his daughter Yulia. Moscow has denied any involvement in the nerve attack and retaliated by expelling the same number of diplomats from each nation.Putin\'s foreign affairs adviser, Yuri Ushakov, told reporters Monday that when the two leaders spoke by phone, "Trump suggested to have the first meeting in Washington, in the White House," calling it a "quite interesting and positive idea."Ushakov voiced hope that tensions resulting from the diplomatic expulsions wouldn\'t derail discussions about a summit.Trump has said maintaining a strong personal relationship with Putin is in the U.S. interest and has signaled to allies that he trusts his own instincts in dealing with the Russian president.A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity to describe private discussions, said Trump raised the possibility of a White House meeting in a "casual, open-ended" fashion during the call. The official reiterated that no extensive preparations had taken place.Talk of a White House summit comes as Trump is preparing to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at an undetermined location. White House welcomes are typically reserved for friends and allies.Trump has avoided criticizing Putin personally even as his administration has crossed Moscow by providing Ukraine with lethal weapons and upholding Obama-era sanctions against Russia and its shuttering of diplomatic outposts.Michael McFaul, who served as the U.S. ambassador to Russia under President Barack Obama, said the "symbolism of Putin standing in the East Room with the president at a news conference" would be a major goal for the Russian leader. "The only reason you should do it is if you\'re going to obtain a concrete objective that serves America\'s national security interest before the meeting," he said.McFaul said he feared that Trump "thinks that a good meeting with Putin is the objective of his foreign policy with Russia. That should never be the objective. That should be the means to achieve things that are actually of importance to the United States."Trump had already fallen under sharp criticism from some Republican lawmakers for congratulating Putin on his re-election during the call and for not raising the ex-spy\'s poisoning. The fact that Trump also extended a White House invitation during that call was likely to increase concerns that Trump, when in direct contact with Putin, is inclined to offer olive branches and reluctant to raise difficult issues."I worry that Trump wittingly or unwittingly may be sending a more positive signal to Putin than he deserves," said Nicholas Burns, a top State Department official during the Bush administration who also served as U.S. ambassador to NATO.Russia\'s disclosure of the invitation came the day before the leaders of three Baltic countries  Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia  were to visit the White House. The three NATO nations are seen as a bulwark against Russia\'s aspirations of extended influence west of its border.Trump has met Putin twice as president, at the Group of 20 summit in Germany last summer and briefly at the Asia-Pacific economic summit in Vietnam in November.Putin, who was president of Russia once before, visited the White House in 2005, when Bush welcomed him in the East Room as "my friend."Putin has been to other parts of the U.S. frequently in recent years, including a visit to the Bush family compound in Maine. Putin\'s meetings with Obama occurred at international summits and along the sidelines of the United Nations gathering in New York.Obama met Russian President Dmitry Medvedev at the White House in 2010, when the pair also chowed down on burgers at a popular hamburger joint outside the capital.__Associated Press writers Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow and Josh Lederman in Washington contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump congratulated his Egyptian counterpart, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, on his re-election in a phone call on Monday and reaffirmed the U.S. strategic partnership with Egypt, the White House said.Sisi, who had no real opposition, was elected with 97 percent of the vote, official returns showed. The White House said in a statement that Trump congratulated the Egyptian president and "the two leaders affirmed the strategic partnership between the United States and Egypt."(Reporting by David Alexander; Editing by Doina Chiacu)
TOKYO   Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe plans to visit the United States April 17-20 for talks with President Donald Trump, he said on Monday.Abe said he would ask Trump to bring up the issue of past North Korean abductions of Japanese citizens, during the U.S. president's expected summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.(Reporting by Yoshifumi Takemoto; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
LOS ANGELES   President Donald Trump asked a federal judge on Monday to order private arbitration in a case brought by a porn actress who claimed she had an affair with him.Trump and his personal attorney, Michael Cohen, filed papers in federal court in Los Angeles asking a judge to rule that Stormy Daniels\' case involving a non-disclosure agreement must be heard by an arbitrator instead of a jury.Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, has been seeking to invalidate the agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election. She has offered to return the $130,000 she was paid as she tries to "set the record straight."She\'s said she had sex with Trump once in 2006 and their relationship continued for about a year. Trump married his current wife, Melania Trump, in 2005, and their son, Barron, was born in 2006.The White House has said Trump denies having an affair.Trump\'s attorneys have argued that Daniels could owe about $20 million for violating the non-disclosure deal.Daniels argues the agreement is legally invalid because it was only signed by her and Cohen, not by Trump.In the Monday court filing, Cohen said Daniels had never raised any issues with the settlement agreement or suggested it was invalid or legally unenforceable before she filed her lawsuit last month.Daniels\' attorney, Michael Avenatti, said they would oppose the motion to have the case heard in private arbitration, "hidden from the American public.""This is a democracy and this matter should be decided in an open court of law owned by the people. #sunlight," he tweeted.
NEW YORK   President Donald Trump\'s lawyers are asking a New York state appeals court to throw out or freeze a defamation lawsuit by a former contestant on "The Apprentice" who has accused Trump of unwanted kissing and groping.Notice of the appeal was filed Sunday.Trump\'s lawyers are challenging a Manhattan judge\'s refusal last month to halt the lawsuit by former "Apprentice" contestant Summer Zervos.Trump\'s lawyers want the appeals court to put the case on hold during his presidency.Trump has denied subjecting Zervos to unwanted sexual advances. She is suing him for calling her a liar. Zervos wants an apology and at least $2,914.The Republican president\'s lawyers say his remarks were "non-defamatory opinions."Zervos\' lawyer, Mariann Wang, said she believed the lower-court\'s "well-reasoned" decision will be upheld.
MOSCOW   An aide to Russian President Vladimir Putin said Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump invited the Russian leader to the White House when they spoke by telephone last month, but the two countries haven\'t started any preparations for such a visit.Trump and Putin had a telephone conversation on March 20 in which Trump congratulated Putin on winning the Russian presidential election two days earlier. The White House and the Kremlin said at the time the two presidents discussed meeting in person.Trump specifically invited Putin to the White House during the call, Putin aide Yuri Ushakov told Russian news agencies Monday.However, their governments didn\'t have time to start arranging a meeting before the United States joined Britain and more than two dozen allies in sanctioning Russia over the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in England, Ushakov said.White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed that Trump invited Putin to Washington during the call, but said the White House was among "a number of potential venues" the two leaders discussed for a bilateral meeting."As the President himself confirmed on March 20, hours after his last call with President Putin, the two had discussed a bilateral meeting in the \'not-too-distant future\' at a number of potential venues, including the White House," Sanders said, adding that  the administration had no further comment on the matter.Some Republican lawmakers criticized Trump for making the congratulatory call to Putin. Trump defended his decision on Twitter, saying President Barack Obama did the same in 2012.During the call, Trump didn\'t raise Russia\'s meddling in U.S. elections or its suspected involvement in the poisoning of the former spy and his daughter in Britain.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump will discuss "reciprocal trade and investment ties" with Japan\'s prime minister Shinzo Abe during a visit later this month, the White House said on Monday.Japan, one of the United States\' closest allies, has not been granted exemptions to the new U.S steel and aluminum tariffs. Abe will meet with Trump at Mar-a-Lago, the president\'s Florida resort, on April 17 and 18, the White House said, where they will also discuss North Korea.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Lisa Lambert)
WASHINGTON   With overcast skies and temperatures in the 40s, President Donald Trump declared it was "perfect weather" on Monday for the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. Nearly 30,000 parents and children were expected to participate in the all-day event.Morning rain dampened the festivities, but the skies had largely cleared though it remained chilly by the time Trump and his wife, Melania, walked down the stairs from the Blue Room balcony to join guests on the South Lawn."You know, it was supposed to be pouring, the weather. It was supposed to be very rainy and nasty and cold and windy," said Trump, who appeared in an overcoat on the balcony with his wife and the Easter Bunny. "And look what we have: perfect weather. Perfect weather. Beautiful weather."Mrs. Trump, who wore boots and a knee-length coat after going sleeveless last year, said it was a "beautiful day" but "a little bit cold."During brief remarks from the balcony, Trump thanked her for doing an "incredible job" on the event. He also said good words about the economy and praised a recent $700 billion increase in funding for the military."This is a special year. Our country is doing great," Trump said. "Nothing is ever easy, but we have never had an economy like we have right now. And we\'re going to make it bigger and better and stronger."He helped kick off a few egg-rolling games with a "ready," \'\'set" and the blow of a whistle."You ready, kids?" the president said as he and the first lady blew whistles that set a group of children scampering and using wooden spoons to guide dyed, hard-boiled eggs across a portion of the sloping South Lawn. They blew the whistles several times before moving to a card-making station for U.S. troops.The egg roll was also a Trump family affair, with most of the president\'s five children and nine grandchildren in attendance, including Donald Trump Jr., his wife, Vanessa, and their five kids; son Eric, his wife, Lara, and their baby; daughter Tiffany and son Barron.In all, the White House said it expected nearly 30,000 adults and children to stream through the gates. Thousands of volunteers worked during the weekend to help set things up and on Monday to help keep the lines moving.The first lady put her stamp on the event by adding lawn bowling to the list of activities.The White House Easter Egg Roll dates to 1878.___
WASHINGTON   While President Donald Trump has said illegal immigrants heading toward the United States are trying to take advantage of an Obama-era policy that shields certain people from deportation, the program known as DACA is actually not open to new entrants.At issue is the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which the Republican president last September ordered rescinded. Under DACA, hundreds of thousands of young adults dubbed "Dreamers" who were brought into the United States illegally as children have been shielded from deportation and given work permits.On Sunday, apparently in reference to a caravan of 1,500 Central Americans who are journeying through Mexico toward the United States, Trump wrote on Twitter: "These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!"But there is no "act" to get in on. Newly arriving illegal immigrants cannot win protections under DACA, created in 2012 by Trump\'s Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, for two reasons.Anyone admitted into the program had to have been living continuously in the United States since June 15, 2007, along with other requirements. In addition, Trump himself ordered an end to the program, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is not accepting new applicants.Under Trump\'s action, DACA was supposed to have begun winding down last month. But courts have ruled that Trump acted improperly and that the hundreds of thousands of immigrants currently enrolled still qualified for protections while the legal fight over DACA unfolds.When he announced he was ending DACA, Trump urged Congress to come up with a legislative fix. Referring to the Dreamers, Trump said, "I have a great heart for the folks we\'re talking about, a great love for them."Seven months later, DACA participants are living with the uncertainty over whether they will be protected or targeted for deportation.Meanwhile, following a series of failed negotiations with Democrats and some Republicans in Congress, Trump has been fuming over the refusal of lawmakers to fully fund a $25 billion wall he wants to build on the U.S.-Mexican border. The wall became a bargaining chip in DACA replacement legislation."NO MORE DACA DEAL!," Trump said on Twitter as he blamed Democrats for the situation. "DACA is dead."Matthew Wright, a government professor at American University in Washington, called Trump\'s tweets "not connected to reality." Wright noted that Trump rejected several Democratic offers to address DACA, including at one point a deal that would have provided $25 billion for his wall.Last month, Senator Angus King, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats, said Trump\'s rejection of that offer was the "high-water mark" for the wall\'s prospects in Congress, where support for it is tepid at best.(Reporting by Richard Cowan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Will Dunham)
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.   He is one of the Republican Party\'s most-prized recruits, a young U.S. Senate candidate with an outsider resume and a populist message designed to appeal equally to farmers, suburban moms and the national GOP\'s moneyed elite.But things get complicated when you ask Josh Hawley about President Donald Trump.Hawley, who launched a Republican Senate bid in Missouri less than a year after being elected state attorney general, won\'t say whether he considers the Republican president a role model. In an interview with The Associated Press, the 38-year-old Yale Law School graduate also sidestepped questions about Trump\'s behavior toward women."No. 1, I am always my own man," Hawley said."I value my independence very highly," he added. "My loyalties as a U.S. senator would be first and foremost to the people of Missouri and their needs."Hawley\'s cautious answers underscore a delicate political reality on the ground in Missouri, one that also is challenging other Republican candidates across the country ahead of the midterm elections. Seven months before Election Day, many are still struggling to craft a political playbook to win over Trump\'s most passionate supporters without repelling everyone else.Hawley appears to be the GOP\'s best hope to defeat Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill in November. Yet even in Missouri, which Trump carried by 18 points less than two years ago, a GOP Senate candidate faces risks by fully embracing the president.Trump remains popular among voters in Missouri\'s many small towns and rural communities. But in some of the state\'s suburbs, home to more college-educated voters and women, Trump\'s behavior and chaotic leadership style threaten to alienate supporters whom Hawley needs this fall. The stakes are high. The national GOP eyes Missouri as perhaps its best pickup opportunity in the nation.Hawley was out of town on vacation when Trump railed against McCaskill during his first Missouri appearance last summer. At the time, Hawley\'s political mentor, former Sen. Jack Danforth, was calling on Republicans to disavow Trump. During a subsequent Trump visit in March, Hawley and Trump appeared together publicly only briefly on an airport tarmac outside Air Force One before attending a closed-door fundraising event.And while Hawley tiptoed around questions about Trump\'s behavior, he told the AP that he was "delighted to have the president\'s support.""The president endorsed me back in November," Hawley said. "He\'s been here obviously a couple of times now. We\'ll hope he\'ll come back."Hawley\'s situation is made even more awkward by the fact that several of his senior political aides have worked for outspoken Trump Republican critics.His campaign manager was a longtime communications chief for former Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, who attacked Trump as "a narcissist" and an "egomaniac" during the 2016 primary campaign. Another Hawley aide served as communications director for 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who previously called Trump "a phony" and "a fraud."A campaign spokesman noted that the staffers also worked on Hawley\'s attorney general race in 2016.The candidate\'s allies recommend that he focus more on Trump\'s policies  particularly on taxes, government regulation and his Supreme Court picks  than on his behavior. Trump has been accused of having multiple extramarital affairs. His erratic leadership style and undisciplined use of social media have also drawn criticism from within his own party."They don\'t have to run on Trump himself. They have to run on the Trump issues because those are the issues that Americans and Missourians believe in," said former Missouri GOP chairman Ed Martin, a major Trump supporter.That\'s easier said than done, according to GOP pollster Chris Wilson, who is working for Republican candidates in Missouri and across the country."Republicans have got to do a good job of explaining what it is they\'ve accomplished," Wilson said. "It\'s not very often that elections are about issues, but this is a time when they have to be."Wilson said the distinction matters most in suburban Kansas City and St. Louis, particularly among women who might support Trump\'s policies but are turned off by his use of Twitter, his unpredictable demeanor and "comments and actions that they see as beneath the president."Hawley\'s cautious approach, however, has infuriated some local Trump supporters who view Hawley as an establishment candidate more likely to align with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell than with the president\'s agenda.Mark Anthony Jones, chairman of the Jackson County Republican Party in Kansas City and its suburbs, said that\'s why he plans to vote for "anyone but Hawley" in the August primary."I don\'t know that Josh Hawley supports any of Trump\'s \'America First\' strategy. He doesn\'t say a word about that," Jones said. "He only just scratches the surface in even mentioning Trump."Ironically, Trump presents challenges for his rival, too.McCaskill will struggle to win if she can\'t peel away some of Trump\'s support. The two-term Democratic senator has spent much of the past year speaking directly to small-town voters in town hall meetings, where she tends to focus on areas of agreement with the president and is cautious in how she explains her votes against Trump\'s tax bill and his Supreme Court pick."How does Claire navigate the fact that Missourians support the president?" Hawley strategist Brad Todd asked. "There are a lot more enthusiastic backers of the president in Missouri than virtually any other state."___Peoples reported from New York.
OMAHA, Neb.   Investor Warren Buffett\'s oldest son usually focuses on finding ways for his foundation to help farmers in the developing world or get the most out of the crops he\'s growing in Illinois. But now Howard Buffett has jumped into the border security debate with a book criticizing President Donald Trump\'s proposal to build a massive wall along the Mexican border.At first, the subject might seem like an odd fit, but the book is based on Howard Buffett\'s experience as a philanthropist, an Arizona landowner near the border and a volunteer sheriff\'s deputy in Arizona and Illinois.Buffett sees a clear connection between our nation\'s porous border and the drug crimes and addiction he investigates in Decatur, Illinois, as interim sheriff. He\'s also seen drug trafficking and illegal immigration in Cochise County, Arizona, where he owns a ranch and has served as a volunteer deputy."There is a lot of pain that is affecting many people in this country that\'s not getting addressed, and it starts at the border," Howard Buffett said.He knows he may not be able to change some people\'s minds because of the strong views Trump\'s supporters and detractors hold, but he thinks the best solution is a combination of properly equipped law enforcement, some barriers in places and cooperation with Mexico and other countries."The biggest single impediment is the politics of it," he said.Trump has yet to secure funding to build a wall on the border. The budget deal that Congress recently approved included $1.6 billion for border wall spending, largely to repair existing barriers. Trump had requested $25 billion.It\'s hard to predict whether the book, titled "Our 50-State Border Crisis: How the Mexican Border Fuels the Drug Epidemic Across America" will be influential. Paul Landow, a University of Nebraska at Omaha political science professor and former Democratic strategist, said the book might be helped by Howard Buffett\'s status as a political outsider and philanthropist."A book like this one from Howard, who is well regarded, does have the opportunity to influence some people," Landow said.In addition to his foundation, where he is giving away part of his father\'s fortune, Howard Buffett also serves on the board of the Berkshire Hathaway conglomerate his father built.The book will get a boost from being on sale when tens of thousands of Berkshire shareholders attend the annual meeting next month in Omaha, Nebraska. The elder Buffett also praised his son\'s work."The book is terrific and reflects a combination of knowledge and passion about one of the most important problems of America," Warren Buffett said.
WASHINGTON   Trump administration officials said Monday they\'re crafting a new legislative package aimed at closing immigration "loopholes," hours after the president called on Republicans in Congress to immediately pass a border bill using the "Nuclear Option if necessary" to muscle it through."Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don\'t allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" President Donald Trump wrote in a series of sometimes-misleading tweets, fired off after returning from a holiday weekend spent in Florida with several immigration hardliners.Trump also declared protections for so-called Dreamer immigrants "dead," claimed the U.S. has "no effective border laws" and warned Mexico to halt the passage of "caravans" of illegal immigrants or risk retribution."They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" he wrote.Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters. The $1.3 trillion funding package included $1.6 billion in border wall spending, but much of that money can be used only to repair existing segments, not to build new sections.Among the measures the administration is pursuing: ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children arrested at the border and traveling alone. Under current law, unaccompanied children from countries that don\'t border the U.S. would be placed under the supervision of the Department of Health and Human Services and undergo often-lengthy deportation proceedings before an immigration judge instead of being deported.The administration is also pushing Congress to terminate a 1997 court settlement that requires the government to release children from custody to parents, adult relatives or other caretakers as their cases make their way through immigration court. Officials complain that many children never show up at their hearings.The proposals appear the same as those included on a White House immigration wish list that was released in October but failed to gain traction during negotiations over the border wall. Such proposals are likely to face opposition from moderate Republicans and Democrats going into the midterm elections. But Trump appears intent on ensuring the issues remain at the forefront of public conversation, even though the omnibus was widely seen as the last major legislation likely passed this year.In his Easter weekend tweets and comments, Trump continued to blame Democrats for killing the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program despite the fact that he was the one who moved to end the program. He also claimed DACA, which has provided temporary protection from deportation and work permits to hundreds of thousands of young people, is luring people to cross the border illegally, even though the program  and most proposals to replace it  have never been open to new arrivals.Trump spent much of the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago club, having meals with his family, watching cable news shows and rubbing elbows with conservative commentators including Fox News host Sean Hannity, according to several club members. Also spotted at the club: championship golfer Dustin Johnson, MyPillow maker Michael J. Lindell, boxing promoter Don King and former New York Police Commissioner Bernie Kerik.Staffers with Trump over the holiday included policy adviser Stephen Miller, one of the chief architects of the administration\'s anti-immigration policies, but not his chief of staff John Kelly or his elder daughter, Ivanka, both considered more moderate influences.Trump\'s past calls to use the "nuclear option"  changing the Senate rules to require a simple majority of 51 votes to override a rule instead of 60 have been repeatedly dismissed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who argues Republicans will welcome the filibuster if they return to being the Senate minority. The current split is 51-49 favoring Republicans.Notably, Trump\'s favored DACA solution mustered only 39 votes in the Senate, meaning it couldn\'t have passed even if the Senate did approve the changes.Trump\'s tweets calling on Mexico to halt "caravans" filled with immigrants in the country illegally came after a "Fox & Friends" report early Sunday that featured the leader of the union representing border patrol agents predicting that those in the caravan would create havoc and chaos in the U.S. as they wait for immigration reform.About 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, have been marching along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca.These "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for at least the last five years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.Individuals in the caravans often try to reach the U.S. border but usually not as part of the caravan. The caravans typically don\'t proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz. The current march is scheduled to end this month with a conference on migration issues in the central Mexican state of Puebla.___Associated Press writers Elliot Spagat in San Diego; Catherine Lucey, Darlene Superville, Lisa Mascaro, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller in Washington; and Mark Stevenson in Mexico City contributed to this report.
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- HAPPY EASTER! [0827 EDT]- Border Patrol Agents are not allowed to properly do their job at the Border because of ridiculous liberal (Democrat) laws like Catch & Release. Getting more dangerous. "Caravans" coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL! [0956 EDT]- Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL! [1025 EDT]- These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act! [1028 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
MOSCOW   A Kremlin aide said on Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump suggested the White House as the venue for a summit with Russia\'s Vladimir Putin when they discussed the idea of meeting in a telephone call last month.Since that call, on March 20, preparations for a possible summit have not progressed because of a diplomatic row, the aide, Yuri Ushakov, said."When our presidents spoke on the phone, Trump proposed having the first meeting in Washington, in the White House," Ushakov told reporters at a briefing."Trump called Putin last month to congratulate him on his election victory and told reporters he believed he and Putin would meet "in the not too distant future."White House press secretary Sarah Sanders did not confirm an invitation had been issued to Putin, but said the two had discussed a number of venues for a potential meeting, including the White House."We have nothing further to add at this time," she told reporters on Monday.Rolling out a welcome for Putin in the White House, rather than at a neutral location, could anger Trump\'s domestic critics, who accuse Russia of hostile acts against Western countries, including the United States.Some current and former members of Trump\'s team are under investigation for alleged collusion with Russia in the run-up to Trump\'s inauguration. Trump denies any collusion.Since the March 20 phone call, Washington expelled 60 Russian diplomats and closed a Russian consulate over allegations that Russia was behind the poisoning of former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.Russia denies involvement and has retaliated against the diplomatic sanctions in kind."Against the backdrop of these events, it\'s difficult to discuss the possibility of holding a summit", Ushakov said."We want to believe that the discussions (on a proposed summit) will begin," Ushakov said."We want to hope that... one day, at one time or another we can arrive at the start of a serious and constructive dialogue."(Reporting and writing by Denis Pinchuk; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason in Washington; Editing by Christian Lowe and Robin Pomeroy)
WASHINGTON   White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said on Monday he did not see the United States and China responding to each other\'s tariff moves in a tit-for-tat escalation of trade tensions.Asked on CNBC television what the U.S. response should be to about China\'s tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, wine, frozen pork, steel pipe and aluminum scrap, Navarro said: "I don\'t think this is going to be an action-response, action-response. That\'s not what this should be about, that just leads to escalation spirals."Navarro said President Donald Trump was firmly committed to a course of action that would level the trade playing field between the two countries.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by James Dalgleish)
(Reuters) - Shares of Amazon.com Inc fell 6 percent on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump again attacked the online retailer over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes."Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon," Trump tweeted."They lose a fortune, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field!"Shares of the company were down 5.9 percent at $1,362.48, wiping out nearly $45 billion from its market value.Trump has been vocal about his opposition to Amazon\'s use of the postal service and Monday\'s tweet adds to investor worries that the company could see more regulation.Amazon did not immediately respond to requests for a comment.On Saturday, Trump tweeted that if the post office "increased its parcel rates, Amazons shipping costs would rise by $2.6 billion."The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) in November reported a decline in annual revenue, hurt by a drop in first-class and marketing mail, offset partly by an increase in package delivery.The postal service has also been posting losses mainly because of payments, more than $5 billion a year as mandated by Congress to prefund the service\'s future retirees\' healthcare.The passage of postal reform legislation could alleviate USPSs pension obligations, give it more pricing power and allow the agency to be more competitive, analysts said."We believe the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) has gained share from Amazon which is helping the USPS stay afloat," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.Details of Amazon\'s payments to the USPS are not publicly known, but some Wall Street analysts have estimated it pays the postal service roughly half what it would to United Parcel Service Inc or FedEx Corp to deliver a package."President Trump\'s comments are consistent with industry sources we have spoken to in the shipping industry, who often label Amazon\'s deal with the USPS as a sweetheart deal," DA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote in a note."An argument, however, could be made that the USPS was losing billions before it expanded its service offerings for Amazon and would, still, likely lose billions if Amazon discontinued its use of the USPS tomorrow," Forte said.Trump last Thursday accused Amazon of not paying enough tax, making the postal system lose money and putting small retailers out of business.(Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur, Bernard Orr)
TOKYO   Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday he plans to visit the U.S. this month to discuss North Korea with President Donald Trump ahead of expected summits between the North and the U.S. and South Korea.Abe said he will travel to the U.S. from April 17 to 20 and hold two days of talks with Trump at the president\'s Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida to discuss North Korea and bilateral issues. Trump has said he will meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un by the end of May."I hope to thoroughly discuss North Korea and other issues of mutual interest between Japan and the U.S.," Abe said at a meeting of representatives of his ruling coalition and the government.In Washington, the White House said the meeting between the two leaders will "reaffirm the United States-Japan alliance as a cornerstone of peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region." Besides North Korea, they will "explore ways to expand fair and reciprocal trade and investment ties," it said.Abe has said he wants to remind Trump of shorter-range missiles and other North Korean security threats for Japan, and seek U.S. help on the issue of Japanese abducted by North Korea decades ago.Abe is also expected to discuss stiff U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and urge Trump to exclude Japan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters.The abductees\' families last Friday urged Abe to seek Trump\'s help, saying this could be their last chance to win their aging loved ones\' release.Japan has said North Korea abducted at least 17 Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s to train agents in Japanese language and culture to spy on South Korea. North Korea, after years of denials, acknowledged in 2002 abducting 13 Japanese. It allowed five of them to visit Japan later that year  and they stayed  but said the other eight had died, though their families say the North\'s comments cannot be trusted.Abe visited Trump\'s resort in February 2017, soon after the president took office.___Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey in Washington contributed to this report.___Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchi
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to "immediately" pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump, who has taken a hard line toward immigration, said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can remain in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.It was unclear whether Trump, in any new immigration legislation, would support safeguards for people protected by DACA. The White House did not respond to requests for comment on Trump\'s tweets.Democrats blamed Trump for the tenuous status of a program that shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said on Twitter that the president created his own crisis."The President is blaming everyone under the sun, but he only has to look in the mirror to find the person who turned down six different bipartisan DACA deals from Congress - a few that included funding for his useless wall," Durbin said.Democrats had offered at one point to fully fund the wall Trump wants along the U.S.-Mexican border but rescinded the offer in January, accusing the president of reneging on elements of a tentative agreement."He walked away - not Democrats," Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein wrote on Twitter."Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People ... Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!" Trump said in another Twitter post.Congress cannot pass any legislation immediately as lawmakers are on their second week of a spring recess, but taking a tough stance on immigration appeals to Trump\'s conservative base.Senate Republican leaders have ignored previous calls from Trump advocating the so-called nuclear option, which would involve changing Senate rules so Republicans could more easily overcome Democratic opposition to legislation in a chamber they control with a thin majority of 51 out of 100 seats.Cindy Agustin, 28, a DACA recipient and immigration activist in Chicago, said the impasse over the program breeds fear and uncertainty."It\'s frustrating because we\'re in limbo right now," Agustin added.Trump also reiterated his call for Mexico to stop people from entering the United States, after saying on Sunday he would terminate a major trade accord with Mexico if it does not do more to secure its border with the United States.The United States is currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.BACK AGAINST THE WALLTrump made building a border wall - and making Mexico pay for it - one of his top campaign pledges when he ran for president in 2016. Mexico has refused to pay.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday he indicated that time had passed, writing on Twitter: "\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are traveling in a "refugee caravan" organized by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By traveling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump\'s requirements.In light of Trump\'s call for the "nuclear option," a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Monday noted that Republican senators oppose changing existing rules governing the debate and passage of legislation.Major legislation usually needs a supermajority to pass the Senate. Without 60 votes in support, the Democratic minority can sink a bill.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu in Washington and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe, Will Dunham and Jonathan Oatis)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump intends to nominate Justin Muzinich, an aide to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, to be the deputy secretary of the Treasury, the White House said on Monday.Muzinich advises Mnuchin on tax reform and other domestic and international policy initiatives, the White House statement said. Before joining the Treasury Department, he was president of Muzinich & Co, an international investment firm, and taught at Columbia Business School, the statement added.The New York Times said the Treasury had operated without a full-time deputy secretary, a position that includes overseeing a broad portfolio of policy matters such as taxes, financial regulation, trade and economic sanctions, since Mnuchin was confirmed early last year.Trump has been revamping his economic team in recent weeks, including appointing Larry Kudlow as director of the National Economic Council to replace Gary Cohn."Far from a flamethrower, Mr. Muzinich, who spent most of his career on Wall Street, will add a more moderate voice with traditional conservative economic ideas to the table," the Times said.It said Muzinich, 40, had been serving as Mr. Mnuchins tax counselor and played a central role in drawing up and negotiating the $1.5 trillion tax overhaul passed by the U.S. Congress late last year.The Times said Mnuchin welcomed the nomination in a statement and added: "Justin has established himself as a leader in the department, and played a key role in the passage of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act.""He brings significant experience in financial services and in public policy and has become a reliable and trusted adviser on a number of important issues," the secretary said.During the 2016 presidential campaign, the Times said, Muzinich served as policy director for former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, one of more than a dozen Republican candidates defeated by Trump, and helped to craft Bushs tax plan.(Reporting by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Eric Beech and Peter Cooney)
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large "Caravans" of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws..... [0702 EDT]- ...Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People. Border Patrol Agents (and ICE) are GREAT, but the weak Dem laws don\'t allow them to do their job. Act now Congress, our country is being stolen! [0710 EDT]- DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon... No longer works. Must build Wall and secure our borders with proper Border legislation. Democrats want No Borders, hence drugs and crime! [0717 EDT]- Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws! [0908 EDT]- So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke. [0928 EDT]- Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field! [0935 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
SACRAMENTO, Calif.   The U.S. Department of Justice on Wednesday sued California over a law that aims to give the state power to override the sale of federal lands, the latest battle between President Donald Trump and the nation\'s most populous state.California vowed to fight for the state\'s first right to purchase federal lands or to arrange for a specific buyer  part of an aggressive effort in the heavily Democratic state to thwart the president\'s agenda in his first year. Lawmakers who passed the law last year cited concerns that the Trump administration would allow more logging, oil drilling or development on some of the 46 million acres owned by the federal government in California.The Justice Department lawsuit, filed in federal court in Sacramento, argues that the state has no power to interfere with federal land sales, citing the Constitution and the 1850 act of Congress that admitted California to the union."Once again, the California Legislature has enacted an extreme state law attempting to frustrate federal policy," Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement.The federal lawsuit comes less than a month after Sessions visited Sacramento to announce he was suing California over laws that restrict cooperation with federal immigration authorities. The state has sparred with the federal government in and out of court over a wide range of immigration and environmental policies, most recently over vehicle emissions standards and offshore drilling.Sessions decried the mounting litigation between the Justice Department, California and other states asking judges to invalidate pieces of the Trump agenda. In a lengthy statement Monday, he blasted "ideological judging" and "limitless injunctions" that he says allow just one judge to tie up the administration\'s policies."Government-by-litigation isn\'t what the American people voted for and attempting to thwart an administration\'s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent," Sessions said.At the request of attorneys general in mostly Democratic states, judges have temporarily blocked Trump\'s decision to end a program protecting some immigrants living in the country illegally from deportation, withhold law enforcement grants from so-called sanctuary cities and ban transgender troops from the military.Republican states effectively used the courts to thwart some of former President Barack Obama\'s immigration and environmental priorities, though they failed to invalidate his signature health care law.In the latest lawsuit, the U.S. government says California\'s law, which took effect Jan. 1, is delaying land sales  even for projects that have been in the works for years  and is depressing their value. The auction of 1.7 acres owned by the U.S. Postal Service was suspended when nobody bid, and a developer looking to purchase property at the now-closed Naval Air Station Alameda has requested a delay, the lawsuit contends.It also cites the sale of Army property east of San Francisco, which the state declined to purchase. The State Lands Commission has requested information about a planned property sale in Santa Barbara County to decide whether to buy first, according to the lawsuit."Yet again, Donald Trump and his administration are attacking our state and our very way of life," Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom, a member of the State Lands Commission and a Democrat running for governor, said in a statement.California Democrats welcomed the latest fight and vowed to defend the law."Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder," California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a Democrat, said in a statement. "We\'re prepared, as always, to do what it takes to protect our people, our resources and our values."
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump declared as "dead" on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to pass legislation to secure the U.S. border with Mexico.Trump\'s latest comments on immigration, made via Twitter, came as the U.S. Department of Justice moved to establish first-ever quotas for immigration judges aimed at speeding up cases and clearing a backlog.Trump said in September he would terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program introduced by his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it.Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can stay in place for now."DACA is dead because the Democrats didn\'t care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon," the Republican president said in a Twitter post.Trump also urged Congress to "pass tough laws and build the WALL," referring to a U.S.-Mexico border wall he has championed as a way to curb illegal immigration and the flow of drugs.In a move aimed at speeding deportations, the Department of Justice sent an email on Friday to federal immigration judges telling them their job performance would be evaluated based on how quickly they close cases.Judges will be required to complete at least 700 cases a year and have fewer than 15 percent of their decisions appealed and remanded back, according to Dana Marks, spokeswoman for the National Association of Immigration Judges.Another metric demands that 85 percent of removal cases for detained immigrants be completed within three days of a hearing on the merits of the case. The new policy is expected to take effect on Oct. 1.A growing backlog of immigration cases reached 687,000 in March, according to a Reuters analysis of court records, and caused asylum seekers to wait years to present their cases.Amiena Khan, executive vice president of the immigration judges union, said the new rules threatened to interfere with judicial independence. Its going to create havoc within the courts, said Khan, who also serves as an immigration judge in New York. The integrity of the entire process is at risk.On Monday, senior administration officials told reporters that legislation was being prepared aimed at helping speed deportations of some illegal immigrants. They did not provide a timetable for submitting it to Congress and did not say whether provisions to help DACA recipients would be included.No immigration deal has materialized in the Republican-controlled Congress despite months of efforts. The Senate considered several immigration proposals in February but rejected all of them, including bipartisan bills and legislation tailored to Trump\'s requirements.NO \'RELIABLE PARTNER\'Democrats have blamed Trump for the tenuous status of the DACA program that shielded hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, often called "Dreamers," from deportation and gave them work permits.Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said in a telephone interview: "After the experience of giving this president six different bipartisan options and having him reject them all ... I don\'t believe we have a reliable partner" in negotiations that are now dormant.In the past, Trump had said he was open to a deal with congressional Democrats in which they would support funding for the border wall in exchange for protection for the Dreamers.But on Sunday, he indicated that the time had passed, writing on Twitter: "\'Caravans\' coming. Republicans must go to Nuclear Option to pass tough laws NOW. NO MORE DACA DEAL!"The mention of a caravan apparently referred to a group of 1,500 men, women and children from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador who are travelling in a "refugee caravan" organised by the U.S.-based immigration advocacy group Pueblo sin Fronteras, whose Spanish name means People Without Borders.By travelling together, the immigrants hope to protect themselves from the crime and extortion that makes the route through Mexico toward the U.S. border dangerous. They say some but not all of them will seek asylum if they reach the United States."The only person gaming DACA is not in the caravan. He\'s in the Oval Office" of the White House, Durbin said, referring to Trump.(Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu and Sarah Lynch in Washington; Reade Levinson in New York and Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago; Writing by Caren Bohan; Editing by Peter Cooney)
SAN FRANCISCO   As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy.The president - who frequently touted Wall Street\'s rally following his 2016 election victory - was partly blamed for a sharp stock selloff on Monday that investors believe is likely to continue, deepening cracks in a nine-year-old bull run.The selling was sparked by escalating fears of a trade war as China slapped tariffs on a host of U.S. goods as Trump prepares to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese imports, and by Trump\'s renewed criticism of Amazon.com Inc."The president\'s behavior is now beginning to impact the capital markets - both the averages and individual equities," said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Florida.Particularly worrisome to investors on Monday: more weakness in the tech sector, which led the market up in recent months, and a breach below a major S&P 500 technical level.In a Twitter post, Trump attacked Amazon for a second time in three days over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.Amazon\'s stock slumped 5.2 percent and led the S&P 500 and Nasdaq down, pressuring other high-growth, technology-related stocks, including Microsoft Corp, Apple Inc and Facebook Inc. Outcry in recent weeks over Facebook\'s handling of data about its users has shaken the tech sector with fears of greater governmental oversight."(One) big factor is Trump further going after the tech sector, namely Amazon," said Tom di Galoma, managing director at Seaport Global Holdings in New York. "It casts a shadow effectively around all of the tech sector."TECH SECTOR PAIN = MARKET PAINThe selloff in technology-related stocks was seen as a particularly worrisome sign for investors who have banked on that sector continuing to drive the broader market."It\'s very significant," said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at Weeden & Co in New York. "Selling tech is not a sector rotation story, its a sell-the-market story."Technology stocks have been widely viewed in recent months as a "crowded trade" - with most investors having the same opinion, increasing the potential for a volatile selloff if sentiment changes."What we\'ve learned over the past two weeks is just how overweight investors were in technology," said Nicholas Colas, co-founder of Datatrek Research, New York.Investors saw more selling pressure ahead, particularly after the S&P 500 dipped below a major technical level, the 200-day moving average, for the first time since Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016. The index closed at 2,582, for a year-to-date decline of 3.4 percent."We have been pounding on the 200-day for the last six sessions and now we\'ve broken through," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas. There may be support around the 2,537 level, he said, "but then below that we may be looking at 2,500 or so again, which is pretty scary."In Trump\'s first year as president, the S&P 500 surged 24 percent on bets he would boost the economy with fiscal spending, deregulation and deep tax cuts. Trump tweeted frequently about the stock market as it rallied through 2017. But since a selloff in February, he has been noticeably silent.But this bull market has frequently staged swift recoveries, and some were poised for opportunity."I\'m taking advantage of these markets and am heavily overweighted financials and banks," said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer Of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida. "I didn\'t buy today, we\'re in freefall, but I might tomorrow."(Reporting by Noel Randewich; additional reporting by Kate Duguid, Karen Brettell, Jennifer Ablan and Megan Davies in New York; editing by Megan Davies and Leslie Adler)
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherPresident Trumps son-in-law wants to overhaul the prison system. The presidents attorney general bitterly opposes such a move.That has set the scene for a highly personal battle inside the White House.On todays episode: Matt Apuzzo, a New York Times reporter based in Washington.Background reading: Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Jared Kushner square off, and prisoners hang in the balance.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump won\'t let up on Amazon. He\'s been assailing the online retailer for days, zeroing in on a "scam" contract with the U.S. Postal Service that\'s actually been judged profitable for the post office.Trump\'s latest flurry of tweets also slammed Mexico for lax border enforcement, using as his example a caravan of Central Americans who have been moving north after crossing Mexico\'s southern border. But the caravan\'s destination is a conference in central Mexico, not the U.S., though many from the group may split off and ask for asylum either in Mexico or the U.S.Trump\'s fired veterans affairs secretary, meantime, sidestepped the truth when he asserted on the weekend that his ethics problems at the agency were all about politics.Here\'s a look at statements Monday and from the weekend on these matters:AMAZONTRUMP: "Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field!"  tweet Monday.TRUMP: "If the P.O. \'increased its parcel rates, Amazon\'s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.\' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"  tweet Saturday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.As well, people who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it, however.As for the post office, package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that\'s lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs  not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce, the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages, but that hasn\'t been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail, which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.While the Postal Service\'s losses can\'t be attributed to its package business, Trump\'s claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels. The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner, Jeff Bezos, owns The Washington Post, one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___MEXICOTRUMP: "Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large \'Caravans\' of people enter their country. They must stop them at their Northern Border, which they can do because their border laws work, not allow them to pass through into our country, which has no effective border laws."  tweet Monday.TRUMP: "Mexico is making a fortune on NAFTA...They have very strong border laws - ours are pathetic. With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours, at least until Congress changes our immigration laws!"  tweet Monday.TRUMP: "These big flows of people are all trying to take advantage of DACA. They want in on the act!"  tweet Sunday.THE FACTS: Trump is painting an overly ominous picture of the procession of some 1,100 migrants, many from Honduras, who have been marching in a caravan along roadsides and train tracks in the southern Mexico state of Oaxaca. They are not marching en masse to the U.S. border to sneak in.These "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for at least the last five years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.The organized portions of the caravans usually don\'t proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz; migrants as individuals or in smaller groups often take buses or trucks from there to the border.The current march is scheduled to wind up this month with a conference on migration issues in the central Mexican state of Puebla, east of Mexico City. That\'s some 650 miles by road (1,050 km) from the U.S.  Migrants who break away and reach the U.S. border often turn themselves in and request asylum.A Mexican government official said the caravans are tolerated because migrants have a right under Mexican law to request asylum in Mexico or to request a humanitarian visa to ask for asylum at the U.S. border. The understanding is that most participants in the caravan will do one or the other."Mexico is not allowing people to massively travel across the country without documents to reach the United States," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to be identified.Mexico routinely stops and deports undocumented Central Americans, sometimes in numbers that rival those of the United States. Deportations of foreigners dropped from 176,726 in 2015 to 76,433 in 2017, in part because fewer were believed to have come to Mexico, and more were requesting asylum in Mexico.As for migrants trying to "take advantage of DACA," the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program is closed to new entrants, so it\'s not clear how new migrants could benefit from it.The Obama-era program has provided temporary protection and work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are living in the U.S. illegally after being brought into the country as children. Trump ended the program. Absent a deal with Congress to renew it under law, the U.S. is not issuing new permits, though existing ones can be renewed.___VADAVID SHULKIN, defending himself against ethics accusations that contributed to his firing as VA secretary:  "I have been really clear. Everything that I did was done properly. It was preapproved by our ethics team. ...I think what the IG found was that a staff member had made essentially some problems in the way that they put the paperwork through. But the IG said I had no knowledge of that."  ABC interview Sunday.THE FACTS: Shulkin grossly misrepresents a report by the VA\'s inspector general that concluded he had violated ethics rules during an 11-day trip to Europe in July. The watchdog office determined Shulkin had improperly accepted free Wimbledon tennis tickets and failed to consult with VA ethics counsel beforehand. According to the February report, Shulkin belatedly asked VA counsel to expedite an ethics review of his acceptance of the tickets in September  two months after the trip  upon learning that journalists were making inquiries.The inspector general also concluded that Shulkin\'s chief of staff, Vivieca Wright Simpson, had lied to ethics officials by falsely claiming he was receiving an award in Europe to justify his wife\'s free travel at taxpayer expense  and doctoring emails to back up her claim. While the VA watchdog "found no evidence" that Shulkin was aware of his staffer\'s actions, Shulkin understates the extent of Simpson\'s deception to justify the free trip and his own actions abroad.SHULKIN, citing reasons Trump fired him:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family\'s character, I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity."  op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous, though politics contributed to his dismissal.White House support for Shulkin eroded after the blistering report in February by VA\'s internal watchdog, a nonpartisan office, about his travels in Europe.It is true, though, that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call, top communications aide John Ullyot and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin\'s removal after the release of the inspector general\'s report. The staff director declined to do so. Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general\'s report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4,000 to cover the costs of his wife\'s coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and points to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___Stevenson reported from Mexico City.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration this week will unveil a list of advanced technology Chinese imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to punish Beijing over technology transfer policies, a move expected to intensify trade tensions between the world\'s two largest economies.U.S. tariffs on $50 billion (35.59 billion pounds) to $60 billion worth of annual imports is expected to be levied on products benefiting from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" industrial development programme, but it may be more than two months before the import curbs take effect, administration officials have said.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s office needs to unveil the list of products by Friday under President Donald Trump\'s China tariff proclamation signed on March 22.The tariffs are aimed at forcing changes to Chinese government policies that USTR says results in the "uneconomic" transfer of U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies.The agency\'s "Section 301" investigation authorizing the tariffs alleges China has systematically sought to misappropriate U.S. intellectual property through joint venture requirements, unfair technology licensing rules, purchases of U.S. technology firms with state funding and outright theft.China has denied that its laws require technology transfers and has threatened to retaliate against any U.S. tariffs with trade sanctions of its own, with potential targets such as U.S. soybeans, aircraft or heavy equipment.On Sunday, Beijing slapped extra tariffs of up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products including frozen pork, as well as wine and certain fruits and nuts in response to steep U.S. tariffs on imports of aluminium and steel announced last month by the Trump administration.Fears have arisen that the two countries will spiral into a trade war that will crush global growth.TARGETING \'MADE IN CHINA 2025\'White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said last week that Section 301 tariffs would focus on Chinese industries benefiting from the Made in China 2025 plan, which aims to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products."China in my view brazenly has released this China 2025 plan and basically told the rest of the world, \'We\'re going to dominate every single emerging industry of the future and therefore your economies aren\'t going to have any future," Navarro told Bloomberg Television."The Section 301, which is on intellectual theft and forced transfer, is specifically designed to address those kinds of things," Navarro said.The state-led 2025 programme targets 10 strategic industries:  advanced information technology, robotics, aircraft, shipbuilding and marine engineering, advanced rail equipment, new energy vehicles, electrical generation equipment, agricultural machinery, pharmaceuticals and advanced materials."Foreign technology acquisition through various means remains a prime focus under Made in China 2025 because China is still catching up in many of the areas prioritised for development," USTR said in its report justifying the tariffs.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has said that preserving America\'s technological edge is "the future of the U.S. economy."Reports that the tariff list may also include consumer goods such as clothing and footwear drew strong protests from U.S. business groups, which argued that it would raise prices for U.S. consumers.LIMITED TIME FOR TALKSWhile there have been contacts between senior members of the Trump administration and their Chinese counterparts since Trump announced his intention to impose tariffs, there has been little evidence of intensive negotiations to forestall them."The administration is following the Japan model from the 1980s," said a tech industry executive. "They\'ll publish a Federal Register notice of tariffs on certain products, then try to reach a negotiated settlement over the next 60 days."During his first stint at USTR in the Reagan administration, Lighthizer employed similar tactics to win voluntary Japanese export restraints on steel and autos.Wendy Cutler, a former deputy USTR in charge of Asia negotiations, said that addressing the sweeping intellectual property allegations identified by USTR would require major changes to China\'s industrial policy. A 60-day settlement may not be realistic in that case."I think they\'ve set up a high bar for what they need to achieve, in order not to impose these types of tariffs and investment restrictions," Cutler said.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Peter Cooney and Susan Thomas)
 Good Monday. Heres what were watching. Elon Musk finally responded to last weeks bad news about Tesla. Trump continues to go after Amazon. China retaliated to President Trumps steel and aluminum tariffs. Tech leaders have been keeping mum on Facebook.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.For months, the stock market rally seemed to have the strength to plow through the obstacles that the Trump administration threw in its way.But now, the S.&P. 500 index is down more than 10 percent from its all-time high.President Donald Trumps actions seem to be increasingly taking their toll. When the Trump administration first pushed for steel and aluminum tariffs in February, investors werent happy, but the market soon rebounded. Now investors seem to be growing more nervous as the United States biggest trading partners show signs that they are ready to fight back. Chinas retaliatory tariffs, which appear to be more stringent than expected, suggest the country will take a hard stance.Early in his presidency, investors quickly learned to shrug off  Mr. Trumps criticism of companies. In recent days, though, Mr. Trump has targeted Amazon in tweets, asserting that the company has an unfair advantage. Its not clear what he could do to hurt Amazons business, but the companys stock has plunged. Amazons shares may well bounce back, but the criticism has added to investors concerns about the outlook for large technology companies, whose soaring stock prices spearheaded the rally that took to the S.&P. 500 to its all-time high in January.Too much blame can be placed on the White House, however.Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock markets ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Wall Street analysts expect earnings for the companies in the S.&P. 500 to increase 25 percent this year, according to data compiled by Standard & Poors, an unusually large jump that was reflected in the stock market valuations. Much of that projected earnings increase is coming from tax cuts and some from expectations that companies revenue would grow at a nice clip as global growth stayed strong.The tax cuts are certainly going to improve profits. But rising interest rates around the world could weigh somewhat on companies revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected  a significant possibility when the economy is suffering a shortage of some workers  profit margins could get squeezed. I dont think either of those are in the numbers, said Jim Paulsen, chief market strategist at the Leuthold Group. Peter EavisA little humor has not cleared the clouds over Tesla.Shares in the company were once again sliding on Monday after the companys C.E.O., Elon Musk, joked on April 1 that Tesla had gone bankrupt, an apparent attempt to make light of concerns that the electric car maker is straining under its debt load.Teslas stock is now down 35 percent from its high of last year. A major reason for the slide is the companys struggles to meet production targets for its lower-priced Model 3 car. Delays, of course, raise questions about Teslas ability to become an efficient mass producer of autos. The company needs to sell a significantly higher number of cars to generate the cash to finance its business and meet debt payments. Tesla is expected early this week to release its first-quarter production and delivery numbers.Electrek, a publication that covers electric vehicles, reported late Monday morning that Mr. Musk had sent out an email to employees saying that the company was producing more than 2,000 Model 3s a week. Teslas stock bounced after the report.Teslas technology is also facing intense scrutiny after one of its Model X cars crashed on March 23, killing the driver. Tesla said late Friday that its assisted driving system, called Autopilot, was engaged in the car before its collision with a concrete divider. As our colleague Neal E. Boudette wrote:Teslas website says one of Autopilots safety features is Automatic Emergency Braking. But a Tesla owners manual warns riders that this feature is not designed to avoid a collision. Wired recently reported that systems like Autopilot are not necessarily designed to detect static obstacles. In the words of one expert:Doubts about the fundamental capabilities of Teslas Autopilot could crimp demand for its cars among a customer base that is often seeking the best technology.Questions are also swirling around the timing of Teslas announcement about the crash. In its first communication about the accident, the company said:The investigation is not over. Yet Tesla went ahead and provided its update on Friday. The motive for doing so is not clear. The United States National Transportation Safety Board on Sunday said it was unhappy that Tesla had released information about the crash.- Peter EavisTech companies are again dragging down stocks on Wall Street.The S.&P. 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite are off 3.1 percent and 3.5 percent Monday. The continued fall in the share prices of some of the biggest tech companies is weighing heavily on the indexes.Amazon is down 5.4 percent, Netflix is off 5.9 percent, Facebook fell 3 percent, Google-parent Alphabet slipped 3.6 percent and Apple dropped 5.9 percent.After leading the market higher for much of the past two years, tech stocks have hit some turbulence. Since March 16, Facebook, Alphabet, Netflix and Amazon are all down more than 12 percent, while Apple is down 7.3 percent.Over that period the business models of those companies have come under increased scrutiny. News that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm hired by President Trumps 2016 election campaign, gained access to private information on more than 50 million Facebook users has weighed not only on the shares of Facebook but on Alphabet as well. Amazon, meanwhile, has come under attack from President Trump.In all, those companies have lost more than $300 billion in market value the past two weeks.President Trump attacked the e-commerce again on Monday morning.Mondays tweet is the latest over the past five days from Mr. Trump criticizing Amazon. Over that period, Mr. Trump has accused Amazon of not paying enough taxes, of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and of using the United States Postal Service as its Delivery Boy.Mr. Trumps willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.Amazons shares are down 4 percent and are off nearly 11 percent since Axios reported on Wednesday about Mr. Trumps anger toward the company.Context Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the service, has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one, but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax, a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition, some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.Critics cornerDA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote in a note via Reuters:Shares of the chip maker are down 9 percent, their steepest decline in more than two years, after Bloomberg reported that Apple is planning to use its own chips in Mac computers beginning as early as 2020.Citing anonymous sources, Bloombergs Ian King and Matt Gurman report:Apple provides Intel with about 5 percent of its annual revenue.Kenneth C. Griffins Citadel has just hired Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven A. Cohens investment firm. Mr. Villhauer will become deputy head of global equities at Citadel, a newly created position. He will officially join the Chicago-based hedge fund in the middle of April and work out of Citadels office in New York, a Citadel spokesman confirmed.We see this as a big hire for us, said Zia Ahmed, a Citadel spokesman.Mr. Villhauer left Mr. Cohens family office, Point72 Asset Management, in October after working for the billionaire investor for roughly 15 years. Mr. Villhauer had started at Mr. Cohens former firm, SAC Capital Advisors, and most recently served as head of global trading at Point72.The timing of Mr. Villhauers departure came just months before Mr. Cohen was to begin managing money for outside investors.In January, Mr. Cohen reconfigured Point72 as a hedge fund after establishing it as a family office in 2014 to manage $11 billion of his personal wealth. Point72 has said it has raised between $2 billion and $4 billion in outside money.Mr. Villhauer had been with Mr. Cohen through both the good days and bad days. He was there when SAC turned into a powerhouse hedge fund, and he was there when the fund pleaded guilty to insider trading charges in 2013. The guilty plea required the firm to stop managing money for outside investors.When Mr. Villhauer left Point72, Mr. Cohen, in a letter to employees, called the departure a retirement and said he was sad to see Mr. Villhauer go.Now Mr. Villhauer will start a new chapter in his career at another well-known hedge fund firm.____________________________As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, other tech leaders like Marc Benioff and Tim Cook have criticized the company. But, for the most part, its in their culture to stick together,  Nick Wingfield writes.Customers have less trouble speaking out, but those looking to punish major tech companies are finding that but boycotts are easier said than done.At Facebook, the turmoil continued this weekend after a 2016 memo was leaked in which Andrew Bosworth, a vice president, wrote, Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de factor* good.Mr. Bosworth and Mark Zuckerberg disavowed the memo, but the fallout has been wide, with employees calling for a hunt to find leakers.Critics corner Mr. Zuckerbergs comments suggest he still doesnt get it: What matters is not whether internet companies deserve our private information but why we as consumers do not have meaningful ways to protect that data from being siphoned for sale in the first place, Tom Wheeler, a former F.C.C. chairman, writes in an NYT op-ed.More on data and privacy Hackers have stolen more than five million credit and debit card numbers from Saks and Lord & Taylor, a cybersecurity firm said. Amazon and other companies have filed patents that show how assistants could monitor what people say, information that could then be used for ads and product recommendations. For critics, this highlights the need for regulators to get more involved in data collection. Entrepreneurs, companies and governments are looking into whether  blockchain could be the answer to fears about personal data being shared too liberally. President Trump accused The Washington Post of operating as a lobbyist for Amazon, escalating his assault on the company. He also accused Amazon of a Post Office scam, although Amazon brings in money for the Postal Service. (WaPo) A global race to automate stores is underway as retailers seek to prevent Amazon from dominating their market. China has been an especially fertile place for these experiments. (NYT) The tech industry has warmed to the White House. (NYT) The European Commission is preparing to crack down on social media companies accused of spreading fake news. (FT) A Russian man accused of hacking three U.S. technology companies in 2012 has been extradited from the Czech Republic. (NYT) Alibaba is taking full control of the food delivery start-up Ele.me. (Bloomberg) Dara Khosrowshahi is trying to change Ubers image, but can he do it without sacrificing elements that made the company successful? (The New Yorker) 3-D printing technology is moving into the construction business. (WSJ) Beijing has unveiled a pilot program that would allow Chinese tech giants to see their shares bought and sold at home. (Bloomberg) Magic Leap is requiring software developers to keep its mysterious augmented reality headsets under tight security. (LAT)The Chinese government said on Monday that it would place tariffs on the imports of 128 American-made products in retaliation for to President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum.Beijing appeared to go a step beyond its initial threat, Chris Buckley reported. On the list is pork, an important moneymaker in many states that voted for President Trump.The Washington flyaround Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday that there would be no deal to protects thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement. The FirstEnergy bankruptcy could be an important moment for the Trump administration and its commitment to the coal industry. (WSJ) Ties to the White House have proven to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushner family. (NYT) Are undersea cables used to communicate around the world under risk of attack? (AP) The bankruptcy of Remington, one of the countrys oldest gunmakers, has stalled a ruling in a lawsuit by family members of those killed in the Sandy Hook shooting. (NYT) Would firing special counsel Robert Mueller lead to impeachment proceedings? (NYT) John Bolton, the incoming national security adviser, has argued repeatedly that the United States should engage in cyber warfare. (Politico)When the Justice Department allowed Live Nation to merge with Ticketmaster, it tried to assuage concerns that the deal would cripple competitors.But critics have reason to be skeptical. Heres how Beau Buffier, the chief of the New York Attorney Generals Antitrust Bureau, described Live Nation:The Justice Department is looking into complaints that Live Nation has used its control over concert tours to pressure venues into contracting with Ticketmaster, a possible violation of antitrust law.The inquiries come as the department is reviewing two more mergers, between AT&T and Time Warner, and Disney and Fox.The departments new antitrust chief has said that the Live Nation deal and several other deals posed problems because they relied too much on the federal governments ability to police corporate behavior.Even if we wanted to do that, we often dont have the skills or the tools to do so effectively, the antitrust chief, Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, said in a speech.More for your playlistSpotifys shares begin trading on Tuesday with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. But the company still hasnt turned a profit, and its direct listing could spook investors. The streaming service also is looking to take on music labels directly by building a two-sided marketplace for users and artists.The deals flyaround Walmarts takeover of Humana isnt guaranteed, but hospitals are already worried that the deal could hit their bottom lines at a difficult time. (WSJ) Protectionist policies are increasing barriers to deal making. (WSJ) Looking to merge asset management divisions, UBS is asking for discounts from fund managers. (FT) The corporate raider Samuel Belzberg has died at 89. (NYT) Steve Schwarzman has discovered that $25 million doesnt necessarily buy naming rights for a public high school. (The Philadelphia Inquirer) The South China Morning Post has long been Hong Kongs English-language paper of record. Alibaba has made it part of Beijings efforts to project soft power abroad. (NYT) The accrediting council at center of a for-profit college fraud scandal is looking for a comeback. (NYT) Coffee sellers are trying to fight a California judges ruling that would require the beverage to carry cancer warning labels. (NYT) Bill Gross is struggling to attract investors to Janus Henderson. (FT) Nike is reviewing its human resources department after employees raised concerns about pay equity and corporate culture. (WSJ) In a tight labor market, employers are recruiting refugees to fill undesirable jobs. (NYT) Is the storied guitar maker Gibson headed for a bankruptcy filing? (NYT) The new chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America is a Hollywood insider and Washington influencer. (NYT) Companies are loading up on debt in what could be another area of concern for financial markets. (WSJ) Some arbitrage funds are struggling to benefit from a boom in mergers. (WSJ) Devet Capital keeps costs low by flying economy and using Airbnb for business travel. (WSJ)Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
MEXICO CITY  It has become a regular occurrence, particularly around the Easter holiday: scores or even hundreds of Central American migrants making their way north by foot and vehicle from southern Mexico. They include everyone from infants to the elderly, fleeing violence and poverty in their homelands.They travel in large groups  the current is one of the largest at about 1,200 participants  in part for protection against the kidnappers, muggers and rapists that stalk the migrant trail, but also to draw more attention to their plight. Some have the United States in mind, but many are only thinking as far as a new home in Mexico.Called caravans, most of the journeys, which date back at least five years, have moved forward with little fanfare, virtually unnoticed north of the border with the United States. But tweets by President Trump have suddenly turned the latest caravan into a major international incident and the most recent flash point in the politics of immigration in the United States.Getting more dangerous, the president tweeted on Sunday. Caravans coming.On Monday, he warned that our country is being stolen by illegal immigration, blaming Democrats for weak border policies and urging Mexico to strengthen its border enforcement.Mexico has the absolute power not to let these large Caravans of people enter their country, he said in a tweet.In interviews on Monday, the caravans organizers sounded frustrated, exhausted and dismayed.We are not terrorists, said Irineo Mujica, Mexico director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras  People Without Borders  a transnational advocacy group that is coordinating the current caravan and has organized others in recent years. He was speaking by phone from Matas Romero, a town in the state of Oaxaca in southwest Mexico where members of the caravan had spent the previous two nights, sleeping in a park.We are not anarchists, Mr. Mujica continued. We try to help people to know their rights, things that we as human beings should be doing, try to advocate for human, sensible solutions.Late Monday, Mexican immigration officials began negotiations with caravan organizers about how to deal with the migrants.Alex Mensing, project coordinator for Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said that the Mexican authorities had agreed to provide eligible migrants with humanitarian visas permitting them to remain in the country legally. Others would be provided with temporary transit passes, which usually last 20 days, allowing them to visit an immigration office and begin the process to legalize their status or travel to the United States border to apply for asylum or some other form of protection, Mr. Mensing said.Mexicos Foreign Ministry and Interior Ministry, in a statement issued jointly late Monday, said the authorities had already deported 400 participants in the caravan since the event began more than a week ago, but confirmed that they were offering protections to the migrants in cases where this is appropriate.Under no circumstances does the Mexican government promote irregular migration, the statement said.Mr. Mensing said that processing details were still being worked out between government officials and the caravan organizers, but warned that should the process take too long, its very possible that the caravan will reignite.The migrant group left the southern Mexican border town of Tapachula on March 25, at that point numbering about 700. Most of the participants were from Honduras and many of them said they were fleeing violence and poverty in their home countries, organizers said. Some say they were inspired to flee Honduras following the violent suppression of political protests that erupted after last years presidential election.Over the past week, the group grew in size, to about 1,200 by the time it arrived in Matas Romero.But organizers said that contrary to the vision of a migrant onslaught on America conjured by Mr. Trump, most participants do not intend to travel as far as the border of the United States.Hes trying to paint this as if we are trying to go to the border, and were going to storm the border, Mr. Mujica said.Mr. Mensing added: Were definitely not looking for some kind of showdown.In an interview Monday, before negotiations between the Mexican immigration authorities and the caravan organizers began, Mr. Mujica predicted that at most 10 percent to 15 percent of the participants would seek asylum at the American border.He said he expected many others to drop out along the way, especially if the caravan continued along its intended route through the state of Puebla and on to Mexico City, with some participants applying for asylum or other forms of protection in Mexico.In Puebla, Pueblo Sin Fronteras plans to hold workshops, led by volunteer lawyers, to teach migrants about options for legal protections in the region, including in Mexico and the United States.We dont promote going to the United States, Mr. Mensing said. Its a challenging place to seek asylum.In recent years, Mexico has become an increasingly attractive destination in its own right for Central Americans and others seeking sanctuary from economic hardship and violence in their home countries, even though advocates say the nations asylum program remains deeply flawed.We are trying  as Mexicans, as Americans  to find solutions, said Mr. Mujica, a Mexican-American who holds dual citizenship.In his Twitter posts on Sunday, Mr. Trump also asserted that many migrants trying to cross the border into the United States were seeking to take advantage of the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, that has provided protected status to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants brought to the country as children. Mr. Trump announced last year that he was ending the program but was open to keeping it.On Monday, advisers said that the president was also alluding to a perception, supposedly held by many Central American migrants, that as part of efforts to salvage DACA, Congress may soon agree to legislation that would permit unauthorized immigrants to remain in the United States.But migrant-rights advocates, including coordinators of the latest caravan traversing Mexico, said these assertions were a White House invention.Its laughable! Mr. Mujica said. Most of the people dont even know what DACA is. They know that its almost impossible to get into the United States. They know that theyre deporting everyone.On Sunday, even Mexicos secretary of foreign affairs, Luis Videgaray, weighed in, apparently in response Mr. Trumps tweets that accused Mexico of lax immigration enforcement.Every day Mexico and the U.S. work together on migration throughout the region, he said on Twitter. Facts clearly reflect this. An inaccurate news report should not serve to question this strong cooperation. Upholding human dignity and rights is not at odds with the rule of law. Happy Easter.
WASHINGTON   Congressional Democrats raised ethics questions on Monday about the framework of a defense fund set up to help pay legal costs for White House, Trump campaign and transition officials caught up in investigations into Russian meddling in the election.Eighteen House Democrats claim the new defense fund appears to be structured more loosely than ones in earlier administrations. Because of the way it\'s set up, the fund could receive donations from lobbyists or others with interests before the Trump administration  and also could be used to influence witnesses, the Democrats warned in a letter to David Apol, the acting director of the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.The Democrats asked the ethics office to provide records documenting communications between Wiley Rein LLP, the Washington law firm that set up the fund, and White House, Trump campaign and transition representatives.In late January, Apol told a group of Washington lawyers who set up the fund that a draft agreement of its structure appeared to be "in compliance" with federal ethics law. The ethics office, however, has not officially approved or disapproved of the structure of the fund  Patriot Legal Expense Fund Trust LLC  which has been in operation since late February.In their letter to Apol, the Democrats, including Maryland Rep. Elijah Cummings, the ranking member of the House Oversight Committee, said that while previous defense funds earmarked money for individual officials, the new defense fund "has the authority to pay money to an unlimited number of individuals, with limited disclosure requirements."The fund was established in Delaware as a nonprofit organized under Section 527 of the U.S. tax code. That designation requires the fund to tell the Internal Revenue Service the names of all donors who donate more than $200.The Democrats claim the Patriot fund appears to allow donations by lobbyists or others with interests before the government  and could perhaps evade disclosure altogether.Despite the IRS requirement, the Patriot fund does not appear to prohibit donors giving money "on behalf of other undisclosed donors," the Democrats said.And while Office of Government Ethics guidelines prohibit donations from lobbyists or others with governmental interests, the Patriot fund says donations for legal expenses would be banned only if the donor "indicates in writing that the contribution is being given because of an eligible recipient\'s position or performance of duties." It\'s not clear from the fund\'s draft how donors would be compelled to provide that information.Democrats also raised concern about the fund\'s role in the possible influence of witnesses. Ethics rules ban contacts between the manager of a legal defense fund and those aided by the fund. But Democrats warned that a loophole would still let the fund manager contact Trump campaign representatives, who could, at the same time, remain in touch with fund recipients."The agreement does not address the potential for pressure to be placed on potential recipients before they testify," the Democrats said. "The agreement also does not prohibit communications between the manager of the fund and campaign representatives who are themselves under investigation."A group of Wiley Rein lawyers sent a draft agreement of the Patriot defense fund to the ethics office on Jan. 29 after discussions with agency officials. The fund was officially unveiled in late February. Wiley Rein has deep expertise in election law and several partners have a history of ties to Republican administrations and the GOP.A firm member involved in setting up the defense fund declined to comment on the House Democrats\' letter.According to the draft, the fund would "be operated as a political organization," with its donations listed in total in annual filings with the IRS. Previous defense funds, such as two 1990s-era funds for former President Bill Clinton and former first lady Hillary Clinton, had voluntary caps on the size of donations. The Patriot fund does not appear to have any limits on the size of donations.The draft explicitly says the fund was  "formed to provide assistance paying legal expenses for persons involved in the investigations by special counsel Robert S. Mueller III," House and Senate inquiries into Russia meddling and any other congressional probes.
MOSCOW   The Latest on relations between Russian President Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald Trump: (all times local):6:25 p.m.The White House has confirmed that U.S. President Donald Trump invited Russia\'s Vladimir Putin to Washington.Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Monday that the White House was among "a number of potential venues" Putin and Trump discussed during a March 20 telephone conversation.Huckabee Sanders said: "As the President himself confirmed on March 20, hours after his last call with President Putin, the two had discussed a bilateral meeting in the \'not-too-distant future\' at a number of potential venues, including the White House."She says the administration has no further comment on the matter.___5:45 p.m.An aide to Russian President Vladimir Putin says U.S. President Donald Trump has invited the Russian leader to the White House, but the two countries haven\'t started any preparations for such a visit.Trump and Putin had a telephone conversation on March 20 in which Trump congratulated Putin on winning the Russian presidential election two days earlier. The White House and the Kremlin said at the time the two presidents discussed meeting in person.Putin aide Yuri Ushakov told Russian news agencies on Monday that Trump specifically invited Putin to the White House during the call.Ushakov added that their governments didn\'t have time to start arranging a meeting before the United States joined Britain and more than two dozen allies in sanctioning Russia over the nerve-agent poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in England.
MEXICO CITY   Mexico\'s interior minister said on Monday that he spoke to the U.S. homeland security secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, agreeing to work together to study how to best address the flow of migrants."We agreed to analyze the best ways to attend to the flows of migrants in accordance with the laws of each country," Interior Minister Alfonso Navarrete wrote in a post on Twitter.U.S. President Donald Trump lashed out against Mexico on Sunday, writing on Twitter that the Latin American country was doing little to stop the flow of migrants into the United States.(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz; writing by Julia Love)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin. (all times local):8 a.m.Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin describes his would-be successor as "a very honorable man who wants to do the right thing."Trump announced last week that he was choosing his personal physician, Dr. Ronny Jackson, to lead the massive Department of Veterans Affairs.The White House and Shulkin have since waged a public campaign about whether or not Shulkin was fired. He says yes. The White House says no.Shulkin was asked on CNN whether he was concerned about Jackson\'s lack of managerial experience. Shulkin says "I have comfort because I know Dr. Jackson."Shulkin says the job of transforming the VA is no doubt challenging, but the key will be surrounding Jackson with a good team because "no one person can do this alone."___12:57 a.m.The White House is hitting back at former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin for claiming that he was fired from his job and that he was only informed about it shortly before President Donald Trump tweeted about his replacement.The Trump administration says he left his job willingly amid a bruising ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency. The semantics of whether Shulkin resigned or was fired could be relevant to Trump\'s ability to name an acting secretary to temporarily fill his place.On Sunday, chagrined by Shulkin\'s public statements blaming his ouster on unfair "political forces" in the Trump administration, the White House circulated a "talking points" memo to some veterans groups in a bid to discredit him.Shulkin maintains that he never submitted a resignation letter.
WASHINGTON   Former Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin downplayed concerns about his potential successor\'s lack of managerial experience Monday, saying the key for improving the VA will be surrounding White House doctor Ronny Jackson with a good team "because no one person can do this alone."Shulkin and the White House have engaged in a highly public campaign surrounding his departure from the VA last week. Shulkin said he was fired. The White House said he resigned.On Monday, Shulkin told CNN there was no reason he would resign. He said he had been given a heads-up on his ouster by Chief of Staff John Kelly moments before President Donald Trump tweeted it.Shulkin said he supports the person President Donald Trump selected to replace him."I have comfort because I know Dr. Jackson," Shulkin said. "Dr. Jackson is a very honorable man who wants to do the right thing."Shulkin\'s comments represented a different tone from the fractious back-and-forth Sunday when the White House hit back at Shulkin for claiming that he was fired from his job and that he was only informed about it shortly before President Donald Trump tweeted about his replacement.The Trump administration says he left his job willingly amid a bruising ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency.On Sunday, chagrined by Shulkin\'s public statements blaming his ouster on unfair "political forces" in the Trump administration, the White House circulated a "talking points" memo to some veterans groups in a bid to discredit him.The three-page memo, obtained by The Associated Press, points out seven "lies" that it said Shulkin had spread. They include statements in which he minimizes a VA watchdog report in February that concluded he violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The VA inspector general has previously found Shulkin made misleading statements about the trip to investigators and the news media.In television interviews earlier Sunday, Shulkin said he had not submitted a resignation letter, or planned to, and was only told of Trump\'s decision to replace him shortly before the Twitter announcement. He said he had spoken to Trump by phone earlier that day about VA improvements, with no mention of his job status, and was scheduled to meet with the president the next morning."I came to run the Department of Veterans Affairs because I\'m committed to veterans," Shulkin said. "And I would not resign because I\'m committed to making sure this job was seen through to the very end."Last week, Trump named Defense Department official Robert Wilkie to the acting position, bypassing Shulkin\'s deputy secretary, Tom Bowman. Bowman has come under criticism for being too moderate to push Trump\'s agenda.Under federal law, a president has wide authority to temporarily fill a federal agency job if someone "dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the office." There is no mention of a president having that authority if the person is fired. Still, it\'s unclear if courts would seek to draw a legal distinction between a firing and a forced resignation, if that is indeed what happened to Shulkin.The day after announcing he was replacing Shulkin, Trump told a rally in Richfield, Ohio, that he had been dissatisfied with efforts to improve the VA. Shulkin had enjoyed Trump\'s support for much of his first year in the administration, but that eroded in February after mounting ethics questions and political infighting at the VA.Wilkie, now listed on the VA website as acting secretary, took over Shulkin\'s duties last week.The back and forth over the circumstances behind Shulkin\'s departure  and what it could mean for Wilkie\'s status  comes as the nomination of Jackson is drawing concern among lawmakers and veterans groups. They worry the Navy rear admiral and lifelong physician lacks the experience to manage an enormous agency paralyzed over Trump\'s push to expand private care.Trump\'s new Cabinet nominees also are beginning to pile up in the Senate, likely leading to weeks of confirmation battles and other delays in the run-up to congressional midterm elections in November. That could mean an extended reign for an acting VA secretary.Shulkin\'s dismissal comes amid a broader shakeup of top Trump administration officials and accusations of excessive spending by Cabinet officials. Also currently under fire are Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson.Shulkin had agreed to reimburse the government more than $4,000 after the VA\'s internal watchdog concluded last month that he had improperly accepted Wimbledon tennis tickets and that his then-chief of staff had doctored emails to justify his wife traveling to Europe with him at taxpayer expense. Shulkin also blamed internal drama at the agency on a half-dozen or so rebellious political appointees, insisting he had White House backing to fire them.___Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed from Palm Beach, Florida.
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.   Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley is demanding information from Facebook following allegations that the social media giant mishandled user data.The Republican Senate candidate announced Monday that his office issued a civil investigative demand, which functions like a subpoena. It seeks details on how Facebook collects and shares user information.Facebook didn't immediately comment when contacted by The Associated Press.Hawley is among 37 attorneys general who signed a letter last week asking Facebook similar questions. The Federal Trade Commission is also investigating.Hawley's announcement follows revelations that a consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump got data on millions of unsuspecting Facebook users. Facebook is also facing criticism for collecting years of data on call and text histories from Android users.Hawley is running for Democratic U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill's seat.
WASHINGTON   U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March, with many factories saying they\'re having a tough time getting supplies in order to meet demand from customers.The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, reported Monday that its manufacturing index slipped to 59.3 last month from February\'s reading of 60.8, which had been the highest since 2004. Any score above 50 signals growth."The details of the March data point to the steady growth in the factory sector seen over the past several quarters being sustained," said Richard Moody, the chief economist at Regions Financial.The categories of new orders, production and employment each fell in March for manufacturers, even though the underlying numbers remained positive. But companies surveyed for the index highlighted another issue: a shortage of raw materials that is causing them to lose out on possible sales.Multiple companies also said that the introduction of steel and aluminum tariffs by President Donald Trump was causing concerns about rising prices. Some companies bought up the metals ahead of their implementation, driving up costs. Trump is trying to support U.S. steel and aluminum mills, though his tariffs include exemptions for allies such as Canada and Mexico.Any supply shortage and price increases could further worsen as Trump is imposing up to $50 billion worth of tariffs on Chinese imports in response to concerns about Beijing stealing foreign companies\' technology or forcing these firms to share their innovations in order to have access to Chinese customers. China responded Monday to the tariffs by announcing $3 billion of additional tariffs on U.S. pork, apples and other products.
LONDON   Global stock markets fell for a second day Tuesday as investors continued to fret over a looming trade war between the U.S. and China and mounting public scrutiny of technology companies.Stocks have been trending lower for weeks largely because of a series of tariffs announced by U.S. President Donald Trump and the Facebook data privacy scandal, which has raised the prospect of tighter regulation for social media and other tech stocks.In the last week, Trump has also tweeted repeatedly about his new favorite foe, Amazon, whose owner also owns The Washington Post, which has been critical of the Trump administration.Trump has approved possible higher U.S. duties on $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology. Those tariffs come on top of previous proposals to raise tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.In response, China announced it is raising tariffs on $3 billion of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe, increasing the risk of a broader conflict that might depress global trade."The mood remains decidedly bearish, and there is certainly no shortage of reasons to be fearful," said Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at IG. "It\'s times like this when investors face a choice  whether to sit and await developments or plunge back in."That was evident in the performance of stocks on Tuesday.Returning from the long Easter holiday weekend, Europe\'s stock markets tracked others lower, though the scale of the losses were diminished by expectations of a rebound on Wall Street later.In Europe, Germany\'s DAX fell 0.8 percent to 11,999 while London\'s FTSE 100 declined 0.2 percent to 7,037. France\'s CAC 40 was 0.5 percent lower at 5,140.Wall Street was poised for some solid gains at the open Tuesday with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures up 0.5 percent. On Monday, the S&P posted its worst start to a quarter since October 2011 and saw the index fall below its 200-day moving average for the first time in almost 2 years.U.S. technology companies are in the spotlight, notably Amazon, which posted hefty losses of around 5 percent Monday after Trump again voiced his concerns about the company on Twitter.The sector was already in the gaze of investors after Facebook\'s data scandal last month that has raised the prospect of heightened regulation. Netflix, Microsoft and Google parent Alphabet have all seen their share prices decline."Pressure on the sector doesn\'t appear to be going away in the near-term which will continue to act as a drag on indices," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.Earlier in Asia, the Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.8 percent to 3,163.63 and Tokyo\'s Nikkei 225 shed 0.4 percent to 21,292.29. Sydney\'s S&P-ASX 200 declined 0.1 percent to 5,751.90. Elsewhere, Seoul\'s Kospi ended down 27 points at 2,442.43. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng bucked the trend, ending up 0.2 percent at 30,137.49.Elsewhere, the euro was flat at $1.23 while the dollar rose 0.3 percent to 106.23 yen. In the oil markets, a barrel of U.S. crude gained 22 cents to $63.23 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Bren crude, used to price international oils, rose 29 cents to $67.93 in London.
MOGADISHU   The U.S. military said on Monday it had killed five militants after launching an air strike in Somalia against al Shabaab, a militant Islamist group allied with al Qaeda.The military\'s Africa Command (Africom) said the strike was carried out on April 1 near El Bur, a town in the semi-autonomous Somali region of Galmudug."We assess no civilians were killed in this air strike," Africom said in a statement.Al Shabaab was not immediately reachable for comment.The United States has ramped up operations in the Horn of Africa country since last year after President Donald Trump loosened the rules of engagement.Since withdrawing from the capital Mogadishu in 2011, the insurgents lost control of most of Somalia\'s cities and towns. But they retain a strong presence in regions outside the capital.On Sunday they battled with African Union troops for hours after exploding two car bombs outside one of their bases, according to Somali police and military.(Writing by Aaron Maasho; Editing by Gareth Jones)
DALLAS   House Speaker Paul Ryan stopped by Southwest Airlines Monday during a fund-raising trip to Texas to tout benefits of the new tax law and talk about modernizing the nation\'s air-traffic control system.Ryan held a town hall meeting with a small group of Southwest Airlines executives and employees and posed for pictures with people training to become flight attendants.The visit served as a thank-you to Southwest for extolling a bill passed by the Republican-controlled Congress and signed by President Donald Trump that cut corporate income-tax rates. Southwest paid employees $1,000 bonuses shortly after passage of the bill, which cut Southwest\'s 2017 liability for deferred taxes by $1.4 billion and is expected to save the company hundreds of millions more this year.Congress is due to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration this year. Ryan said Congress should "re-do the whole FAA" and modernize air-traffic control. He also supported a greater role for the private sector in infrastructure, saying it would be impossible to raise enough taxes to pay for the necessary work.Ryan, who was accompanied by Southwest CEO Gary Kelly and House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, took four questions from the Southwest audience but none from reporters. Ryan was in Texas to raise money for House Republicans and talk about lower taxes, a spokesman said.
WASHINGTON   The head of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau asked Congress on Monday to trim the agency\'s power to write rules and spend money.Mick Mulvaney, the head of the CFPB, said the agency has the kind of power that should only rest with Congress."The Bureau is far too powerful, with precious little oversight of its activities," Mulvaney told Congress in a routine report."The power wielded by the director of the Bureau could all too easily be used to harm consumers, destroy businesses, or arbitrarily remake American financial markets."President Donald Trump tapped Mulvaney to lead the CFPB in late November. While Mulvaney is supposed to lead the agency on an interim basis, there is no deadline for when he must step aside for a permanent director.Mulvaney recommended four ways to curtail the CFPB\'s power.The CFPB should get its funding through Congress rather than the Federal Reserve, according to the proposal. Congress should have veto power over CFPB rules and the agency should more directly answer to the president.The CFPB was created in 2010 as an independent agency meant to protect consumers from predatory lending and financial abuse.Mulvaney is due to testify before the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday April 11.(Reporting By Patrick Rucker; editing by Diane Craft)
___US vs. China: a \'slap-fight,\' not a trade war. So farWASHINGTON (AP)  First, the United States imposed a tax on Chinese steel and aluminum. Then, China counterpunched Monday with tariffs on a host of U.S. products, including apples, pork and ginseng. On Wall Street, the stock market buckled on the prospect of an all-out trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies. But it hasn\'t come to that  not yet, anyway.___China raises tariffs on US pork, fruit in trade disputeBEIJING (AP)  China\'s move to raise import duties on U.S. pork, apples and other products will hit American farm states, many of which voted for Donald Trump in 2016. But spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says Trump isn\'t going to back down in the escalating trade dispute with China. She tells "Fox and Friends" that Trump is "going to fight back and he\'s going to push back." China\'s government says it\'s responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum.___Tech woes, worsening tensions with China sink US stocksNEW YORK (AP)  Stocks tumbled Monday after China raised import duties on a number of U.S. exports, bringing the two economic giants closer to a full-on trade conflict. Big technology companies, long investor favorites, suffered heavy losses. The worries over newly protectionist U.S. trade policies combined with blowback over Facebook\'s ever-widening privacy scandal have prompted investors to take money off the table. That has meant steep drops in former big winners including Netflix, Microsoft and Alphabet.___EPA to ease back emissions standardsNEW YORK (AP)  Environmental Protection Agency has set a plan to roll back emissions standards for cars and trucks but it didn\'t specify details. The regulator said Monday standards set by President Barack Obama were inappropriate and too high.___Facebook CEO defends advertising-supported business modelNEW YORK (AP)  The CEO of Facebook is defending its advertising-supported business model. Mark Zuckerberg\'s defense comes after Apple CEO Tim Cook said his company wouldn\'t be in Facebook\'s situation because Apple doesn\'t sell ads based on customer data the way Facebook does. Zuckerberg responded Monday that an advertising-supported business model is the only way that the service can survive because not everyone would be able to pay for Facebook if it charged a fee.___Pace of US factory growth slipped in MarchWASHINGTON (AP)  U.S. manufacturers say they expanded at a slower pace in March. The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, reports that its manufacturing index slipped to 59.3 last month from February\'s reading of 60.8, which had been the highest since 2004. Any score above 50 signals growth. Multiple companies surveyed for the index said that the introduction of steel and aluminum tariffs by President Donald Trump were causing concerns about rising prices.___EPA says Pruitt\'s condo lease didn\'t violate ethics rulesWASHINGTON (AP)  An agency ethics official at the Environmental Protection Agency says Administrator Scott Pruitt\'s lease of a Capitol Hill condo tied to a prominent fossil-fuels lobbyist didn\'t violate federal rules. A memo signed by the official concludes that Pruitt\'s $50-a-night rental payments constitute a fair market rate. Pruitt paid just for nights he occupied the unit, averaging $1,000 a month. Two-bedroom apartments in the neighborhood typically rent for three to four times that amount per month.___Puerto Rico gov defies board, rejects reform, pension cutsSAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP)  The powers of a federal control board overseeing Puerto Rico\'s finances could soon be tested as the U.S. territory\'s governor defies its calls to implement more austerity measures amid an 11-year recession. Gov. Ricardo Rossello on Monday rejected demands that his administration submit a revised fiscal plan to include a labor reform and a 10 percent cut to a pension system facing nearly $50 billion in liabilities. He said the plan he will submit Thursday also will not contain any layoffs.___French train strikes aim to disrupt travel, test MacronPARIS (AP)  Trains around France are grinding to a stop as unions stage a mass strike to challenge President Emmanuel Macron\'s strategy for making his country more economically competitive. Passengers are sharing cars or canceling trips after national railway SNCF said the strike will halt 85 percent of France\'s high-speed trains and 75 percent of regional trains. A quarter of Air France flights will be grounded Tuesday by a separate strike over pay.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index gave up 58.99 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,581.88. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 458.92 points, or 1.9 percent, to 23,644.19. The Nasdaq composite slumped 193.33 points, or 2.7 percent, to 6,870.12. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks fell 36.90 points, or 2.4 percent, to 1,492.53.Benchmark U.S. crude lost $1.93, or 3 percent, to $63.01 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, slid $1.70, or 2.5 percent, to $67.64 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline dropped 5 cents to $1.97 a gallon. Heating oil fell 4 cents to $1.98 a gallon. Natural gas slid 5 cents to $2.68 per 1,000 cubic feet.
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.   Atlantic City\'s former Revel casino is moving toward its reincarnation as the Ocean Resort Casino.The Boardwalk property said Monday it\'s affiliating with the Hyatt hotel chain. The announcement came on the sixth anniversary of the opening of Revel.Colorado developer Bruce Deifik bought Revel in January and set about remaking the property."Hyatt has an incredible 60-plus-year legacy in the industry, and its loyal global customer base will have access to an authentic way to experience all that makes Atlantic City attractive and popular," Deifik said.Although Ocean Resort will own and operate the 1,399-room hotel and the casino, its affiliation with Hyatt will enable it to make use of their reservation systems and other infrastructure, a spokeswoman said.It also will include the 32,000-square-foot location of exhale, Hyatt\'s newly acquired fitness and spa brand, which will feature 32 treatment rooms, a mind and body studio, and a retail boutique. Ocean Resort will be part of Hyatt\'s "Unbound Collection" of hotel properties.Ocean Resort plans to open sometime this summer, although it has not yet announced a date.Accessing the expertise of a major worldwide hotel chain  and its base of potential customers  could address two big reasons Revel failed. It shut down in 2014 after a little over two years of operation, during which it never came close to making a profit."The global recognition of the Hyatt brand, its base of customers and well-developed loyalty program are major assets for the Ocean Resort Casino, and should provide a strong support for the resort when it opens this summer," said Rummy Pandit, executive director of the Levenson Institute of Gaming, Hospitality & Tourism at New Jersey\'s Stockton University."The addition of the exhale fitness and spa brand puts even greater emphasis on the resort\'s non-gaming amenities and signals a focus on providing guests with experiences beyond casino gaming."Ocean Resort recently got approval from state gambling regulators for the design of its gambling chips, and has been advertising jobs throughout the resort.It is one of two shuttered casinos planning to reopen this year.Hard Rock is remaking the former Trump Taj Mahal casino that President Donald Trump opened in 1990 and fellow billionaire Carl Icahn closed in 2016.___
BEIJING   The Chinese industry body which recommended targeting scrap aluminium in retaliatory trade action against the United States is already exploring what other measures could be taken, an official said on Monday.U.S. scrap aluminium was one of 128 products that China said it was considering for additional tariffs last month, and the Chinese finance ministry late on Sunday confirmed the material will face an extra 25 percent import tariff from Monday.The United States is the biggest supplier of scrap aluminium to China, which is the world\'s top aluminium producer."We are doing research and looking if there is anything else we can do to respond," Wen Xianjun, vice president of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association (CNIA), told Reuters.Chinese aluminium firms had already faced U.S. antidumping and countervailing duties on shipments of aluminium foil before President Donald Trump imposed a 10 percent tariff on U.S. aluminium imports from March 23.The association\'s recommendation to the Chinese government is "if we are going to fight, we should fight hard," said Wen, who led antidumping negotiations with Washington on behalf of Chinese aluminium firms.Scrap aluminium had initially been singled out by the CNIA as a potential target because the volume China imports from the United States - slightly over 600,000 tonnes in 2017 according to Chinese customs data - was roughly equivalent to Beijing\'s aluminium exports to Washington, Wen said.The counter-measures had "only just begun" and China would respond to any further U.S. action, he added.Trump is separately preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods intended to punish Beijing over U.S. accusations that China systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations China denies.The U.S.-based Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries has said that China\'s additional tariffs would not bode well for trading of the commodity.Valuing U.S. scrap aluminium exports to China last year at $1.17 billion, it said a 25 percent tariff "would mean a nearly $300 million price burden on a trade relationship that represents nearly 25 percent of the entire world\'s trade in aluminium scrap," the group said in a statement on March 26 ahead of Beijing\'s weekend decision.But Wen said he saw no impact from the action on the Chinese aluminium industry because China has more than enough primary aluminium at home.(Reporting by Tom Daly; Editing by Manolo Serapio Jr.)
MONTERREY   Mexican left-wing presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has an 18-point lead ahead of the July 1 election, according to a poll published on Monday that showed him with a growing advantage at the start of formal campaigning.Lopez Obrador, who launched his campaign on Sunday, holds 38 percent of the vote, according to the poll by Parametria, published by Reuters on Monday ahead of wider distribution. That compared to 35 percent in its previous poll.A Lopez Obrador victory could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.Lopez Obrador has backed the North American Free Trade Agreement, but his plan to review newly issued oil contracts sparked worries he will deter foreign investment.One of the factors that appeared to extend his lead was the expulsion of two independent hopefuls from the ballot for not reaching the required number of signatures.The previous poll is not an exact comparison because it included the now-disqualified candidates.Neither second-place Ricardo Anaya nor third-place Jose Antonio Meade showed any sign of catching up with former Mexico City mayor Lopez Obrador."Lopez Obrador is breaking his ceiling ... he\'s growing in a way that wasn\'t expected," Parametria founder Francisco Abundis said.Anaya, running for the right-left "For Mexico in Front" coalition, holds 20 percent of vote preferences, compared with 21 percent in the previous poll.Former finance minister Meade, running for the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), stood still on 16 percent of the vote, while independent candidate Margarita Zavala rose to 13 percent of the vote from 10 percent previously.The youngest candidate, Anaya, 39, launched his campaign on Thursday, pitching himself as a forward-thinking alternative both to the unpopular PRI and Lopez Obrador\'s personalized leadership.Meade\'s launch on Sunday highlighted his experience in government under two different political parties, unusual in Mexican politics.But the focus was mostly on silver-haired Lopez Obrador, who struck a more nationalistic tone in his speech in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, demanding respect from U.S. President Donald Trump.He also repeated a promise to cancel Mexico City\'s new $13 billion airport, the country\'s largest infrastructure project.All major polls show Lopez Obrador far ahead, with most showing his lead growing, although Parametria gives him the widest advantage. One poll in March put Meade in second place, although most show Anaya ahead of him.Attention has turned to which party will hold sway in the Senate and lower house of Congress, with some believing that Lopez Obrador\'s party, the National Regeneration Movement, could win the biggest share in both.One game-changer could be the first television debate between the candidates on April 22.Thirteen percent of those polled either did not answer, responded that they did not know or could not choose a candidate listed.The poll of 800 people had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points. It was taken face-to-face from March 23-28, before campaigns officially started.(Reporting by Christine Murray; Editing by Paul Tait)
NEW YORK   A video with dozens of news anchors reading a script about "fake stories" put in stark visual terms what for weeks had largely been an academic debate about media consolidation and the Sinclair Broadcast Group\'s efforts to promote a consistent message across its stations.The 98-second video, posted on Deadspin Saturday, has already been viewed by millions of people and provoked a tweet by President Donald Trump supporting the corporation on Monday.Sinclair owns nearly 200 local stations and had ordered its anchors to read a statement expressing concern about "the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing the country." Some outlets publish these "fake stories" without checking facts first and some people in the media push their own biases, the statement said.The anchors give no specific examples. Sinclair, whose corporate leadership leans right, uses terminology familiar to Trump and his criticisms of "fake news." In the message, the anchors say they "work very hard to seek the truth and strive to be fair, balanced and factual."Timothy Burke, a video editor at Deadspin, said he read a CNN story last month about the script being sent to local stations and contacted a media monitoring service to collect examples of the statement being read on the air. After receiving more than 50, he fashioned them into a video that shows anchors reading different portions of the text, either simultaneously or one after the other.He posted a "teaser" with a small portion of the video Friday night and it quickly attracted attention when tweeted by a Wisconsin journalism professor. Not wanting to see his work appropriated by someone else, Burke said he rushed to get the full video posted Saturday afternoon. It spread quickly, particularly when tweeted by celebrities like Judd Apatow and Jimmy Kimmel.The video\'s repetition illustrates Sinclair\'s reach in a way mere numbers can\'t, said Jeff Jarvis, a journalism professor at the City University of New York."That\'s what makes the video so powerful," he said. "It illustrates a story that in some cases can read like a conspiracy theory. You can see by the video that it\'s not."A Sinclair executive said Monday that he finds it curious that the company would be attacked for asking news people to remind the audience that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media."It is ironic that we would be attacked for messages promoting our journalistic initiative for fair and objective reporting, and for specifically asking the public to hold our newsrooms accountable," said Scott Livingston, Sinclair\'s senior vice president of news. "Our local stations keep our audiences\' trust by staying focused on fact-based reporting and clearly identifying commentary."After the story was reported on CNN and MSNBC Monday, Trump jumped to Sinclair\'s defense."Funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticizing Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased," he tweeted. "Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke."Meanwhile, CNN\'s Jim Acosta was criticized by some conservative media outlets on Monday for shouting questions about immigration to Trump while the president and first lady were attending an Easter event on the grounds of the White House.MSNBC\'s "Morning Joe" did a lengthy segment on Burke\'s Deadspin video Monday, showing the words being repeated by several anchors. Co-host Mika Brzezinski said she was surprised some of the local anchors didn\'t refuse to read it."This looks like something we would mock the Russians for doing during the days of Pravda," said co-host Joe Scarborough.Dan Rather\'s website said that it was "sickening" to watch local journalists being forced to read something that trashes their own profession.Deadspin received a hat tip from HBO\'s John Oliver, whose "Last Week Tonight" did a lengthy story on Sinclair last season. "Nothing says \'we value independent media\' like dozens of reporters forced to repeat the same message over and over again, like members of a brainwashed cult," Oliver said.Burke said he\'s received a number of emails from people who work at Sinclair stations but he\'s been too busy at his regular job posting sports videos to look into them."I\'m glad it received a large audience," he said.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Despite advances the country has made since the Rev. Martin Luther King. Jr. was slain while fighting poverty and racism, "the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us," former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday.The remark was one of two thinly veiled references to President Donald Trump that Holder made during his appearance at a symposium on the first of three days of events commemorating the 50th anniversary of King\'s assassination.King was supporting striking sanitation workers when he came to Memphis in 1968. He was talking with friends on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel on April 4 when he was struck by a rifle bullet and killed.Museums, colleges and activists have organized three days of marches, speeches and conferences to remember King and his legacy. His daughter, Bernice King, and Holder toured a new King-centered photo exhibit at the National Civil Rights Museum later Monday.  She and her brother, Martin Luther King III, are scheduled to speak Tuesday at the Mason Temple."This is a very emotional time for me and my family," she said.Holder, the first black U.S. attorney general, spoke at a symposium sponsored by the University of Memphis and the museum. He was introduced by U.S. Sen. Doug Jones, an Alabama Democrat who won a special election in December.Holder said he is proud that the nation has made progress in the past 50 years achieving racial, social and economic justice. He said women, minorities, students against gun violence and members of the LGBTQ community have been inspired by King\'s nonviolent protests and have launched movements calling for "fairness, opportunity and justice."But in remarks that appeared to reference Trump without mentioning his name, Holder also noted that King\'s dream of equality for all has not been reached."We\'re still marching, we are still striving, and we\'re still calling on our nation\'s leaders to act with a sense of justice, compassion and common humanity," Holder said. "The unfortunate fact is that in 2018, America\'s long struggle to overcome injustice, to eliminate disparities and eradicate violence has not yet ended, and the age of bullies and bigots is not fully behind us."Holder said he has spoken with young people who feel lost in their own country and are "fearful that America\'s too-long-standing divisions are threatening to tear our nation apart."Holder said he is concerned with gun violence, the disproportional incarceration of young black men, and uneven educational opportunities for minorities. King\'s legacy includes the lesson that "it is necessary to be indignant, and to be impatient, so that it impels us to take action," Holder said.Holder said the "chief civil rights issue of our time" is ensuring minorities have equal voting rights."In many communities, our political system is far from fair," said Holder, who chairs the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a group that is pushing back against gerrymandered political districts nationwide. "It\'s been undermined by spurious and outright false claims of widespread voter fraud and by acts of voter suppression."Holder asked the crowd of hundreds to do more to help realize King\'s dream of racial and social equality and come together to "heal this divided nation.""As easy as it is, we must not look back to a past that was comforting to too few, and unjust to too many," Holder said.Then, in a reference to Trump\'s campaign slogan, he added: "That is not how we make America great."
WASHINGTON   First, the United States imposed a tax on Chinese steel and aluminum. Then, China counterpunched Monday with tariffs on a host of U.S. products, including apples, pork and ginseng.On Wall Street, the stock market buckled on the prospect of an all-out trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies. But it hasn\'t come to that  not yet, anyway."We\'re in a trade slap-fight right now," not a trade war, said Derek Scissors, resident scholar and China specialist at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.China is a relatively insignificant supplier of steel and aluminum to the United States. And the $3 billion in U.S. products that Beijing targeted Monday amount to barely 2 percent of American goods exported to China.But the dispute could escalate, and quickly. Already, in a separate move, the United States is drawing up a list of about $50 billion in Chinese imports to tax in an effort to punish Beijing for stealing American technology or forcing U.S. companies to hand over trade secrets.China could respond by targeting American commercial interests uniquely dependent on the Chinese market: the aircraft giant Boeing, for example, and soybean farmers.The possibility that the U.S. and China will descend into a full-blown trade war knocked the Dow Jones industrial average down as much as 758 points in afternoon trading. The Dow recovered some ground and finished down 458.92 points, or 1.9 percent, at 23,644.19.For weeks, in fact, President Donald Trump\'s aggressive trade actions have depressed the stock market.But many trade analysts suggested that the Wall Street sell-off may be an overreaction.China\'s swift but measured retaliation to the U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs is meant to show "that it will not be pushed around but that it does not want a trade war," said Amanda DeBusk, chair of the international trade department at the law firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed. "It is possible for the countries to pull back from the brink.""It seems to be pretty measured and proportional," agreed Wendy Cutler, a former U.S. trade official who is now vice president at the Asia Society Policy Institute. "They didn\'t seem to overreach, and they didn\'t hit our big-ticket items like planes and soybeans."Even if China\'s tariffs don\'t have a huge impact on America\'s $20 trillion economy, they will bring pain to specific communities.Take Marathon County in Wisconsin, where 140 local families grow ginseng, a root that is used in herbal remedies and is popular in Asia. Around $30 million  or 85 percent  of the area\'s ginseng production went to China as exports or gifts. The county, which gave Trump nearly 57 percent of its vote in 2016, holds an international ginseng festival in September, crowning a Ginseng Queen and drawing visitors from China and Taiwan.China\'s new 15 percent tariff on ginseng is "definitely going to hit the growers hard if this happens," said Jackie Fett, executive director of the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin. "It is the livelihood of many people. ... We\'re still holding on to a little bit of hope" that the tariffs can be reversed.Jim Schumacher, co-owner of Schumacher Ginseng in Marathon, Wisconsin, said the 15 percent tax will hurt: "You\'ve got to be price-competitive, even if you have the top-quality product. We\'re definitely concerned. We hope something can be resolved."Trump campaigned on a promise to overhaul American trade policy. In his view, what he calls flawed trade agreements and sharp-elbowed practices by China and other trading partners are in part responsible for America\'s gaping trade deficit  $566 billion last year. The deficit in the trade of goods with China last year hit a record $375 billion.In his first year in office, Trump\'s talk was tougher than his actions on trade. But he has gradually grown more aggressive. In January, he slapped tariffs on imported solar panels and washing machines. Last month, he imposed duties on steel and aluminum imports  but spared most major economies except China and Japan.Now he is moving toward steep tariffs to pressure Beijing into treating U.S. technology companies more fairly. In the meantime, his administration has lost two voices that cautioned against protectionist trade policies: Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and White House economic adviser Gary Cohn."Given the increasingly hostile rhetoric backed up by tangible trade sanctions already announced by both the U.S. and China, it will take a determined effort on both sides to come up with a mediated compromise that tamps down trade tensions and allows both sides to save face," said Eswar Prasad, professor of trade policy at Cornell University.If the dispute escalates, China can pick more vulnerable targets. In the year that ended last Aug. 31, America\'s soybean farmers, for instance, sent $12.4 billion worth of soybeans to China. That was 57 percent of total U.S. soybean exports.Brent Bible, a soybean and corn farmer in Lafayette, Indiana, has appeared in TV ads by the advocacy group Farmers for Free Trade, calling on the Trump administration to avoid a trade war."We\'re kind of caught in the crossfire," he said.___AP Writers Marcy Gordon in Washington and Doug Glass in Minneapolis contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration on Monday rejected an Obama-era plan to make automobiles more fuel efficient, opening up a long process to weaken current standards and putting California and the federal government on a collision course over vehicle emissions.Scott Pruitt, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said in a statement that the standards on model year 2022 to 2025 vehicles were not appropriate and should be revised.The Obama administration set the average fleet-wide fuel efficiency standards "too high" and "made assumptions about the standards that didn\'t comport with reality," Pruitt said. He did not offer specifics on revising them.The standards called for roughly doubling by 2025 the average fuel efficiency of new vehicles sold in the United States to about 50 miles (80 km) per gallon. Proponents said they could help spur innovation in clean technologies.California has long been allowed by an EPA waiver to impose stricter standards than Washington does on vehicle emissions of some pollutants. And 12 other states, including New York, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, follow California\'s lead on cleaner cars.That has set up a battle on vehicle efficiency between California, the most populous U.S. state and a massive car market, and the administration of President Donald Trump.Pruitt is a big proponent of states\' rights to regulate themselves, but opposes California\'s push for greener cars. California\'s waiver to impose its own efficiency standards is being re-examined, the EPA said.It is in "America\'s best interest to have a national standard," Pruitt said in the release.California Governor Jerry Brown blasted the EPA\'s action. "This cynical and meretricious abuse of power will poison our air and jeopardize the health of all Americans," Brown said.Mary Nichols, the head of the California Air Resources Board, said her state "will vigorously defend the existing clean vehicle standards."PATCHWORK OF RULESAuto industry executives have not publicly sought specific reductions in the requirements negotiated with the Obama administration in 2011 as part of a bailout deal. But they have urged Pruitt and Trump to revise the Obama standards so it becomes easier and less costly to meet complex targets, which vary depending on the size of vehicles and whether they are classified as cars or trucks.Automakers also want to avoid a patchwork of rules that would add costs to engine manufacturing."The best way to achieve our collective goals is under a single national program that provides an aggressive but achievable pathway, a variety of compliance tools, and factors in the role of customers," said John Bozzella, president and chief executive officer of the Association of Global Automakers.Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said Pruitt made the right decision and that the administration was working on a way to both increase fuel economy and "keep new vehicles affordable to more Americans."Changes to the standards could affect car manufacturers, including Ford Motor Co, General Motors Co and Tesla IncAuto suppliers were cautiously optimistic about the creation of a national fuel efficiency plan. Steve Handschuh, head of the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association, said while his group supports adjustments and flexibilities "we do not support significant changes to the standards."Environmentalists decried Pruitt\'s decision, saying stricter standards would slash emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Proponents of the corporate average fuel economy standards, or CAFE, say they have led to big gains in auto technology and that relaxing them could eventually hurt sales of U.S. cars in European and Asian countries that are moving toward mandates for electric cars.It would "take America backward by jeopardizing successful safeguards that are working to clean our air, save drivers money at the pump, and drive technological innovation that creates jobs," said Luke Tonachel, a clean vehicles advocate at the Natural Resources Defense Council.(Reporting by Timothy Gardner; Additional reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Leslie Adler, David Gregorio and Lisa Shumaker)
ANNAPOLIS, Md.   Maryland\'s governor must be more permissive of social media commenters who disagree with him under a settlement to resolve a lawsuit that accused him of censoring constituents by blocking them on Facebook, the American Civil Liberties Union said Monday.The settlement includes a $65,000 payment to the four plaintiffs and a revised social media policy for Republican Gov. Larry Hogan\'s social media accounts.The ACLU lawsuit alleged the plaintiffs\' First Amendment rights had been violated when Hogan blocked them from his official Facebook page or deleted their comments.The lawsuit was one of several filed over the past year against high-profile elected officials across the country, including President Donald Trump, accusing them of blocking constituents on social media.Hogan\'s new social media policy states that he "does not discriminate based on viewpoint" but may remove comments for reasons including profanity or threats of violence. The policy governs Hogan\'s Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat and YouTube accounts.Hogan and two aides named as defendants don\'t admit wrongdoing under the settlement."Ultimately, it was much better for Maryland taxpayers to resolve this, than to continue wasting everyone\'s time and resources in court," Shareese Churchill, a spokeswoman for Hogan, said Monday.The lawsuit cited a February 2017 Washington Post story that said Hogan and his staff had blocked 450 people from the Facebook page since the time he took office in January 2015.The governor\'s office has previously said comments were deleted or people were blocked because of spam or offensive content.Janice Lepore, one of the plaintiffs in the Maryland lawsuit, said in a statement that she joined the governor\'s Facebook page to learn about his positions on education issues. When it became clear they disagreed, she said she sought to engage in a social media conversation. She was blocked, according to the lawsuit."It never occurred to me that the Governor, or his staff, would seek to prohibit me from engaging in conversations in a public forum, simply because my opinions differ from their positions. ... I hope this settlement will promote greater access and engagement for all Maryland citizens," Lepore said.The settlement was approved by the state\'s Board of Public Works, a three-member panel that includes the governor, comptroller and treasurer, and now must be fully implemented within 14 days, according to the ACLU.
BEIRUT   The Latest on the Syria conflict (all times local):10:15 p.m.The Russian military says rebels are leaving the town of Douma in the suburbs of Damascus.Maj. Gen. Yuri Yevtushenko, of the Russian military\'s Reconciliation Center in Syria, said Monday that 1,146 rebels and their relatives have left Douma, in the eastern Ghouta suburbs, for the northern province of Idlib over the past 24 hours.Yevtushenko said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies that a total of 30,376 people have left Douma since Wednesday.The Syrian government and the Russian military backing it have demanded that the Army of Islam rebel group leave the area for northern Syria, following a devastating five-week government offensive in eastern Ghouta.The Russian military said the rebels will surrender maps of mined areas and underground tunnels when they leave Douma.___2:15 p.m.Russia\'s top diplomat says he is encouraged by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s talk of reducing the U.S. military presence in Syria.Trump said at an event in Ohio last week that the United States would be pulling out of Syria "very soon" despite the fact that that the State Department had been insisting for months that the U.S. needs to remain engaged there.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told reporters on Monday that Moscow is concerned that the United States has been "gaining a serious foothold" on the east bank of the Euphrates River despite Trump\'s earlier promises that the U.S. would leave when the Islamic State group is defeated. Lavrov said Trump\'s latest remarks show that "at least he is committed" to his original statements.Russia has been a key backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad, ultimately helping to turn the tide of the devastating civil war in his favor. The United States helped Kurdish-led forces drive IS from much of northern and eastern Syria, and has hundreds of troops embedded with them.___11:50 a.m.Syrian state media say the largest rebel group in Damascus\' eastern Ghouta, the Army of Islam, has begun to evacuate from the area\'s last holdout town. The government is waiting for the rebels to leave the besieged town of Douma, just east of Damascus, before it can say it has full control of the area, after seven years of revolt. Douma is the last town to hold out against government forces in the once rebel-held suburbs.The SANA news agency says two buses carrying the rebels left Douma on Monday morning, heading for Jarablus, a town in north Syria shared between rebels and Turkish forces.There was no immediate comment from the Army of Islam. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group also reported the rebels\' leaving Douma.
(Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department on Monday sought court permission to participate in settlement negotiations aimed at resolving lawsuits by state and local governments against opioid manufacturers and distributors.The Justice Department said in a brief it wanted to participate in talks overseen by a federal judge in Cleveland as a "friend of the court" that would provide information to help craft non-monetary remedies to combat the opioid crisis."We are determined to see that justice is done in this case and that ultimately we end this nation\'s unprecedented drug crisis," U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement.Last month, the Justice Department asked U.S. District Judge Dan Polster for 30 days to decide whether to participate in the litigation given the costs the federal government had incurred because of the opioid epidemic.According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, opioids were involved in over 42,000 overdose deaths in 2016. U.S. President Donald Trump has called for litigation against companies over their roles in the opioid epidemic.But Monday\'s brief signaled that the Justice Department would not be seeking to participate as an active litigant in the litigation before Polster, who is overseeing at least 433 opioid-related lawsuits brought primarily by cities and counties.The lawsuits generally accuse drugmakers of deceptively marketing opioids and allege distributors ignored red flags indicating the painkillers were being diverted for improper uses. The defendants have denied wrongdoing.Polster has been pushing for a global settlement and has invited state attorneys general who have cases and probes not before him to participate in the negotiations.The defendants include drugmakers Purdue Pharma LP, Johnson & Johnson, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Endo International PLC and Allergan PLC and distributors AmerisourceBergen Corp, Cardinal Health Inc and McKesson Corp.In Monday\'s brief, the Justice Department said that while it was pursuing opioid-related criminal and civil cases, it would not be proper to consolidate them with the lawsuits before Polster.Nevertheless, it said the federal government could provide information to assist in crafting a settlement.The Justice Department noted the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration had already agreed to produce data on the names and market shares of opioid manufacturers and distributors in each state.The department said it also had an interest in facilitating discussions about the parties\' "legal obligations" given the federal government\'s own substantial financial stake in fighting the epidemic.(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by Tom Brown and Peter Cooney)
BEIJING   China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products Monday in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.The government of President Xi Jinping said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. But that is just one facet of sprawling tensions with Washington, Europe and Japan over a state-led economic model they complain hampers market access, protects Chinese companies and subsidizes exports in violation of Beijing\'s free-trade commitments.Already, companies are looking ahead to a bigger fight over U.S. President Donald Trump\'s approval of higher duties on up to $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Forecasters say the impact of Monday\'s move should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if other governments respond by raising import barriers.On Monday, the main stock market indexes in Tokyo and Shanghai ended the day down.The tariffs "signal a most unwelcome development, which is that countries are becoming protectionist," said economist Taimur Baig of DBS Group. But in commercial terms, they are "not very substantial" compared with China\'s $150 billion in annual imports of U.S. goods, he said.Monday\'s tariff increase will hit American farm states, many of which voted for Trump in 2016.Beijing is imposing a 25 percent tariff on U.S. pork and aluminum scrap and 15 percent on sparkling wine, steel pipe used by oil and gas companies, and an array of fruits and nuts including apples, walnuts and grapes.American farm exports to China in 2017 totaled nearly $20 billion, including $1.1 billion of pork products.There was no indication whether Beijing might exempt Chinese-owned American suppliers such as Smithfield Foods, the biggest U.S. pork producer, which is ramping up exports to China.The U.S. tariff hike has "has seriously damaged our interests," the Finance Ministry said in a statement."Our country advocates and supports the multilateral trading system," it said. China\'s tariff increase "is a proper measure adopted by our country using World Trade Organization rules to protect our interests," the statement said.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Monday on the television show "Fox and Friends" that Trump was "going to fight back and he\'s going to push back."Deputy Press Secretary Lindsay Walters said China\'s "subsidization and continued overcapacity" were the root cause of low steel prices that have hurt U.S. producers."Instead of targeting fairly traded U.S. exports, China needs to stop its unfair trading practices which are harming U.S. national security and distorting global markets," Walters said.The United States buys little Chinese steel and aluminum, but analysts said Beijing was certain to retaliate, partly to show its toughness ahead of possible bigger disputes.Chinese officials have said Beijing is willing to negotiate, but in a confrontation will "fight to the end.""China has already prepared for the worst," said Liu Yuanchun, executive dean of the National Academy of Development Strategy at Renmin University in Beijing. "The two sides, therefore, should sit down and negotiate."The dispute reflects the clash between Trump\'s promise to narrow the U.S. trade surplus with China  a record $375.2 billion last year  and Beijing\'s ambitious plans to develop Chinese industry and technology.Last July, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin complained the Chinese government\'s dominant role in China\'s economy was to blame for its yawning trade surplus.State-owned companies dominate Chinese industries including oil and gas, telecoms, banking, coal mining, utilities and airlines. They benefit from monopolies and low-cost access to energy, land and bank loans.The ruling Communist Party promised in 2013 to give market forces the "decisive role" in allocating resources. But at the same time, Xi has affirmed plans to build up state industries the party says are the central pillar of the economy."The thing that is going to be more challenging for Beijing is if the U.S., European Union and Japan get together and start taking measures on state-owned enterprises," said Baig. "That for me would be an escalation, whereas product-by-product back and forth, amounting to a few billion dollars here or there, is not a major substantive concern."Foreign governments also accuse Beijing of violating free trade by requiring automakers and other foreign companies to work through state-owned Chinese partners. That requires them to give technology to potential competitors.Last month, a U.S. official cited as "hugely problematic" Beijing\'s sweeping plan to create Chinese competitors in electric cars, robots, advanced manufacturing and other fields over the next decade. Business groups complain that strategy, dubbed "Made in China 2025," will limit or outright block access to those industries.The country\'s top economic official, Premier Li Keqiang, promised at a news conference on March 20 there will be "no mandatory requirement for technology transfers." However, Chinese officials already deny foreign companies are required to hand over technology, leaving it unclear how policy might change.Trump ordered U.S. trade officials on March 22 to bring a WTO case challenging Chinese technology licensing. It proposed 25 percent tariffs on Chinese products including aerospace, communications technology and machinery and said Washington will step up restrictions on Chinese investment in key U.S. technology sectors.Beijing has yet to say how it might respond.Trump administration officials have identified as potential targets 1,300 product lines worth about $48 billion. That list will be open to a 30-day comment period for businesses.The volleys of threats are "a process of game-playing to test each other\'s bottom lines," said Tu Xinquan, a trade expert at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing."We are curious about what the U.S. side really wants," said Tu, "and wonder whether the United States can tolerate the consequences."___Associated Press writers Catherine Lucey and Darlene Superville in Washington and researcher Yu Bing in Beijing contributed to this report.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce announcement (in Chinese with link to list of affected products): http://gss.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/zhengcefabu/201804/t20180401_2857769.html
MEXICO CITY   President Donald Trump is warning about "caravans" of migrants heading to the U.S., though the caravan of Central American migrants supposedly moving across Mexico toward the border was strikingly immobile Monday.The group of about 1,100 people, most of them Hondurans, had been walking along roadsides and train tracks, but they have stopped to camp out at a sports field in the southern Mexico state of Oaxaca. They are waiting and getting advice on filing for transit or humanitarian visas in Mexico.Many headed to the field\'s stands to shelter under the awning from the hot afternoon sun. As night fell, the migrants, many with children, lit fires to cook their meager rations.While a group of about a couple of hundred men in the march broke off and hopped a freight train north on Sunday  probably to try to enter the United States  the rest seem unlikely to move until Wednesday or Thursday. Those are probably going to take buses to the last scheduled stop for the caravan, a migrant rights symposium in central Puebla state.Irineo Mujica, director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, the activist group behind the annual symbolic event, said the caravan would continue only to the city of Puebla southeast of Mexico City, "but not in a massive way." After the symposium, some migrants may continue to Mexico\'s capital, where it is easier to make an asylum claim. Mujica said about 300 to 400 of the migrants say they have relatives living in Mexico and so may consider staying here at least temporarily.While there were reports Mexico was seeking to end the caravan, it was for all intents and purposes over. The participants were never equipped to march en masse to the U.S. border or anywhere near it. No one was walking late Monday, and Mexican immigration agents showed up offering people help in signing up for various kinds of transit and humanitarian visas. The large number of children present made any move against the camp unlikely.It was all pretty undramatic  especially compared to 2013 and 2014, when migrants jammed Mexican trains heading north  but Trump\'s angry tweets raised hackles in Mexico."Mexico is doing very little, if not NOTHING, at stopping people from flowing into Mexico through their Southern Border, and then into the U.S. They laugh at our dumb immigration laws. They must stop the big drug and people flows, or I will stop their cash cow, NAFTA. NEED WALL!" Trump wrote in one. "With all of the money they make from the U.S., hopefully they will stop people from coming through their country and into ours."Mexico\'s interior secretary, Alfonso Navarrete Prida, rejected such pressure."We will act with complete sovereignty in enforcing our laws," Navarrete Prida said Monday. "Of course we will act ... to enforce our immigration laws, with no pressure whatsoever from any country whatsoever."In a statement issued late Monday, Mexico\'s government said about 400 participants in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries. "Under no circumstances does the Mexican government promote irregular migration," the Interior Ministry statement said.It noted that Mexico considers the annual caravans to be "a public demonstration that seeks to call attention to the migration phenomenon and the importance of respecting the rights of Central Americans." The U.S. government has been kept fully informed of the situation, it said.The department also said that unlike in previous years of the caravan, "this time Mexican immigration authorities have offered refugee status" to participants who qualify. But it suggested it is not up to Mexico to keep people from going to the U.S. to apply for asylum."It is not this government\'s responsibility to make immigration decisions for the United States or any other country, so it will be up to the appropriate authorities of the United States to decide whether to authorize the entry of the caravan participants to U.S. territory," it said.Navarette Prida had said earlier that he talked with U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on Monday. "We agreed to analyze the best means to handle flows of migration, in accordance with each country\'s laws," Navarrete Prida wrote in his Twitter account.Nielsen later tweeted that their talk was focused specifically on the annual migrant caravan. "Working with Mexican officials to address the yearly illegal alien caravan. Exploring all options," she wrote.The "Stations of the Cross" migrant caravans have been held in southern Mexico for about 10 years. They began as short processions of migrants, some dressed in biblical garb and carrying crosses, as an Easter-season protest against the kidnappings, extortion, beatings and killings suffered by many Central American migrants as they cross Mexico.The organized portions of the caravans usually don\'t proceed much farther north than the Gulf coast state of Veracruz. Some migrants, moving as individuals or in smaller groups, often take buses or trucks from there to the U.S. border.Mexico routinely stops and deports Central Americans, sometimes in numbers that rival those of the United States. Deportations of foreigners dropped from 176,726 in 2015 to 76,433 in 2017, in part because fewer were believed to have come to Mexico, and more were requesting asylum in Mexico.Mexico granted 3,223 asylum requests made in 2016, and 9,626 requests filed last year are either under review or have been accepted.
CAIRO   Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has been re-elected with 97 percent of votes, the same proportion that the former military commander secured four years ago for his first term but with a lower turnout, official results showed on Monday.Turnout was 41 percent, despite efforts to get as many Egyptians as possible to polling stations during last week\'s vote. Sisi had been virtually guaranteed a landslide win, confirmed by early tallies as voting ended on Wednesday.The election featured only one other candidate - himself an ardent Sisi supporter - after all serious opposition contenders halted their campaigns in January. The main challenger was arrested and his campaign manager beaten up, while other presidential hopefuls pulled out, citing intimidation.Sisi said he had wanted more candidates to run and that he had nothing to do with the opposition withdrawals.The election commission said the vote was held according to the "highest international standards of integrity and transparency" as it read out the results in a televised announcement.Sisi won 21.8 million votes compared with 656,534 for his opponent, Moussa Mostafa Moussa, whose tally was less than the 1.8 million spoiled ballots."The sight of Egyptian citizens from all walks of society lining up was impressive and inspiring," Sisi said in a speech to the nation.Thousands of Egyptians waving flags celebrated the victory in several of the country\'s governorates just after the results.Critics have said the lower turnout is a potential setback for Sisi, who suggested before the vote that he saw it as a referendum on his presidency rather than a genuine contest. Turnout in the 2014 vote was 47 percent.The election has revealed "obvious problems related to participation and the reluctance of young people (to vote)", said a statement from politician Mohamed Anwar Sadat, a candidate who withdrew in January citing intimidation of his supporters.State media had portrayed failure to vote as a betrayal of Egypt. Some voters said they were offered incentives to cast their ballots including money and food, local and international media reported, but did not say who had made the offers.Officials said that if any such incidents took place they were not state-sponsored and extremely limited.CRITICISMCritics say former general Sisi\'s popularity has been eroded amid tough economic reforms, which have left most Egyptians worse off, and also an unprecedented crackdown on dissent.His supporters say those measures are needed to stabilise the country, which faces a stubborn Islamic State insurgency in the northern Sinai Peninsula and which was rocked by unrest after the 2011 uprising that ousted veteran leader Hosni Mubarak.Sisi led the 2013 military overthrow of Egypt\'s first freely-elected president, Mohamed Mursi of the Muslim Brotherhood, after protests against Mursi. Sisi swept to victory in an election a year later with 97 percent of the vote.The United Nations expressed concern over the crackdown on dissent, including the media, which took place before last week\'s vote.In a call to Sisi on Monday, U.S. President Donald Trump expressed his "sincere congratulations" and said the United States was keen on strengthening strategic relations, according to Egyptian state news agency MENA.Trump has been a strong supporter of Sisi, describing him as a "fantastic guy" and inviting him to the White House, something former president Barack Obama had never done.British foreign minister Boris Johnson appeared to strike a more cautious tone, writing on Twitter: "Look forward to working with President Sisis government in his 2nd constitutional term. Egypt has an opportunity over next 4 years to build a prosperous & democratic society, building on rights set out in 2014 constitution".Sisi\'s main Western and regional allies have been mostly silent over alleged human rights abuses in Egypt.The U.S. State Department said it had noted "reports of constraints on freedoms of expression and association in the run-up to the elections" and "will continue to encourage a broadening of opportunities for political participation for Egyptians, and emphasize the importance of the protection of human rights and the vital role of civil society in Egypt."Russia congratulated Sisi on his election win ahead of the official results, and regional ally King Salman of Saudi Arabia called Sisi on Monday to express support, saying his victory came as a result of strong efforts to combat terrorism.(Reporting by John Davison, Ahmed Tolba, Nadine Awadalla, Omar Fahmy and Eric Knecht; Editing by Giles Elgood and Robin Pomeroy)
WASHINGTON   U.S. factory activity slowed in March amid shortages of skilled workers and rising capacity constraints, but growth in the manufacturing sector remains underpinned by strong domestic and global economies.The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) survey published on Monday also showed a surge in the cost of raw materials and worries among manufacturers about the impact of steel and aluminium import tariffs imposed by President Donald Trump last month to shield domestic industries from what he has described as unfair competition from other countries."Demand remains robust, but the nation\'s employment resources and supply chains are still struggling to keep up," said Timothy Fiore, chair of ISM\'s manufacturing business survey committee.The ISM said its index of national factory activity slipped to a reading of 59.3 last month from 60.8 in February. A reading above 50 in the ISM index indicates growth in manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the U.S. economy.The survey\'s prices index jumped to its highest level since April 2011. There were price increases across 17 of 18 industry sectors last month. While a measure of new orders dropped, a gauge of backlog orders rose to levels last seen in May 2004.The survey\'s customers\' inventories index was at its lowest level since July 2011. A measure of factory employment dropped last month and the ISM said there were indications that labour and skill shortages were affecting production.Seventeen industries including fabricated metal products, computer and electronic products, machinery, and chemical products reported growth last month. Apparel, leather and allied products was the only industry reporting a decrease.EYES ON TARIFFSMachinery manufacturers said the tariffs on steel and aluminium imports were "causing panic buying, driving the near-term prices higher and leading to inventory shortages for non-contract customers."Manufacturers of miscellaneous products reported that "new tariffs are causing concern across the supply chain. Full impact will take a few weeks to reveal itself." Primary metal producers reported "significant price increases in the steel commodity" as a result of the tariffs.Trump slapped 25 percent tariffs on steel imports and 10 percent for aluminium in early March. Fiore said 42 percent of survey comments in March were related to prices and tariffs.U.S. financial markets were little moved by the data, with investors worrying about a global trade war after China increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 American products in response to the duties on aluminium and steel imports.Stocks on Wall Street were trading sharply lower and the dollar fell against a basket of currencies. U.S. government bond prices rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to a near two-month low.Still, the outlook for manufacturing remains upbeat amid  dollar weakness, which is boosting the competitiveness of American-made goods on the international market."The near-term prospects for the manufacturing sector and the broader economy still appear brighter than they have been at any point over the past five years," said Michael Pearce, an economist at Capital Economics in New York.A separate report from the Commerce Department on Monday showed construction spending edged up 0.1 percent in February after being unchanged in January. February\'s marginal increase in construction spending supports economists expectations for a slowdown in economic growth in the first quarter.Gross domestic product growth estimates for the January-March quarter are mostly below a 2 percent annualised rate. The economy grew at a 2.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter.Construction spending in February was held back by a 2.1 percent drop in outlays on public construction projects, which almost reversed January\'s 2.3 percent rise.Spending on federal government construction projects plunged 11.9 percent, the biggest decline since October 2004, after surging 13.4 percent in January.State and local government construction outlays fell 1.0 percent after rising 1.3 percent in January. The drop in public construction spending dwarfed a 0.7 percent rise in investment in private construction projects."We expect only limited gains in public construction spending this year, based on the budget constraints at the state and local level," said Gregory Daco, chiefU.S. economist at Oxford Economics in New York.(Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Additional reporting by Richard Leong;  Editing by Andrea Ricci)

CAIRO   Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi has won a second, four-year term in office, with more than 97 percent of the vote in last week\'s election, according to official results announced Monday by the election commission, which put turnout at 41.05 percent.El-Sissi faced no serious challenger in the March 26-28 vote, after a string of potentially strong candidates withdrew under pressure or were arrested. His sole opponent, little-known politician Moussa Mustafa Moussa, was a supporter of the president who made no effort to challenge him.Moussa, won less than 3 percent of the vote, and far less than the 1.76 million invalid ballots cast.In a televised address, el-Sissi thanked voters and promised to work for all Egyptians, saying "those who renewed their trust in me and gave me their votes are no different from those who did otherwise.""Egypt is large enough for all Egyptians, so long as our differences of opinion do not adversely affect the nation," said el-Sissi, who has often insisted that the country\'s stability must come before the expansion of political freedoms.Mentioning Moussa by name for the first time since the French-educated politician joined the race in January, el-Sissi thanked him for the "patriotic, honorable and civilized competition" he and his campaign had shown.Moussa had earlier congratulated el-Sissi and defended his decision to enter the race at the last minute, which critics had suggested was aimed at sparing the government the embarrassment of a one-candidate race."I only had Egypt in mind," Moussa said. "Those who criticized me had ulterior motives against the country. They wanted it to be a referendum, but I turned it into a free and open election."The vote\'s result and the absence of any meaningful competition between the two candidates harkened back to the yes-or-no referendums held by Egypt\'s autocratic leaders in the decades before the 2011 uprising raised hopes of democratic change.U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian leader Vladimir Putin separately called el-Sissi to congratulate him.A White House account of the call makes no indication of whether Trump raised concerns about the conduct of the vote. Earlier Monday, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said the U.S. "noted reports of constraints on freedoms of expression and association in the run-up to the elections."El-Sissi led the 2013 military overthrow of Egypt\'s first freely elected leader, the Islamist Mohammed Morsi, whose divisive rule had sparked mass protests. El-Sissi has since overseen a sweeping crackdown on dissent, jailing thousands of Islamists and several prominent secular activists, and rolling back most of the freedoms won in the 2011 uprising.El-Sissi has enacted ambitious economic reforms, including subsidy cuts and the floatation of the local currency, that have won international praise but exacted a heavy toll on ordinary Egyptians. Egypt has meanwhile struggled to contain an insurgency based in the northern Sinai that gained strength after Morsi\'s overthrow and is now led by the Islamic State group.Thousands of supporters took to the streets in Cairo and other cities soon after the results were announced to celebrate el-Sissi\'s victory, waving flags and dancing to patriotic songs. Hundreds were in Cairo\'s iconic Tahrir square, birthplace of the 2011 uprising, shortly before nightfall.With the outcome of the election a foregone conclusion, authorities went to great lengths to boost turnout, using their vast resources to get voters out and threatening on the third and final day of the election to fine anyone boycotting the vote."The election was an epic of love dedicated to Egypt," said Lasheen Ibrahim, the head of the election commission, who announced the official results. "It was an epic that embodied the struggle of the people for justice, dignity and democracy."Addressing voters, Ibrahim said: "You proved your love for Egypt and that you were and still are behind your country. Your participation was not in response to either promises or threats, but rather motived only by your love for Egypt."He also congratulated el-Sissi, saying "we pray for God\'s support for you in ruling Egypt."___This story has been corrected to show that official turnout was 41.05 percent, not 41.5 percent.
BEIRUT   The last Syrian rebel group in eastern Ghouta near Damascus began withdrawing on Monday under an agreement with the government, state media said, though a military source said a group of insurgents were still rejecting the deal.Jaish al-Islam, which has been defending the eastern Ghouta town of Douma against a ferocious onslaught by Russian-backed Syrian government forces, has not confirmed the agreement with the government.If confirmed, the departure of Jaish al-Islam from Douma would mark the end of the war for eastern Ghouta, wiping out an opposition stronghold near Damascus and underlining President Bashar al-Assad\'s unassailable position in the war.It will mark his biggest victory over rebels fighting to unseat him since the recovery of eastern Aleppo in 2016.Indicating divisions in Jaish al-Islam, a Syrian military source told Reuters some of the fighters were rejecting the deal and the army would use force unless they accepted it."They will all have to agree to the settlement in the end," the source said.Syrian state TV said eight buses carrying 448 people - fighters and their families - had left Douma so far on Monday, en route for the north. State media has said the rebels are due to go to areas near the Turkish-Syrian border that are controlled by opposition groups.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the war, said dozens of buses had entered Douma early on Monday in readiness to evacuate the rebels and their families to the northern towns of Jarablus and al-Bab, near the Turkish border.The towns are located in a section of the Turkish-Syrian frontier where Turkey has carved out a buffer zone controlled on the ground by its military and allied fighters from Free Syrian Army rebel groups that are hostile to Assad.RETAKING CONTROLUnder the deal, Syrian state media said Jaish al-Islam would hand over heavy and medium-sized weapons and acknowledge the restoration of the Damascus government\'s control of Douma.The government lost control of Douma, the largest urban center in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, in the early phase of Syria\'s civil war, now in its eighth year.Thousands of rebels, their families and other civilians have already departed other parts of eastern Ghouta for Idlib province, another insurgent-held area of northern Syria.Tens of thousands more people have fled to shelters in government-held territory near Ghouta.The government offensive on Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Observatory. The government says it is restoring security to Damascus, which was regularly shelled from eastern Ghouta during the war.Assad, who has military support from Iran and Russia, now controls the bulk of Syria, though it may be difficult for him to recover much more territory without risking a collision with other foreign powers that have forces inside the country.The second largest chunk of Syrian territory is controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces, an alliance of militias spearheaded by the Syrian Kurdish YPG and supported by the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State.U.S. President Donald Trump added fresh uncertainty to the outlook for the conflict last week by indicating that the United States would soon be leaving Syria.Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria, two senior administration officials said on Friday, a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.Turkey, alarmed by the growth of Kurdish influence in Syria, has recently expanded its foothold in the north of the country by seizing the northwestern Afrin region from the YPG, supported by Turkey-backed Syrian militias.Rebels also still control a significant chunk of territory on the frontiers with Jordan and Israel, which are both anxious about the growth of Iranian influence in Syria.(Reporting by Dahlia Nehme; additional reporting by Firas Makdessi, editing by Tom Perry/Gareth Jones)
BEIJING   China has increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, from frozen pork and wine to certain fruits and nuts, escalating a dispute between the world\'s biggest economies in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel.The tariffs, which take effect on Monday, were announced late on Sunday by China\'s finance ministry and matched a list of possible tariffs on up to $3 billion in U.S. goods published by China on March 23.Soon after the announcement, an editorial in the widely read Global Times newspaper warned that if the United States had thought China would not retaliate or would only take symbolic countermeasures, it could "say goodbye to that delusion"."Even though China and the U.S. have not publicly said they are in a trade war, the sparks of such a war have already started to fly," the newspaper said.The Ministry of Commerce said it was suspending its obligations to the World Trade Organization (WTO) to reduce tariffs on 120 U.S. goods, including fruit and ethanol. The tariffs on those products will be raised by an extra 15 percent.Eight other products, including pork and scrap aluminum, would now be subject to additional tariffs of 25 percent, it said, with the measures effective starting April 2."China\'s suspension of its tariff concessions is a legitimate action adopted under WTO rules to safeguard China\'s interests," the finance ministry said.China is moving swiftly with retaliatory action amid escalating trade tension with the United States, which has rocked global financial markets in the past week as investors fear a full-blown trade dispute between the two economic superpowers will damage world growth.In response to China\'s move, Washington said Beijing\'s subsidies and overcapacity were behind the action on steel."Instead of targeting fairly traded U.S. exports, China needs to stop its unfair trading practices which are harming U.S national security and distorting global markets, White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters said in a statement.MORE TARIFFS COMING FROM WASHINGTONU.S. President Donald Trump is separately preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act.The U.S. administration says China has systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations China denies.About the Section 301 investigation, China had "yet to unsheathe its sword," the official Xinhua news agency said.Sometime this week, the Trump administration is expected to unveil a list of Chinese goods that could be subjected to new U.S. tariffs.U.S. technology industry officials said they expected the list to target products that benefit from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" program, which aims to upgrade the domestic manufacturing base with more advanced products.China has repeatedly promised to open its economy further, but many foreign companies complain of unfair treatment. China warned the United States on Thursday not to open a Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe."There are some people in the West who think that China looks tough for the sake of a domestic audience, and would easily make concessions," the Global Times said."But they are wrong."The Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily reflect government policy.Reaction to China\'s measures varied on social media, with some saying Chinese customers would be the ones to ultimately pay for a trade war."Why not directly target soybean and planes? The tariffs that China announced today don\'t sound a lot to me," said a user on the Weibo microblog platform.Aircraft and soybeans were China\'s biggest U.S. imports by value last year.In a statement published on Monday morning, the commerce ministry said the United States had "seriously violated" the principles of nondiscrimination enshrined in World Trade Organization rules, and had also damaged China\'s interests."China\'s suspension of some of its obligations to the United States is its legitimate right as a member of the World Trade Organization," it said, adding that differences should be resolved through negotiation.Weibo prominently featured the list of U.S. goods that China is targeting among the day\'s "hot" trending topics."I will never buy fruit from the U.S.," a Weibo user wrote.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe; additional reporting by David Stanway in Shanghai and Stella Qiu and Lusha Zhang in Beijing; additional Writing by Ryan Woo; editing by Eric Meijer, Shri Navaratnam and Jonathan Oatis)
KUALA LUMPUR   Malaysia on Monday approved a law against "fake news" that would allow for prison of up to six years for offenders, shrugging off critics who say it was aimed at curbing dissent and free speech ahead of a general election.Prime Minister Najib Razak\'s government secured a simple majority in parliament to pass the Anti-Fake News 2018 bill, which sets out fines of up to 500,000 ringgit ($123,000) and a maximum six years in jail. The first draft of the bill had proposed jail of up to 10 years.The government said the law would not impinge on freedom of speech and cases under it would be handled through an independent court process."This law aims to protect the public from the spread of fake news, while allowing freedom of speech as provided for under the constitution," Law Minister Azalina Othman Said told parliament.The law defines fake news as news, information, data and reports which is or are wholly or partly false and includes features, visuals and audio recordings.It covers digital publications and social media and will  apply to offenders who maliciously spread "fake news" inside and outside Malaysia, including foreigners, if Malaysia or a Malaysian citizen were affected.Co-opted by U.S. President Donald Trump, the term "fake news" has quickly become part of the standard repertoire of leaders in authoritarian countries to describe media reports and organizations critical of them.The U.N. Special Rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression, David Kaye, had earlier on Monday urged the government not to rush the legislation through parliament."I urge the government to reconsider the bill and open it up to regular and genuine public scrutiny before taking any further steps," David Kaye said in a Twitter post.OTHERS CONSIDER LAWSOther countries in Southeast Asia, including Singapore and the Philippines, are considering how to tackle "fake news" but human rights activists fear that laws against it could be used to stifle free speech.Malaysia is among the first few countries to introduce a law against it. Germany approved a plan last year to fine social media networks if they fail to remove hateful postings.Malaysia already has an arsenal of laws, including a colonial-era Sedition Act, that have been used to clamp down on unfavorable news and social media posts.News reports and social media posts on a multi-billion dollar scandal at state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) have hounded Prime Minister Najib, who faces arguably his toughest contest in a general election this year that could be called in days.Najib has denied any wrongdoing in connection with losses at the fund.A deputy minister was quoted in media last month as saying any news on 1MDB not verified by the government was "fake".Lim Kit Siang, a senior opposition lawmaker with the Democratic Action Party, described the bill as a "Save Najib from 1MDB Scandal Bill" which would criminalize news on the affair.(Reporting by Joseph Sipalan; Writing by Praveen Menon; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SYDNEY   Asian shares slipped on Tuesday amid escalating trade tensions and worries over the fading outlook for global tech giants, but investors held their nerves to focus instead on prospects for stronger world growth.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.4 percent on Tuesday, compared with losses of more than 2 percent on each of the three Wall Street indices overnight.The U.S. dollar steadied against the safe haven yen after declining for three straight days and gold, which is often seen as a store of value during times of financial or political uncertainty, inched lower.U.S. Treasuries saw a bit of selling too with yields on 10-year notes off two-month lows.Meanwhile, E-Mini futures for the S&P 500 climbed 0.4 percent and Dow futures were also up 0.2 percent."Markets are being supported by global growth, most indicators that have come out recently are pretty solid," said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based chief investment strategist at AMP Capital."Asian investors have looked at the noise recently and said \'well there is nothing really new in all this\'," Oliver added. "Cool heads are prevailing."Asian shares were mostly in the red, albeit off early lows.Japan\'s Nikkei was down 0.9 percent, having gone as deep as 1.6 percent at the open. China\'s Shanghai Composite index eased 0.4 percent and the blue-chip CSI300 was off 0.7 percent.Technology shares were hit hard on Monday after U.S. President Donald Trump attacked Amazon.com over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.The selling added to what has been a rough patch for technology shares this year. Facebook, Apple and some of their peers had a woeful last quarter as investors reassessed high U.S. stock valuations in light of a cocktail of negative factors.So called FANG stocks - Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google - have been largely responsible for a multi-year bull run in world shares, although the threat of government regulation has raised worries about their outlook.Investors were also on the backfoot as China imposed extra tariffs on 128 U.S. products, deepening a dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies and stoking concerns about the impact on global growth.China\'s tit-for-tat tariffs hurt the U.S. dollar, although it saw some buying during early Asian trading on Tuesday to last trade at 105.88 yen, from a three-week peak of 107.01.The dollar index was still a shade softer against a basket of currencies.Oil prices ticked higher after falling more than 3.7 percent on Monday although rising Russian output and the escalating U.S.-China trade dispute still weighed. [O/R]Brent crude inched 16 cents higher to $67.80 a barrel. U.S. crude rose 13 cents to $63.14.Spot gold ticked lower to $1,338.91.(Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Jacqueline Wong)
NEW YORK   Wall Street shares plunged on Monday as investors fled technology stocks amid resurgent trade war worries, with key indexes trading below their 200-day moving averages and the S&P 500 closing below that pivotal technical level for the first time since Britain\'s vote to leave the European Union in June 2016.The first trading day of the second quarter began with a broad selloff concentrated in the technology and consumer discretionary sectors, as losses by Amazon.com, Tesla and Microsoft, among others, took center stage from retaliatory trade measures China unveiled on Sunday.With the S&P 500 in a 10 percent correction from its record high in late January, investors were increasingly concerned a nine-year bull market might be in danger of ending."Its more complicated than just a tech selloff. What\'s hurting everything is that the S&P went through its 200-day moving average," said Brian Battle, director of trading at Performance Trust Capital Partners in Chicago. "That attracts momentum sellers and they don\'t care what the fundamentals are."The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 458.92 points, or 1.9 percent, to end at 23,644.19 after dipping below its 200-day moving average. The S&P 500 fell 58.99 points, or 2.23 percent, to 2,581.88 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 193.33 points, or 2.74 percent, to 6,870.12.Amazon.com was the biggest drag on the S&P 500, down 5.2 percent, as President Donald Trump continued his twitter attacks on the online retailer.All 11 major sectors of the S&P 500 closed lower, with the biggest losses seen by the consumer discretionary and technology indexes, which were down 2.8 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively.The tech-heavy Nasdaq was dragged lower by Microsoft, Intel, Apple Inc, Facebook and Alphabet.Shares of Tesla Inc ended the day down 5.1 percent after the company was reported to be making 2,000 Model 3s per week, missing its 2,500 target.The electric automaker\'s losses extend last week\'s near 14-percent decline as investigations of a fatal California crash and a Moody\'s credit downgrade weighed on the stock.Health insurer Humana Inc\'s shares closed up 4.4 percent on news it was in talks with Walmart to expand their partnership or possibly be acquired by the retailer. Walmart stock fell 3.8 percent.U.S. Treasury yields <US10YT=RR> fell to two-month lows as investors fled sliding stocks for safety ahead of Friday\'s closely watched jobs report.Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 4.17-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 4.14-to-1 ratio favored decliners.Volume on U.S. exchanges was 7.71 billion shares, compared to the 7.29 billion average over the last 20 trading days.(Additional reporting by Sinead Carew; Editing by James Dalgleish)
NEW YORK   U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell sharply on Monday, undermined by weakness in the technology sector while a growing trade dispute with China has investors pulling back on concerns over economic growth.The S&P 500 index broke below the significant 200-day moving average for the first time since Feb. 9 and a close below would be the first since June 27, 2016.Amazon, led the decline in the technology-heavy so-called "FANG" group of companies. The online retailing giant dropped nearly 5 percent after President Donald Trump launched his latest attack over the pricing of the retailer\'s deliveries through the U.S. postal system and promised unspecified changes.COMMENTS:RICK MECKLER, PRESIDENT, LIBERTYVIEW CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, JERSEY CITY, NEW JERSEY:I think its really the lack of clarity on the U.S. trade policy combined with nervousness over the selloff in the big tech names. The president continues to attack Amazon. Facebook hasnt done a great job of explaining the problems theyve had. The combination of the two, a reassessment of technology as well as what the trade issues might mean for exporting U.S. companies are hitting the market at the same time.The next big test for this market will be the next earnings cycle. In this pause, theres a lot of back-and-forth trading thats probably not as based on fundamentals.DOUG KASS, PRESIDENT, SEABREEZE PARTNERS MANAGEMENT, PALM BEACH, FLORIDA:"I have argued that the President\'s behavior is now beginning to impact the capital markets - both the averages and individual equities. Acting upon his impulses, growing more isolated and becoming more unhinged. In my view, this is market unfriendly and one of the reasons the markets continue to act so poorly."Past is indeed prologue as Trump\'s White House is now replicating The Trump Organization - both are built on a small body of personnel with policy developed on "gut instincts" - and without thoughtful planning. We witnessed this during the campaign and we now see it in the government of the U.S.ART HOGAN, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, B. RILEY FBR, NEW YORK:The folks that look at this on a technical basis will be keeping close eye on the 200-day moving average. It\'s a rising 200-day moving average, whereas the 50-day moving average is rolling over on the S&P.As we look at that, it\'s going to be important for a lot of reasons because the people that care about it all target the same levels. That\'s why we accelerated - we broke the 200-day moving average on the S&P of 2589, at 2581 (on the S&P.)  There is a lot of space below that.Unfortunately, all the guys that are targeting the same thing had their (stop-loss sell orders) in and that\'s probably what that last blast was.RYAN LARSON, HEAD OF U.S. EQUITY TRADING, RBC GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT, CHICAGO:"A lot of what you\'re seeing in the last hour or so has been technically driven. Failure to hold the 200 day has put downward pressure on the market. Outside of that, looking to the last couple of sessions and weeks the market continues to be very technical.""As key levels are breached or held short term participants are responding. The fundamental picture hasn\'t changed.""The market\'s been very concerned about U.S. trade policy, probably  more supportive of fear than optimism.""Sometimes its as simple as follow the leader. One sells, they all sell and questions are asked later. If there was a specific catalyst today you could probably point to China and trade policy but I think those are taking a back seat to technical indicators.""As fundamentals tend to take a back seat technicals are a few of the indicators that people hold on to in period of extreme volatility.""What else is becoming painfully clear is the markets need to retest the February lows. Again, in a technically-driven environment, the charts are most telling of future (short-term) direction.The longer the action under the 200-day moving average (2589) is suggestive of a retest of the 2532 low from February. Lack of liquidity is exacerbating this move; as it did in February as well.RANDY FREDERICK, VICE PRESIDENT OF TRADING AND DERIVATIVES, CHARLES SCHWAB, AUSTIN, TEXAS:Rough day. Its crazy, its like the confluence of every bad news story you could have all at the same time, its just crazy. (China retaliation) is the biggest component but clearly the FANG stocks continue to deteriorate and they have been the market leaders for so long."You obviously have more turmoil within the Trump administration but I do think it is the China retaliation, which ultimately we all thought was coming, that is probably the biggest piece of it. But there is just not enough good news out there to offset any of that. We might get some good news in about two weeks when we start earnings season. The question is what is going to happen in the next couple of weeks, that is what I am most concerned about.""It doesnt look good, technically you cant be real happy with where this S&P is at right now. If we can close above it at the end of the day that would be great but this definitely is questionable. We have been pounding on the 200-day for the last six sessions and now weve broken through. Really all we can go on at this point is just technicals, there is probably a little bit of support maybe around the 2,537 level but then below that we may be looking at 2,5000 or so again which is pretty scary."The tough part is even if we close above it today, that will be an encouraging thing but what we have seen about these patterns in the past is you get a close above it at the end of the day everybody breathes a sigh of relief and then it gaps down at the open tomorrow. That is what I am worried about. I would be very hesitant to say that even if we do close above it, I wouldnt be willing to wave the all clear flag at that point. I would be just as uncomfortable as if we closed below it, quite frankly.PARESH UPADHYAYA, DIRECTOR OF CURRENCY STRATEGY, AMUNDI PIONEER ASSET MANAGEMENT, BOSTON:We are seeing a safe-haven bid into Treasuries. With the dollar, it has moved up but the yen and the Swiss franc are the real winners. Its an equity induced sell-off triggered by trade concerns. Those concerns raise worries about global growth."Theres going more of a risk premium built in for the euro as well as other export-oriented currencies like the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars."When you look at overall positioning, we have seen a dramatic reduction in long dollar bets and it has settled into a sideway pattern. The Trumps administrations trade policy clearly has muddied the water. Investors want to see how things shake out before jumping back in. We are seeing a cyclical weakening in the dollar. A lot will dependent on the twin U.S. deficits going forward.TOM DI GALOMA, MANAGING DIRECTOR, SEAPORT GLOBAL HOLDINGS, NEW YORK:There are a lot of people off in Europe and this equity markets getting pushed around, that is one of the issues. The Chinese tariffs came into effect today, thats another factor."Another big factor is Trump further going after the tech sector, namely Amazon. I think it casts a shadow effectively around all of the tech sector, whos next is the feeling.""Equities just do not trade well, we just broke the 200 day moving average, once you get below that this market is probably not going to recover for a while. It might attempt to recover. If you close below that today that will put a significant sell side into the market. Breaking the 200 day moving average is just a very, very big level."I think people are getting really nervous about equities and that is going to put a bid into bonds. I think there are a lot of reasons to be nervous on equities, mainly inflation coming back. The ISM number brought back that prices are higher. I think the equity market is running out of steam on the upside.NICHOLAS COLAS, CO-FOUNDER, DATATREK RESEARCH, NEW YORK:"I think this is still primarily a tech-led selloff and what we\'ve learned over the past two weeks is just how overweight investors were in technology. Now there is a fundamental reset on how much tech exposure investors are willing to bear. Its a tech pullback. (I dont think it is) primarily related to China. The tariff war has been a concern for a couple of weeks. The response was probably more muted than most thought. I think this is a follow through from last week\'s tech selloff. Tech has been such an outperformer for so many years. I dont think today is the end of it."The significance of breaching the 200 day moving average " depends on where we close. Intraday breaks of major levels are acceptable if you close at or above (the level). In the short term it doesnt look good either way because the newsflow doesnt feel like it has hit its nadir.""(We could see a) 10 percent pullback, a full blown correction from the end of 2017. We already had it from the highs. Technically people like to count from the highs, but could get full blown 10 percent pullback from last year\'s close.""People are selling because everyone is selling (in tech). There were a lot of overweights. As an active manager if all you did was overweight tech you outperformed for the last 5 years. It is 2/3 momentum and 1/3 fundamental (selling) and then you overlay the technical factor  its a perfect storm. I view today as a follow through from last week. Today\'s the first day of the new quarter, there may have been some false hope on Friday.THOMAS MARTIN, SENIOR PORTFOLIO MANAGER, GLOBALT INVESTMENTS,  ATLANTA, GEORGIA:"It\'s the same type of things that people have been grappling with for the last couple of months. Trade is still an issue - the news from China was not new and was not bearish really, but it is an ongoing uncertainty. What you\'re seeing in the market is a change in leadership, it happened at the end of last month where you had tech starting to do not so well. You had growth in general not doing well and value doing better, and that\'s happening again today as market participants are thinking \'Is this the change in leadership and what should we do about it?\'"SCOTT WREN, SENIOR GLOBAL EQUITY STRATEGIST, WELLS FARGO INVESTMENT INSTITUTE, ST. LOUIS:"We were only 30 S&P points at open from the 200-day moving average and that thing is just going to act like a magnet.""We pushed through there and ran a bunch of stops and now we\'re trying to figure out if were going to hold here or not. I wouldn\'t think there will be a lot of follow through on the downside. This trade thing, yeah, in our opinion the chance of all-out trade war is pretty slim and the announcements out of China are pretty minimal stuff, in reality."PETER KENNY, SENIOR MARKET STRATEGIST, GLOBAL MARKETS ADVISORY GROUP, NEW YORK:"We\'re at the cusp of a fairly significant reevaluation across all market sectors, but largely focused on large cap technology. This selloff that we\'re seeing in large cap technology is affecting the broader market, but as often happens when you see significant moves, that are correlated across indices and verticals, there are multiple reasons for the selloff. When this started on February 2nd, we\'ve had a re-test of a likely fail, which means that going into earnings season, markets and equities generally speaking will likely be at the lowest point in terms of valuation that they\'ve been in some time, which should lead to some comfort, frankly, as odd as that may sound. So earnings season will bring an alternative to what weve seen over the last four to six quarters.DAVID KOTOK, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, CUMBERLAND ADVISORS, SARASOTA, FLORIDA:"This is a Donald Trump market reaction. The president and his behavior and his tariff trade barrier policy and his bellicose bullying are responsible for the stock market selloff. The Chinese are matching the US one-for-one and we are now engaged in a very dangerous game.""The man attacks viciously, so he has attacked Jeff Bezos and Amazon, he\'s attacked one of the two largest trading partners of the US, and his White House is in full disarray.""Markets have broken down, so the momentum optimism has been broken; how much farther they go down remains to be seen. I\'m taking advantage of these markets and am heavily overweighted financials and banks. I didnt buy today, we\'re in free-fall, but I might tomorrow.""We may get to a 20 percent down bear market before this runs its course. The question is when do you take positions and what is your time horizon? And mine is 24 months and I believe we dont get a recession, and I want to be a buyer when markets are ugly and in weakness."FRITZ FOLTS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, 3EDGE ASSET MANAGEMENT LP, BOSTON:"Weve been lightening up (equity exposure). For us its seeing the back-up in short yields. Thats just one of the things when we run our models we pay a lot of attention to. And credit spreads widening out. Those are two things we just take very seriously and we broke below the 200-day moving average today.2017 has left the building and I feel like its hard to get use to an environment that could be dramatically different from what weve been in for a while, and people are just trying to get their feet under themselves.MARKETS:STOCKS: The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 474.76 points, or 1.97 percent, to 23,628.35, the S&P 500 lost 56.76 points, or 2.15 percent, to 2,584.11 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 167.31 points, or 2.37 percent, to 6,896.13.TREASURIES: Benchmark 10-year notes <US10YT=RR> last fell 1/32 in price to yield 2.748 percent, from 2.744 percent late on Thursday.The 30-year bond <US30YT=RR> last fell 8/32 in price to yield 2.984 percent, from 2.971 percent late on Thursday.CURRENCIES: The dollar index fell 0.04 percent, with the euro <EUR=> down 0.25 percent to $1.229. The Japanese yen strengthened 0.17 percent versus the greenback at 106.11 per dollar, while Sterling <GBP=> was last trading at $1.4031, up 0.11 percent on the day.(Reporting By Wall Street team; Editing by Daniel Bases)
SEOUL   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and his wife, Ri Sol Ju, were among the hundreds in Pyongyang on Sunday watching South Korean K-pop singers perform in the North for the first time in more than a decade as tensions between the old rivals thaw.It was the first time a North Korean leader had attended a South Korean performance in the North\'s capital. Kim was seen clapping in time to the music and later took photographs with the performers."Our dear leader comrade said his heart swelled and he was moved by the sight of his people deepen their understanding of South Korean popular culture and cheer with sincerity," the North\'s KCNA state media said.The audience cheered and sang along to songs during the two-hour concert and the South Korean performers were later presented with bouquets."(Kim Jong Un) showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics," Culture Minister Do Jong-whan told reporters after the show.Tension over North Korea\'s tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missile surged last year and raised fears of U.S. military action in response to North Korea\'s threat to develop a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States.But tension has eased significantly since North Korea decided to send athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February. The neighbours are technically still at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce.The performance coincided with the beginning of annual joint South Korean-U.S. military drills, which have previously been met with denunciations and missile launches by the North. The exercises were delayed and shortened this year in order not to spoil the Olympic detente.The two Koreas have set a date for their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, and Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump could meet in May.The concert, billed as "Spring is Coming", was put on a the East Pyongyang Grand Theatre by an lineup of top South Korean performers including veteran vocalists Cho Yong-pil, Lee Sun-hee, rock star Yoon Do-hyun and singer Baek Ji-young, as well as K-pop girl band Red Velvet.Echoing the concert theme, Kim said the performance had brought a "spring of peace" to the two Koreas, and expressed wishes for a "prosperous autumn", according to the North\'s news agency.The North Korean leader appeared in a group photograph with the performers, distributed by North Korean media. He was also seen talking to members of Red Velvet, who have more than 4.6 million followers on Instagram.The South Korean delegation travelled to Pyongyang on Saturday in a reciprocal cultural visit after North Korea sent performers to the South in February, the South\'s Culture Ministry said.A taekwondo performance was staged earlier on Sunday.BANNED MEDIAThe images of Kim posing and laughing with South Korean pop stars and applauding in the stands contrasts with reports from North Korean defectors who say he has overseen a crackdown on anyone caught listening to foreign media."North Korean refugees overwhelmingly and consistently report that it has become more dangerous to consume foreign media under Kim Jong Uns crackdowns," Sokeel Park, the South Korea country director for refugee aid organisation Liberty in North Korea, said on Twitter.A 2015 survey of North Korean refugees by the U.S. government\'s Broadcasting Board of Governors found that 77 percent of respondents said it had become more dangerous to listen to foreign radio under Kim.South Korean movies were often reported to be especially taboo compared with Chinese films, according to a report by the InterMedia consultancy group, with North Koreans facing prison time if caught.Seohyun, an actress and vocalist with South Korean girl group Girls\' Generation, sang a North Korean pop song called "Blue Willow Tree". She had performed with the North\'s Samjiyon Orchestra in Seoul in February.Cho Yong-pil, 68, sang a string of hits including "The Cafe in the Winter", "Short Hair" and "Let\'s Go on a Trip". Cho staged a solo concert in Pyongyang in 2005 - the last concert by a South Korean artist in the North before Sunday\'s performance.The same South Korean singers will hold another concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday.Meanwhile, Kim Yong Chol, North Korea\'s former intelligence chief who now handles inter-Korean affairs, met South Korean journalists on Monday to apologise for the fact they were unable to cover the concert after being invited to the country do so.Kim "asked pardon" from the "valued guests"."Having invited South Korean journalists to the North, we have a duty to ensure that you can gather news freely and film comfortably", Kim was quoted as saying.Kim said the journalists\' inability to cover the concert stemmed from a breakdown in cooperation between Kim Jong Un\'s security detail and concert organisers.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang and Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Josh Smith and Joyce Lee; Editing by Louise Heavens, Peter Cooney and Paul Tait)
SEOUL, South Korea   Another spring on the Korean Peninsula, another round of war games by the U.S. and South Korean militaries.This week\'s drills, however, will feature a new and unusually low-key approach, with the allies resisting bringing in their big guns, and the North, for the time being, avoiding its usual belligerent propaganda against exercises that it claims are an invasion rehearsal.The reason for this departure? There\'s interest in Washington and Seoul in nurturing a diplomatic outreach by North Korea\'s young leader, Kim Jong Un, after months of weapons tests and threats of nuclear war by the North.On Sunday, the first day of this year\'s drills, instead of vowing to destroy Seoul, Kim attended a concert in Pyongyang of visiting South Korean pop singers, clapping his hands and asking for more such performances.Some questions and answers about this year\'s drills, which come ahead of two separate historic summits between Kim and his South Korean and U.S. counterparts:___Q: Are the drills really more low-key than in past years?A: Yes, they are.This year\'s exercises were postponed because of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, where the Koreas worked out a series of rapprochement steps, including parading together behind a single flag during the opening ceremony and fielding a unified women\'s hockey team.Seoul and Washington both publicly say the training this time will be similar to previous years. But South Korean defense officials say there are no immediate plans to bring in U.S. aircraft carriers, powerful bombers or other strategic assets that have been deployed in and around the Korean Peninsula during past drills. The North loathes such American weapons.The two sets of drills, one field-training and the other computer-simulated, typically run for two months, but this year\'s exercises are scheduled to last for just one month. The allies also have no immediate plans to publicize the training, according to Seoul\'s Defense Ministry.___Q: How will North Korea react to this year\'s drills?A: North Korea\'s state media haven\'t said anything about the drills since their start. Even if there is some criticism later, it will likely be milder than past warlike rhetoric, which often saw daily threats to launch nuclear strikes on Seoul and Washington or void the armistice that ended the 1950-53 Korean War.Kim told visiting South Korean officials last month that he "understands" the drills will take place and expressed hope that they\'ll be modified once the situation on the peninsula stabilizes, according to the South Korean government.While diplomacy holds, it\'s also unlikely that North Korea will test any weapons, as it has during past drills. Such tests could endanger the North\'s outreach and crush the current rapprochement.South Korea\'s Defense Ministry said Monday that it hadn\'t detected any suspicious activities by the North Korean military.___Q: What\'s next after the drills?A: Kim\'s planned meeting with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27 comes around the time the U.S.-South Korean drills end.The meeting will be the third-ever inter-Korean summit since the Koreas\' 1945 division. It is crucial because it may offer insight about what nuclear disarmament steps Kim could offer, and what concessions the allies might be willing to provide.It is unlikely that Kim will completely give up his nukes. Only last year he claimed to have functional nuclear missiles targeting the entire U.S. mainland, though foreign experts believe the North still hasn\'t perfected such missiles. Kim\'s dictator father and grandfather long aspired to have such power.During Kim\'s visit to China last week, his first overseas trip since taking office in 2011, he indicated that he prefers step-by-step, not immediate, disarmament-for-aid deals with the United States and South Korea. This could spell trouble because some hard-line U.S. officials want the North to take immediate, complete disarmament steps so as not to repeat past negotiations in which the North was seen as winning badly needed aid while covertly continuing its bomb program.Kim and President Donald Trump plan to meet in May, but the exact date and location of their meeting haven\'t been announced.
Today in HistoryToday is Monday, April 2, the 92nd day of 2018. There are 273 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 2, 1968, "2001: A Space Odyssey," the groundbreaking science-fiction film epic produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick and starring Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood, had its world premiere in Washington, D.C.On this date:In 1792, Congress passed the Coinage Act, which authorized establishment of the U.S. Mint.In 1800, Ludwig van Beethoven premiered his Symphony No. 1 in C Major, Op. 21, in Vienna.In 1865, Confederate President Jefferson Davis and most of his Cabinet fled the Confederate capital of Richmond, Virginia, because of advancing Union forces.In 1917, President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress to declare war against Germany, saying, "The world must be made safe for democracy." (Congress declared war four days later.)In 1932, aviator Charles A. Lindbergh and John F. Condon went to a cemetery in The Bronx, New York, where Condon turned over $50,000 to a man in exchange for Lindbergh\'s kidnapped son. (The child, who was not returned, was found dead the following month.)In 1942, Glenn Miller and his Orchestra recorded "American Patrol" at the RCA Victor studios in Hollywood.In 1956, the soap operas "As the World Turns" and "The Edge of Night" premiered on CBS-TV.In 1974, French President Georges Pompidou, 62, died in Paris.In 1982, several thousand troops from Argentina seized the disputed Falkland Islands, located in the south Atlantic, from Britain. (Britain seized the islands back the following June.)In 1986, four American passengers, including an 8-month-old girl, her mother and grandmother, were killed when a terrorist bomb exploded aboard a TWA jetliner en route from Rome to Athens, Greece.In 1992, mob boss John Gotti was convicted in New York of murder and racketeering; he was later sentenced to life, and died in prison.In 2005, Pope John Paul II died in his Vatican apartment at age 84.Ten years ago: President George W. Bush suffered a diplomatic setback when NATO allies rebuffed his pleas to put former Soviet republics Ukraine and Georgia on the path toward membership. Irish Taoiseach (TEE\'-shuk) Bertie Ahern, who helped broker peace in Northern Ireland but couldn\'t survive a scandal over his collection of cash from businessmen, announced he would resign.Five years ago: North Korea said it would restart its long-shuttered plutonium reactor and increase production of nuclear weapons material in what outsiders saw as its latest attempt to extract U.S. concessions by raising fears of war. Pope Francis prayed before the tomb of Pope John Paul II on the eighth anniversary of the beloved pontiff\'s death. Irish character actor Milo O\'Shea, 86, died in New York.One year ago: President Donald Trump brought Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., to his Virginia golf course to talk health policy with the outspoken critic of the failed plan to repeal and replace so-called "Obamacare." Jason Aldean was named entertainer of the year at the Academy of Country Music Awards held in Las Vegas; Miranda Lambert\'s "The Weight of These Wings" won album of the year, Florida Georgia Line\'s "H.O.L.Y." won single of the year, and song of the year went to "Die a Happy Man" by Thomas Rhett. A\'ja Wilson scored 23 points to help coach Dawn Staley and South Carolina win their first women\'s NCAA championship with a 67-55 victory over Mississippi State.Today\'s Birthdays: Actress Sharon Acker is 83. Actress Dame Penelope Keith is 78. Actress Linda Hunt is 73. Singer Emmylou Harris is 71. Actor Sam Anderson is 71. Social critic and author Camille Paglia is 71. Actress Pamela Reed is 69. Rock musician Dave Robinson (The Cars) is 69. Country singer Buddy Jewell is 57. Actor Christopher Meloni is 57. Singer Keren Woodward (Bananarama) is 57. Country singer Billy Dean is 56. Actor Clark Gregg is 56. Actress Jana Marie Hupp is 54. Rock musician Greg Camp is 51. Rock musician Tony Fredianelli (Third Eye Blind) is 49. Actress Roselyn Sanchez is 45. Country singer Jill King is 43. Actor Pedro Pascal is 43. Actor Adam Rodriguez is 43. Actor Jeremy Garrett is 42. Actor Michael Fassbender is 41. Actress Jaime Ray Newman is 40. Rock musician Jesse Carmichael (Maroon 5) is 39. Actress Bethany Joy Galeotti is 37. Singer Lee Dewyze (TV: "American Idol") is 32. Country singer Chris Janson is 32. Actor Drew Van Acker is 32. Actress Briga Heelan (TV: "Great News") is 31. Actor Jesse Plemons is 30. Singer Aaron Kelly (TV: "American Idol") is 25.Thought for Today: "Failure has a thousand explanations. Success doesn\'t need one."  Sir Alec Guinness, British actor (born this date in 1914, died 2000).
TOKYO   Japanese business sentiment worsened for the first time in two years in the three months to March, a closely watched central bank survey showed on Monday, as rising raw materials and labour costs weigh on an otherwise steady economic recovery.A strong yen and simmering fears of a trade war, triggered by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to impose tariffs on Chinese goods, could further undermine corporate morale if threats of retaliation escalate, analysts say.But few analysts expect the economic recovery to falter as business confidence remains at a decade-high level and companies plan to increase capital expenditure."Yen gains since late January have eroded manufacturers\' sentiment but solid global economic fundamentals helped offset the pain. Overall, you can say that business confidence held firm," said Yuichiro Nagai, an economist at Barclays Securities."Fears of a global trade war have had a limited impact on business sentiment so far. But depending on development of U.S. trade policy, protectionism could weigh on the outlook."An index measuring big manufacturers\' confidence fell by 2 points to plus 24 in March, the Bank of Japan\'s quarterly "tankan" survey showed, roughly matching a median market forecast of plus 25.Non-manufacturers\' sentiment worsened by 2 points to plus 23 against a median forecast of plus 24, deteriorating for the first time in six quarters.Both big manufacturers and non-manufacturers forecast business conditions would sour three months ahead, the tankan showed, reflecting looming uncertainty over the fallout from Trump\'s trade policy and a strong yen."This should not be taken as turning point for Japan\'s economy although sentiment deteriorated slightly," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "Concerns are high over possible retaliation against U.S. tariffs, but the global economy remains in a gradual recovery which is good for Japan\'s value-added exports."About 70 percent of companies replied to the survey by March 12, after Trump unveiled steep tariffs on steel and aluminium imports but before his announcement of anti-China tariffs.Big manufacturers expect the dollar to move around 109.66 yen on average during the year that began in April, much weaker than the current levels around 106 yen.If the yen\'s gains continue, manufacturers may be forced to cut their optimistic profit forecasts - a worry for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who is pursuing growth with reflationist policies.LABOUR SHORTAGESLabour shortages also weighed on sentiment, as economic recovery and a dwindling working-age population push the jobless rate to a near 25-year low.A tankan index measuring capacity constraints showed that companies saw the job market at its tightest since 1991."Labour shortages are having a negative impact particularly on labour-intensive service-sector firms," said Satoshi Osanai, senior economist at Daiwa Institute of Research.He said rising wages could stoke a "virtuous growth cycle" of consumer spending, rising prices and increased investment if    companies could pass on their higher costs to generate profit. "The key to making this happen is whether consumers are willing to spend their increased earnings, but so far there\'s little sign of that happening."Slow wage growth and companies\' reluctance to raise prices have kept inflation well below the Bank of Japan\'s elusive 2 percent target.However, the tankan showed more companies were able to pass  higher costs on to consumers, a hopeful sign for the central bank.A tankan index measuring how big manufacturers saw output price moves stood at plus 4, the highest level since 2008, and showing price pressures continue to rise.Some firms in the construction, restaurant and hotel industries complained that labour shortages were taking a toll on their businesses, a BOJ official briefing reporters on the data said.Firms in the basic materials business such as those selling steel, nonferrous metals and textiles saw sentiment hurt by rising cost of raw materials, the official said.The index measuring steelmakers\' sentiment fell 9 points, the biggest drop among big manufacturers, while confidence also slumped among producers of nonferrous metals and metal products.Still, big firms plan to raise their capital spending by 2.3 percent in the current financial year from April, versus the median estimate for a 0.6 percent gain, the tankan showed.The tankan\'s sentiment indexes are derived by subtracting the number of respondents who say conditions are poor from those who say they are good. A positive reading means optimists outnumber pessimists.(Reporting by Leika Kihara and Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Sam Holmes and Eric Meijer)

THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the publics regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the countrys predicament.Robert B. Reichs new book, The Common Good, is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reichs book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.Reich defines the common good as consisting in our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society. What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are  or have been  what makes us a people.Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the whatever-it-takes-to-win politics that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trumps failure as a leader, according to Reich, is not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers  people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called virtue conservatives of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that nonjudgmentalism  has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty. He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust  by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery  generate a similar unraveling.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reichs proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate  about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. Its our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.Reich seems to believe that the common good describes ground rules for a decent society, not the policies and purposes that citizens should pursue within these ground rules. But is it really possible to separate the two? Is the debate over how vigorously to regulate Wall Street about the ground rules of democracy or a policy on which Democrats and Republicans may reasonably disagree? Or consider immigration. Reich argues that the common good is not about securing borders, erecting walls and keeping others out . To the contrary, the common good is about inclusion  joining together to achieve common goals. But inclusion of whom  existing citizens of the country, Dreamers, other immigrants who hope to be admitted? Partisans on all sides of this raging debate invoke competing conceptions of the common good to support their position.As these examples suggest, the nonpartisan, above-the-fray conception of the common good that Reich proposes may be too high-minded to reinvigorate American public discourse in the way he wants. In the face of President Trumps serial violations of democratic norms, it is tempting to appeal to Americans, whatever their party or political persuasion, to reaffirm certain principles that all can share. But such principles, if truly detached from debate about where they lead, are so abstract that they can only serve as hortatory fare for commencement addresses and the Fourth of July. The best hope for reviving the common good is to invigorate moral argument in the messy, contentious domain of democratic politics.
WASHINGTON   The Supreme Court is rejecting an appeal from American victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East more than a decade ago.The justices are not commenting Monday in ending a lawsuit against the PLO and Palestinian Authority in connection with attacks in Israel in 2002 and 2004 that killed 33 people. A lower court tossed out a $654 million verdict against the Palestinians.The Trump administration sided with the Palestinians in calling on the high court to leave the lower court ruling in place. The federal appeals court in New York said U.S. courts can't consider lawsuits against foreign-based groups over random attacks that were not aimed at the United States.The victims sued under the Anti-Terrorism Act, passed to open U.S. courts to American victims of international terrorism.
WASHINGTON/SAN FRANCISCO   The U.S. Justice Department sued California over a state law that aims to stop the Trump administration from selling or transferring federal lands to private corporations, hitting the state with yet another legal challenge.The lawsuit, filed in federal court on Monday in Sacramento, the state capital, comes less than a month after the Justice Department brought a legal action targeting three California laws largely aimed at protecting illegal immigrants from deportation."California has once again passed an extreme statute found in no other state to obstruct the federal government, this time by interfering with the conveyance of federal land," the Justice Department\'s acting No. 3 official, Jesse Panuccio, told reporters.California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement that his office is prepared to protect the state\'s resources."Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder," Becerra said.Governor Jerry Brown accused the Trump administration last month of declaring war on the most populous U.S. state after the Justice Department sued over the California immigration laws. A hearing in that case is set for June.The latest legal action involves California\'s Senate Bill 50, which was signed into law in October and gives the state right of first refusal over many federal land conveyances.If the California State Lands Commission waives its right of first refusal, it issues a compliance certificate. Without this document, the land transfer cannot be legally recorded in a county property office.The Justice Department in its lawsuit argues that Senate Bill 50 is preempted by federal law.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Additional reporting by Dan Levine in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler and Steve Orlofsky)
The internet lit up over the weekend after videos showed dozens of local newscasters across the country using the same script to criticize the news industry. The newscasters said they were concerned about the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country.The statements were part of a promotion that stations owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group were required to deliver. The promotions, highlighted by the websites Deadspin and Think Progress, led to concern on social media about how the company wields power over its news broadcasts.President Trump went to Sinclairs defense on Monday, posting on Twitter that the companys stations, which often run commentary that is favorable to his administration, are more reliable news sources than CNN or NBC.The back and forth has put a focus on Sinclairs size and how it handles local broadcasting  reigniting a debate that has been going on for more than a year.Last year, Sinclair announced that it would buy Tribune Media for $3.9 billion. If the deal goes through, Sinclair, already one of the largest owners of local news stations in the country, will become even bigger. It could wind up with more than 200 stations.The deal was made possible partly because the Federal Communications Commission under the Trump administration has been relaxing or eliminating a number of rules for broadcasters, including one that limits how many local news stations a single company can own.According to Pew Research, around 30 percent of American adults get their news from local television broadcasts. If Sinclair and Tribune do finally merge, the company will reach 70 percent of American households. Current F.C.C. regulations prohibit companies from owning stations that together reach more than 39 percent of households.Free-speech advocates and many Democrats said that allowing a company like Sinclair to own so many stations would hurt consumers, by limiting the diversity of news. The New York Times wrote last year:Despite all of the regulation relaxation, the Justice Department is still wrangling with Sinclair over how many stations the company must sell for the merger to be approved. Opponents of the deal continue to worry that it would decrease both competition in local media and diversity in the perspectives that are broadcast.Meanwhile, the F.C.C.s inspector general is investigating the relationship between Sinclair and the agencys chairman, Ajit Pai. The investigation will examine whether regulations were changed with the intention of benefiting the company.
MOGADISHU, Somalia   The U.S. military has announced Sunday that it launched an airstrike that killed five extremist militants in central Somalia.The U.S. Africa Command confirmed to the Associated Press that the airstrike was near El-Bur.The U.S. said it assessed that no civilians were killed in the airstrike.Two Somali intelligence officials told AP on Sunday that the airstrike targeted a vehicle carrying senior al-Shabab officials and the dead included a woman. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity for their security.Al-Shabab officials did not immediately comment on the incident. However, pro-al-Shabab media outlets reported that only two civilians were killed in the airstrike, quoting senior commanders of the militant group.The U.S. has carried out more than a dozen drone strikes against al-Shabab since last year, after the Trump administration approved expanded military efforts against the extremist group.The U.S. said the latest airstrike, like others, was carried out in cooperation with Somalia's government.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Signs of an assassin in Britain, a thaw in Uzbekistan and a rebel queen in Denmark. Heres the latest: President Trump blamed Democrats and the Mexican government for a dangerous flow of unauthorized immigrants and threatened to walk away from the North American Free Trade Agreement.His comments, most delivered via Twitter, came on a holiday weekend at his Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago. Among those accompanying him was Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser who has shaped much of the administrations hard-line stance on immigration.Separately, our reporters examine how Mr. Trumps rise to power has affected the wealthy, scandal-racked family of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and presidential adviser. (Hint: It hasnt been good.)_____ British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on the door handle of Sergei Skripals home, above, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the poison, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional  on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government  could have administered it to the former Russian double agent and his daughter.That theory is raising questions about the role of Russias president, Vladimir Putin, in the attack, which has raised tensions between Russia and the West to their highest point since the Cold War._____ Bucking a global trend toward authoritarianism, Uzbekistans new leader is reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression.Its still too dangerous to utter the name of the countrys vicious security service in public, but human rights activists say repression has eased, if only slightly.The changes reflect a struggle between the new president and the brutal police state he is trying to tame. (Above, a memorial complex near Bukhara, Uzbekistan, in February.)_____ A rebel queen.In Denmark, where most public statues represent white men, two artists unveiled the countrys first public monument to a black woman. The sculpture, above, is a tribute to Mary Thomas, who led a fiery 1878 revolt against Danish colonial rule in the Caribbean._____ Pope Francis celebrated Easter Mass with a plea for peace.He cited a need to end the carnage in the beloved and long-suffering land of Syria and urged reconciliation in the Middle East. The pope also baptized eight people into the Roman Catholic faith, including a Nigerian migrant who has been called a hero in Italy for foiling a robbery in Rome.Meanwhile, the Vatican will hold an exorcism training course for priests, as demands for the ridding of demonic possession have soared around the world, including in Britain, where the practice has reportedly become a booming industry. Technology companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year, many of which are never used. But recent filings by Amazon and Google do offer a peek at how the companies could seek to mine data from smart speakers and other household devices. (Above, Amazons Alexa Super Bowl ad.) The Chinese government retaliated against President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum by slapping tariffs as high as 25 percent on imports of 128 American-made products, including pork and seamless steel pipes. Facebooks latest uproar: a 2016 memo from a top executive defending growth at any cost  even if a lethal terrorist attack were organized on the platform. As Facebook lurches from crisis to crisis, only a few tech industry leaders have spoken out against their struggling rival. (Silicon Valley hates bad karma.) People are trying to boycott the big tech companies amid a backlash. The problem is that Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Google are nearly inescapable. In Britain, thousands of companies with at least 250 employees must publish figures by Wednesday showing their gender pay gap for the fiscal year ending in 2017. Here are other headlines to watch for this week. Many markets are closed for the Easter holiday. Heres a snapshot of other global markets. In the U.S. push for gun control, both advocates and opponents think the other side will eventually give up. Itll go away, said a 77-year-old man, above, who owns about 75 guns. Like all the other times. [The New York Times] North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, was in the audience when South Korean K-pop singers performed in the North for the first time in more than a decade. [The New York Times] A Bulgarian government commission alleges that Julia Kristeva, one of Frances most respected philosophers, was also a Communist-era secret agent. Ms. Kristeva dismissed the accusation as fake news and a barefaced lie. [The New York Times] Israel and the Palestinians are waging a public relations battle over the shooting deaths of 15 Palestinians by Israeli troops during violent protests at the Gaza border. [The New York Times] A Kuwaiti court sentenced a Lebanese man and his Syrian wife to death by hanging in the case of a 29-year-old maid from the Philippines, whose body was found in a freezer in Kuwait this year. Both defendants are in custody in other countries. [Deutsche Welle] April Fools? An alligator in the swimming pool, a Trump hotel room jail cell, and other news stories that sound like hoaxes  but arent. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Working out is great for you. Heres how to start. For a versatile home-cooked option, stock your pantry with dried legumes. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo. The U.S. defense secretary, Jim Mattis, above, was dismissed as a warmonger during the Obama presidency. But as global tensions rise under President Trump, he may be the only reliable voice of caution left in an administration inching closer to the brink. In memoriam: Johan van Hulst, 107, a Dutch educator who helped save 600 Jewish children from the Nazis. Despite his efforts, he was haunted by those he couldnt save. You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on, I asked myself, Why not 13? Can Europe lead on privacy? In an opinion piece, a former U.S. official hails new E.U. rules that let consumers control their private information online and says they can actually help Americans, too  especially since President Trump signed a law prohibiting such safeguards.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn of the White House.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Lincoln. Above, the Egg Roll in 1929.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery held in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available for sale online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 people today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
TIVOLI, N.Y.  Marcus Molinaro was only 18 when he first was seated on the board of trustees in the Hudson River village of Tivoli, entering politics when most of his friends were still working in restaurants or retail.He was so eager and earnest, it made total sense, said Joel Griffith, a high school friend who was washing dishes back then, in 1994, when Mr. Molinaro made his first leap into public service. And hes been that way ever since.A year later, in 1995, the precocious Mr. Molinaro was elected mayor, becoming the youngest such municipal leader in the country. And on Monday, Mr. Molinaro, a Republican who is now 42 and the Dutchess County executive, came back to Tivoli to kick off a campaign for a much bigger job: taking on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, the states powerful two-term Democratic governor.Mr. Cuomo has led an administration focused inward, not on the people, but on self-preservation, political survival and presidential ambitions, said Mr. Molinaro. Our state is at a dangerous crossroads: We see the needs of everyday New Yorkers being neglected and so many left without hope. He asked dozens of supporters packed into Tivolis town hall to join a campaign for the people and the very soul of the state of New York.Mr. Molinaro said he had ruled out a run for governor, but had reconsidered at the urging of fellow Republicans, who had already seen one contender  Assemblyman Brian Kolb  drop out of the race, and two other possible candidates, Harry Wilson, a wealthy businessman, and Rob Astorino, the former Westchester County executive who unsuccessfully challenged Cuomo in 2014, decide not to run.Their trepidation, and Mr. Molinaros challenge, are not hard to understand: New York is a profoundly blue state, with enrolled Democratic voters outnumbering Republicans by more than 2 to 1. The G.O.P. has not won a statewide race here since 2002, and Astorino lost by a decisive margin. Adding to the challenge is a groundswell of enthusiasm among Democratic voters angry over President Trumps tenure, as well as Mr. Cuomos considerable financial edge: He has about $30 million in the bank and more fund-raisers in the offing.Mr. Molinaros main challenger for the nomination  which will be decided at the state Republican convention in May  is State Senator John A. DeFrancisco, who represents the Syracuse area and has been running a low-key campaign since announcing his candidacy in late January. On Monday, Mr. DeFrancisco  an outspoken and off-the-cuff critic of Mr. Cuomo in Albany  said he welcomed Mr. Molinaros entrance into the race and the opportunity for a spirited debate.Anyone who knows me, knows Im anything but quiet, Mr. DeFrancisco said in a statement, adding, Now is the time to fight for the future of our state. Im ready, willing and able to take on the fight.Democrats also seemed spoiling for a fight, issuing a response to Mr. Molinaros nascent campaign that featured a list of Mr. Cuomos accomplishments, including a raise in the minimum wage and a paid family leave program.Whether its Molinaro or DeFrancisco, its clear that the New York G.O.P. is intent on pushing an ultraconservative Trump agenda, said Geoff Berman, the state Democratic Partys executive director. And a candidate that has the same positions as Trump with a different hair color.Mr. Molinaro seems well aware of the electoral perils that Republicans may face in the fall and told reporters that he did not vote for Mr. Trump in 2016, but instead wrote in the name of Chris Gibson, a former New York congressman. (Underlining his lack of affinity with the president, he added that he didnt think tweeting meaner was a way to govern.)In his announcement speech, Mr. Molinaro laid out the contours of his likely lines of political attacks against Mr. Cuomo, including economic stagnation and outward migration in much of upstate, as well as pledges to fight opioid addiction and address the needs of the disabled. (Mr. Molinaros daughter is autistic.)Mr. Molinaro also signaled his intention to target Mr. Cuomo over the issue of corruption, including the recent conviction of Mr. Cuomos former aide and friend, Joseph Percoco, on federal bribery charges. Standing next to Mr. Griffith  who has also been elected mayor of Tivoli, population 1,100, winning as an independent  and in front of an adoring crowd, Mr. Molinaro recalled that he had once worked mucking horse stalls in the village, which is surrounded by rich farmland.Albany, he said, could use a little mucking.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. The stock market tumbled.The cause: tit-for-tat tariffs imposed by China on Monday, and techs dark hour of the soul.Facebook is trying to contain the loss of about $100 billion in value. Amazon is under presidential attack.And Tesla shares fell amid concerns about the electric car makers quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, the chief executive, joked for April Fools that the company had gone completely and totally bankrupt._____2. DACA is dead.Thus tweeted President Trump, venting about the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and blaming Democrats for failing to salvage it. But if history is a guide, his position on shielding young, undocumented immigrants may remain a moving target.The Trump administration also moved to weaken Obama-era car pollution standards. And the Environmental Protection Agency said it was re-examining a federal waiver that has allowed California and 12 other states to follow more stringent air pollution rules.Last month, when Mr. Trump called Vladimir Putin, he suggested that the Russian leader visit the White House, according to a Kremlin official.As Robert Muellers Russia inquiry intensifies, many have wondered: If he were fired, what are the chances the president would be impeached?_____3. Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma, above, and Kentucky walked off the job, shutting down school districts in protest of cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts add to a wave of strikes in red states that began in West Virginia.Mainly organized on Facebook by teachers fed up with years of funding cuts, the protests have caught lawmakers and sometimes the educators own unions flat-footed._____4. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader of the bloody struggle against South Africas white rulers under apartheid, has died at 81.Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent, our obituary says, Ms. Mandela saw her heroic status eroded by scandal over corruption, kidnapping, murder and the adulterous implosion of her fabled marriage to Nelson Mandela.She came to resent her husbands global celebrity. I am not Mandelas product, she once said. I am the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy._____5. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____6. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness, we devised a bracket-style tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. Above, Sydney University.We wont spoil the results, but heres one (unsurprising) conclusion from our panelists: The best student loan repayment system  which would be based on students incomes and be able to collect automatically through the tax system  is a far cry from whats in place in the United States.The real March Madness ends tonight with the mens title game between Villanova and Michigan at 9:20 p.m. Eastern. Follow our live updates._____7. No sweatpants in public, an ideal weight, instructions on tampon use: These are just some of the extensive controls that N.F.L. teams place on their cheerleaders, according to seven team handbooks that our reporter reviewed. Above, Carolina Panthers cheerleaders.And the philanthropic world is feeling the effects of the #MeToo movement. A number of organizations have lost donors or relinquished gifts because of their ties to powerful men accused of sexual misconduct.One celebrity chef felled by #MeToo is plotting a comeback: Mario Batali. He retreated to near invisibility after reports of abusive behavior in his empire and at restaurants owned by friends, but is said to be exploring ways to jump back into his career._____8. The videos on social media were alarming, showing dozens of local news anchors eerily echoing the same warnings about biased and false news and journalists who push their own personal bias.These scripted speeches were recited to millions of viewers across the country last month at the behest of Sinclair Broadcast Group, the countrys largest broadcaster. The company has been criticized for advancing a right-leaning agenda and renewed a debate over media ownership.The must-reads went a step beyond the must-run video segments Sinclair regularly sends stations, which have included terrorism news updates or commentators speaking in support of President Trump. (He came to Sinclairs defense on Monday.)_____9. Fear is the factor no one wants to address, a lifelong gun owner writes in The Times Magazine, wrestling with the changes to gun laws that he says must come.Theres no simple solution, he writes, to the fear of criminals, fear of terrorists, fear of the governments turning tyrannical and, perhaps more than anything else, fear of one another._____10. Finally, what better way to commemorate Easter than a showing of Jesus Christ Superstar?That was NBCs thinking behind a live telecast starring John Legend as Jesus Christ and Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene, above. Our reviewers takeaway: From the multicultural cast to its deconstruction of religious iconography, this Jesus Christ Superstar was as thoughtful and challenging as the show has ever been.And with Passover in swing, read this Op-Ed essay by David Wolpe from Spain. While the country is a land of Jewish ghosts, he writes, there will be Seders for those who seek one.Have a great evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
On local news stations across the United States last month, dozens of anchors gave the same speech to their combined millions of viewers.It included a warning about fake news, a promise to report fairly and accurately and a request that viewers go to the stations website and comment if you believe our coverage is unfair.It may not have seemed strange to individual viewers. But Timothy Burke, the video director at Deadspin, had read a report last month from CNN, which quoted local station anchors who were uncomfortable with the speech.Mr. Burke tracked down the stations and found when each had aired what he called a forced read.Then he stitched together the various broadcasts to create a supercut of anchors eerily echoing the same lines:The sharing of biased and false news has become all too common on social media.Some members of the media use their platforms to push their own personal bias.This is extremely dangerous to our democracy.The script came from Sinclair Broadcast Group, the countrys largest broadcaster, which owns or operates 193 television stations. The company is seeking a $3.9 billion deal to buy Tribune Media, a move thats being held up by regulators over antitrust concerns.Last week, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer published a copy of the speech and reported that employees at a local news station there, KOMO, were unhappy about the script. CNN reported on it on March 7 and said Scott Livingston, the senior vice president of news for Sinclair, had read almost the exact same speech for a segment that was distributed to outlets a year ago.[READ MORE: A Top Internal Watchdog For the F.C.C. Is Investigating Changes That Benefited Sinclair]Mr. Burkes video  along with a similar one created by ThinkProgress, the left-leaning news outlet  spread quickly on social media over the weekend, leading to prominent criticism of Sinclair. Peter Chernin, a media investor and longtime president of Rupert Murdochs News Corporation, called it insidious. David E. Price, a Democratic North Carolina congressman, called the video pro-Trump propaganda on Monday.Piggybacking on the attention, House Democrats resurfaced a letter, dated March 22 and signed by 38 lawmakers, that called for the Tribune merger to be rejected.President Trump responded to scrutiny of the broadcaster on Monday in a tweet.So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased, he said.In a statement on Monday, Scott Livingston, Sinclairs senior vice president of news, called the backlash ironic, and said the stations keep our audiences trust by staying focused on fact-based reporting and clearly identifying commentary.We arent sure of the motivation for the criticism, but find it curious that we would be attacked for asking our news people to remind their audiences that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media, which result in an ill-informed public with potentially dangerous consequences, he said.A union that represents news anchors did not respond immediately to requests for comment on Monday.Dave Twedell of the International Cinematographers Guild, who is a business representative for photojournalists (but not anchors) at KOMO in Seattle and KATU in Portland, Ore., said Sinclair told journalists at those stations not to discuss the company with outside news media.Although it is the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair is not a household name and viewers may be unaware of who owns their local news station. Critics have accused the company of using its stations to advance a mostly right-leaning agenda.We work very hard to be objective and fair and be in the middle, Mr. Livingston told The New York Times last year. I think maybe some other news organizations may be to the left of center, and we work very hard to be in the center.Sinclair regularly sends video segments to the stations it owns. These are referred to as must-runs, and they can include content like terrorism news updates, commentators speaking in support of President Trump or speeches from company executives like the one from Mr. Livingston last year.But asking newscasters to present the material themselves is not something that Kirstin Pellizzaro, a doctoral candidate at Arizona State Universitys Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication, remembered from her experience as a producer at a Sinclair-owned news station in Kalamazoo, Mich., from 2014 to 2015.The station had to air must-run segments that came from Sinclair, which is based outside Baltimore. Some of them were a little slanted, a little biased, Ms. Pellizzaro said. Packages of this nature can make journalists uncomfortable.Sinclair representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Monday. But Mr. Livingston told The Baltimore Sun that the script was meant to demonstrate Sinclairs commitment to reporting facts, adding that false stories can result in dangerous consequences, referring to the Pizzagate conspiracy as an example.We are focused on fact-based reporting, Mr. Livingston continued. Thats our commitment to our communities. Thats the goal of these announcements: to reiterate our commitment to reporting facts in a pursuit of truth.Ms. Pellizzaro said she can talk about Sinclair more freely now because she is working in academia, whereas journalists at stations owned by Sinclair might feel pressured not to bite the hand that feeds them.I hope people realize that the journalists are trying their best, and this shouldnt reflect poorly on them, she said. Theyre just under this corporate umbrella.Sinclair has been accused of using connections in the Trump administration to ease regulations on media consolidation. In an effort to expand its reach, the company is seeking approval from the Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission for its $3.9 billion deal to buy Tribune Media.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Tuesday:1. TRUMP OPENS DOOR TO POTENTIAL MEETING WITH PUTINIt would be the first time the Russian leader has been at the White House in more than a decade and come at a time of rising tensions between the two global powers.2. WALL STREET GIVES BACK GAINSStocks tumble after China raises import duties on a number of U.S. exports, bringing the two economic giants closer to a full-on trade conflict.3. NELSON MANDELA\'S EX-WIFE DIES AT 81Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was an anti-apartheid activist in her own right whose reputation was sullied by scandal.4. \'AFFLUENZA\' TEEN WALKS FREEA 20-year-old Texas man who as a teenager invoked the burdens of his family\'s wealth as part of his defense after killing four people in a drunken wreck is released from jail.5. NETANYAHU BACKTRACKS ON MIGRANTSAfter announcing an agreement with the U.N. to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries, Israel\'s prime minister suspends the deal.6. WHO\'S CALLING IT A CAREERDemocratic Rep. Elizabeth Esty says she won\'t seek re-election amid calls for her resignation over her handling of a former chief of staff accused of harassment.7. GOVERNMENT REVISING POLLUTION RULESU.S. environmental regulators are easing emissions standards for cars and trucks, saying that President Obama set the rules "too high."8. WHAT\'S GAINING FOOTHOLD IN US SCHOOLSCellphones are still absent from most classrooms. But that\'s changing as administrators increasingly bow to parents\' wishes to keep tabs on their kids and teachers find ways to work them into lessons.9. JURY SELECTION BEGINS IN BILL COSBY\'S RETRIALPicking jurors for the entertainer\'s sexual assault retrial is expected to be difficult since it\'s taking place amid the powerful MeToo movement.10. WHICH SPORT FACES UNCERTAIN FUTUREAs the NCAA Tournament wraps up, scandal-marred college basketball will begin to wrestle with the changes it must make to keep the sport vibrant.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Judge Stephen Reinhardt, a liberal stalwart on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, died last week in Southern California. He was 87.We talked to two experts who clerked for Judge Reinhardt to tell us a little bit about him and his legacy: Jeffrey Fisher, a professor at Stanford Law School and Joshua Matz, a constitutional lawyer based in Washington.The questions and their answers have been edited for length and clarity.Q: What was Judge Reinhardt like? Mr. Matz: Judge Reinhardt ranked among the most brilliant and influential judges in modern American history. His mastery of doctrine was equaled only by his conviction that law must aspire to justice, especially for the voiceless and vulnerable. His powerful opinions and tactical savvy  not to mention his rock-ribbed liberalism  made Reinhardt a hero to the left and a villain to the right.Q: What were some of his most famous opinions? Mr. Fisher: Judge Reinhardt persuaded colleagues on his appeals court, for example, to establish a right of terminally ill adults to physician-assisted suicide. He also spearheaded rulings forbidding states from establishing English as an official language and barring public schools from compelling students to recite the words under God in the Pledge of Allegiance. But the Supreme Court rebuffed him each time.Two years after vacating an opinion by Judge Reinhardt forbidding states from banning same-sex couples from marrying, the Supreme Court adopted just that constitutional rule.Q: Can you give us a laymans explanation of the Ninth Circuit and tell us why its important? Mr. Fisher: The Ninth Circuit is the largest of the 12 regional federal courts of appeals. It encompasses territory on the West Coast and adjacent states covering roughly one fifth of the U.S. population. Twenty-nine full-time judges sit on the court. Whereas the Supreme Court hears only about 75 cases a year, the Ninth Circuit hears thousands.Because California and other western states continually innovate everything from the economy to social policy, the Ninth Circuit tends to hear an outsized portion of big cases. It is no accident, therefore, that Judge Reinhardt found himself so often on panels asked to resolve cutting edge legal issues.Q: Who decides who will replace Judge Reinhardt  and how does it happen? Mr. Matz: Federal judges are nominated by the president and must be confirmed by the Senate. Although presidents have traditionally consulted with home-state senators, President Trump and the G.O.P.-controlled Senate have largely abandoned that practice. Instead, they have moved at an aggressive pace to confirm deeply conservative judges.There are several vacancies on the Ninth Circuit, now including Judge Reinhardts seat. We can expect that over the next year, or less, President Trump will nominate judges to fill most of those positions. However, at this point it is impossible to predict who he will nominate to replace Judge Reinhardt.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) President Trump unleashed a series of fiery tweets in which he vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL. [The New York Times] Mr. Trump has also criticized Gov. Jerry Brown for pardoning  five ex-convicts facing possible deportation. [The New York Times] Stephon Clark, the unarmed black man who was fatally shot by Sacramento police officers, was struck eight times, mostly in his back, according to an independent autopsy. [The New York Times] Protests related to the shooting have continued. And over the weekend, an activist was struck and injured by a Sheriffs Department vehicle. [The New York Times] California Highway Patrol officials say the cliff crash that killed a family may have been intentional. Information pulled from the vehicle shows it accelerated straight off the cliff. [The Associated Press] On Super Bowl Sunday, Anthony Weber, a mixed race 16-year-old, was fatally shot by a Los Angeles County Sheriffs deputy. Policing has come a long way in L.A., but to many, Anthonys death shows how much still needs to change. [The New York Times] As commercial bail has grown into a $2 billion industry, bond agents have become the payday lenders of the criminal justice world. Californias bail laws have strong consumer protections, but nonetheless, regulators have repeatedly asked lawmakers for more money to police the industry. [The New York Times] After more than a year of intense criticism following the deadly Ghost Ship fire, the Oakland Fire Marshal has resigned. [East Bay Times] When Orange County officials said they were considering putting emergency homeless shelters in Irvine, the opposition there was fierce. And many of the loudest voices were Asian. [The Los Angeles Times] In a leaked memo, a top Facebook executive defended the idea that even if the social network is helping terrorists organize an attack, it is still doing *de facto* good. Employees are outraged. [The New York Times] Calls to boycott Silicon Valley tech giants like Facebook have increased. The problem is that pulling off a boycott isnt easy. [The New York Times] Teslas semiautonomous driving system is coming under scrutiny after the company disclosed that a fatal crash in California occurred while Autopilot was engaged. [The New York Times] A growing percentage of Bay Area people are over-housed. Could a tax incentive persuade empty nesters to downsize and put a dent in the housing shortage? [The San Francisco Chronicle] Architects have unveiled the initial design for the Wilshire Boulevard Temples community event space, the Audrey Irmas Pavilion. [The New York Times] In Shohei Ohtanis regular season pitching debut, he threw six innings and allowed just three runs, propelling the Angels to a victory. [The Orange County Register] Less than five weeks after declaring her candidacy for a California congressional seat, the actress Stacey Dash announced that she was withdrawing. [The New York Times] The Compton Cowboys  yes, you read that right  are on a mission to combat negative stereotypes about African-Americans and the city through horseback riding. [The New York Times] Steven Bochco, a celebrated television writer and producer of shows like L.A. Law, died in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles. He was 74. [The New York Times] The California Department of Water Resources will conduct its fourth scheduled snow survey of the year on Monday. Both the San Francisco International Film Festival and the Beverly Hills Film Festival open on Wednesday. The Redwood Coast Jazz Festival begins in Eureka on Thursday. Governor Brown celebrates his 80th birthday on Saturday.On a Saturday in December, Micheal Brown logged on to Stanfords admissions portal to check for an early decision.He took one look at the screen  and screamed. (You can see the heartwarming video of his reaction here.)Stanford, though, would prove to be just the first of 20 highly selective colleges hed get into. In fact, Mr. Brown, a Houston high school senior, was admitted to every school to which he applied  and they all offered him a full ride.Yes, it took a 4.68 grade point average and an SAT score of 1540. But Mr. Brown also credits his involvement in guidance programs such as the University of Southern Californias Bovard Scholars program.Where will he wind up? Stanford remains at the top of his list, but he said six other schools are on that list now, too.[See our full story on Mr. Brown here.]California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Monday:1. \'NO MORE DACA DEAL!\'President Trump insists a program to help "Dreamer" immigrants is finished, and he threatens a free trade agreement with Mexico unless it does more to stop people from crossing into the U.S.2. WHO MAKES IT CLEAR HE WAS FIREDFormer Veterans Affairs chief David Shulkin says he had no plans to resign, and was only told of Trump\'s decision to replace him shortly before the president\'s Twitter announcement.3. IN EASTER MESSAGE, POPE APPEALS FOR PEACE IN SYRIAThe pontiff calls for a "swift end" to seven years of carnage.4. WHERE MLK LEGACY STANDS, 50 YEARS AFTER HIS DEATHMartin Luther King\'s work continues today in a new generation protesting many of the same issues the civil rights icon confronted: inequality, police brutality and poverty.5. OUTRAGE SIMMERS OVER 64 DEATHS IN SIBERIAN MALL FIRE"This tragedy reflects all of Russia\'s problems  the corruption of officials who closed their eyes to problems with fire safety, uncoordinated work of the special services, the imperviousness of authorities," says Rasim Yaraliyev, head of a citizen\'s group.6. WHAT 8.5-TON OBJECT IS HURTLING TOWARD EARTHChina\'s defunct Tiangong 1 space station is expected to re-enter the atmosphere within hours.7. COSBY RETRIAL SET TO STARTThe #MeToo movement will loom over the proceedings when jury selection gets underway in Bill Cosby\'s sexual assault retrial.8. SAKS, LORD & TAYLOR SUFFER DATA BREACHESThe disclosure comes after a New York-based security firm reveals that a hacking group began boasting on dark websites that it is ready to sell up to 5 million stolen credit and debit cards.9. ROCK & ROLL HOF TO RECEIVE $4.1M GRANTPNC Bank pledges the money to support free events, interactive exhibit storytelling and live music.10. \'READY PLAYER ONE\' TOPS WEEKEND BOX OFFICESteven Spielberg\'S action-adventure film earns solid $53.2 million.

SEOUL, South Korea  South Korean reporters visiting North Koreas capital to cover a K-pop performance there received a surprise on Monday: an unusually graceful apology from a senior North Korean official.The official, Kim Yong-chol, a vice chairman of the Norths ruling Workers Party, visited the reporters hotel and apologized for their having been denied entry to a theater in Pyongyang, the capital, where the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, watched  South Korean musicians perform Sunday evening.We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage, Kim Yong-chol was quoted in the reporters dispatches from Pyongyang as saying. On behalf of the Norths authorities, I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed.It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything. The rare gesture from a senior official reflected the Norths efforts to work toward a political dtente on the Korean Peninsula that Kim Jong-un helped start in February by sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.Still, the apology was all the more striking not only because the totalitarian state does not have a free press but also because it came from Kim Yong-chol, an army general considered hard-line even by North Korean standards.He is widely believed in the South to have masterminded the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010, when he served as director of the Norths main spy agency. South Korea says a North Korean torpedo attack sank the ship, killing 46 sailors, but the North denies it.On Sunday evening, several South Korean pool reporters were barred by their North Korean minders from entering the concert hall.The South Korean government later lodged a protest. On Monday, Kim Yong-chol explained that the minders had been overruled by Kim Jong-uns bodyguards. The vice chairman apologized for the lack of coordination between different branches of the Pyongyang government.After North Korea conducted a series of nuclear and missile tests last year that increased tensions, Kim Jong-un has shifted to dialogue in recent months. He has agreed to meet with South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, on April 27, and has offered to sit down with President Trump. Mr. Trump has agreed to do so by May, in an attempt to persuade him to give up his nuclear weapons.In the past week alone, Mr. Kim has stunned the region with his breathtaking pace of diplomacy.Last week, he met President Xi Jinping in Beijing, for his first known trip outside North Korea since he became leader. On Friday, he met with the International Olympic Committee president, Thomas Bach, in Pyongyang. On Sunday, he clapped and laughed while watching South Korean pop singers, whose influence on North Koreas isolated populace his government has been trying to block. Afterward, he shook hands with each performer and posed for a group photograph.His welcoming of K-pop icons, and Kim Yong-chols apology, are a stark departure from just a few years ago, when South Korea began blaring K-pop songs across their shared border as a psychological warfare tactic. The North Korean military warned of an all-out war if the South did not turn off its loudspeakers, and it even fired warning shots across the border.In North Korea, all radio and TV channels are controlled by the government and filled with propaganda. The regime has been cracking down on K-pop music that has entered the country via bootleg DVDs from China.But on Sunday, the same day the United States and South Korea started joint annual military drills, which usually draws warlike rhetoric and even missile tests from the North, South Korean K-pop singers were allowed to perform in Pyongyang.On Monday, the Norths official Korean Central News Agency quoted Kim Jong-un as saying that he was deeply moved to see our people sincerely acclaiming the performance, deepening the understanding of the popular art of the south side.
ALBANY, N.Y.   Republican Marc Molinaro vowed Monday to change what he called Albany\'s climate of corruption and behind-closed-doors deals as he formally kicked off his campaign for New York governor.Taking aim at two-term Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo, Molinaro criticized "leaders who squander the public\'s trust by putting the personal politics of ambition and greed above government\'s true purpose" of serving the people.If he gets his party\'s nomination, Molinaro faces a daunting task in trying to beat Cuomo, son of the late former Gov. Mario Cuomo. The younger Cuomo has about $30 million in his campaign war chest, and registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by a 2-1 margin in New York state.Molinaro, a 42-year-old married father of three, was elected county executive of Dutchess County in November 2011. He\'s the top elected leader in one of New York\'s more affluent counties, where a mix of high-tech industries, rural charm and proximity to New York City generally have shielded it from the economic stagnation still plaguing many upstate counties.A graduate of a local two-year community college, Molinaro lacks a four-year degree but has plenty of on-the-job experience for public office. He was elected a village trustee at age 18 in 1994, then was elected Tivoli\'s mayor later that same year, making him the youngest mayor in the U.S. at the time. After 12 years as mayor, he served in the Dutchess County Legislature and followed that up by serving in the state Assembly from 2007 to 2011."It is here, in this very building, for over 4,000 days I learned about the importance, the privilege and the responsibility of holding elective office," Molinaro said at his campaign kickoff event at Tivoli Village Hall.Molinaro initially had said he wouldn\'t seek the Republican nomination for governor but changed his mind last month after state Sen. John DeFrancisco, of Syracuse, announced he would seek the party\'s nomination to challenge Cuomo. Since then, Molinaro has picked up support from most county GOP leaders across New York. The state Republican Party will select its candidate in May."Whether it\'s Molinaro or DeFrancisco, it\'s clear that the New York GOP is intent on pushing an ultra-conservative Trump agenda, and a candidate that has the same positions as Trump with a different hair color," said Geoff Berman, executive director of the state Democratic Party.At Molinaro\'s second campaign Monday afternoon at an Albany hotel just down the street from the Capitol, he continued to criticize Cuomo, who faces a Democratic primary challenge from "Sex and the City" star Cynthia Nixon."When this governor came into office, I had the same belief that many had, that perhaps he\'d sweep in a new day," Molinaro said after his speech. "But instead we\'ve had seven years of a new normal where pay-for-play politics and this corrosive corruption and culture of more corruption continues to paralyze the way in which state government is supposed to function."During his earlier remarks, he referred to last month\'s conviction of the governor\'s former top aide on corruption charges. A Manhattan jury found Joseph Percoco guilty on federal bribery and fraud charges stemming from acceptance of more than $300,000 in bridges from companies looking to do business with the state.Cuomo wasn\'t accused of any wrongdoing, but the trial and others on the upcoming docket involving former high-profile state government figures highlight Albany\'s pay-to-play culture."Whether you know it or not, whether Albany accepts it or not, all New Yorkers are paying a corruption tax," Molinaro said. "It\'s a hidden, undermining, corrosive tax on every single New Yorker."___This story has been corrected to show Molinaro was elected village trustee in 1994, not 1995, and his mayoral election also was in 1994.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. CHINA TARIFF RESPONSE RAISES GLOBAL COMMERCE CONCERNSBeijing raises import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, apples and other products in an escalating dispute with Washington over trade and industrial policy.2. AUTHORITIES: SUV CRASH INTENTIONALInformation pulled from the vehicle\'s software shows it was stopped at a pull-off area before it sped off a cliff in Northern California and plunged 100 feet, killing a family of eight from Washington state.3. WHO WON COSTA RICA ELECTIONCarlos Alvarado, a novelist and former Cabinet minister running for the ruling Citizen Action Party, won by a wide margin in a race that hinged on the same-sex marriage question.4. IN MISSOURI, CANDIDATE WALKS TRUMP TIGHTROPEThe president carried the "Show-Me" state by 18 points, yet prized U.S. Senate Republican candidate Josh Hawley struggles to fully embrace the commander in chief.5. TURNING \'AN ALREADY BAD SITUATION INTO SOMETHING FAR WORSE\'Surges in use of meth and cocaine in mixes with a powerful synthetic opioid are contributing to rising drug overdose death tolls in the already hard-hit state of Ohio, coroners say.6. WITNESSES FOREVER CHANGED BY MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.\'S FINAL DAYSAs the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the civil rights leader nears, some would spend the rest of their lives fighting for racial equality and economic justice. Others would struggle to come to terms with what they saw.7. TEACHER PROTESTS IN OKLAHOMA NOT QUITE OVERThousands of educators are expected to descend on Oklahoma City to demand lawmakers approve more education funding just days after the Legislature did just that.8. WHERE CHINESE SPACE CRAFT ENDED UPThe defunct Tiangong 1 space station mostly burns up on re-entry into the atmosphere over the central South Pacific.9. MARCH MADNESS POISED FOR RIVETING CONCLUSIONVillanova and Michigan, prolific offense vs. stifling defense, will meet in the national title game in San Antonio.10. EMMY AWARD-WINNING PRODUCER DIESSteven Bochco, a writer and producer known for creating the groundbreaking police drama "Hill Street Blues," is dead at 74.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: A week after student-led marches around the U.S. called for gun control, both sides in the debate think they are being underestimated.Itll go away, a 77-year-old gun owner in Virginia said of the protests. Like all the other times.Forty miles away, a high school student had a different take: Theyre looking for us to get bored. Were not going to get bored.The young activists are hoping to drive real change in this falls midterm elections and beyond, but that would hinge on reversing years of below-average voter turnout for their age group. In an essay for The Times Magazine, a lifelong gun owner wrestles with the changes to gun laws that he says must come, and with his fears of what such changes might destroy. Twelve years ago, Charles Kushner was making wallets at a prison camp in Alabama.So it felt like redemption when the real estate barons son Jared was named President Trumps senior adviser.But being at the pinnacle of American political power has turned out to be a wellspring of trouble for the Kushners. Their access to the president has brought criminal and regulatory inquiries, and their business empires deals are scrutinized for hints of federal influence. In a recent interview, Charles Kushner had an invitation for investigators: Go knock yourselves out for the next 10 years, he said. We didnt do anything wrong. Officials across the U.S. are struggling to control the use of e-cigarettes among students.The devices are so easily concealed that its possible to vape in class. E-cigarettes are widely considered safer than traditional ones, but health officials fear that vaping is creating a new generation of nicotine addicts. The Morning Briefing doesnt mention Uzbekistan very often, but the Central Asian nation has recently been a source of (relatively) good news, bucking a global trend toward authoritarian rule.Eighteen months after the death of its longtime dictator, Uzbekistans new leadership has been trying to open up one of the worlds most repressive countries by releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. The ice is melting in this country, a confidant of the new president told our correspondent. China announced tariffs as high as 25 percent on 128 American-made products today. The move is intended to pressure the Trump administration into backing down from a simmering trade war. Anchors at local TV news stations across the U.S. made identical comments last month about media bias. The script came from the stations owner, Sinclair Broadcast Group. In the tight U.S. labor market, positions in out-of-the-way places like poultry plants and lumber mills can be tough to fill. But that presents an opportunity for refugees. Speaking of jobs, the March employment report is among the headlines to watch this week. U.S. stocks were closed on Good Friday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette. Readers wrote to us about whether theyre leaving their children an inheritance and how their decisions have affected their finances and family. Recipe of the day: Start the week with vegetarian tortilla soup flavored with chipotles in adobo.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Step by step, this interactive piece gently leads you into the story of a mother whose life was devastated by a gun attack.Somehow, it manages to be as lovely, even whimsical, as it is devastating. [WeTransfer/Five Dials] Sarah Lyall, writer at large Do you remember last year, when an airport in Portugal unveiled a bronze bust of Cristiano Ronaldo, which was widely mocked?A sports site interviewed the sculptor about the experience, and it is an unsettling and at points touching reminder that the social media world is also the real world. [B/R Football, via Twitter] Max Fisher, The Interpreter columnist On Easter Sunday, Pope Francis urged reconciliation in the Middle East and pressed for the fruits of dialogue in Asia. A public relations battle has erupted after violence along Israels border with Gaza left 15 Palestinians dead. President Trump blamed Democrats and Mexico for a dangerous flow of immigrants, and vowed NO MORE DACA DEAL. A Chinese space station the size of a school bus re-entered Earths atmosphere, scattering over the southern Pacific Ocean. North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, greeted South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, at a concert in Pyongyang. Steven Spielberg successfully returned to his crowd-pleasing roots, as Ready Player One earned $53.2 million and the top spot at the North American box office. Redemption of a lost prodigyAs a child, Saul Chandler was a promising violinist, playing at Carnegie Hall before the age of 11. But at 16, he had a nervous breakdown and left the world of classical music.Fifty years later, he has found refuge at a boatyard in the Bronx. His story was one of our most popular this weekend. In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was among the pantheon of South Africas liberators, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81.Johan van Hulst helped save as many as 600 children from a Nazi concentration camp. He died at 107.Steven Bochco, a celebrated TV writer and producer, created boundary-pushing dramas like Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law and NYPD Blue. He was 74. Notre Dame 2, Buzzer 0Two days after Arike Ogunbowale hit a last-second shot to beat Connecticut, she did it again on Sunday, giving Notre Dame its second N.C.A.A. womens basketball title. The Fighting Irish beat Mississippi State, 61-58.The mens championship game, between Michigan and Villanova, is tonight. Heres how the teams match up. Quotation of the dayNo, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. No, youre not. Mike Stanton, father of the New York Yankees slugger Giancarlo Stanton, recalling what he told his wife at the time, Jacinta Garay, when she wanted to name their son Fidel. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.The annual White House Easter Egg Roll is scheduled to take place today on the South Lawn.The tradition dates from 1878, when Rutherford B. Hayes was president, though some accounts suggest that informal egg-rolling parties began under Abraham Lincoln.The first lady, Melania Trump, will host guests who won a public lottery in February. In the signature event, children guide the eggs across the lawn with a wooden spoon. There will be live music and other activities, including a reading nook staffed by White House figures like Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor, and Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary. New this year: bowling.The elaborate and labor-intensive Egg Roll is among the most daunting social events a presidential staff has to plan, The Times noted last year.Guests receive souvenir wooden eggs as they leave, a tradition that began when Nancy Reagan was first lady. This year, the commemorative eggs were made from birch by a company in Maine, and theyre also available online.The White House says that more than 21,000 guests attended last year. That was down from about 37,000 in recent years. They expect 30,000 today.Karen Zraick contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The worlds first law against fake news, an unexpected apology from Pyongyang and the rise and fall of Australias top cricketer. Heres what you need to know: Cooperation is the only correct choice.Thats what China said it was pressing for when it hit back at President Trumps tariffs on steel and aluminum with its own  as high as 25 percent in some cases  on 128 American products, including pork and seamless steel pipes.The retaliation was no surprise, but Beijing appeared to go beyond its initial threat to impose the tariffs in two stages.They all took effect on Monday, including the 25 percent charge on pork, an important moneymaker in states that voted for Mr. Trump. Stocks in the U.S. fell sharply.Above, Mr. Trump and Melania Trump on Monday at the 140th Annual White House Easter Egg Roll._____ It is extremely rare for North Korea to offer such a public apology to the South, or, for that matter, to apologize for anything.But, in a measure of the Norths drive for dtente, South Korean reporters in Pyongyang received a remarkably graceful mea culpa after they were denied entry to a K-pop concert attended by Kim Jong-un, the Norths leader.We invited you and we are obliged to guarantee free coverage, a senior North Korean official was quoted as saying. I offer an apology and ask for your understanding for the wrong committed._____ The worlds first ban on fake news.The lower house of Malaysias Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its Senate is expected to rapidly follow suit.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a forced read of a corporate script from the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair._____ British officials believe an assassin smeared a Soviet-developed nerve agent on a door handle at the home of a former Russian double agent, suggesting a high-level plot hatched by the Kremlin.Since the nerve agent, Novichok, is so potent and dangerous, the British authorities suspect that only a highly trained professional  on orders from the highest levels of the Russian government  could have carried out the attack._____ Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.Our esteemed former international correspondent wrote that in his obituary of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.She died early Monday at the age of 81.In time, he wrote, her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandelas quest for racial inclusiveness. Shares of Tesla slid 5.1 percent, amid concerns about the electric-car makers quarterly production numbers for its Model 3 sedan, which are expected in the next day or so. Elon Musk, Teslas chief executive, joked about the companys financial woes on Twitter on Sunday. The stocks performance on Monday suggested investors were not amused. Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, its using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Fridays Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.) U.S. stocks were down. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in Kunduz Province, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. [The New York Times] The rise and fall of Steve Smith, one of Australias most revered sportsmen. His role in a ball-tampering scheme has prompted national soul-searching. [The New York Times] The Pacific nation of Nauru has cut its ties with Australias High Court, which had been the islands final court of appeal since 1976. Critics said hundreds of asylum seekers held at an Australian offshore detention center on Nauru could now be left without the right to appeal. [BBC]  Fiji is reeling from Tropical Cyclone Josie, which has left at least four people dead and one missing amid severe flooding. [The Weather Channel] Tiangong-1, a Chinese space station the size of a school bus, re-entered Earths atmosphere, scattering its remaining pieces over the Pacific Ocean. [The New York Times] In the Israeli-occupied West Bank, the traditional baptism site of Jesus on the Jordan River is surrounded by minefields. An operation is underway to clear them. [The New York Times] Uzbekistans president, Shavkat Mirziyoyev, is bucking the global strongman trend: reining in the secret police, releasing political prisoners and allowing some freedom of expression. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus. The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasnt sure whose head they had put on display. So the F.B.I.s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agencys oldest case. Tim Franco, a photographer who splits his time between South Korea and China, explores the stories of North Korean defectors in a new portrait series. The title, Unperson, is a riff on a construct from George Orwells novel 1984. And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program (and about 50,000 rabbits).Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
LOS ANGELES   Kay Cannon, a performer, screenwriter, producer and three-time Emmy nominee, had never directed anything before "Blockers," an R-rated teen sex comedy that Universal Pictures is releasing wide Friday.She\'d written and produced for "30 Rock" and "New Girl," written the scripts for the enormously successful "Pitch Perfect" films and created the Netflix series "Girlboss." But directing was not yet on her resume, and it came as a surprise when executives at Good Universe and Point Grey, the production companies behind the "Neighbors" films, hand-picked her to breathe some life into a stalled project about three teenage girls who decide to lose their virginity on prom night and the parents who try to stop them."I never had an issue being the head of a team, or a team captain or in charge or the boss," Cannon, 43, said recently, but she still worried about her credentials. She hadn\'t gone to film school, and wondered if she was even qualified enough to do it.But she got over that and took on the challenge of directing a major studio comedy. She was hired, as she likes to say now, "off of potential."It helped of course that Universal Pictures chair Donna Langley and production president Peter Cramer knew Cannon already from the "Pitch Perfect" films, which helped convince them that she was up to the task."We knew that she had a strong point of view and we knew that she had some real experience in studio filmmaking," Cramer said. "Kay was always an integral part of the filmmaking process beyond just being a writer. She wanted to be on set, she knew the actors, she knew how to talk to the actors, and she knew how to work with the studio ... At some point with directing you\'ve got to just do it, you\'ve got to jump into the deep end of the pool. There isn\'t any sort of set path to how someone gets to be a director."And without Cannon, the film might never have been made. Cannon took the script, which had only been worked on by male writers and executives when she signed on, and infused it with a more modern, sex-positive and feminist spirit. The teenage girls, she said, were at one point indistinguishable. Cannon turned them all into distinct characters, one of whom is even questioning her sexuality. Also the main parents who go on this crazy mission to stop their daughters were originally all dads  now one is a mom.The end result is a surprisingly nuanced and modern look at growing up and parenting woven in a bawdy sex comedy with a fair amount of nudity and physical comedy. The parents are played by Leslie Mann, Ike Barinholtz and John Cena, who called Cannon "coach" on set, and the teenagers are Kathryn Newton, Gideon Adlon and Geraldine Viswanathan.Reviews thus far have been strong (it\'s currently at 91 percent on Rotten Tomatoes) and the $21 million production is looking at a solid opening somewhere in the mid-teens after a successful and buzz-stoking debut at the SXSW Film Festival.In an industry where women directed only 8 percent of the top 100 grossing films of 2017, Universal, which also gave Elizabeth Banks her first feature directing job in "Pitch Perfect 2," has long championed both female directors ("Fifty Shades of Grey," \'\'Mamma Mia!") and female-led comedies from "Bridesmaids" to "Trainwreck" and "Girls Trip.""I love that Donna is in charge," Cannon said. "There\'s just something different. Representation matters and the fact that she is a woman and she\'s at the helm and she\'s Peter Cramer\'s boss, I love that. She\'s also ridiculously talented and tough and great at her job. It trickles down to everyone else."Cannon\'s opportunity came because Point Grey and Good Universe actively sought her out, and she said it\'s convinced her that that is what more studios should be doing. She supports the idea of inclusion riders ("It forces people to try," she said) and is excited to get into a position where she too can be mentoring and hiring women off of potential."I want to remind people when they\'re hiring, like Donald Glover was a diversity hire. And it\'s DONALD GLOVER," Cannon said. "I\'m sure Donald would have found his way without \'30 Rock,\' but he wouldn\'t have been hired at all had there not been this program set in place."She\'s also not unfamiliar with setbacks and recently faced some harsh criticisms for "Girlboss," about Nasty Gal founder Sophia Amoruso, which ended up not getting a second season and was criticized for having an "unlikable" and privileged lead. While Cannon is still surprised at how much of that criticism came from women, she also found a silver lining in the show\'s cancellation in that she got to devote all her energy and attention to "Blockers."Now Cannon is working on some other projects, some of which are too early to discuss, and writing a script for Sony too. "I feel like I\'m cheating on Universal," she laughed. And she hopes to direct again and keep a foot in both television and film."She\'s built a little industry unto herself," Cramer said. "They\'ve called her a triple threat: I think she\'s actually a quadruple threat. She\'s a producer, director, writer and an actress. There\'s not a lot of that going on ... I\'m sure we\'ll cook some more stuff up with her in the future."___
SILVER SPRING, Md.  With forecasters expecting the unemployment rate to sink further this week, the chorus of complaints about worker shortages  from custodians to computer prodigies  has swelled.Yet companies that turn to labor recruiters like Ray Wiley tend to have an especially tough time: The jobs they offer are in out-of-way places; the work is low-paid and disagreeable; and native-born Americans, particularly white men, are generally not interested.We have employers call us all the time, said Mr. Wiley, who primarily works with meat-processing plants and lumber mills that have trouble retaining workers even when the jobless rate is well above its historically low level of 4.1 percent.The economy is on solid footing in the ninth year of the recovery, and even entry-level workers have more options. So in Atlanta, San Diego and other cities, Mr. Wileys company, East Coast Labor Solutions, finds workers, primarily refugees from war-ravaged countries who dont speak English. Other candidates include Puerto Ricans discouraged by the islands lack of jobs, as well as immigrants  here legally, he emphasizes  who have no problem passing a drug test.If you told me theres 1,000 refugees who need work and want work, I could find them work this month, said Mr. Wiley, whose distinctive drawl pays tribute to his Georgia roots. Employers like refugees, he said. There is no question about their legal status, he noted, and they are generally more motivated and work harder, if only because their situation is more dire.Im ready to go right now, said Ronald Johnson, 37, who showed up one afternoon with two friends at Labor Solutions bare, second-floor office in Silver Spring, Md. He had heard from others in his community of Sierra Leone refugees that this agency could immediately place anyone willing to move to a nearby state. I want to go where they pay the most money and charge the least for rent.Within an hour, all three men agreed to move to a rural town they had never heard of, to take a job they had never done before.Citing the need to protect national security and jobs, however, President Trump has moved to sharply limit legal immigrants and refugees, capping the number of refugees at 45,000, the lowest yearly total since the program began in 1975. The actual pace of admittance has so far fallen below that level, which could make it even harder for meat processors and similarly situated industries to fill their ranks.I appreciate what Trump is doing in trying to create more jobs for Americans, Mr. Wiley said, in response to the presidents argument that immigrants are taking work from native-born Americans. But for some lower-paid jobs that are undesirable, a lot of Americans dont want to do those jobs.Of course they might, if the pay were good enough. When meatpackers were unionized and located in cities like Chicago, hourly wages averaged $20 an hour in todays dollars, plus generous benefits. In the 1960s, though, packers began moving to rural areas, bringing workers to where the animals lived instead of the other way around. The shift enabled companies to cut wages drastically, escape the pressures of collective bargaining and speed output.The move from high-wage locations to low-wage ones has become commonplace as the economy globalized, upending stable middle-class communities.In the international arena, companies like Carrier and Rexnord recently closed factories in the United States and moved operations to places like China, Vietnam and Mexico where labor could be found at cut-rate prices.But long before complaints about the North American Free Trade Agreement or steel imports from China commanded headlines, a domestic version of this pattern was already playing out in some industries. And as the pay changed, so did the face of the work force, once dominated by white males. Women, immigrants and people of color now hang chickens on hooks or hack them into parts on an assembly line. They are paid about half of what their counterparts earned four decades ago (after taking inflation into account), and have fewer benefits and protections. Such conditions dont foster long-term stability. In some plants, employers have to replace up to 70 percent of their staffs every year.Reducing that churn has become harder as the unemployment rate has dropped and several cities have raised the minimum wage.Thats where Mr. Wiley comes in. His recruits come from parts of the globe like Africa and Mexico that President Trump has repeatedly disparaged. Some are new arrivals sleeping on a relatives couch; others are longtime residents struggling with low pay, high rents, long commutes or just a stretch of hard luck. He typically finds work for a few dozen a month.Ill take any job, said Suleiman Kabba, 42, who came to the Labor Solutions office in Silver Spring, a Washington suburb, with Mr. Johnson. He had recently moved to Maryland and was down to his last few dollars. He needed to save up to replace stolen identity documents and buy airline tickets to bring over his two children, still in Sierra Leone. He removed a pair of tinted glasses and pulled at the collar of his U.S.A. T-shirt to show the scars from a bullet that had traveled through his eye and out the left side of his neck when his family was attacked during the civil war there.Haimonet Demcasso, the recruiter, explained, in two languages, the broad outlines of the jobs. The poultry-plant work pays roughly $11 to $13 an hour in small towns in Virginia and West Virginia. Labor Solutions would transport the recruits, find apartments for them to share, help fill out paperwork, and advance them the money to cover their travel, the first months rent, the security deposit, heavy work boots and home essentials. They could pay it back out of their paychecks with no interest at a rate of $60 a week.They are paid the same as other plant workers, but they are employees of Labor Solutions for up to a year, until theyve repaid their loans.More details about the job itself would come once they went through orientation at the plant, Ms. Demcasso said.For Mr. Johnson, who had recently lost his job as a van driver and was already dodging calls from debt collectors, upfront money made the difference. For me to rent an apartment, I need a boatload of money, he said.His wife, Elizabeth, was more skeptical when she heard about the deal. An apartment and two jobs just waiting for them? Money up front? There were plenty of unscrupulous recruiters who made all kinds of promises and deceived trusting job seekers  a cruel and sordid side of the industry that Mr. Wiley acknowledged is all too common.I was dragging my feet, Ms. Johnson said. But after coming up for a day to check the area and the classrooms her two children would attend in Woodstock, Va., she was convinced. I loved the school just by looking at it, she said. Most important, she saw no signs of the drugs, violence and bullying that plagued the White Oak neighborhood of Silver Spring, where they were temporarily doubled up with family. And theres no roaches and mice or rats.Mr. Wiley said that when he started working with refugees, mostly Burmese, in 2008, he didnt offer money and support, but he soon realized that the job placements wouldnt last without it. Resettlement agency assistance was temporary and many job seekers didnt speak English. So he hired case managers to translate, help with school enrollment, drive recruits to the supermarket, find English classes and more.Berhane Teklay, who once hung live chickens upside down in a plant, handles the 30 or so workers Mr. Wiley has placed in Woodstock.Originally from Eritrea, Mr. Teklay arrived after winning a visa in the 2011 diversity lottery  a program that the Trump administration recently vowed to shutter. This year, he became a United States citizen.You need somebody to help you get into the system, Mr. Teklay said, and thats what Labor Solutions does. For refugees who cant speak English well or drive a car, he said, a job in a meat-processing plant is about the best they can do.Fluent in Arabic, Amharic, Tigrinya and English, Mr. Teklay acts as interpreter, administrator, real estate agent, loan office, complaint bureau and overall fixer.For a year, he helped Waleed Kanuo, Elfadil Daoud and Ali Hamid, refugees from Sudan, settle into an apartment in Woodstock and navigate the system, until they transferred to working directly for the poultry-plant operator. Gathered in the living room of the sparsely furnished apartment they share, all three said they were saving money and grateful to Labor Solutions for finding them a job.For others, the experience is more mixed.Mr. Kabba, for instance, said he had not known that he would have to pay an additional $25 every week for the daily mile ride from a co-worker to and from the plant. Nor did he understand that he would be working for Labor Solutions and not the processing plant directly, which he said makes it more difficult to switch departments, and means he is not yet eligible for the health benefits or 401(k) plan.At the same time, plant conditions are regimented and unforgiving, with 30 minutes for lunch and two 10-minute bathroom breaks that workers said dont include time to change out and into cumbersome protective garb. And small infractions can lead to firing.But as a friend of Mr. Kabbas says, thats the way it is in America: They tell you all the sweet stuff, and not the salty. Its a job, Mr. Kabba said of the $11.70-an-hour work, which pays a $1-an-hour bonus if hes on time every day of the week. You cant pick and choose. And he loves Woodstocks quiet.Teddy Marchant, 32, a former housemate of Mr. Kabbas, did not. Within a couple of days, he realized that the small town, without so much as a movie theater, wasnt for him. He needed the cash, he said, but if I had my way, I dont think Id be here. He soon left.Ms. Johnson had time to check out the place but not the $11-an-hour job she was promised. I had no idea of what I was going to see, she said.When she walked into the plant, it was a shock. Oh, my God, I saw chickens  lots and lots and lots of chickens, 350,000 chickens a day, she said, still shaking her head at the looping conveyor belts crowded with birds. If you scratch your face or bend down, you might miss a couple of chickens.She clocked in at 5:30 a.m. and rotated hanging up the dead chickens, cleaning out guts and cutting off legs, wings and backs to ready the meat for packaging, she said.It is physically demanding, repetitive and smelly, Ms. Johnson said.A smell that her husband noted was also the smell of money.Mr. Johnson, who was born in Libya and lived in Sierra Leone before moving to the United States 16 years ago as a refugee, was initially the most enthusiastic about the job. In November, he was jogging with his children in the morning, thinking about getting a second job to build up savings, and dreaming about a music studio where he could compose and record the music that played endlessly through his head.But by January, he was out of a job for a violation of the processing plants policy. A couple months later, Ms. Johnson also left the plant after finding another local job.The work is not for everyone, Mr. Wiley concedes. But he maintains that for many refugees, including Mr. Teklay, his Woodstock branch manager, it provides a foothold.They want the American dream, and they dont mind starting off on the bottom, he said. Theres a lot of unskilled work in the U.S. that Americans will not do, and these people are doing it.
BEIJING   China\'s manufacturing activity expanded at its weakest pace in four months in March as export demand faltered, prompting companies to shed staff more quickly as they looked to cut costs, a private survey showed on Monday.The Caixin/Markit Manufacturing Purchasing Managers\' index (PMI) fell to 51.0 in March from February\'s 51.6, countering economists\' expectations for a slight uptick to 51.7.While the index remained above the 50-point mark that divides growth from contraction on a monthly basis, it was the weakest reading since November and signalled only a marginal improvement in operating conditions at the end of the first quarter.The findings contrasted with official data on Saturday, which showed manufacturing growth picked up more than expected in March in response to stronger domestic and overseas demand. The two reports often diverge, possibly due to differences in the number and type of businesses surveyed.The Caixin PMI, which tends to focus on smaller firms, suggested output and new orders grew only modestly in March, with growth in export orders slumping to a 10-month low even as fears grow of a possible trade war between the United States and China.The survey cited subdued foreign demand, and did not mention if there had been any impact yet from escalating trade tensions.The Trump administration slapped hefty tariffs on steel and aluminium imports last week and then targeted China specifically by announcing plans for additional tariffs of up to $60 billion of Chinese goods, which are expected to focus largely on its tech and telecommunications products.A resurgent yuan <CNY=CFXS> could also be weighing more on smaller exporters. The Chinese currency has gained more than 3 percent against the U.S. dollar this year, on top of a 6.7 percent rise in 2017.Chinese manufacturers also continued to reduce headcounts in March to cut costs, with the rate of job shedding still modest but the quickest since last August, the survey showed."Overall, the manufacturing PMI reading in March showed that demand was not as strong as expected, leading to lower willingness of manufacturers to produce and restock," Zhengsheng Zhong, Director of Macroeconomic Analysis at CEBM Group, said in a note accompanying the release."However, the ability of manufacturers to make a profit was beefed up by the stable increase in new orders and the much slower jump in input costs."Input price inflation continued to cool, hitting a nine-month low, while firms raised their selling prices at a slightly quicker pace than the previous month.But many businesses appear to believe the weakness in March orders was only a soft patch, with optimism about the one-year outlook picking up to the highest in a year, underpinned by expectations that greater investment, improved market conditions and new products will all help to boost demand.Overall, China\'s economic data so far this year suggest the economy has carried solid growth momentum into the first quarter from last year, with a government think tank forecasting the economy will grow 6.9 percent in the first half.But economists are sticking to forecasts that China\'s pace will slow to around 6.5 percent by the end of the year, weighed down by the cooling property market and rising borrowing costs, even if there are no global trade shocks."The growth momentum of the Chinese manufacturing economy may have weakened in March, but at a marginal pace," said CEBM Group\'s Zhong.China is aiming for economic growth of around 6.5 percent this year, the same target as in 2017, while pressing ahead with its campaign to reduce risks in the financial system, Premier Li Keqiang said in March.China economic indicators dashboard -  http://tmsnrt.rs/2iO9Q6a(Reporting by Stella Qiu and Ryan Woo; Editing by Kim Coghill)
WASHINGTON   The White House is reviewing Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt\'s activities after reports he paid below the market rate to live in a condo owned by a lobbyist who deals with issues overseen by the agency, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing an unnamed White House official.Pruitt has declined to comment on the rental arrangement reported last week and a spokesman for the agency on Friday defended his conduct and said the lease agreement was in line with federal ethical regulations.The Journal quoted the official as saying the purpose of the inquiry was to "dig a little deeper." Another White House official said few people were coming to Pruitt\'s defense, the newspaper said, although there is no sign yet that his position is in jeopardy.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.ABC News and Bloomberg News reported last week that during his first six months in Washington last year, Pruitt made a deal to pay about $50 a night - less than a third the price of similar properties - to rent a room in a Capitol Hill neighborhood condo building co-owned by energy industry lobbyist Steven Hart and his wife.Pruitt, a conservative who previously served as Oklahoma\'s attorney general, is also one of several members of President Donald Trump\'s Cabinet who have come under scrutiny for their travel practices.The EPA confirmed last month that Pruitt\'s private security detail accompanied him on first-class flights.Hart\'s firm represents companies regulated by the EPA including Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co, shale producer Concho Resources Inc, ExxonMobil Corp and liquefied natural gas (LNG) company Cheniere Energy Inc.Travel records obtained through a public records request show that Pruitt spent over $17,000 in taxpayer money for a December trip to Morocco to promote U.S. exports of LNG. Marketing U.S. LNG is not the jurisdiction of the EPA administrator.(Reporting by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Peter Cooney)
TOKYO   A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years.The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers, released Monday, was 24 in March, down two points from December.The forecast continued to be pessimistic with the index expected to fall to 20 over the next quarter.The survey is seen as a major economic indicator.The index is the difference between companies surveyed that have a "favorable" outlook and those with an "unfavorable" outlook.So the reading still shows optimists outnumber pessimists but that difference is starting to shrink.A looming U.S.-China trade war after President Donald Trump\'s tariffs and China\'s action in response could further hurt the Japanese economy.The results also show the momentum of growth under "Abenomics" could be running out of steam.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been trying to wrest the economy out of decades of doldrums by fighting deflation, a continuing spiraling down of prices that deadens the economy  an effort that has met with some success.But the Japanese economy is heavily dependent on exports and hurt by a shrinking of its labor force."Softer than expected tankan for large manufacturers marked by first slippage, albeit modest, in eight quarters being attributed to a stronger Japanese yen," says Vishnu Varathan, of the Asia and Oceania Treasury Department of Mizuho Bank.A strong yen erodes the value of Japan\'s exports when converted into yen.____Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
TOKYO   Asian markets were mostly higher in muted trading Monday, as Hong Kong and Australian markets were closed for Easter, and Wall Street and other global markets have been closed for a long weekend after Good Friday.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 added 0.5 percent to 21,562.01 in morning trading, while South Korea\'s Kospi was up 0.5 percent at 2,458.68. The Shanghai Composite index added 0.4 percent to 3,182.44. Shares in Singapore were higher, while those in Taiwan were lower.WALL STREET: New York trading is off for a long weekend for Good Friday, and will resume later in the day.TRADE FEARS: Asian benchmarks appeared to be shrugging off fears that President Donald Trump\'s tariff programs could set off a trade war. China raised import duties on U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in response to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. A bigger dispute looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods.JAPAN ECONOMY: A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years. The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers was 24 in March, down two points from December.THE QUOTE: "The market\'s biggest fears about escalating trade war and higher U.S. interest rates have tentatively blown over, suggesting investors will shift into bargain-hunting mode," said Stephen Innes, head of trading at Oanda.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 25 cents to $65.19 a barrel. Trading had stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 37 cents to $69.71 per barrel.CURRENCIES:  The dollar inched up to 106.33 yen from 106.23 yen late Friday. The euro inched down to $1.2322 from $1.2329.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
WASHINGTON  In his first report to Congress as the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney called on lawmakers on Monday to cripple the agency that he has been temporarily tasked with overseeing.Mr. Mulvaney, a longtime and unapologetic critic of the financial crisis-era bureau, has spent the last several months freezing its enforcement activities, dropping cases on payday lenders and shutting out career staff from major decisions. He has called for the bureau to be more humble and less aggressive in its efforts to protect consumers and to consider the impact on businesses when making decisions.Being on the inside seems to have only redoubled Mr. Mulvaneys concerns about the bureaus mandate, which he first expressed while representing South Carolina as a Republican in the House.The bureau is far too powerful, and with precious little oversight of its activities, Mr. Mulvaney, who is also director of the White Houses Office of Management and Budget, said in a message accompanying a 56-page report to Congress that was released on Monday.Mr. Mulvaney made a series of recommendations to lawmakers that would curb the bureaus power and independence. He called for it to be funded through congressional appropriations, rather than through the Federal Reserve, which has insulated it from political jockeying. He also recommended that bureau rules be subject to legislative approval and advised that the president should have direct oversight and authority over the bureaus director. Right now, the director can be removed by the president only for specific and justifiable cause, rather than for political or other reasons.Mr. Mulvaney also recommended the creation of an inspector generals office to monitor the activities of the bureau.By structuring the bureau the way it has, Congress established an agency primed to ignore due process and abandon the rule of law in favor of bureaucratic fiat and administrative absolutism, Mr. Mulvaney said.Republican lawmakers have tried for years  without success  to curb the powers of the agency, which was authorized in 2010 and enjoys broad support among congressional Democrats.While Mr. Mulvaney  or the person that Mr. Trump eventually selects to succeed him  can weaken enforcement efforts, the fixes that he called for would require legislation. The chances of this are slim, as Democrats in the Senate have vowed to block any bills that would harm the consumer bureau.On Monday, critics of Mr. Mulvaney assailed the report as an affront to vulnerable consumers.He wants to take away the bureaus independence and then make it harder for it to do its job, said Mike Litt of the United States Public Interest Research Groups, a consumer advocacy organization. Recommendations in todays report, if implemented, would stop the agency from protecting consumers and prevent it from ever being effective in the future.But the banking industry, which has chafed at the bureaus enforcement powers and its approach, has been more than pleased with the direction that Mr. Mulvaney has been charting. On Monday, bank lobbyists cheered his efforts to deregulate.We strongly believe an independent, bipartisan commission at the C.F.P.B.  not subject to the political shifts of changing administrations  is the best way forward to provide for accountability, certainty and stability at the C.F.P.B., Richard Hunt, president of the Consumer Bankers Association, said.Next week, Mr. Mulvaney is scheduled to appear before Congress to testify about the state of the consumer bureau. The appearance will likely set up a public showdown with Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who helped create the agency in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis and who has been its most vocal and influential defender.House Republicans passed legislation last year that would defang the bureau, but even they appear resigned to the fact that it is likely to survive largely intact. The House is considering how to move forward with a more modest bill to loosen regulations on small and medium-size banks that the Senate passed with bipartisan support in March.Last month, Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and a longtime proponent for curbing the agencys power, said he was willing to get behind a financial regulation bill that left the consumer bureau untouched. The reason: He supports Mr. Mulvaney.Right now, Im very happy, he said of the bureaus direction under Mr. Mulvaney. May he rule forever.
ANKARA, Turkey  As President Trump has his tweets, the leader of Turkey has his speeches.President Recep Tayyip Erdogan makes up to three every weekday  two a day on weekends  and his charismatic, combative talks are the primary vehicle of his success.He calls democracy advocates marauders. He mocks the German foreign minister as a disaster. He is as comfortable in the vernacular as he is reciting poetry. He takes on his enemies publicly by name, pivoting seamlessly from pious to pushy.Even after 15 years at the helm, Mr. Erdogan, whose skills as an orator even his opponents envy, treats every event like a campaign rally  and he turns just about every day into one. He remains the countrys most popular politician and is poised to seek re-election, possibly this year, with polling showing him with over 40 percent support.Much of that appeal can be credited to his ubiquitous media presence and a speaking style that supporters find inspiring, and detractors divisive. Neither side doubts that it has struck a chord with Turkeys conservative working class.In that regard, Mr. Erdogan fits perfectly with the deepening global trend toward autocrats and swaggering strongmen (they are all men) who have found a way to speak forcefully for common people who feel their point of view has been ignored for too long.Mr. Erdogans speeches are often broadcast live on multiple television channels, almost universally pro-government, from every event he attends. His voice is heard everywhere, in cafes, homes and government offices across the land.His favorite recipe: attacking people his supporters love to hate, be it the United States, European leaders or the liberal elite.To his support base, Mr. Erdogan talks like a father, a brother, or the man next door. He is one of us, supporters often explain. And he says what he thinks, in salty, everyday language, just like them.And now they have a foreign minister  oh, my God  what a disaster, Mr. Erdogan railed to supporters in the western region of Denizli last summer, at the height of his countrys tensions with Germany.He never knows his place, Mr. Erdogan continued. Who are you  Ha!  speaking to the president of Turkey? You are talking to the foreign minister of Turkey. Know your place.And he attempts to give us a lesson. What is your history in politics? How old are you? Our life passed with those struggles in politics.The passage was vintage Erdogan. Stylistically he is always full of surprises, said Asli Aydintasbas, a former journalist and senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. He does not mind shocking people, and taking people on in a very public manner.Often that means upsetting people that his supporters do not like. He jeered at pro-democracy protesters in Istanbul for their liberal lifestyle, calling them marauders and mocking their drinking habits: They drink until they puke.And he made a notoriously coarse remark about a socialist feminist protester who climbed onto an armored vehicle in Ankara, wondering if she were a girl or a woman, essentially questioning her virginity.But Mr. Erdogan also inspires with poetry and tales of the life of the Prophet Muhammad. He drops his voice with reverence to honor fallen soldiers, and then raises it to stir national pride.The religious sermonizing is very much part of Mr. Erdogans training. He studied at a religious school for prayer leaders and preachers, learning among his courses Islamic preaching.Liberals and secularists have often criticized his divisive speech, and his introduction of religion into politics, yet it is what most of his pious Muslim followers want to hear.For conservatives this is someone defending their lifestyle, Ms. Aydintasbas said.A smooth practitioner with a teleprompter, he has a well-honed rhetorical style. In almost every speech there is a moment when he shakes up the audience, suddenly switching gears.He turns from declarative speech to address directly, in imperative or interrogative style, whoever is the target of the day.He has been particularly irritated by the United States alliance in Syria with the Peoples Protection Units, or Y.P.G., a Kurdish group that Turkey says is linked to terrorism.Hey America! How many times I have told you? he railed in a speech last year. Are you with us, or are you with this terror group?Rather than bore his supporters with his political plans, he brings them into the meeting room with him.Can you tolerate what is happening in Ghouta? he shouted recently, about the Syrian governments offensive against rebels in a suburb of Damascus. The U.N. made a resolution. Damn your resolution! What is the use of your resolution? You are cheating! You are only five, a reference to the five Security Council members.Ms. Aydintasbas compares Mr. Erdogans speaking style, as well as his relationship to his supporters, with those of President Trump.Erdogans supporters always say he is genuine, she said. In an age when politics are so well scripted and sanitized in their messaging, it is refreshing when you have anger or even hatred which reflects their own feeling.Political opponents who have watched Mr. Erdogan for years concede his talents, even if they dislike his divisive style.His style is in extreme harmony with the profile of right-wing, populist, authoritarian politicians, said Ayhan Bilgen, spokesman for the opposition Kurdish party, the Peoples Democratic Party. He prefers a political style that divides society and escalates tension.Mr. Erdogans family is originally from Rize, on Turkeys northeast Black Sea coast, a region famous for its hardheaded characters. He grew up in the rough working-class district of Kasimpasa in Istanbul, playing soccer in the mud with neighborhood kids.Mr. Bilgen said Mr. Erdogan had always displayed a combative personality from his early days in politics.Always creating tension, trying to make an argument over everything, he said, and in the tension taking control.Once a week Mr. Erdogan addresses legislators from his Justice and Development Party in the partys parliamentary chamber. The event less resembles a political meeting than a soccer match  his supporters wave banners in the galleries and chant competing slogans.In one recent chamber gathering, the loudest cheers Mr. Erdogan raised were when he castigated the United Nations for its unfairness, and sent veiled warnings to the United States about supporting Kurdish groups, in language crafted to inspire Turks by harking back to a heralded past.We are a country, a nation ready to take any steps any moment, he said. If there are those who prefer a couple of terrorists, marauders against such a nation, such a state, we will no doubt slap this answer in their faces, on their hearts. They should know that.Mr. Erdogan has always combined a measure of nationalism with religion and never more so than now, as he champions the Turkish forces that invaded the Syrian enclave of Afrin in January.He returns repeatedly to Islamic themes, frequently citing Turkeys most beloved poets  he famously provoked Turkeys military by reciting a religious poem when mayor of Istanbul in 1997 and ended up in jail.Undoubtedly, the incursion is by us, and victory is from God, he said recently of the military operation in Syria that captured the city of Afrin.He recited a poem to the unknown soldier:Then he called the chamber to pray.He followed with a poem by Mehmet Akif Ersoy, author of Turkeys national anthem:A journalist in the presidential press corps tut-tutted at the religious phrases, rarely heard in Turkeys institutions in nearly a century of the secular Turkish republic.Turkey is divided down the middle  a referendum last year to grant the president extra powers was split 51 to 49  and for all those who are inspired by Mr. Erdogan, just as many are tired of his speeches.Hes always shouting, said one shopkeeper in a warren of shops in Istanbuls back streets. He asked not to be quoted, since people have been arrested for denigrating the president.The opposition politician, Meral Aksener, who is preparing to challenge Mr. Erdogan in the next presidential elections, mocked the presidents endless speeches in a post this month on Twitter.I want to address Mr. Erdogan in your presence, she said, borrowing his favorite rhetorical trick. Friend, please keep silent for a moment, spare a little bit time for your family, sit at home, she said.You dont have to talk about every issue. You dont have to point your finger everywhere. Sit down at home a little while, have a rest. Take a breath, so we can take breath too, so Turkey can.
RIYADH   Saudi Arabia\'s crown prince said Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land in an interview published on Monday in U.S. magazine The Atlantic, another public sign of ties between Riyadh and Tel Aviv appearing to grow closer.Asked if he believes the Jewish people have a right to a nation-state in at least part of their ancestral homeland, Mohammed bin Salman was quoted as saying:"I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."Saudi Arabia - birthplace of Islam and home to its holiest shrines - does not recognize Israel. It has maintained for years that normalizing relations hinges on Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war, territory Palestinians seek for a future state."We have religious concerns about the fate of the holy mosque in Jerusalem and about the rights of the Palestinian people. This is what we have. We don\'t have any objection against any other people," said Prince Mohammed who is touring the United States to drum up investments and support for his efforts to contain Iranian influence.Increased tension between Tehran and Riyadh has fueled speculation that shared interests may push Saudi Arabia and Israel to work together against what they see as a common Iranian threat."There are a lot of interests we share with Israel and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries", Prince Mohammed added.Saudi Arabia opened its airspace for the first time to a commercial flight to Israel last month, which an Israeli official hailed as historic following two years of efforts.In November, an Israeli cabinet member disclosed covert contacts with Saudi Arabia, a rare acknowledgment of long-rumored secret dealings which Riyadh still denies.Saudi Arabia condemned U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel last year, but Arab  officials told Reuters at the time that Riyadh appears to be on board with a broader U.S. strategy for an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan still in its early phases of development.(Reporting by Stephen Kalin; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
As many New Yorkers try to figure out how painful a hit they will take from the new federal cap on state and local tax deductions, the budget that passed in Albany on Saturday arrived with glimmers of hope shrouded in even more uncertainty.Tax experts said two plans Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo pushed for in the budget face certain challenges. One, which in effect converts local property taxes into charitable contributions, will most likely be questioned by the Internal Revenue Service. And the other  a complicated option to convert the state income tax to a payroll tax  may prove difficult to sell to businesses and employees. That plan would lower the gross salary for workers but seek to keep their net pay equal to what it was before the federal cap went into effect.The Cuomo administration says it is ready for the fight. In discussing the budget agreement, Mr. Cuomo said Albany was pushing back against a federal government that was actively hostile toward New York.That is just a fact, its not a political statement, Mr. Cuomo said. We passed the first-in-the-country tax reform where we changed our tax code to actually avoid the penalty of the federal government.Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has used such language to describe the federal tax law since it passed last year. The cap on deductions of state and local taxes will hit especially hard in high-income, high-tax states like New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and California, places that, by coincidence or design, did not embrace President Trump in the 2016 election.Capping those deductions at $10,000 will certainly be felt in the metropolitan area, where property taxes of $20,000 to $30,000, on top of state income taxes, are not uncommon. New York and other states are considering litigation to fight the cap. And some others are exploring measures similar to those that passed in New Yorks budget.But by being first out of the gate, New Yorks plan will be the test case.Several states have considered allowing municipalities to form nonprofit organizations that property owners would make payments to in lieu of property taxes, and then claim the donations as charitable write-offs on their federal taxes. The I.R.S. has not issued any formal guidance on those ideas, but Jared Walczak, a senior policy analyst at the Tax Foundation, said the New York law will push the issue, and he called the plan legally fraught.I think its quite possible that now that New York has adopted such legislation through the budget, and other states are considering it, that we may see I.R.S. guidance clearly disallowing this, Mr. Walczak said. Existing case law already makes this plain, but states have muddied the water.Another part of the states plan  converting the income tax paid by wage earners to a payroll tax paid by companies that could then deduct that amount on their federal taxes  seems to be on firmer legal footing. But it may not make sense to companies that must implement it and the employees who must opt in. Mr. Walczak said he suspects that it will prove difficult to convince large work forces, some with negotiated contracts, to take a cut on gross pay, even with the promise that their net pay after taxes will increase.Those that would be most likely to take advantage of it are going to be small companies consisting of highly compensated employees, he said. So you might think of a hedge fund taking advantage of this, but not a larger corporation that has people across the wage scale.Kenneth J. Pokalsky, vice president of the states business council, said the plan gives employers a lot to think about.I dont think it will be an easy decision, he said. We heard from a lot of our members in the run-up to this. I havent really heard from any who said they thought theyd be likely to take advantage. But now that its law, well see what the companies do.Carol Kellermann, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a fiscal watchdog group, said the plans are worth trying.A lot of people are criticizing the provisions, saying they wont work, Ms. Kellermann said. Its worth trying. Theres no downside to creating the vehicles to try these out.Robert Mujica, the governors budget director, said the federal tax changes make New York less competitive and must be challenged.We did not choose to do this, Mr. Mujica said. The federal government did this to New York. We cannot sit by and do nothing because it is complicated and hard.
TOKYO   Global markets mostly fell in muted trading Monday, as markets in Hong Kong, Australia and Europe were closed for Easter.KEEPING SCORE: Trading in France, Germany and Britain was closed for Easter and was to resume Tuesday. U.S. shares were set to drift lower with Dow futures down 0.4 percent at 24,061. S&P 500 futures lost 0.3 percent to 2,635. New York trading was off for a long weekend on Good Friday and was resume Monday.ASIA\'S DAY: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 lost 0.3 percent to close at 21,388.58, while South Korea\'s Kospi was down nearly 0.1 percent at 2,444.16. The Shanghai Composite index shed 0.2 percent to 3,163.18. Indexes in Southeast Asia were mixed.TRADE FEARS: Fears are still simmering that U.S. President Donald Trump\'s tariff programs could set off a trade war. China raised import duties on U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in response to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. A bigger dispute looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods.JAPAN ECONOMY: A quarterly business outlook survey by Japan\'s central bank shows corporate sentiment has worsened for the first time in two years. The Bank of Japan\'s "tankan" index for large manufacturers was 24 in March, down two points from December.THE QUOTE: "The market\'s biggest fears about escalating trade war and higher U.S. interest rates have tentatively blown over, suggesting investors will shift into bargain-hunting mode," said Stephen Innes, head of trading at Oanda.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 18 cents to $65.12 a barrel. Trading had stopped for the long Easter weekend. On Thursday, benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $64.94 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 33 cents to $69.67 per barrel.CURRENCIES:  The dollar rose to 106.29 yen from 106.23 late Friday. The euro inched up to $1.2331 from $1.2329.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
SPOKANE, Wash.   Cherry and apple growers in Washington state are worried their exports to China will be hurt by a growing trade war that escalated Monday when that country raised import duties on a $3 billion list of products.China buys Washington-grown cherries, apples and pears, which are all included in the trade dispute."Our hope is that the U.S. and China will reach a solution before cherry season starts in June," said Kate Woods, a vice president of the Northwest Horticultural Council in Yakima, Washington.The council handles international trade issues for the agriculture industries in Washington, Oregon and Idaho.Washington is the biggest producer of apples and sweet cherries in the United States.China is the top export market for Washington cherries, buying 2.9 million cases worth $127 million each year, Woods said."It\'s going to be a lot more challenging for cherry growers to find alternative markets when talking about that much volume," Woods said.China also bought about $50 million worth of apples and $1.5 million worth of pears from Washington last year, Woods said.Beijing is imposing a 25 percent tariff on U.S. pork and aluminum scrap and 15 percent on sparkling wine, steel pipe and an array of fruits and nuts including walnuts and grapes.American farm exports to China in 2017 totaled nearly $20 billion, including $1.1 billion of pork products.The government of Chinese President Xi Jinping said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum. But it\'s just one facet of sprawling tensions between China and Washington, Europe and Japan over the state-led economic model that other nations say hampers market access, protects Chinese companies and subsidizes exports in violation of Beijing\'s free-trade commitments.Companies are looking ahead to a bigger fight over President Donald Trump\'s approval of higher duties on up to $50 billion of Chinese goods in response to complaints that Beijing steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Economic forecasters say the impact of Monday\'s move should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if other governments respond by raising import barriers.The tariffs "signal a most unwelcome development, which is that countries are becoming protectionist," said economist Taimur Baig of DBS Group. But in commercial terms, the tariffs are "not very substantial" compared with China\'s $150 billion in annual imports of U.S. goods, he added.
WASHINGTON   The Palestinian Authority and Palestine Liberation Organization gained a legal victory at the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday as the justices refused to consider reinstating a $655.5 million jury award won against them by 11 American families over militant attacks in Israel.The court declined to hear the families\' appeal of a lower court\'s 2016 ruling throwing out the jury award that was secured in a lawsuit brought under the Anti-Terrorism Act, a law allowing American victims of international terrorism to seek damages in U.S. courts.The families had looked to hold the Palestinian Authority and PLO liable for six shootings and bombings between 2002 and 2004 in the Jerusalem area that killed 33 people, including several Americans, and wounded more than 450."It\'s outrageous that the murderous Palestinian Authority is allowed to kill innocent civilians and not have to pay any cost. This is a horrible travesty of justice for the families and we will not let it stand," said Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, president of the Shurat HaDin-Israel Law Center, which represents the American families.The PLO\'s chief representative in Washington, Husam Zomlot, said in a statement that "this decision reaffirms the vital relationship between the Palestinian and American people, which depends on mutual respect and, as importantly, on respect for the rule of law."President Donald Trump\'s administration had sided with the Palestinian Authority and PLO in the dispute, urging the justices not to take up the case because the specific claims could not be brought under the Anti-Terrorism Act."The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows," U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec said.The attacks at the center of the lawsuit have been attributed to the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and Hamas. Lead plaintiff Mark Sokolow, his wife and their two daughters were injured in a 2002 suicide bombing in Jerusalem.JURISDICTION QUESTIONThe New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered that the civil lawsuit, which began in January 2004, be dismissed. The appeals court said the attacks occurred "entirely outside" U.S. territory, and found no evidence that Americans were targeted. As a result, American courts do not have jurisdiction to hear the claims, it said.The families said late PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat, who died in 2004, and his agents routinely arranged for payments to attackers and to families of militants who died. The Palestinian Authority and PLO have said they condemned the attacks and blamed them on rogue individuals within the organizations acting on their own.In 2015, after a six-week trial, a federal jury in Manhattan awarded the families $218.5 million, which was tripled automatically to $655.5 million under the Anti-Terrorism Act.Lawyers for the plaintiffs said the appeals court decision "eviscerates the Anti-Terrorism Act" by severely limiting what cases can be heard in U.S. courts. They argued that Congress wrote the law specifically to apply to attacks that took place outside the United States in which U.S. citizens were injured or killed, whether or not Americans were specifically targeted.In a separate case on a similar theme, the Supreme Court in February blocked a group of Americans injured in a 1997 suicide bombing in Jerusalem from seizing ancient Persian artifacts from a Chicago museum to satisfy a $71.5 million court judgment against Iran, which they had accused of complicity in the attack.The Supreme Court in another case is weighing whether Jordan-based Arab Bank Plc can be sued over legal claims that it helped finance militant attacks in Israel and the Palestinian territories. A ruling is due by the end of June.(Reporting by Lawrence Hurley; Additional reporting by Maayan Lubell in Jerusalem and Arshad Mohammed in Washington; Editing by Will Dunham)
Stephen Reinhardt, a liberal federal judge from California who was unfazed when the United States Supreme Court reversed his rulings supporting same-sex marriage and doctor-aided suicide, as well as his challenges to late-term abortion, the Pledge of Allegiance and making English the official language, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 87.The cause was a heart attack that Judge Reinhardt had during an appointment with his dermatologist, a spokesman for the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco said. At his death he was still serving on that bench.As the last of President Jimmy Carters federal judicial appointees (and one of only five still sitting), Judge Reinhardt made himself an inviting target of conservatives, who lambasted the Ninth Circuit as the most progressive (a label he did his best to redeem) federal jurisdiction.Yes, he acknowledged to The Los Angeles Times, the Supreme Court had indeed reversed a disproportionate number of his decisions over nearly four decades, but, he added sportively, issuing principled but unpredictable decisions wasnt pointless. They cant catch em all, he said.Dean Erwin Chemerinsky of the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law, wrote in an email that Judge Reinhardts view was to decide cases as he believed the law required, not to predict what the Supreme Court would do.As a justice on the Supreme Court and then as chief justice, William H. Rehnquist, who was appointed in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan, often taunted the Ninth Circuits judges for having a hard time saying no to any litigant with a hard-luck story.The conservative Weekly Standard described Judge Reinhardt as the liberal bad boy of the federal bench  ideological, outlandish and never dull.But Judge Reinhardt was no knee-jerk contrarian. And some of his decisions rationales, which proved to be less radical than classically liberal, were sustained by his judicial colleagues. Even doubters of his ideology often praised his scholarship and his conscientiousness.I didnt always agree with him, his Ninth Circuit colleague Judge N. Randy Smith said in a statement, but one of my lifes highest honors has been to serve with this legal giant.Heather MacDonald, a senior fellow with the conservative Manhattan Institute and one of Judge Reinhardts many former clerks, recalled his ability to transcend political difference.He scrutinized every appeal by a criminal defendant with extra care, holding the government to the highest standard of due process, she said.Another former law clerk, Hector Villagra, now executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation of Southern California, recalled a Saturday night when the judge was writing a dissent after the full Ninth Circuit had rejected a death penalty appeal.He knew it was totally pointless; it wasnt going to affect the outcome, Mr. Villagra said in a statement. But it was the right thing to do, and thats what mattered. He wanted his voice and his objections heard.Judge Reinhardt was born Stephen Roy Shapiro on March 27, 1931, in New York City to the former Silvia Handelsman and Samuel Shapiro, a lawyer.After they divorced, his mother dated the writer Antoine de Saint-Exupry (who was said to have borrowed some of Stephens art supplies to draw The Little Prince). He changed his surname in the early 1940s when his mother married Gottfried Reinhardt, the producer, director and playwright who worked on such films as Two-Faced Woman, The Red Badge of Courage and Town Without Pity.Judge Reinhardt said his empathy for the underdog was inspired by his stepgrandfather Max Reinhardt, a renowned director who as a Jew had fled the Nazis.Judge Reinhardt earned a bachelors degree in government from Pomona College in California in 1951 and graduated from Yale Law School. He served as a first lieutenant in the legal counsels office of the Air Force, clerked for a federal judge, practiced entertainment and labor law in California, was a member of the Democratic National Committee from California and served on the Los Angeles Police Commission, until his circuit court appointment in 1980.He is survived by his wife, Ramona Ripston, a retired executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California; three children, Mark, Justin and Dana; and seven grandchildren.Over the years, Judge Reinhardt ruled as unconstitutional the phrase under God in the Pledge of Allegiance; a Washington State law banning the procedure that abortion opponents call partial-birth abortion; Arizonas English-only official language law; and a 2008 California ballot referendum, Proposition 8, barring same-sex marriage. Each of his rulings was overturned or vacated by the Supreme Court.(The same-sex marriage case was remanded back to California for further proceedings, and Proposition 8 was ultimately ruled unconstitutional.)Judge Reinhardt sometimes lamented that he was following a legal precedent even though he disagreed with it. Last year, in an anguished opinion, he declined to halt a deportation that he considered deeply unjust.The man being deported, Andres Magana Ortiz, had come to the United States from Mexico 28 years before, when he was 15. He became a successful coffee grower in Hawaii, where he lived with his wife and three children, all United States citizens. (The Ninth Circuits jurisdiction includes Hawaii.)Mr. Ortiz had been permitted to remain in the country while he pursued a path to legalization during the administration of President Barack Obama, but that decision was abruptly overturned under the Trump administration, and he was ordered deported.Magana Ortiz and his family are in truth not the only victims, Judge Reinhardt wrote in deciding that the court lacked the power to prevent his deportation. Among the others are judges who, forced to participate in such inhumane acts, suffer a loss of dignity and humanity as well. I concur as a judge, but as a citizen I do not.
GOLD COAST, Australia  Amid the skyscrapers and coastline of Surfers Paradise here, you can spot a large surfboard with a digital clock, determinedly counting down. The Commonwealth Games will descend this week onto the Gold Coasts beaches, bringing with it the worlds best athletes and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.The weekslong multisport event has gathered various nations of the British Commonwealth every four years since 1930, barring a few wartime aberrations. It was originally known as the British Empire Games, hosting various combinations of countries, with Australia and Britain among the mainstays. The 2018 Games will draw athletes from 71 Commonwealth nations and territories who will compete in 275 events over 18 sports.[READ MORE: The Lure of Australias Gold Coast]Despite the impending glow of an international audience, familiar concerns over the Games substantial cost and dwindling significance have again come to the fore, this time in the Australian state of Queensland.Theres little doubt the Commonwealth represents a particular, if aging, type of might  it still represents about a third of the worlds population. Set up in the mid-20th century as Britain allowed for the self-governance of many of its territories, the Commonwealth of Nations have no legal obligations to one another, but instead aim to further shared values like democracy and freedom of speech.But, in a post-Brexit landscape, and with many countries shrinking further into isolationism, questions have been raised not only of the Games relevance, but the relevance of the Commonwealth itself.The Commonwealth matters to me, said Jacqui Gooding, a New Zealander who was visiting Surfers Paradise on vacation. The queen is our leader  I dont want a president.Mrs. Goodings husband, John, dismissed the idea that the Games would be absent of sporting and political relevance.Its about bringing all the nations of the Commonwealth together, he said. It shows the power of sport in diplomacy, and the importance of the Commonwealth.And look at what happened with North Korea, he added, referring to the meeting tentatively arranged between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, which has been largely credited to the afterglow of the Pyeongchang Olympics.Organizers on the Gold Coast said they expected the Games to reach a global audience of 1.5 billion. For context, the 2014 World Cup had about 3.2 billion global viewers and the Rio Olympics had about 3.6 billion.The mood of locals varied from enthusiasm to curiosity to, occasionally, eye-rolling frustration at construction and traffic delays.Nick Atkins, who runs a co-working space on the Gold Coast, has been an advocate for attracting and retaining talent in the region. He said he was more excited about the governments spending on infrastructure than the events themselves.For me, personally, I dont know who the Commonwealths best javelin thrower is, or table tennis player or swimmer, he said. But theres an undeniable positivity on the Gold Coast for it.Mr. Atkins added that he felt little emotional connection to the Commonwealth itself.In an identity sense, I would like to become a republic  I dont see the need for us to be part of the Commonwealth, really, anymore, he said.Peter Beattie, a former premier of the state of Queensland, and the chairman of the Gold Coast Games, said that he empathized with those who had reservations about the event.I understand that theres always a bit of cynicism: is this the remnants of the Empire? Look, it came from the Empire Games, but its relevance and relationship with the Empire Games is very tenuous, he said.Mr. Beattie believed that Brexit and its fallout had given the Commonwealth, and its Games, a unique opening to capitalize upon.Brexit, actually, in a converse way, has made the Commonwealth more relevant, not less, he said. Britains now looking at free trade agreements. Part of whats happening here is a meeting of all the trade ministers.Of course, it is difficult to ignore that the Games are, in a way, a sort of Olympics-lite: an athletic coming together of many nations, to be sure, but with the notable absence of medal-winning mainstays like China, the United States and Russia.But organizers, including Mr. Beattie, were quick to paint the Games as more nimble and progressive than the Olympics, and several times implied that the latter could do with some evolution.The Olympics are just a hard, competitive sporting event  and thats terrific, he said. The Commonwealth is more than that.This years Games, for the first time, will feature an equal gender split of events. Women will compete for the same number of medals as men, a feat that organizers said had not been replicated by any other major multisport international event  including the Olympics.Mr. Beattie said that the Games would send a message about the advancement of women that he hoped the Olympics would emulate.Others said the Games presented athletes with a rare chance at higher competition like the Olympics and World Championships  and some athletes with perhaps the peak competition of their careers.I just snuck into the Commonwealth Games. It was the first major team that I made, representing Australia  they have more relaxed standards, said Steve Moneghetti, a retired Australian runner who eventually competed in four Olympic marathons. Its a good steppingstone, and certainly for some athletes it will be the only multisport competition that they go to.It is easy to see why for certain nations these Games may be just as watchable as the Olympics  theres a far greater chance of seeing a fellow countryman win.Australians, were quite competitive. Weve either topped or been second in the medal tally for most Games in history. The Australian public really embrace them, Mr. Moneghetti said. I know this sounds quite nave, but Australians kind of go, Commonwealth Games, Olympic Games, if you won a medal, thats great.Medal count aside, host cities have faced increasing pressure in recent Games to ensure that the economic impact of the event proves both positive and sustainable.Last year the South African city of Durban was stripped of the right to host the Games in 2022, following a series of missed deadlines and financial shortcomings. The African continent has never hosted the Games.Before that, Indias 2010 Games were marred by accusations of substantial overspend and corruption.The 2014 Games in Glasgow proved something of a litmus test for the economic and cultural credibility of the event.There, a large chunk of responsibility fell to an American, David Grevemberg, who had previously been part of a team that secured an agreement that would require Olympic cities to also host the Paralympics.Post India, we had a brand thats relevance was being questioned, said Mr. Grevemberg, who today is the chief executive of the Commonwealth Games Federation.Under Mr. Grevembergs leadership, Glasgow 2014 accomplished an elusive feat: finishing under budget.Mr. Beattie said that much of the 2018 Games $1.1 billion budget had gone toward infrastructure that would continue to be used after the event ends. He added that most of the money had been publicly funded, though these Games had attracted more sponsors than any before it.Regardless of how well this years Games perform, many involved with the event conceded that it must continue to shrug off predictions of its demise.Mr. Grevemberg has seen success and failure in large sporting events, including at the now-defunct Goodwill Games, where he worked with some American athletes.The Goodwill Games were largely spun off of Cold War tensions  Im not sure that its narrative matured beyond that, he said.Mr. Grevemberg emphasized the power of nonsporting stories the Games have seen, from apartheid-era boycotts, to the Australian runner Cathy Freemans decision to drape herself in an Aboriginal, not an Australian, flag as she celebrated a gold medal win.And, with regard to the five-ringed shadow of the Olympic Games, and any perceived inferiority complex, Mr. Grevemberg playfully brushed cynicism aside.You are what you believe you are, he said.
Elder Lightfoot Solomon Michaux was a pioneering evangelist.The preacher launched a radio show, The Radio Church of God, in 1929 to national acclaim. About two decades later, he became the first minister with a weekly television show. He spread a gospel of individual salvation, saying that converting people to Christianity would help cure the evils and injustices of the world.He also did something that, until recently, remained virtually unknown to the public: Elder Michaux, an African-American, worked with J. Edgar Hoovers F.B.I. to publicly discredit the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and give the bureau cover for its intrusive surveillance of the civil rights leader.That revelation was made in a paper, written by Prof. Lerone A. Martin and published in February in the Religion and American Culture journal.It was already known that Elder Michaux (mi-SHAW) was a fierce critic of Dr. King. But Professor Martins research was the first to find that Elder Michauxs criticisms were part of a coordinated effort with the F.B.I.Professor Martin, of Washington University in St. Louis, discovered the collaboration between Elder Michaux and the F.B.I. when he was working on a book on religious broadcasters.He obtained 230 pages of F.B.I. files on Elder Michaux and discovered that Hoover would send the elder memos full of praise. Professor Martin learned that there was more to the relationship.Why did you file Freedom of Information Act requests on Elder Michaux?Ferguson happened here in St. Louis, where I live and, of course, the F.B.I. was involved with that, and I knew the F.B.I. was sort of interested in the role of faith communities, that were playing in Ferguson. So I thought, Well, Im sure the F.B.I. probably had this concern in the 20s, 30s and 40s as it relates to preachers as well.What did you discover?He was what the F.B.I. at the time called a special correspondent, which meant that he was someone the F.B.I. reached out to and had very cordial relationships with, and very cooperative relationships with for the majority of his broadcasting career. That included, of course, his cooperation with the F.B.I. to discredit Martin Luther King.What specific things did he do to discredit Dr. King?In collaboration with the F.B.I., he laundered some of their counterintelligence for them. So for example, the F.B.I. would pass along some information to him on King about, perhaps, King being a communist, and then Michaux would, of course, scrub that intelligence and present it in some of his broadcasts or sermons. In all, what he does is he colludes with the F.B.I. to preach sermons that discredit Martin Luther King and also even engage in a protest of Martin Luther King that was cleared by the F.B.I.What were some lines of attack that Elder Michaux took against Dr. King?On the same day that the F.B.I. writes a memo that says that King is the most dangerous Negro in the world, on that same day they reach out to Michaux and he preaches a sermon against the March on Washington. So the March on Washington has already occurred and, about a month later, Michaux preaches a sermon criticizing the March on Washington and questioning Kings religious commitments. The sermon basically says that King, his religious commitments are questionable, and this whole entire dream that Martin Luther King has will never ever happen and will never come about by marching and protesting. But it will only come about by sort of seeking the Christian conversion of individuals in America.And it questioned his motivations, right?The sermon says that King is being motivated not by the Bible, not by religion, but by something else. And of course the F.B.I. is distributing throughout Washington that King is a communist. And so the sermon is sort of used to sort of provide air cover for the kind of counterintelligence the F.B.I. is engaging in as it relates to Martin Luther King. Were there other times when Elder Michaux was used to further criticize or delegitimize Dr. King?A second moment is when Martin Luther King and J. Edgar Hoover have a public spat. King tells a New York Times reporter that the F.B.I. cannot sort of investigate segregation if the F.B.I. has segregationists in it. He questions the F.B.I. and their commitments to racial justice and equality. Eventually, Hoover responds by saying that Martin Luther King is the most notorious liar in the country and that King should not be trusted. So when they have this public spat, the F.B.I. reaches out to Michaux and, again, he obliges and helps them. He writes an open letter, releases it to the media, to the newswires at the time, saying that it was Martin Luther Kings fault, and that Hoover is a good Christian servant who is working to ensure the morality of the nation.He has help from the F.B.I. in constructing this letter. Hes given information illegally by the F.B.I., inserts it into the letter, sort of vouching for the F.B.I.s efforts in racial justice.And finally in 1965 he engages in a protest. Martin Luther King is fresh from the march at Selma. He is then in Baltimore with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, planning their summer plans, and Michaux reaches out to the F.B.I., lets them know that hes going to be protesting outside the hotel. So about 100 members of his congregation  between 100, 125, according to The New York Times  are outside marching, protesting King with signs such as Communist termites are inside and God save America.What do you think is the big takeaway now?We have these African-Americans who are part of this evangelical advisory board in the executive branch. At the same time, we know from documents that have recently been released by the F.B.I. that the executive branch is overseeing the Department of Justice and the F.B.I., who are following Black Lives Matter protesters. I think it allows us to see how these televangelists, who make connections with the executive branch, can be used as religious cover for what the F.B.I. and the executive branch more broadly wants to do.As April 4th rolls around, well see Trump and, Im sure, ministers across the country who will be praising Martin Luther King, praising his ministry, mourning his untimely death. But yet their policies and their commitments will be really far from Martin Luther King. In actuality, I think well see theyre in a tradition with Elder Lightfoot Solomon Michaux.

Thousands of teachers in Oklahoma and Kentucky walked off the job Monday morning, shutting down school districts as they protested cuts in pay, benefits and school funding in a movement that has spread rapidly since igniting in West Virginia this year.In Oklahoma City, protesting teachers ringed the Capitol, chanting, No funding, no future! Katrina Ruff, a local teacher, carried a sign that read, Thanks to West Virginia.They gave us the guts to stand up for ourselves, she said.The walkouts and rallies in Republican-dominated states, mainly organized by ordinary teachers on Facebook, have caught lawmakers and sometimes the teachers own labor unions flat-footed. And they are occurring in states and districts with important midterm races in November, suggesting that thousands of teachers, with their pent-up rage over years of pay freezes and budget cuts, are set to become a powerful political force this fall.The next red state to join the protest movement could be Arizona, where there is an open Senate seat and where thousands of teachers gathered in Phoenix last week to demand a 20 percent pay raise and more funding for schools.The growing fervor suggests that labor activism has taken on a new, grass-roots form.Our unions have been weakened so much that a lot of teachers dont have faith in them, said Noah Karvelis, an elementary school music teacher in Tolleson, Ariz., outside Phoenix, and leader of the movement calling itself #RedforEd, after the red T-shirts protesting teachers are wearing across the country.Mr. Karvelis said that younger teachers had been primed for activism by their anger over the election of President Trump, his appointment of Betsy DeVos as education secretary and even their own students participation in anti-gun protests after the school shooting in Parkland, Fla.Teachers for a long time have had a martyr mentality, Mr. Karvelis said. This is new.The wave of protest is cresting as the Supreme Court prepares a decision in Janus v. Afscme, a major case in which the court is expected to make it harder for public sector unions to require workers to pay membership fees. But the recent walkouts suggest that labor activism may not need highly funded unions to be effective. Unlike in strongholds for labor, like New York or California, teachers unions in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Kentucky and Arizona are barred by law from compelling workers to pay dues. Yet that has not stopped protesters from making tough demands of lawmakers.Striking West Virginia teachers declared victory last month after winning a 5 percent raise, but Oklahoma educators are holding out for more.Last week, the Legislature in Oklahoma City voted to provide teachers with an average raise of $6,000 per year, or roughly a 16 percent raise, depending on experience. Gov. Mary Fallin, a Republican, signed the package into law.Teachers said it was not enough. They have asked for a $10,000 raise, as well as additional funding for schools and raises for support staff like bus drivers and custodians.About 200 of the states 500 school districts shut down on Monday as teachers walked out, defying calls from some parents and administrators for them to be grateful for what they had already received from the state.To pay for the raise, politicians from both parties agreed to increase production taxes on oil and gas, the states most prized industry, and institute new taxes on tobacco and motor fuel. It was the first new revenue bill to become law in Oklahoma in 28 years, bucking decades of tax-cut orthodoxy.In Kentucky, teachers earn an average salary of $52,000, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, compared with $45,000 in Oklahoma. But teachers there, thousands of whom are picketing the Capitol during their spring break, are protesting a pension reform bill that abruptly passed the State House and Senate last week. If Gov. Matt Bevin signs it into law, it will phase out defined-benefit pensions for teachers and replace them with hybrid retirement plans that combine features of a traditional pension with features of the 401(k) accounts used in the private sector. Teachers in the state are not eligible for Social Security benefits.Andrew Beaver, 32, a middle school math teacher in Louisville, said he was open to changes in teacher retirement programs, such as potentially asking teachers to work to an older age before drawing down benefits; currently, some Kentucky teachers are eligible for retirement around age 50. But he said he and his colleagues, many of whom have called in sick to protest the bill, were angry about not having a seat at the negotiation table with Mr. Bevin, a Republican, and the Republican majority in the Legislature.What Im seeing in Louisville is teachers are a lot more politically engaged than they were in 2015 or 2016, he said. It really is a wildfire.In Arizona, where the average teacher salary is $47,000, teachers are agitating for more generous pay and more money for schools after watching the state slash funds to public education for years.Were going to continue to escalate our actions, Mr. Karvelis said. Whether that ultimately ends in a strike? Thats certainly a possibility. We just want to win.Mr. Karvelis, 23, said teachers would not walk out of class unless they were able to win support from parents and community members across the state, including in rural areas. But he said the movement would be influential regardless of whether it shuts down schools.Were going to have a lot of teachers at the ballot box who I dont think would normally go in a midterm year, he said. If I were a legislator right now, Id be honestly sweating bullets.With Republican legislators and governors bearing the brunt of the protesters fury, the Democratic Party is trying to capitalize on the moment. The Democratic National Committee plans to register voters at teacher rallies, and hopes to harness the movements populism.The teacher walkouts are a real rejection of the Republican agenda that doesnt favor working-class people, said Sabrina Singh, the committees deputy communications director. Republicans arent on the side of teachers. The Democrats are.That type of rhetoric is a sea change from the Obama years, when many Democrats angered teachers by talking less about core issues of schools funding than about expanding the number of charter schools, or using student test scores to evaluate teachers and remove ineffective ones from the classroom.School reformers kind of overshot the mark, and were now in a pendulum swing where teachers increasingly look like good guys, said Frederick Hess, director of education policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative-leaning think tank.Republicans, too, he said, should consider pitching themselves as teacher-friendly candidates, perhaps by tying teacher pay raises to efforts to expand school choice through private school vouchers or charter schools.Lily Eskelsen Garca, president of the National Education Association, the nations largest teachers union, called the movement an education spring.This is the civics lesson of our time, she said. The politicians on both sides of the aisle are rubbing the sleep out of their eyes.
HARTFORD, Conn.   U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty announced on Monday she will not seek re-election this year amid calls for her resignation over her handling of the firing of a former chief of staff accused of harassment, threats and violence against female staffers in her congressional office.Esty, a Democrat from Connecticut and an outspoken #MeToo advocate, made the announcement not to seek a fourth term in the November election days after apologizing for not protecting her employees from the male ex-chief of staff.Since her Friday apology, which came after two news organizations published articles about her handling of the matter, a growing number of fellow Democrats, including the top two in the Connecticut Senate, had urged her to resign.The congresswoman, who insisted last week she would not resign, said Monday she determined "it is in the best interest of my constituents and my family to end my time in Congress at the end of this year and not seek re-election." She added how "too many women" have been harmed by workplace harassment."In the terrible situation in my office, I could have and should have done better," she said in a statement.Esty\'s announcement came hours after she asked the House Ethics Committee to review her actions to determine if there was any wrongdoing on her part.Esty has said she regrets not moving along an internal investigation into the 2016 allegations against Tony Baker, which revealed more widespread allegations of abuse, and regrets providing "even the slightest assistance to this individual as he sought a new job."A spokesman for Baker told Hearst Connecticut Media and the Washington Post that he denies some of the allegations. A phone number listed for a Tony Baker in Columbus, Ohio, where the spokesman said the former chief of staff was living, was disconnected.The 58-year-old Esty was a former member of her local town council in Cheshire and a one-term state representative in the state\'s General Assembly before winning her first term in Congress representing the 5th District in 2012. A graduate of Harvard University in 1981, she earned her law degree from Yale Law School in 1985. She is a mother of three and has often spoken about her time at PTA meetings and her children\'s soccer matches and hockey games.Esty won re-election in 2014 and 2016. While Connecticut\'s congressional delegation is all Democrats, Esty\'s district is considered more evenly divided politically compared with most of the others. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee expressed confidence it will remain in Democratic control.The district includes Newtown, where the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting massacre occurred. Esty has been a vocal advocate for stronger gun laws but has been mostly unable to pass any new federal legislation since the 2012 shooting. She recently attended President Donald Trump\'s White House meeting on guns and other issues following the Parkland, Florida, school shooting.Connecticut Democrats praised Esty\'s decision not to seek re-election."The truth is, too many facts about how this incident was handled fall short of appropriate standards for responsible and responsive leadership," said Democratic Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, who had not publicly called for her to resign.The Democratic state Senate\'s majority leader, Bob Duff, was among those to urge Esty to step down. He said several points led him to call for Esty\'s resignation, including her reluctance to speak out publicly about the situation and using taxpayer money to pay her former chief of staff about $5,000 in severance.Staffers said Esty repaid the federal government last week with her personal funds.House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi commended Esty\'s former employee Anna Kain for coming forward and telling her story. Pelosi stopped short of calling on the congresswoman to resign, saying Esty had acknowledged "her actions did not protect Ms. Kain and should have."Esty has said she learned through a third party in 2016 about possible misconduct by Baker involving a former staffer, who worked in her office from 2013 to 2015. Esty said she fired Baker about three months later after receiving an internal investigation report that revealed improper behavior by Baker that affected multiple female staffers.Before news of the controversy broke, Esty had issued press releases calling for tougher harassment protections for congressional staffers and was among those demanding that then-U.S. Rep. John Conyers, of Michigan, resign amid allegations of misconduct.___Associated Press writer Matt Daly contributed to this report from Washington.
It is as if Lionel Messi or LeBron James were banned for a year for cheating. But in this case the superstar is Steve Smith, one of the best cricketers in the world and the captain of the national team in Australia, where fair play is prized and cricket is a national obsession.On Thursday, Smith returned to Australia, which was still reeling from the scandal and demanding answers over his failing to intervene in a ball-tampering scheme while on tour in South Africa and initially lying about it to sports officials and the news media.Cricket Australia has lost its naming sponsor only seven months into a three-year, $15 million contract. But more broadly the country is coming to grips with cheating in one its most popular sports, and asking itself if its self-satisfaction in fair play was a myth all along.I know I will regret this for the rest of my life, Smith said, fighting back tears at a news conference in Sydney. I made a serious error of judgment and I now understand the consequences. It was a failure of my leadership. I will do everything I can to make up for my mistake and the damage it has caused.But to understand the fall of Smith, who was barred from all Australian international and domestic cricket for 12 months and from the 2018 season of the Indian Premier League, it is necessary to understand his rise.In Test cricket  the traditional five-day format of the sport  among all players who have scored at least 2,000 runs, Smith has the second-best career average per innings. His 61.37 average is behind only that of Sir Donald Bradman, whose 99.94 average is so far ahead of the competition that, to cricket fans, mere utterance of those four digits evokes his name.Smiths ascent has been particularly cherished because he seemed to represent traits that Australians like to consider their own.He was largely self-taught. He honed his technique by playing in his back garden, on uneven paving, drawing comparisons to Bradman, who spent hours throwing a golf ball against a water tank, and hitting it with a stump.Another resonant trait is Smiths sheer resilience and audacity.At the start of his international career, Smith was widely regarded as a joke. When Smith was recalled by Australia midway through the teams humiliating defeat by England in 2010-11, he shrugged it off, explaining that his role was merely about having fun and making sure everyone else around is having fun, whether it be telling a joke or something like that.Although his batting technique was dissected ruthlessly, Smith went on to double down on his idiosyncratic method, and enjoyed a sustained run of success that is one of the more remarkable in cricket history. Since a match in Perth at the end of 2013, which Smith has identified as the turning point in his career, he averages 70.71 in Test matches, scoring a century every four innings.He has done all this with an everyman appeal endearing to Australians. He is one of the more genuinely decent people to skipper the Australian team in recent decades, the longtime cricket journalist Peter Lalor wrote in The Australian. He is so driven and obsessed with the sport that his fiance has said that Smith sometimes makes her throw balls into the bowling machine, to give him extra batting practice.So the revelations about the match in South Africa have left Australia aghast.It has been confirmed that Smith did not intervene despite full knowledge that the teams vice captain, David Warner, was instructing Cameron Bancroft, the most junior player, to rub sandpaper on the ball, altering its aerodynamics.Warner also received a yearlong suspension, and Bancroft was barred for nine months.To see the way my old man has been, and my mum, it hurts, Smith said. I just want to say Im sorry for the pain I have brought to Australia and the fans and the public. Its devastating.Some have offered sympathy or support for Smith.Hope everybody has had their pound of flesh now, said Mark Butcher, a former English player.Faf du Plessis, South Africas captain, who has twice been reprimanded for tampering  he was fined, never suspended  sent Smith a text message to express his sympathies. I feel for the guy, du Plessis said, adding that he considered the length of the ban harsh.Others, however, said the punishment would send an appropriate message.There is a link between Australias boorish and arrogant behavior over the last few years and this incident, wrote Mickey Arthur, a South African who coached Australia from 2011 to 2013. Cricket Australia needed to make a stand.Beyond the specifics, this episode promises to have wider repercussions. In the sport generally, it is inviting a debate about ball tampering  widely believed to be endemic in the sport, albeit more subtly than by Australias players last week  and the games entire conduct, after myriad recent problems with behavior.David Richardson, chief executive of the International Cricket Council, the sports governing body, said, Enough is enough after one of the worst periods in recent memory for the game.In Australia, the affair is raising questions about the countrys notion of being the land of the fair go, and whether the cricket teams apparent win at all costs approach is emblematic of a deeper strand in the country.The Australian foreign minister, Julie Bishop, said that many high commissioners and ambassadors had declared their shock over the incident, and that it had damaged the countrys reputation abroad.Australia is seen as a country that plays fair, that plays by the rules, abides by the rules, she said.Smith is unlikely to captain Australia again. But, at only 28 years old, he is widely expected to make an international comeback after his ban.Cricket is the greatest game in the world, Smith said. Its been my life, and I hope it can be again. Good people make mistakes.
