
Gov. Jerry Brown of California on Friday pardoned five ex-convicts facing possible deportation, drawing criticism from President Trump and heightening continued tensions between Washington and California.The  five immigrants were among 56 pardons and 14 commutations Mr. Brown granted on Friday  Good Friday and the start of Passover  to those who have been out of custody for at least 10 years and have exhibited exemplary behavior after their convictions, the governors press office said.They included a United States military veteran, Sokha Chhan, a refugee from Cambodia who served nearly a year in jail for the misdemeanors of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or cohabitant and threatening a crime with the intent to terrorize. Phann Pheach, another Cambodian refugee who was pardoned, served six months for possession of a controlled substance for sale and obstructing a police officer.Mr. Brown also granted pardons to Daniel Maher, who spent five years in prison after being convicted of kidnapping, robbery and using a firearm, and who is now the director of a recycling program in Berkeley, Calif.; Sergio Mena, who was sentenced in 2003 and put on probation for three years for possession of a controlled substance for sale; and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz, who served five months for vehicle theft.On Saturday morning Mr. Trump tweeted a list of crimes that he linked to the five who were pardoned and asked, Is this really what the great people of California want?It was the latest discord between Mr. Trump and leaders in California, where lawmakers have been actively seeking to disrupt Mr. Trumps policies  not only by passing immigration laws that run counter to the administrations agenda, but also by expanding environmental protections, raising gasoline taxes to pay for highway construction, and resisting moves to weaken rules for greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards for automobiles.We will definitely not sit by idly as the Trump administration tries to deport immigrants, throw people off health care, ignore climate change and steal our water, State Senator Scott Wiener, a Democrat, said in January. Its about playing defense to whatever the administration throws at us  but also offense in terms of continuing Californias push for progressive social change.On Friday, the same day Mr. Brown announced the pardons, Mr. Trump declared April Second Chance Month, highlighting the need for ex-convicts to get an opportunity to become contributing members of society.I am committed to advancing reform efforts to prevent crime, improve re-entry and reduce recidivism, Mr. Trump said in a news release.Mr. Brown, who is serving the final 12 months of his second stint as governor, has granted 1,115 pardons and 51 commutations since taking office in 2011, Evan Westrup, the governors press secretary said on Saturday. It amounts to far more than his recent predecessors.Some of these cases involved immigrants who faced deportation or who had already been deported. An exact breakdown was not immediately available.In December, Mr. Brown pardoned two men who came to the United States as children, after their families fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia, and who were scheduled to be deported for their crimes, The Sacramento Bee reported. Last year, he pardoned three veterans who had been deported to Mexico and in 2015, he pardoned a man who was fighting deportation after serving two decades for burglary and kidnapping, among other crimes.For ex-convict immigrants, deportation is a severe punishment that is often unwarranted, said Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights, which seeks to change Californias laws to help immigrants avoid deportation.We believe that deportation is an enhancement to their sentences that goes way too far, she said. Theyve actually paid their debt to society.Immigration law is so punitive, that it just does not forgive, she added. Most judges, their hands are tied behind their back, she said, and the inability to have any discretion promotes large-scale deportation.Mr. Trump visited California in mid-March to inspect border wall prototypes designed to keep out undocumented immigrants. The trip came one week after Attorney General Jeff Sessions sued the state over three new immigration laws he called unconstitutional, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to deport criminals who were born outside the United States.Mr. Brown, a Democrat, said at the time that Mr. Sessions was basically going to war with California.In Mr. Trumps weekly address on Saturday he took another swipe at California, blaming so-called sanctuary cities for the opioid epidemic, and referring to California as a sanctuary state that has become a hub for transporting heroin across the southern border. He also admonished Oaklands mayor for helping criminal aliens elude the authorities because of the citys dangerous sanctuary policies.Sanctuary cities put innocent Americans at the mercy of hardened criminals and heartless drug dealers, Mr. Trump added. These are bad people.That argument  that immigrants bring crime to America  has influenced many of the Trump administrations policies on immigration. Studies have shown, however, that immigration does not drive crime. According to one recent analysis, a large-scale collaboration by four universities, the areas with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980.The data is crystal clear that immigrants do not lead to an increase in crime, said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. I think opponents to immigration like to cherry-pick egregious cases where the individual does not belong in the U.S. and therefore marginalize an entire community.





SEOUL, South Korea  The United Nations Security Council has announced new measures against North Korea, blacklisting 27 ships, 21 shipping companies and one individual accused of helping the North evade previous sanctions.The move increases pressure on the North ahead of planned summit meetings between its leader, Kim Jong-un, and the presidents of South Korea and the United States.The oil tankers and cargo ships on the list, announced on Friday, were banned from ports worldwide or will have their assets frozen, and the shipping companies will face an asset freeze. Most of those named had also been blacklisted by the United States Treasury in February.In response to North Koreas rapid acceleration of its nuclear and missile programs, the Security Council has adopted a series of sanctions resolutions in recent years. The toughest, last year, banned key North Korean exports like coal, seafood and textiles, and drastically reduced the amount of petroleum the North was allowed to import.The North has been accused of using false paperwork to continue coal exports and of importing oil through illegal ship-to-ship transfers on the high seas.The approval of this historic sanctions package is a clear sign that the international community is united in our efforts to keep up maximum pressure on the North Korean regime, said Nikki R. Haley, the United States ambassador to the United Nations. She said it was the largest-ever such United Nations blacklist targeting the North.The companies blacklisted included 12 based in North Korea, three in Hong Kong and two on the Chinese mainland.Some analysts said that Mr. Kims recent agreement to meet with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea in April and later with President Trump was driven in part by a desire to ease sanctions. But Washington and its allies have vowed to keep up with sanctions until the North commits to denuclearizing.Last week, Mr. Kim made his first foreign trip since taking power six years ago, meeting the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, in Beijing. His country has also refrained from conducting major weapons tests since late November, when it launched an intercontinental ballistic missile that analysts said could be powerful enough to reach the mainland United States.Satellite imagery, however, suggests the country is firing up a new nuclear reactor capable of producing plutonium, one of the main fuels used in nuclear arms, according to a report by Janes Intelligence Review and the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.Mr. Kim kept up his relative diplomatic openness by meeting the president of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, in Pyongyang on Friday. Mr. Bach said the North Korean leader was committed to having his country participate in the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo and the 2022 Winter Games in Beijing, according to The Associated Press in a dispatch from Pyongyang.The North Korean leader started his diplomatic overtures by sending a delegation to the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, earlier this year.
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.   Spring break couldn\'t have come at a better time for Melania Trump.With fresh details spilling into the headlines daily about how Donald Trump allegedly cheated on her early in their marriage, the former model escaped the intense glare by spending the past week at the family\'s estate in Palm Beach, Florida, with their 12-year-old son, Barron.But even then, there was no perfect refuge from the attention to recent legal activity related to the president\'s past conduct with women.On Mrs. Trump\'s first full day away, when the president also was at their Mar-a-Lago estate, Trump had dinner not with her but with attorney Michael Cohen  who paid porn actress Stormy Daniels $130,000 in 2016 to keep her from going public with her story of a 2006 tryst with Trump. The Trumps did dine together on Thursday night after the president returned to Florida, with boxing promoter Don King stopping by to chat.Some say the first lady should exit her 13-year union with Trump, much like Hillary Clinton was urged to do after President Bill Clinton\'s affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky became public in the late 1990s."Melania should do for this generation of girls what Hillary Clinton did not do for mine and leave her jerk of a husband," conservative commentator S.E. Cupp wrote in an opinion piece that recently was splashed across the front page of the New York Daily News  one of Trump\'s hometown newspapers  with the headline "Dump Trump!"Trump himself recently joked about the possibility of his wife leaving him. She was seated at the head table at a Washington dinner last month where the president, in a speech that traditionally pokes at friends and adversaries, addressed the heavy staff churn at the White House."Now the question everyone keeps asking is, \'Who\'s going to be the next to leave? Steve Miller or Melania?\'" he said, referring to policy adviser Stephen Miller. "That is terrible, honey, but you love me, right?"A Marist-McClatchy Poll in February found the public divided on the issue. Forty-three percent said the first lady should stay married to Trump, 34 percent said she should leave her husband and 23 percent weren\'t sure what she should do.Through it all, Mrs. Trump has kept a steely silence on claims by Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal that they had sexual relationships with Trump that began in 2006 just after the future first lady gave birth.Stephanie Grisham, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump, responded to questions about Daniels and McDougal by saying the first lady is "focused on being a mom" and spent the break working on future projects, including Monday\'s annual White House Easter Egg Roll and the coming state visit of French President Emmanuel Macron on April 24.Mrs. Trump kept up an everything\'s-normal Twitter feed during the week, posting about her recent participation in the State Department\'s courage awards, a White House discussion she had convened on cyberbullying, an upcoming opioids exhibit near the White House, White House garden tours and her surprise visit to a Florida hospital Thursday to deliver Easter baskets to young patients.She is silent now on her husband\'s dealings with other women, but has traversed this awkward terrain before."People think and talk about me like, \'Oh Melania, Oh poor Melania,\'" she told CNN in a 2016 interview. "Don\'t feel sorry for me. I can handle everything."She gave that interview after Trump was heard on a decade-old audiotape describing how he had grabbed women by their genitals and kissed them without permission. Trump at the time also faced accusations of sexual misconduct from more than a dozen women. He has called the women\'s charges false, and said he was engaging in "locker-room talk" on the tape.Some fault Mrs. Trump for making the "politically freighted choice" of going ahead with what the White House said is her traditional spring break getaway.Iowa State University history professor Stacy Cordery said most people will forgive an erring man when his wife stands by him. But "we don\'t see any evidence of her standing by him in that way. Even though she\'s an extremely private person, she could still appear at his side, but she\'s choosing not to," added Cordery, a first lady scholar.The allegations don\'t appear to have hurt Trump politically. The White House often notes that Trump was elected even though voters knew about sexual misconduct allegations against him. Trump\'s approval rating, meanwhile, is up 7 points since last month to 42 percent, according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.Friends say the first lady, who met Trump while his divorce from his second wife was being finalized, can handle what\'s coming at her."The first lady is very strong. She\'s, unfortunately, used to attacks of fake news," said Paolo Zampolli, her friend and former modeling agent.___Associated Press writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report.______This story has been corrected to show that the first lady met, not married, Trump while his divorce was being finalized.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday froze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria as his administration reassesses Washington's role in the long-drawn conflict there, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing officials.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report noting that Washington had recently committed an additional $200 million to support early recovery efforts in Syria, the Journal reported.The decision is in line with Trump's declaration on Thursday when he said that America would exit Syria, according to officials, the Journal reported.An additional aid of $200 million was pledged by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February in Kuwait at a meeting of the global coalition against Islamic State.(Reporting by Bhanu Pratap in Bengaluru; Editing by Sandra Maler)
LOS ANGELES   President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation, including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.In a tweet , Trump referred to Brown as "Moonbeam," referencing a nickname a newspaper columnist coined for him in the 1970s. Trump then listed the ex-convicts\' crimes before they were pardoned Friday. They include misdemeanor domestic violence, drug possession, and kidnapping and robbery.Trump wrote: "Is this really what the great people of California want?"A spokesman for Brown responded to a request for comment with more information about the five men but did not directly address Trump\'s criticism.In a news release about the pardons on Friday, the governor\'s office said that "those granted pardons all completed their sentences years ago and the majority were convicted of drug-related or other non-violent crimes.""Pardons are not granted unless they are earned," the governor\'s office said.Brown\'s pardons marked the third time the Democrat has intervened on behalf of immigrants who were deported or faced deportation over convictions. Brown has accused the Trump administration of "basically going to war" with California over immigration policy.Brown\'s pardons don\'t automatically stop deportation proceedings, but eliminate the convictions on which authorities based their deportation.Trump has been criticized for his own pardon, that of former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted last year of a misdemeanor contempt charge for flouting the courts in carrying out his signature immigration patrols.Trump\'s pardon spared Arpaio from a possible jail sentence. The 85-year-old longtime lawman announced a run for Senate in January.Those pardoned Friday by Brown included Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach, who face deportation to Cambodia, a country ruled in the 1970s by the genocidal Khmer Rouge. Chhan was convicted of two counts of misdemeanor domestic violence in 2002 and served about a year in jail.Pheach was convicted of possessing drugs and obstructing a police officer in 2005 and served six months in jail. His wife said he is in federal custody.Also pardoned was Daniel Maher, who served five years in prison stemming from the 1994 armed robbery of a San Jose auto parts store. He was convicted of kidnapping, robbery and being a felon in possession of a firearm in the case.Maher is facing deportation to China, where he has never lived. Maher is from Macau, which became part of China after his family immigrated to California when he was 3.Also pardoned while facing deportation were Daniel Mena and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz. Mena served three years of probation after being convicted of possessing illegal drugs in 2003. Alaniz served five months in prison for a 1997 car theft conviction.The governor is a former Jesuit seminarian and traditionally issues pardons close to major Christian holidays. Easter falls on Sunday.California\'s longest-serving governor has now issued 1,519 pardons, including 404 during his first two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983.___Associated Press writer Janie Har contributed to this report from San Francisco. Elias reported from San Francisco.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump launched his second attack in a week on Amazon.com Inc on Saturday, accusing the world\'s biggest online retailer of getting unfairly cheap rates from the U.S. Postal Service and not paying enough tax.Trump\'s comments on Twitter reiterated criticisms he made on Thursday about the company. He may have been prompted by a report from news website Axios saying he was obsessed with Amazon and considering ways to rein in the company\'s power, possibly with federal antitrust or competition laws.Investor concerns about regulatory action sent Amazon shares down 3.3 percent over Wednesday and Thursday, knocking $24 billion off the company\'s market value."While we are on the subject, it is reported that the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars," Trump tweeted on Saturday.A Citigroup analysis last year showed that if the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) reallocated costs to account for the growing volume of packages it delivers, it would cost $1.46 more to deliver each package. Federal regulators, which review contracts made by USPS, have not raised any issues with the terms of its contract with Amazon."If the P.O. \'increased its parcel rates, Amazons shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion\'," Trump tweeted, although it was not clear what report he was citing. "This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"A White House spokeswoman said on Thursday the administration has no Amazon-related action at this time.Trump also accused the Washington Post, owned privately by Amazon Chief Executive and founder Jeff Bezos, of being a "lobbyist" for Amazon.The newspaper, a frequent target of Trump\'s ire, won a Pulitzer Prize last year for its critical investigation of Trump\'s donations to charities.Amazon declined comment. The Washington Post did not immediately reply to a request for comment.(Reporting by Bill Rigby; Editing by Bill Trott)
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.   President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria, two senior administration officials said on Friday, a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria, according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan.Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington\'s role in the conflict there.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilise areas recaptured from Islamic State, the paper said.The funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State.The decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump\'s declaration during a speech in Richfield, Ohio, on Thursday, where he said it was time for America to exit Syria.A spokesperson for the White House\'s National Security Council said that "in line with the President\'s guidance, the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized, which they do on an ongoing basis."Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach, Florida, estate."We\'ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon," Trump said on Thursday, based on allied victories against Islamic State militants."Let the other people take care of it now.Very soon, very soon, we\'re coming out," Trump said. "We\'re going to get back to our country, where we belong, where we want to be."Trump\'s comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign.While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria, U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Trump still needs to be convinced of that, said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting.U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump\'s comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels.Trump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking towards having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that," one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete, however, the official added.The second official said Trump\'s national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base.Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward, the official said."So far he has not given an order to just get out," the official said. About 2,000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan, ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay.Trump\'s view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton, named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.(Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton, John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio,  Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)

WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump hailed the start of his long-sought U.S.-Mexico border wall this past week, proudly tweeting photos of the "WALL!" Actually, no new work got underway. The photos showed the continuation of an old project to replace 2 miles of existing barrier.And on Saturday, he ripped Amazon with a shaky claim that its contract with the post office is a "scam."Trump and his officials departed from reality on a variety of subjects in recent days: the census, Amazon\'s practices and the makeup of the Supreme Court among them. Here\'s a look at some statements and their veracity:TRUMP: "Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL!"  tweet Wednesday, showing photos of workers building a fence.TRUMP:  "We\'re going to be starting work, literally, on Monday, on not only some new wall -- not enough, but we\'re working that very quickly -- but also fixing existing walls and existing acceptable fences."  Trump, speaking the previous week after signing a bill financing the government.THE FACTS: Trump\'s wrong. No new work began on Monday or any other time this past week. And the photos Trump tweeted were misleading. They showed work that\'s been going on for more than a month on a small border wall replacement project in Calexico, California, that has nothing to do with the federal budget he signed into law last week.The Calexico project that began Feb. 21 to replace a little more than 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) of border wall was financed during the 2017 budget year. A barrier built in the 1990s mainly from recycled metal scraps is being torn down and replaced with bollard-style barriers that are 30 feet (9.1 meters) high.Ronald D. Vitiello, acting deputy commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, defended the president\'s statements, saying Friday "there\'s construction" underway.___TRUMP: "If the P.O. \'increased its parcel rates, Amazon\'s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.\' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"  tweet Saturday.TRUMP: "I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!"  tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting Amazon\'s record on taxes, the U.S. Postal Service\'s financial situation and the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.People who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it, however.As for the post office, package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that\'s lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs  not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce, the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages, but that hasn\'t been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail, which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.While the Postal Service\'s losses can\'t be attributed to its package business, Trump\'s claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels.  The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner, Jeff Bezos, owns The Washington Post, one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___TRUMP: "Because of the $700 & $716 Billion Dollars gotten to rebuild our Military, many jobs are created and our Military is again rich. Building a great Border Wall, with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country, is all about National Defense. Build WALL through M!"  tweets Sunday and Monday.THE FACTS: Trump is floating the idea of using "M\'\'  the Pentagon\'s military budget  to pay for his wall with Mexico. Such a move would almost certainly require approval from Congress and there\'s plenty of reason to be skeptical about the notion of diverting military money for this purpose.Only Congress has the power under the Constitution to determine federal appropriations, leaving the Trump administration little authority to shift money without lawmakers\' approval.Pentagon spokesman Chris Sherwood referred all questions on the wall to the White House. Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to reveal specifics, but said Trump would work with the White House counsel to make sure any action taken was within his executive authority.___DAVID SHULKIN, citing reasons Trump fired him as Veterans Affairs secretary:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family\'s character, I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity."  op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous, though politics contributed to his dismissal.White House support for Shulkin eroded after a blistering report in February by VA\'s internal watchdog, a non-partisan office. The inspector general\'s office concluded that he had violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The inspector general also said Shulkin\'s chief of staff had doctored emails to justify bringing the secretary\'s wife to Europe with him at taxpayer expense.It is true, though, that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call, John Ullyot, a top communications aide, and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin\'s removal after the release of the inspector general\'s report. The staff director declined to do so.  Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general\'s report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4,000 to cover the costs of his wife\'s coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and point to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___TRUMP: "THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen, and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens, NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!"  tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: As a basics civics lesson, Trump\'s tweet falls short. The Supreme Court is the unelected branch of government and no party can "hold" it. That said, both parties try to win confirmation of justices who are considered likely to vote the way they want.Republican-nominated justices have formed a majority of the Supreme Court for nearly 50 years. The five more conservative justices were appointed by Republicans while the four more liberal justices were Democratic nominees.Republicans would have the opportunity to cement ideological balance in their favor if Justice Anthony Kennedy  the most moderate of the conservatives  or one of the older and more liberal justices were to retire with Trump in office and Republicans in control of the Senate.Trump was citing retired Justice John Paul Stevens, who called in a New York Times article for repeal of the Second Amendment to allow for gun control legislation. Democratic leaders are not proposing repeal of the amendment, as Trump implies. Also noteworthy: Stevens was nominated by a Republican president, Gerald Ford.___WHITE HOUSE SPOKESWOMAN SARAH SANDERS, on the Trump administration\'s decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census: "This is a question that\'s been included in every census since 1965 with the exception of 2010, when it was removed. ... And again, this is something that has been part of the census for decades and something that the Department of Commerce felt strongly needed to be included again."  press briefing Tuesday.COMMERCE DEPARTMENT: "Between 1820 and 1950, almost every decennial census asked a question on citizenship in some form."  statement on Monday.THE FACTS: Sanders is incorrect. The Commerce Department statement is also problematic. Both are trying to play down the risk of a severe undercount of the population if many immigrants, intimidated by the citizenship question, refuse to participate.The Census Bureau hasn\'t included a citizenship question in its once-a-decade survey sent to all U.S. households since 1950, before the Civil Rights era and passage of a 1965 law designed to help ensure minority groups in the count are fully represented.The nation\'s count is based on the total resident population  both citizens and noncitizens  and used to determine how many U.S. representatives each state gets in the U.S. House.The citizenship question was not in the 1960 census, according to a copy of the form posted on the Census Bureau website, and no census was held in 1965.From 1970 to 2000, the question was included only in the long-form section of the census survey, sent to a portion of U.S. households. After 2000, the question has been asked on the Census Bureau\'s American Community Survey, a separate poll designed to replace the census long form and sent only to a sample of U.S. households.The Commerce Department\'s assertion that the citizenship question was asked on "almost" every decennial census between 1820 and 1950 also pushes the limits of reality. According to the Census Bureau, the question wasn\'t asked in four of those censuses 1840, 1850, 1860 or 1880.Between 1820 and 1950, a total of 14 censuses were held. That means more than 1 in 4 surveys during that time period lacked the citizenship question.Not exactly "almost."___Associated Press writers Mark Sherman and Cal Woodward in Washington and Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is again attacking online retailer Amazon.com, calling its business deal with the U.S. Postal Service to deliver packages a money-losing agreement that hurts U.S. taxpayers. Federal regulators, however, have found the contract with Amazon to be profitable.In tweets Saturday, Trump said "the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars."He added: "If the P.O. \'increased its parcel rates, Amazon\'s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.\' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"Amazon has been a consistent recipient of Trump\'s ire. He is sore because its founder, Jeff Bezos, owns The Washington Post, which Trump has labeled "fake news" after the newspaper reported unfavorable developments during his campaign and presidency.Trump made the link himself in Saturday\'s tweets, accusing Amazon of using the "Fake Washington Post" as a lobbyist. The Post and Bezos have responded to Trump\'s lobbyist claims in the past by declaring that Bezos is not involved in any journalistic decisions at the paper. Amazon.com Inc. and The Washington Post declined to comment Saturday.Amazon lives and dies by shipping, and an increase in the rates it pays could certainly do some damage. Amazon sends packages via the post office, FedEx, UPS and other services.But while the U.S. Postal Service has lost money for 11 years, package delivery  which has been a bright spot for the service  is not the reason.Boosted by e-commerce, the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages, but that hasn\'t been enough to offset pension and health care costs as well as declines in first-class letters and marketing mail. Together, letters and marketing mail make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.In arguing that the Postal Service is losing money on delivering packages for Amazon, Trump appears to be citing some Wall Street analyses that argue the Postal Service\'s formula for calculating its costs is outdated. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup did conclude that the Postal Service was charging below market rates as a whole on parcels. Still, federal regulators have reviewed the Amazon contract with the Postal Service each year and determined it to be profitable.A spokesman for the U.S. Postal Service declined to comment. An independent agency, it does not use taxpayer money for its operations.The post office does not break down what is driving its growth, but online ordering from retailers, particularly Amazon.com, has revolutionized the way goods are bought and delivered. The Postal Service reached new highs last year in holiday package delivery, with more than 850 million U.S. parcels delivered from Thanksgiving to New Year\'s Eve, according to figures compiled by industry tracker ShipMatrix Inc.The Postal Service says it set a record on Dec. 18 when more than 37 million packages were delivered, the most in a single day in its more than 240 year history.Amazon has taken some steps toward becoming more self-reliant in shipping. Last year, it announced it would build a worldwide air cargo hub in Kentucky, about 13 miles southwest of Cincinnati.___

WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is asking the Supreme Court to dismiss a case about emails the government wants as part of a drug trafficking investigation.In a motion Friday, the administration says the Cloud Act's passage as part of last week's spending bill resolves the case.The legislation updated a 32-year-old law governing how authorities can get electronic communications held by technology companies. The issue was whether Microsoft had to turn over emails stored on its server in Ireland.The act makes clear the government can obtain the emails. The government says it got a new warrant for them Friday.The administration says the justices should throw out an appeals court ruling declaring that emails stored abroad are beyond the government's reach and direct a lower court to dismiss the case.
GREENWICH, Conn.   A property once owned by President Donald Trump and Ivana Trump is back on the market for $45 million.The Wall Street Journal reports the Greenwich, Connecticut, mansion shared by the now president and his then-wife is relisted.Owners Robert and Suzanne Steinberg have been trying to sell the 20,000-square-foot house for years. The home is listed as having eight bedrooms, 13 bathrooms and eight fireplaces. It also features a putting green, swimming pool and dock leading to the Long Island Sound.Coldwell Banker says the Depression-era home was purchased by Donald and Ivana Trump in the early 1980s for $4 million. The couple divorced in 1992. Ivana Trump sold it to the Steinbergs for $15 million in 1998.The Steinbergs plan to build a new home elsewhere.
ALBANY  After months of promises to defy Washington and blaze a progressive trail, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Friday announced a deal on a new state budget that would grant New Yorkers some protection from the Republican-steered federal tax plan, pour an additional quarter of a billion dollars into public housing projects and enact a raft of new sexual harassment policies.The agreement, coming after several days of negotiations with little noticeable progress, was a measured victory for Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, who is rumored to have presidential aspirations, and who made his scorn for President Trumps policies  particularly the federal tax plan  a centerpiece of his State of the State and budget addresses in January and in speeches ever since.Were under attack by the federal government, Mr. Cuomo said on Friday night, sitting in the ceremonial Red Room in the State Capitol.The governor singled out a cap on deductibility of state, local and property taxes, a major issue in his high-tax state and something he referred to as an arrow aimed at the economic heart of the State of New York.Mr. Cuomos enthusiastic description belied the more muted reality of the budget language. It provides for an optional employer-side payroll tax to replace an employee-side state income tax, and the creation of two state charitable funds for health and education, with New Yorkers donations to them deducted from their federal and state tax returns.Mr. Cuomo seemed to acknowledge that his maneuvers could do only so much, saying his priority going forward would be to overturn the tax deduction cap.This provision hurts every New Yorker, period, he said. The ultimate solution is repeal.Indeed, many of the elements in the $168 billion budget deal were scaled-back versions of promises Mr. Cuomo had laid out over the past few months. As budget negotiations  which are conducted behind closed doors among the governor and three top legislative leaders, out of sight of even other lawmakers  unfolded over the past week, it became increasingly clear that the Legislature would punt policy issues such as gun control or bail reform to after the budgets April 1 deadline, in favor of financial considerations.Republicans in the State Senate had fought hard against any new taxes and fees and were able to claim a win on that account, as well as on many deferred social policies.Still, the spending plan had much to celebrate for the governor, coming in on time amid a $4 billion state deficit and the prospect of additional federal cuts. The Legislature began passing the key bills late Friday and into Saturday morning, before the looming deadline on a holiday weekend..Inside the budget deal are some critical practical  and political  demands from Mr. Cuomo.Tax experts had viewed Mr. Cuomos proposed workarounds with skepticism, warning that many of the ideas were purely academic and had never been tried in practice. Others worried that the payroll tax workaround would be unpopular with New Yorkers, as it would result in lower gross pay, even if their take-home pay would ultimately remain the same.Still, the new tax policies  while limited  will allow the governor a credible argument that he is fighting for New York in the face of the White House and Republicans in Washington.The governor also secured $250 million in new funding for the troubled New York City Housing Authority, making good on a promise he had loudly and repeatedly declared over the past few weeks. After three visits to public housing projects, he vowed not to sign the budget unless it included a real remedy for repairs at Nycha, where residents have faulted Mr. Cuomos intraparty rival, Mayor Bill de Blasio, for deteriorating conditions.On an issue of vital local importance, the budget also includes $26.7 billion in school funding  a higher figure than either Mr. Cuomo or the Republican-controlled Senate had proposed in their own preliminary budgets.Mr. Cuomo is facing particular pressure to burnish his progressive credentials: The actress and education advocate Cynthia Nixon, who is challenging him for the Democratic nomination for governor, has blasted him for what she called his massive disinvestment in schools and in other areas that affect black and Hispanic residents.On that account, Friday was a mixed success for the governor, with pledges to introduce early voting, end cash bail for low-level offenses and codify the Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion all failing to make it into the final budget deal.One major exception was reforming language on sexual harassment, a rare shared priority among both Democrats and Republicans and a political demand during the national reckoning known as the #MeToo movement.The new language, which would ban most nondisclosure agreements and mandatory arbitration clauses, extended to both the public and private sectors. But the policies still drew criticism, with some womens rights advocates and employment lawyers calling their scope too narrow.Another policy agreement would ease state oversight of yeshivas, despite concerns among education advocates that the schools for ultra-Orthodox Jews, which offer both secular and religious education, leave their students with poor to nonexistent English and math skills.Assembly Democrats, who opposed easing state control, had cast the issue as the only one holding up a budget deal. The Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, on Friday morning accused Senator Simcha Felder, who represents a large Orthodox Jewish constituency in Brooklyn, of essentially holding the negotiations hostage. Mr. Felder, a Democrat who caucuses with the Republicans and therefore allows them to sit in the majority in the Senate, often wields disproportionate influence in the Legislature.The final compromise allowed for yeshivas, and other nonpublic schools, to argue that long hours of instruction  no matter the topic  could be used to satisfy state educational requirements.Assembly Democrats, meanwhile, had secured the governors promise of another commission to consider a possible pay raise, a longstanding issue of contention for lawmakers who have not had a raise in nearly two decades.Hopes for a congestion pricing plan, which has long been floated as a possible source of long-term funding for the sputtering subway system, were largely dashed. While Mr. Cuomo had commissioned a task force to develop a framework for charging cars that drive into the busiest parts of Manhattan, Fridays budget deal included only the first phase: a $2.75 fee on for-hire vehicles and a $2.50 fee on yellow cabs below 96th Street.Lawmakers may still address issues that were left out of the budget, such as new protections for victims of childhood sexual abuse, during the remainder of the session, which runs through June. But the budget process is often regarded as the time of maximum urgency and leverage, when the continued operation of state government  and legislators continued paychecks  hang in the balance.Still, Mr. Cuomo defended introducing even those social or policy measures that failed to gain traction during the budget process  including any major ethics changes, despite the recent conviction of his former friend and aide, Joseph Percoco, on federal corruption charges  saying he wanted to start the conversation on things like early voting.The pressures of an election year, when officials are wary of alienating key lobbyists and constituencies and seek to balance fiscal responsibility with flashy campaign promises, may also soon be brought to bear.A special election in April is also looming, which could allow Democrats in the Senate  where Republicans rule thanks to a collaboration with Mr. Felder and a group of eight rogue Democrats  to take a numerical majority. Mr. Cuomo has said in the past that he would work to unify Democrats to rule the Senate.But on Friday night, he demurred on that promise, too, until after the Senate votes on the budget.Lets talk politics after the votes are taken tonight, he said.
HOSPERS, Iowa   In Sioux County, where swine barns interrupt the vast landscape of corn-stubbled fields, exports of meat, grain and machinery fuel the local economy. And there\'s a palpable sense of unease that new Chinese tariffs pushed by President Donald Trump  who received more than 80 percent of the vote here in 2016  could threaten residents\' livelihood.The grumbling hardly signals a looming leftward lurch in this dominantly Republican region in northwest Iowa. But after standing with Trump through the many trials of his first year, some Sioux County Trump voters say they would be willing to walk away from the president if the fallout from the tariffs causes a lasting downturn in the farm economy."I wouldn\'t sit here today and say I will definitely support him again," said 60-year-old hog farmer Marv Van Den Top. "This here could be a real negative for him."Last week, Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on a range of Chinese goods, a move aimed at punishing Beijing for stealing American technology. The Chinese government responded with a threat to tag U.S. products, including pork and aluminum, with an equal 25 percent charge.That sent a chill through places like Sioux County, which ranks first among Iowa\'s 99 counties in agricultural exports. In 2016, the county sold $350 million in meat, grain, machinery and chemicals overseas. Far closer to the sparsely populated crossroads of South Dakota and Minnesota than Iowa\'s bustling Des Moines metro area, Sioux County is home to just 34,000 people, but more than 1 million hogs, 6 million chickens and nearly as impressive numbers of cattle and sheep.Brad Te Grootenhuis sells about 25,000 hogs a year and could lose hundreds of thousands of dollars if the tariffs spark a backlash from China. He said it\'s possible he would abandon Trump if pork\'s price decline continues and lasts."Any time you\'re losing money, nobody\'s happy," the 42-year-old farmer said. "I\'ve got payments to make, plain and simple."Nationally, opinions on Trump\'s tariffs, which were a central part of his campaign pledges to get tough on China, are mixed.Although GOP congressional leaders have argued tariffs would prompt a trade war and have urged Trump to reverse course, 61 percent of Americans who identify as Republicans nationwide favor a tariff, according to a national poll taken this month by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research. Still, 39 percent of Republicans say it will lead to a decrease in jobs, according to the poll, compared to 32 percent who think it will lead to an increase. That\'s similar to the views of all voters, the survey shows.Countermeasures by China, which is second only to Canada in importing Iowa products, could cause pain across the American agricultural sector, according to economists. For instance, a pork tariff imposed by China, which spent $42 million on Iowa pork products in 2017, would back up the Iowa market and force prices sharply downward."Retaliatory tariffs from China would have a devastating impact on U.S. agricultural exports, especially if they focus on products like soybeans and hogs," said Adam Kamins, a senior economist at Moody\'s Analytics. "This puts northwest Iowa and the Great Plains more broadly on the front line in a trade war."For hog farmer Tim Schmidt, the fallout of a geopolitical spat with China would force him to hold off on any new construction or maintenance on the decades-old buildings on his family-run farm along the Missouri River."There is an uncertainty to exactly what the next two to three years are going to look like," Schmidt said. A Trump voter in 2016, Schmidt said that if "things are bad and someone better comes along, we\'re willing to take a look."Sioux County seed dealer Dave Heying echoed a common refrain that any downturn in the farm economy would curb spending throughout the local economy, with direct impact on farm machinery dealers, mechanics and agricultural construction, among other businesses."Protecting our U.S. industries is important, but my concern is, at what expense to the farmer?" Heying said of Trump\'s trade moves. "It is too early to say whether or not I would support him. These types of decisions give you hesitation."As a presidential candidate, Trump was a somewhat awkward fit for Sioux County, where a third of its residents are members of the Dutch Reformed Church of America, which holds strictly conservative social positions. In striking contrast, the bombastic New Yorker has been married three times and shadowed by allegations of sexual harassment and infidelity.Trump finished fourth in Sioux County in Iowa\'s Republican presidential caucus, but carried 81.3 percent of the vote in the general election, his second-highest county share in the state. And a large core of voters in Sioux County, where Franklin Roosevelt was the last Democratic presidential candidate to win, remains with Trump, even if the farm economy suffers as a result of his trade policies."You have to have faith in our innovation and entrepreneurialship in this country," said Ed Westra, a grain cooperative manager and Trump devotee. "You\'ve got to think of the big game."___AP polling director Emily Swanson contributed to this report from Washington.___
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon," while at odds with his own policy, was not a one-off: For weeks, top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out, U.S. officials said.Only two months ago, Trump\'s aides thought they\'d persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended  not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated, but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February, Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS, he wanted American troops out of Syria, said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon, where officials have been planning for a gradual, methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria, the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria, officials said. The money, to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power, water and roads, had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.The officials said the hold, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.The officials weren\'t authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.The State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community, members of the Coalition, and our partners on the ground to provide much needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad," according to a statement from the State Department.Trump\'s first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23, when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday, in a domestic policy speech in Ohio, Trump went further."We\'ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon, we\'re coming out," Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new, unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials, the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House\'s National Security Council for clarification.The White House\'s ambiguous response, officials said: Trump\'s words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed," said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway, a Pentagon spokesman.Still, without a clear directive from the president, planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria, officials said, and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.For Trump, who campaigned on an "America First" mantra, Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations, Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn\'t foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq, but with only limited success.Yet it\'s unclear how Trump\'s impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster, both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria, were recently fired, creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton, a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president\'s thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump\'s impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup, several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces, who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey\'s security."This is a serious and growing concern," State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS, there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal, officials said, chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel, America\'s closest Mideast ally, and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies, including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah, inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity, and especially against Tehran\'s desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia, which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad\'s forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France, which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon," Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up, the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria, the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months, the officials said.___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.
FORT WORTH, Texas   A Texas woman was sentenced to five years in prison for voting in the 2016 presidential election when she was ineligible because she was on probation.Crystal Mason, 43, will appeal the punishment handed down this past week in Fort Worth, according to her attorney. Mason is a former tax preparer who was previously convicted in 2012 on charges related to inflating refunds for clients.She testified that she didn't know people convicted of felonies can't vote until they complete their sentence, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported . She told the newspaper last year following her indictment that she had gone to vote at her mother's encouragement and wasn't told when released from federal prison that she could not cast a ballot.Mason's illegal voting case was prosecuted in Tarrant County, the same place where a Mexican national last year was sentenced to eight years in prison over illegal voting. Voting illegally in Texas is a second-degree felony punishable by up to 20 years in prison.Mason used a provisional ballot to vote, and it was not counted. She has said that she believes she was being targeted for prosecution because she voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton over Republican Donald Trump for president. Tarrant County leans Republican.Mason's attorney, J. Warren St. John, did not immediately return a phone message Saturday.Voter fraud convictions are rare, but Texas Republicans leaders have zealously pursued a crackdown on illegal voting in recent years. A federal judge has twice blocked Texas' voter ID law, including a revised version last year that was backed by the Trump administration.At the time of the 2016 election, Mason was on probation after pleading guilty to defrauding the federal government in 2011. She served nearly three years in prison on a five-year sentence. After her prison release, she was put on a three-year term of supervised release. She also had to pay $4.2 million in restitution, according to court documents.Mason testified that when she voted in November 2016, she signed a provisional ballot affidavit stating that she had not been convicted of a felony. Prosecutors said she signed the form with the intent to vote illegally, but Mason's attorney called it a mistake.
SEOUL   International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach told North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at a meeting on Friday that the IOC would cooperate with the North to prepare for its participation in the 2020 Tokyo and 2022 Beijing Olympic Games, the North\'s official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) has reported.Bach travelled to Pyongyang on Thursday in a visit that comes after North Korea\'s participation in the Pyeongchang Winter Games helped ease inter-Korean relations.He told Kim in a meeting that the trip was to "express the most heartfelt thanks" to North Korea\'s leader for helping make February\'s Pyeongchang Winter Olympics a Games that were "symbolic of peace," KCNA said on Saturday.Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang and the two Koreas have experienced a significant thaw in tensions since the Feb. 9-25 Winter Olympics.KCNA said Kim expressed thanks for the IOC\'s support and for cooperating with North Korea "regardless of any political climate and conditions".He said he hoped that the IOC\'s relationship with the North\'s Olympic Committee would continue to develop favourably and expected cooperation in developing and improving sport in North Korea, the report added.An official from South Korea\'s Unification Ministry said it was aware of the KCNA\'s report but declined to comment further.Bach had accepted North Korea\'s invitation in February, and told Reuters at the time that he saw sports as a way to reduce political tensions.After Kim made a surprise trip this week to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, his engagement with the international community has sparked speculation he may try to meet other leaders ahead of summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and United States President Donald Trump.The two Koreas have experienced a significant easing in tensions since the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February, leading them to set a date to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.(This story has been refiled to add full name of Chinese president)(Reporting by Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Joori Roh; Editing by Peter Rutherford)
BEIJING   North Korea will take part in the next two Olympic Games in Japan and China, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said on Saturday after meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Pyongyang.Bach travelled to Pyongyang on Thursday in a visit that comes after North Korea\'s participation in the Pyeongchang Winter Games helped ease tensions over the Korean peninsula.Speaking to reporters at Beijing airport upon his return, Bach said North Korea will participate in the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo and the 2022 Winter Games in Beijing."This commitment was fully supported by the supreme leader of the DPRK in a very open and fruitful discussion I had with him yesterday," Bach said, using the country\'s formal name, the Democratic People\'s Republic of Korea."The IOC will make a proposal for a potential joint march or potential other joint activities for Tokyo and then maybe also for Beijing at the appropriate time," he added.The North\'s official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said Bach told Kim the trip was to "express the most heartfelt thanks" to North Korea\'s leader for helping make February\'s the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics a Games that were "symbolic of peace."Athletes from North and South Korea marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, and the two Koreas have seen a significant thaw in tensions since.KCNA said Kim expressed thanks for the IOC\'s support and for cooperating with North Korea "regardless of any political climate and conditions".He said he hoped that the IOC\'s relationship with the North\'s Olympic Committee would continue to develop favourably and expected cooperation in developing and improving sport in North Korea, the report added.An official from South Korea\'s Unification Ministry said it was aware of the KCNA\'s report but declined to comment further.Bach had accepted North Korea\'s invitation in February, and told Reuters at the time that he saw sports as a way to reduce political tensions.After Kim made a surprise trip this week to Beijing to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, his engagement with the international community has sparked speculation he may try to meet other leaders ahead of summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and United States President Donald Trump.The two Koreas have experienced a significant easing in tensions since the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February, leading them to set a date to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27.(Reporting by Heekyong Yang; Additional reporting by Joori Roh; Writing by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Peter Rutherford and Kim Coghill)
BERLIN   Germany\'s finance ministry expects interest rates to rise in coming years, causing new Minster Olaf Scholz to take steps to cushion additional costs to meet budget goals, Der Spiegel weekly reported on Saturday."The financial planning up to 2022 (envisages) a necessary normalisation of the capital market environment," Spiegel cited an internal document as saying.Experts usually see interest rates of between 3 percent and 4 percent as "normal", compared to below zero percent now, reported Der Spiegel.The European Central Bank\'s deposit facility is at -0.40 percent while its benchmark refinancing rate is at a record low of 0.0 percent.German 10-year bond yields, which indicate the country\'s likely cost of borrowing, fell in March but remain at around 0.5 percent <DE10YT=RR>.Der Spiegel reported that a one percent increase in average interest rates in Europe\'s biggest economy would mean an additional 10 billion euros in costs which could complicate the new government\'s efforts to maintain a balanced budget.A spokesman for the finance ministry declined to comment on the report.Money markets are pricing in the ECB\'s first interest rate rise since 2011 next year and the euro zone central bank is also considering how and when to end its 2.55 trillion euro bond purchase scheme aimed at stimulating inflation and growth.A possible trade war with the United States is a possible dampener on the outlook but German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier told Spiegel he was confident the EU and Washington would "find a sensible compromise by the summer" in trade talks.Last week U.S. President Donald Trump temporarily excluded the EU, the United States\' biggest trading partner, and six other non-European countries from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium.The higher tariffs are aimed at curbing imports from China. Altmaier said Germany agreed with the United States in wanting to tackle overcapacity in the global steel market, partly caused by China."We are looking for a common line in the fight against price dumping and intellectual property theft. We want to find solutions that are compatible with international trade rules," he told Der Spiegel.(Reporting by Madeline Chambers; Editing by Catherine Evans)
GABORONE   Ian Khama, a retired army general, stepped down as president of Botswana on Saturday, handing the diamond-rich country to his deputy after a decade at the helm.Mokgweetsi Masisi becomes only the third leader to take charge of the southern African nation outside the Khama political dynasty that has dominated national politics since independence from Britain in 1966.Masisi, 55, inherits a country that has for decades been heralded as a beacon of African democracy and sound economic management but faces a huge task of reducing the country\'s dependence on diamonds."I am not sure about his competency in as far as the economy is concerned, but if he has the respect of hisministers then he should be able to make them deliver," said political analyst Ndulamo Anthony Morima.Masisi, a trained teacher who has also worked for the United Nations Children\'s Fund as an education project officer for eight years until 2003, was elected lawmaker in 2009. He served in the president\'s office as a minister of public affairs from 2011 until 2014 when Khama named him minister of education, a post he held until appointed vice president last year."The business community sees him as being more business-friendly so that should work well for the economy. He seems to be more likely to come up with regulation that enablesmore economic activity," said RMB Botswana economist Moatlhodi Sebabole.Masisi takes office more than a year before the election under Botswana\'s constitution that restricts the president to serving two five-year terms. Khama, son the son of Botswana\'s first president, Seretse, also took over from Festus Mogae a year before the 2009 election.One of the world\'s poorest countries in the 1970s, Botswana transformed itself into one of the fastest-growing economies by harnessing around $3 billion a year in diamond sales, to become one of the world\'s biggest producers, and gained middle-income status.But dependence on its wealth from the diamond industry might be catching up with the landlocked country of just two million after the collapse in commodity prices in 2014 tipped its economy into recession three years ago."He is well versed with current challenges that the country is facingand I am sure he is quite capable of delivering," said Mothusi Sename, a 41-year-old taxi driver in Gaborone, referring to Masisi.END OF POLITICAL DYNASTY?Khama\'s departure leaves his younger brother and tourism minister Tshekedi as the only member of the family holding a high-profile post in the government, and depending on who Masisi picks as vice president, it would be the first time a Khama is not part of the top tier of national leadership.Khama, a 65-year old bachelor, is known as a straight talker having publicly criticized leaders including U.S. President Donald Trump for an alleged slur against African countries and then-president Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe for overstaying his welcome.Khama was born in Britain after his father a married a white British woman Ruth Williams, defying convention and opposition in Africa and Britain. Their story was depicted in the 2016 film \'A United Kingdom\'.His party, Botswana Democratic Party (BDP), is expected to name Masisi as its presidential candidate for next year\'s election.Masisi will be inaugurated on Sunday.(Writing by Tiisetso Motsoeneng; Editing by Stephen Powell)
MOSCOW   Russia expelled 59 diplomats from 23 countries on Friday and said it reserved the right to take action against four other nations in a worsening standoff with the West over the poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain.Russia said it was responding to what it called the baseless demands for scores of its own diplomats to leave a slew of mostly Western countries that have joined London and Washington in censuring Moscow over the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.A day earlier, Moscow ordered the expulsion of 60 U.S. diplomats and the closing of the U.S. consulate in St Petersburg, Russia\'s second city, in retaliation for the biggest ejection of diplomats since the Cold War.Preparations appeared to be under way on Friday to close the St Petersburg mission down, with a removals truck making repeated journeys to and from the consulate which took delivery of a large pizza order for its staff.Russia summoned senior envoys on Friday from most of the other countries that have expelled Russian diplomats and told them it was expelling a commensurate number of theirs.Russia has already retaliated in kind against Britain for ejecting 23 diplomats over the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two. British ambassador Laurie Bristow was summoned again on Friday.The Russian Foreign Ministry said Bristow had been told London had just one month to cut its diplomatic contingent in Russia to the same size as the Russian mission in Britain.A spokeswoman for the British Foreign Office did not say how many British diplomats would be affected, but said Russia\'s response was regrettable and Moscow was in flagrant breach of international law over the killing of the former spy.The poisoning, in southern England, has united much of the West in taking action against what it regards as the hostile policies of President Vladimir Putin. This includes the United States under President Donald Trump, who Putin had hoped would improve ties.Russia rejects Britain\'s accusation it stood behind the attack and has cast the allegations as part of an elaborate Western plot to sabotage East-West relations and isolate Moscow.The hospital where she is being treated said on Thursday that Yulia Skripal was getting better after spending three weeks in a critical condition due to the nerve toxin attack. Her father remains in a critical but stable condition.The BBC, citing sources, reported on Friday that Yulia was "conscious and talking".EXPULSIONSDuring the course of Friday, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned senior embassy officials from Australia, Albania, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, the Netherlands, Croatia, Ukraine, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Canada and the Czech Republic.All were seen arriving in their official cars at the Foreign Ministry\'s gothic building in Moscow."They (the diplomats) were handed protest notes and told that in response to the unwarranted demands of the relevant states on expelling Russian diplomats ... that the Russian side declares the corresponding number of staff working in those countries\' embassies in the Russian Federation persona non grata," the ministry said in a statement.Four other countries -- Belgium, Hungary, Georgia and Montenegro -- had only "at the last moment" announced that they too were expelling Russian diplomats over the Skripal affair, and Moscow reserved the right to take retaliatory action against them too, it said.Emerging from the Foreign Ministry building, German ambassador Rudiger von Fritsch said Russia had questions to answer about the poisoning of Skripal, but Berlin remained open to dialogue with Moscow.The U.S State Department said after Russia announced the expulsions on Thursday evening that it reserved the right to respond further, saying the list of diplomats designated for expulsion by Russia showed Moscow was not interested in diplomacy.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, disagreed with that assessment, saying that Putin still favoured mending ties with other countries, including with the United States.(This version of the story refiles identifying location of reporter Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh, not London. No changes to story text)(Additional reporting by Maria Kiselyova, Maxim Rodionov and Christian Lowe in Moscow, Toby Sterling in The Hague, Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh, Steve Scherer in Rome and Jussi Rosendahl in Helsinki; Writing by Andrew Osborn; Editing by Edmund Blair and Peter Graff)
HALAWANJI, Syria   Perched on a green hilltop, Kurdish and Arab fighters face a tense front line separating them from Turkish-backed forces in this part of northern Syria. Behind them, American troops drive up and down the roads. Their aim: Make their presence known to prevent bursts of gunfire from spiraling into a battle.Down the hill and across a stream are the rival forces: Syrian opposition fighters. They have taken positions on a crossroads in the village of Halawanji and on rooftops with views up to the hill. Beyond them, on another hill, Turkish troops have a base, ready to back up their allies if needed.This front line threatens to ignite at any time, with the militaries of two NATO members on opposing sides. The crowded terrain has become more combustible as Turkey ever more loudly threatens to push through these lines to attack the nearby Kurdish-Arab town of Manbij and other Kurdish-run towns further east. The presence of the Americans is a main obstacle preventing them from doing so.Further hiking tensions, a roadside bomb in Manbij late Thursday killed two coalition personnel, an American and a Briton. Kurdish officials accuse Turkey and its allies of carrying out acts of violence in the town to sow instability, including several recent smaller bombings, protests and an attempted assassination attempt on a Kurdish official  although there is also the possibility Islamic State group militants are behind the violence.Manbij is highly strategic: the main town on westernmost edge of the stretch of Syrian territory held by the U.S.-backed Syrian Kurds, running along the border with Turkey. Mixed Kurdish-Arab Syrian forces liberated Manbij from the rule of the Islamic State group in 2016 with help from the U.S.-led coalition. But Kurdish control of the town infuriated Turkey, which views the main U.S. Kurdish ally, the YPG militia, as "terrorists" linked to Kurdish insurgents on its own soil.U.S. troops first deployed in the area about 16 months ago, after Turkish-backed Syrian forces advanced on areas near Manbij, in a race for control of territories as IS militants collapsed. The deployment prevented repeated clashes between the two rival forces.The U.S-backed Syrian fighters at Halwanji say their Turkish-backed rivals downhill increasingly open fire on them, trying to provoke a fight and create a pretext for an incursion. One commander said it happens as often as three times a week. Another said the "provocations" increased after Turkish troops and their allies successfully captured another town further west, Afrin, from the YPG. The commanders say their forces do not respond to the fire.On Thursday, one commander, Abu Ali Nejm, said U.S. troops have increased their presence "in a noticeable way" in the area in recent days to prevent an eruption of violence, following the capture of Afrin, Turkey\'s threats and a recent build-up of Turkish troops and their allies."They have become part of the front line to reassure the people in Manbij and the military forces and to raise morale," said Abu Ali, who uses his nom de guerre and is a leading member of the Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body leading the U.S.-allied forces here.U.S. Col. Ryan Dillon, of the U.S-led coalition, said there were no new U.S. bases in the area. "Our patrols move around. They are not static," he said. "The purpose of our forces is to prevent the re-emergence of (IS militants)" and prevent "any type of incursion from any other group in the area."President Donald Trump\'s unscripted public declaration this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon"  while at odds with his own policy  are unnerving for the Kurds in this context."We\'ll be coming out of Syria, like, very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon, we\'re coming out," Trump said in a domestic policy speech in Ohio.Turkey and the United States have held talks aimed at defusing the standoff, with a round set for Friday in Washington. But a solution remains unclear: Turkey says the YPG power across northern Syria is a threat, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has vowed to roll back the Kurdish fighters, starting from Manbij all the way to the Iraqi border. On Friday, Erdogan angrily lashed out at French President Emmanuel Macron for meeting with Kurdish officials and offering to mediate. Erdogan said he would not negotiate with "terrorists" and brusquely said Macron was "over his head."Meanwhile, at Halwanji, Abu Ali said the Turkish-backed fighters fired on his forces Thursday, using heavy machine guns and small arms. His troops did not respond, in accordance with orders, and instead reported the incident to U.S. troops nearby, he said."We inform, and they come to the front and see for themselves. They have their own contacts or coordination with the Turkish forces, something they don\'t have to tell us about," he said, adding that when the rival side sees the Americans they don\'t fire.A team of Associated Press reporters arrived to the scene soon after the incident. A convoy of U.S troops was seen on the road. All was quiet and all sides returned to their positions. But as the AP team drove away, new shooting rang out in the distance.
It\'s familiar ground for attorney Benjamin Crump  addressing reporters alongside grieving relatives of unarmed black men killed by police.With each death, the Tallahassee, Florida, attorney has helped lead community demands against a legal system that some believe is blind and deaf to blacks seeking justice.With Crump leading the way, Trayvon Martin\'s parents settled a wrongful death lawsuit against a homeowners association in Florida, where Martin was killed by a white neighborhood watch captain.The lawyer also helped Michael Brown\'s family reach a financial settlement with the city of Ferguson, Missouri, after Brown was slain by a white police officer.Now, he is in Sacramento with the family of 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was shot eight times by police in the backyard of his grandparents\' home.The officers were responding to a report of someone breaking car windows and opened fire because they thought the 22-year-old Clark was pointing a handgun at them. Only a cellphone was found nearby."No family should have to endure this pain and suffering as they try to seek answers for an execution of their loved one who was only holding a cellphone," Crump, flanked by members of Clark\'s family, said at a news conference. Mostly peaceful protests have followed the shooting.Police have said officers who shot Clark "saw the suspect facing them, advance forward with his arms extended, and holding an object in his hands."Crump was not available for an interview with The Associated Press but said during the March 26 news conference that Clark\'s death "is reminiscent of so many police shootings of unarmed black and brown people.""We will fight for Stephon until we get justice for Stephon," he said.By taking on police and communities in wrongful death and brutality cases, Crump has become a "voice for the voiceless," according to Sean Walton, a Columbus, Ohio-based attorney who also represents families in lawsuits involving police."Ben Crump has been a pioneer for his ability to generate attention to matters that normally get swept under the rug," Walton said. "We\'re actually doing what we can to convince local prosecutors to bring charges against police officers."Crump is best known for representing the families of Martin and Brown.Martin, 17, was shot to death in 2012 in Sanford, Florida, by white neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman, who was later acquitted of all charges.Brown, 18, was killed by white Ferguson officer Darren Wilson, who was cleared of wrongdoing and later resigned.Both Martin and Brown were unarmed. Crump said Brown "was executed in broad daylight."Crump also represents the family of Terence Crutcher, 40, who was shot to death by white Tulsa, Oklahoma, police officer Betty Jo Shelby. Police video showed Crutcher, who was unarmed, walking away from officers and toward his SUV with his hands up when he was shot. A jury found Shelby not guilty of first-degree manslaughter.Crutcher\'s estate has filed a civil rights lawsuit against Tulsa, Shelby and other police officers."I applaud his tenacity," Crutcher\'s father, the Rev. Joey Crutcher, said of Crump. "We needed to have a hard-hitting blow from somebody."Some attorneys who take high-profile cases walk a tight line between representing clients and adhering to ethics, according to Michael Downey of the Downey Law Group in St. Louis, Missouri.Most states have rules to ensure lawyers don\'t do things outside the courtroom that harms the process inside court, said Downey who teaches courses on legal ethics.""It has certainly become more common for lawyers to be engaged in aggressive behavior," he said. "The vast majority of them are trying to do civil things  trying to increase the recovery by settlement or judgment."A 2016 survey of police officers by the Washington-based Pew Research Center shows a significant number of departments have taken steps to reform policies involving interactions between citizens and police, said Rich Morin, Pew senior editor."We do know police behavior has changed  some good. Some, depending on the interpretation, not so good," he said.Morin said nine out of 10 officers reported being concerned about their safety, but three-quarters were reluctant to use force. About three-quarters of people in a separate survey said interactions with police and black residents have become more tense."Many said police now are less willing to stop and question people who seem suspicious," he said. "On one hand, you can say \'great! Police aren\'t rousting folks just for sport.\' On the other hand, some will say the police are reluctant to do their jobs these days."Under former President Barack Obama, the Justice Department opened investigations into the slayings of Martin, Brown and Crutcher. However, President Donald Trump\'s administration has said Clark\'s death is a local issue."It is a clear signal to the base, which Trump has been careful about, that he is going to take the side of police in these kinds of matters and is not going to criticize them or hold them to great scrutiny," said Nicholas Valentino, an associate professor of communication studies and political science at the University of Michigan.
MOSCOW   Moscow has told Britain it must cut just over 50 more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia as a standoff deepened over the poisoning of a Russian former spy and his daughter in England, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.Moscow also demanded an official explanation for the search of a Russian passenger plane in London, saying it reserved the right to act similarly against British airlines in Russia. Britain said the search was routine.Russia advised its citizens to think carefully before traveling to Britain, warning they could fall victim to official harassment.More than 100 Russian diplomats have been expelled by Western countries, including 23 from Britain, to punish the Kremlin over the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in the historic English city of Salisbury.London says Moscow was responsible for the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two, and Britain\'s defense minister on Saturday said it was "heartening" to see the backing of international allies."The world\'s patience with Putin\'s repeated pattern of malign behavior has worn thin," Gavin Williamson wrote in a newspaper column, urging that Britain\'s defense capabilities needed to keep better step with Russia\'s broadening tactics.Russia denies responsibility for the attack. It has cast the allegations as a Western plot to sabotage East-West relations and isolate Moscow.Russia had already retaliated in kind by ejecting 23 British diplomats. On Friday, the Foreign Ministry summoned British Ambassador Laurie Bristow and told him London had one month to further cut its diplomatic contingent in Russia to the same size as the Russian mission in Britain. It also expelled 59 diplomats from 23 other countries for backing Britain.A spokeswoman for Britain\'s Foreign Office called the Russian move regrettable, and said it was considering the implications of the measures. She did not say how many diplomatic staff in Russia would be affected, while the British Embassy in Moscow says it does not make staff numbers public.But Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the demand meant Britain would have to cut "a little over 50" more of its diplomatic and technical staff in Russia on top of the 23 diplomats who have already gone home."We asked for parity. The Brits have 50 diplomats more than the Russians," Zakharova said on Saturday.Asked if that meant London would now have to cut exactly 50 diplomatic and technical staff, she said: "A little over 50."RUSSIAN TRAVEL WARNINGThe Russian Foreign Ministry later published a list of 14 questions its London embassy had sent Britain\'s Foreign Office. It included queries about why Russia had been denied consular access to the Skripals and about France\'s role in the case.In a move underlining the serious nature of the diplomatic crisis, the Russian Embassy also advised Russians to think twice before traveling to Britain, warning of rising anti-Russian sentiment and possible harassment from the authorities, including the risk of objects being planted in their luggage."We can\'t rule out increased attention by British law enforcement agencies and intelligence services to Russian passport holders," the embassy said in a statement.Russia\'s Ministry of Transport meanwhile demanded Britain explain an Aeroflot airliner was searched at Heathrow Airport on Friday, in what the Russian Embassy in London called a "blatant provocation".Britain disagreed with that assessment."It is routine for (Britain\'s border agency) to search aircraft to protect the UK from organized crime and from those who attempt to bring harmful substances like drugs or firearms into the country," Security Minister Ben Wallace said.The Russian Embassy said Wallace\'s logic was "difficult to comprehend" and only amplified its doubts about the incident.Britain\'s Foreign Office also said on Saturday it was considering allowing visits under consular access terms to Yulia Skripal, who is recovering in hospital against all expectations and is no longer in critical condition.Russia\'s embassy said that it had contacted Viktoria Skripal, Yulia\'s cousin. "Upon receiving confirmation that Yulia Skripal\'s condition is getting better and she is able to communicate, she said she would like to go to London and to visit her cousin," the embassy said.The BBC reported on Friday that Yulia was "conscious and talking," which may help the investigation of how she and her father were poisoned.The poisoning on British territory has united much of the West in taking action against what it regards as the hostile policies of President Vladimir Putin. This includes the United States under President Donald Trump, whom Putin had hoped would improve ties.(Additional reporting by Elisabeth O\'Leary in Edinburgh and Gabrielle Ttrault-Farber in Moscow; Editing by Stephen Powell and Sandra Maler)
Today in HistoryToday is Saturday, March 31, the 90th day of 2018. There are 275 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On March 31, 1968, at the conclusion of a nationally broadcast address on Vietnam, President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned listeners by declaring, "I shall not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your President."On this date:In 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain issued an edict expelling Jews from Spanish soil, except those willing to convert to Christianity.In 1889, French engineer Gustave Eiffel unfurled the French tricolor from atop the Eiffel Tower, officially marking its completion.In 1917, the United States took formal possession of the Virgin Islands from Denmark.In 1923, the first U.S. dance marathon, held in New York City, ended with Alma Cummings, who had danced with six consecutive male partners, setting a world record of 27 hours on her feet.In 1933, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Emergency Conservation Work Act, which created the Civilian Conservation Corps.In 1943, "Oklahoma!," the first musical play by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, opened on Broadway.In 1958, the Chuck Berry single "Johnny B. Goode" was first released on the Chess label.In 1976, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that Karen Ann Quinlan, a young woman in a persistent vegetative state, could be disconnected from her respirator. (Quinlan, who remained unconscious, died in 1985.)In 1986, 167 people died when a Mexicana Airlines Boeing 727 crashed in a remote mountainous region of Mexico.In 1993, actor Brandon Lee, 28, was accidentally shot to death during the filming of a movie in Wilmington, North Carolina, when he was hit by a bullet fragment that had become lodged inside a prop gun.In 1995, Mexican-American singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, 23, was shot to death in Corpus Christi, Texas, by the founder of her fan club, Yolanda Saldivar, who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison.In 2005, Terri Schiavo (SHY\'-voh), 41, died at a hospice in Pinellas Park, Florida, 13 days after her feeding tube was removed in a wrenching right-to-die dispute.Ten years ago: HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson announced his resignation amid the wreckage of the national housing crisis. A Bahamas jury ruled that Anna Nicole Smith\'s son, Daniel, died from an accidental drug overdose, just like his mother. American movie director Jules Dassin, whose Greek wife, Melina Mercouri, starred in his hit movie "Never on Sunday" and six more of his films, died in Athens at age 96.Five years ago: Pope Francis marked Christianity\'s most joyous day at the Vatican with a passionate plea for world peace as he celebrated his first Easter Sunday as pontiff. The Houston Astros, coming off consecutive 100-loss seasons, made an impressive debut in the American League, trouncing the Texas Rangers 8-2 on opening night.One year ago: President Donald Trump signed a pair of executive orders focused on reducing the U.S. trade deficit; the first order gave the Commerce Department 90 days to assemble a report on the factors behind the trade deficit, while the second sought to increase collection of duties on imports. Evgenia Medvedeva of Russia retained her world figure skating title at the championship in Helsinki. William T. Coleman Jr., a civil rights lawyer who served as transportation secretary during the Ford administration, died in Alexandria, Virginia, at age 96.Today\'s Birthdays: Actor William Daniels is 91. Actor Richard Chamberlain is 84. Actress Shirley Jones is 84. Musician Herb Alpert is 83. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., is 78. Former U.S. Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., is 78. Actor Christopher Walken is 75. Comedian Gabe Kaplan is 74. Sen. Angus King, I-Maine, is 74. Rock musician Mick Ralphs (Bad Company; Mott the Hoople) is 74. Former Vice President Al Gore is 70. Author David Eisenhower is 70. Actress Rhea Perlman is 70. Actor Robbie Coltrane is 68. Actor Ed Marinaro is 68. Rock musician Angus Young (AC/DC) is 63. Actor Marc McClure is 61. Actor William McNamara is 53. Alt-country musician Bob Crawford (The Avett (AY\'-veht) Brothers) is 47. Actor Ewan (YOO\'-en) McGregor is 47. Actress Judi Shekoni is 40. Rapper Tony Yayo is 40. Actress Kate Micucci is 38. Actor Brian Tyree Henry (TV: "Atlanta" Stage: "Book of Mormon") is 36. Actress Melissa Ordway is 35. Jazz musician Christian Scott is 35. Pop musician Jack Antonoff (fun.) is 34. Actress Jessica Szohr is 33.Thought for Today: "Man does not speak because he thinks, he thinks because he speaks."  Octavio Paz, Mexican poet (born this date in 1914, died 1998).

BOSTON   Jonathan Garland\'s fascination with architecture started early: He spent much of his childhood designing Lego houses and gazing at Boston buildings on rides with his father away from their largely minority neighborhood.But when Garland looked around at his architectural college, he didn\'t see many who looked like him  there were few black faces in classroom seats, and fewer teaching skills or giving lectures."If you do something simple like Google \'architects\' and you go to the images tab, you\'re primarily going to see white males," said Garland, 35, who\'s worked at Boston and New York architectural firms. "That\'s the image, that\'s the brand, that\'s the look of an architect."And that\'s not uncommon in other lucrative fields, 50 years after the Rev. Martin Luther King  a leader in the fight for equal-employment opportunities  was assassinated.An Associated Press analysis of government data has found that black workers are chronically underrepresented compared with whites in high-salary jobs in technology, business, life sciences, and architecture and engineering, among other areas. Instead, many black workers find jobs in low-wage, less-prestigious fields where they\'re overrepresented, such as food service or preparation, building maintenance and office work, the AP analysis found.In one of his final speeches, King described the "Other America," where unemployment and underemployment created a "fatigue of despair" for African-Americans. Despite economic progress for blacks in areas such as incomes and graduation rates, some experts say many African-Americans remain part of this "Other America"  with little hope of attaining top professional jobs, thanks to systemic yet subtle racism.The AP analysis found that a white worker had a far better chance than a black one of holding a job in the 11 categories with the highest median annual salaries, as listed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The ratio of white-to-black workers is about 10-to-1 in management, 8-to-1 in computers and mathematics, 12-to-1 in law, and 7-to-1 in education  compared with a ratio of 5.5 white workers for every black one in all jobs nationally. The top five high-paying fields have a median income range of $65,000 to $100,000, compared with $36,000 for all occupations nationwide.In Boston  a hub for technology and innovation, and home to prestigious universities  white workers outnumber black ones by about 27-to-1 in computer- and mathematics-related professions, compared with the overall ratio of 9.5-to-1 for workers in the city. Overall, Boston\'s ratio of white-to-black workers is wider than that of the nation in six of the top 10 high-income fields.Boston  where King had deep ties, earning his doctorate and meeting his wife  has a history of racial discord. Eight years after King\'s assassination, at the height of turbulent school desegregation, a Pulitzer Prize-winning photograph from an anti-busing rally at City Hall showed a white man attacking a black bystander with an American flag.The young victim was Theodore Landsmark. He\'s now 71, a lawyer, an architect and director of Northeastern University\'s Dukakis Center for Urban and Regional Policy.He said "structural discrimination" is the overarching cause of disproportionate race representation in high-paying fields. Landsmark and others say gains are elusive for myriad reasons: Substandard schools in low-income neighborhoods. White-dominated office cliques. Boardrooms that prefer familiarity to diversity. Discriminatory hiring practices. Companies that claim a lack of qualified candidates but have no programs to train minority talent.Some also say investors are more likely to support white startups. When Rica Elysee  a lifelong Boston resident who grew up in predominantly black neighborhoods  brought her idea of an online platform linking beauty professionals with customers for in-home appointments to investors, she was shunned, she said."They said I didn\'t belong in the program, that they couldn\'t identify with it because they weren\'t black," said Elysee, 32, who initially marketed BeautyLynk to black women like herself. "I remember crying pretty harshly. They couldn\'t relate to what I was doing."Some even advised her to move out of Boston, which had a booming innovation economy but was "not encouraging minorities in the tech space," she said. Three years later, Elysee said BeautyLynk is slowly growing but still needs capital.Most American metro areas are like Boston, with AP\'s analysis showing that racial disparities in employment are indifferent to geography and politics. California\'s Silicon Valley struggles to achieve diversity in computer fields. In Seattle, home to Amazon, whites outnumber blacks nearly 28-to-1 in computer- and math-related fields. Financial powerhouse New York has a 3-to-1 ratio of white-to-black workers in all occupations, but nearly 6-to-1 in business and finance. Hollywood shows inequality in entertainment, with almost nine whites for every black worker.In Atlanta, King\'s hometown, the proportional representation of black-to-white workers is close to even in many fields. Many reasons are cited. Atlanta has historically black colleges and universities such as King\'s alma mater, Morehouse; the first black mayor, Maynard Jackson, pressed for policies helping black professionals after his 1973 election; and events like the 1996 Olympics opened doors for entrepreneurs of all races.Atlanta is an exception. For nearly all of the past half-century, black unemployment nationally has hovered at about twice that of whites.President Donald Trump touted on Twitter that December\'s 6.8 percent unemployment rate for blacks was the lowest in 45 years  a number critics say ignores a greater reality. For example, in an economy that increasingly demands advanced degrees, Department of Education data shows that black representation among graduates in science, tech, engineering and mathematics peaked at 9.9 percent in 2010 and has been slowly declining.In Boston, Democratic Mayor Marty Walsh said in a recent speech that the city is addressing the issue and is committed to placing 20,000 low-income residents in "good-paying jobs" by 2022.Landsmark said stronger role models may be a solution. As Boston Architectural College\'s president, he mentored Garland. They discussed race issues in the professional world  as when Garland, trying to land jobs in his neighborhood, realized many people who looked like him were unfamiliar with the very concept of architecture. He once had to explain to a homeowner who wanted his roof reframed: "I\'m not a builder, I\'m an architect."Today, Garland speaks at high schools and works at the DREAM Collaborative, which focuses on projects in low-income neighborhoods."I know the barriers exist in other folks\' minds, and I have to disprove that," he said. "I keep myself focused on the issues."___Associated Press writer Jeff Martin contributed from Atlanta.___For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr

SEOUL, South Korea   From aging crooners to bubbly K-Pop starlets, some of South Korea\'s biggest pop stars flew to North Korea on Saturday for rare performances that highlight the sudden thaw in inter-Korean ties after years of tensions over the North\'s nuclear ambitions.The concerts in Pyongyang on Sunday and Tuesday come ahead of a historic summit between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in at a border village on April 27. The meeting, which will precede a planned summit between Kim and President Donald Trump in May, could prove to be significant in the global diplomatic push to resolve the standoff over the North\'s nuclear weapons and missiles program.The 120-member group that flew to Pyongyang also included government officials, reporters and a taekwondo demonstration team that will perform in Pyongyang on Sunday and Monday. Another team of 70 South Korean technicians went to Pyongyang on Thursday to set up equipment.Singer Yoon Do-hyun, who previously performed in Pyongyang in 2002, was emotional after landing in the North Korean capital."My heart is bursting," Yoon told reporters, his eyes welling up with tears. "I am most curious about the reaction of the audience, how it would be different from 16 years ago."The artists were greeted by Hyon Song Wol, the photogenic leader of Kim Jong Un\'s hand-picked Moranbong girl band who has been working out the details of the performances with South Korean officials."Your arrival in Pyongyang brings big expectations," she said. "A lot of famous singers have come."A look at the South Korean singers who made the trip and a certain horse-dancing specialist who didn\'t:___THE LEGENDDuring stormier times, North Korea described the South\'s society and culture as a "corrupt bourgeois lifestyle." Still, that didn\'t stop southern pop singers from performing across the border when relations warmed.It\'s the second trip for the iconic Cho Yong-pil, perhaps South Korea\'s most influential musician of the past 50 years. He staged a solo concert in Pyongyang in 2005 during a previous era of rapprochement between the rivals."It will be as comfortable performing in the North as it is to perform in the South," the 68-year-old singer said at a news conference at South Korea\'s Gimpo Airport on Saturday. "There\'s no reason for me or other singers to be nervous. We all finished rehearsing and will have a fun and comfortable time showing our music."Seoul hasn\'t officially announced the titles of the songs by the South Korean artists. Cho\'s "Dear Friend," a ballad about a long-lost friend that reportedly drew an enthusiastic response from the Pyongyang crowd 13 years ago, will almost certainly be one of them.It would be the third North Korean performances for female balladeers Choi Jin-hee and Lee Sun-hee, who are relatively well-known in the North.The 61-year-old Choi will likely sing her biggest hit, "Maze of Love," which is rumored to have been a favorite of former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, the late father of current leader Kim. Lee, who at 53 still might have the best pipes in the business, may sing "To J," one of several South Korean songs North Korean musicians performed during the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics."I hope we can create a stage where we can make an emotional connection and convey the warm feelings between the South and North," Choi said.___THE GIRLSIt won\'t be all slow ballads in Pyongyang. It will be interesting to see how the North Koreans reacts to girl band Red Velvet, currently one of the most popular acts in the highly competitive K-Pop scene.The genre, which has a huge following across Asia, has been defined by synthesized music, powerful visuals and dance moves, and teasing sexuality. In recent years, South Korea\'s military has used K-Pop for psychological warfare, blaring it from loudspeakers along the heavily armored border between the rivals."Happiness! Hello, it\'s Red Velvet!" band member Seulgi cheerfully shouted during the news conference."We\'re the \'maknae\' (youngest of the group), so we will make sure to deliver our bright energy to the North," said the 24-year-old.K-Pop groups have performed before in North Korea. The now-disbanded Sechs Kies and Fin.K.L sang and danced in Pyongyang in 1999, as did boy band Shinhwa in 2003. Some of the artists said later that the reaction from the audience was awkward and quiet.Red Velvet may find a better reception more than a decade later as cultural tastes change, even in isolated North Korea. Currently, the most popular music act in North Korea is Hyon\'s Moranbong band, whose members often perform suggestive shimmies in short skirts with electric guitars.Park Hyeong-il, an official at South Korea\'s Unification Ministry, said North Korean officials didn\'t show any discomfort about Red Velvet and also didn\'t take issue with the "red" in the band\'s name.Red Velvet is originally a five-member band, but only four made the trip to Pyongyang  22-year-old Joy stayed in South Korea to film a soap opera.___NO \'GANGNAM STYLE,\' PLEASEDespite constant questioning from reporters, South Korean officials aren\'t offering a clear explanation on why PSY, the "Gangnam Style" singer, was left out of the concert lineup.South Korea\'s culture ministry spokesman Hwang Seong-un said without specifying that the YouTube rapper had been initially considered for the Pyongyang events before being excluded. He said he couldn\'t confirm a media report that North Korean officials had rejected PSY."What I can say is that we explored ways to include him, but it didn\'t work out," Hwang said. "We hope there will be better opportunities for him in the future."It\'s possible that officials from either the North or the South concluded that PSY\'s bizarre humor and highly sexualized music would be too provocative for the North Korean public.It\'s not that North Korea had entirely ignored the global Gangnam Style craze. In September 2012, the North posted a video on its Uriminzokkiri website of a horse-dancing PSY character that had a photo of conservative South Korean presidential candidate Park Geun-hye\'s face transposed on it. The lyrics had the character satirically defending Park\'s late father, staunch anti-communist dictator Park Chung-hee.Park went on to win the presidential race, only to be ousted from office and jailed over a corruption scandal in March last year.___WILL KIM JONG UN ATTEND?The South Korean singers will perform at the 1,500-seat East Pyongyang Grand Theater on Sunday and then take part in a joint concert with North Korean artists on Tuesday at the 12,000-seat Ryugyong Jong Ju Yong Gymnasium.It\'s unclear whether North Korean leader Kim will show up in any of these performances. His presence would be seen in the South as a proper response to Moon\'s attending the North Korean performances in February. But Kim also was accused by Seoul in previous years of harshly punishing, and even executing, North Korean officials and people who were caught privately consuming South Korean popular culture.In 2014, South Korea\'s spy agency told lawmakers that North Korea used firing squads to execute 10 officials that year for taking bribes or watching South Korean television dramas.___Follow Kim Tong-hyung on Twitter at @KimTongHyung
DETROIT   The Trump administration is expected to announce that it will roll back automobile gas mileage and pollution standards.Automakers wanted the government to relax the current standards, which were imposed by the Obama administration to combat climate change. They say the rules will cost the industry billions of dollars and raise vehicle prices.But environmentalists say the right technology is available to increase a car's gas mileage and building it into the car saves money at the pump.Any change is likely to set up a lengthy legal showdown with California, which currently has the power to set its own pollution and gas mileage standards and doesn't want them to change.EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said in an email Friday that the standards are still being reviewed.
(Reuters) - A federal judge in Washington issued an injunction on Friday preventing the Trump administration from interfering with the ability of undocumented teenagers in U.S. custody to have abortions or obtain abortion-related services.U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan also certified a class action of similar minor children to challenge the administration\'s policy.The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services\'(HHS)  Office of Refugee Resettlement ("ORR") had last March adopted a policy prohibiting federally funded shelters from taking "any action that facilitates" abortions without approval from its director.But the judge said a preliminary injunction was appropriate while the matter is litigated because the plaintiffs had shown a "strong likelihood of success on the merits" of their claim that enforcing the policy would pose an unconstitutional "undue burden" on obtaining abortions.Chutkan said ORR is "certainly entitled to maintain an interest in fetal life," but cannot strip undocumented teenagers of "their right to make their own reproductive choices."The government can appeal.HHS did not immediately respond to a request for comment after business hours.Brigitte Amiri, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union representing the teenagers, said: "It is a relief that the court blocked the Trump Administration\'s cruel policy of interfering with and obstructing access to abortions for unaccompanied immigrant minors."Chutkan had in December ordered HHS to let two undocumented immigrants, both aged 17, in federal custody have abortions, but put her order on hold to allow a government appeal.According to court papers, several hundred pregnant undocumented teenagers have been in U.S. custody in each of the last four years.The case is Garza v Hargan, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, No. 17-02122.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Sandra Maler)
WASHINGTON   A federal court in Washington has told the Trump administration that the government can\'t interfere with the ability of pregnant immigrant teens being held in federal custody to obtain abortions.A judge issued an order Friday evening barring the government from "interfering with or obstructing" pregnant minors\' access to abortion counseling or abortions, among other things, while a lawsuit proceeds. The order covers pregnant minors being held in federal custody after entering the country illegally.Lawyers for the Department of Health and Human Services, which is responsible for sheltering children who illegally enter the country unaccompanied by a parent, have said the department has a policy of "refusing to facilitate" abortions. And the director of the office that oversees the shelters has said he believes teens in his agency\'s care have no constitutional right to abortion.The American Civil Liberties Union brought a lawsuit on behalf of the minors, which the judge overseeing the case also Friday allowed to go forward as a class action lawsuit."We have been able to secure justice for these young pregnant women in government custody who will no longer be subject to the government\'s policy of coercion and obstruction while the case continues," said ACLU attorney Brigitte Amiri after the judge\'s order became public.The government can appeal the judge\'s order. A Department of Justice spokesman didn\'t immediately respond to an emailed request for comment Friday evening.The health department said in a statement Saturday that it "strongly maintains that taxpayers are not responsible for facilitating the abortion of unaccompanied minors who entered the country illegally and are currently in the government\'s care." It said it is "working closely with the Justice Department to review the court\'s order and determine next steps."The ACLU and Trump administration have been sparring for months over the government\'s policy. In a high-profile case last year, the ACLU represented a teen who entered the U.S. illegally in September and learned while in federal custody in Texas that she was pregnant.The teen, referred to in court paperwork as Jane Doe, obtained a state court order permitting her to have an abortion and secured private funding to pay for it, but federal officials refused to transport her or temporarily release her so that others could take her to get the procedure.The teen was ultimately able to get an abortion in October as a result of the lawsuit, but the Trump administration has accused the ACLU of misleading the government during the case, a charge the ACLU has denied.The ACLU has since represented several other teens who have sought abortions while in custody, but the organization doesn\'t know of any others actively seeking abortions, Amiri said Friday night. The judge\'s order now covers any teens currently in custody or who come in to custody while the lawsuit goes forward.In a deposition taken in December as part of the litigation, Scott Lloyd, the director of the Department of Health and Human Services\' Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees shelters for unaccompanied immigrant minors, said pregnant teens in his agency\'s care have no right to abortion under the Constitution. Lloyd, who has written about his own opposition to abortion, said he had not approved any abortions since becoming director in March 2017. That included refusing the abortion request of a teen who had been impregnated as a result of rape.U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said in the ruling Friday that Lloyd and his office are "certainly entitled to maintain an interest in fetal life" and even to prefer that pregnant minors in their custody "choose one course over the other," but the government can\'t create or implement a policy that strips minors "of their right to make their own reproductive choices." Chutkan was appointed by President Barack Obama.___
WASHINGTON   A federal court in Washington told the Trump administration Friday that the government can\'t interfere with the ability of pregnant immigrant teens being held in federal custody to obtain abortions.A judge issued an order Friday evening barring the government from "interfering with or obstructing" pregnant minors\' access to abortion counseling or abortions, among other things, while a lawsuit proceeds. The order covers pregnant minors being held in federal custody after entering the country illegally.Lawyers for the Department of Health and Human Services, which is responsible for sheltering children who illegally enter the country unaccompanied by a parent, have said the department has a policy of "refusing to facilitate" abortions. And the director of the office that oversees the shelters has said he believes teens in his agency\'s care have no constitutional right to abortion.The American Civil Liberties Union brought a lawsuit on behalf of the minors, which the judge overseeing the case also Friday allowed to go forward as a class action lawsuit."We have been able to secure justice for these young pregnant women in government custody who will no longer be subject to the government\'s policy of coercion and obstruction while the case continues," said ACLU attorney Brigitte Amiri after the judge\'s order became public.The government can appeal the judge\'s order. A Department of Justice spokesman didn\'t immediately respond to an emailed request for comment Friday evening.The ACLU and Trump administration have been sparring for months over the government\'s policy. In a high profile case last year, the ACLU represented a teen who entered the U.S. illegally in September and learned while in federal custody in Texas that she was pregnant. She obtained a state court order permitting her to have an abortion, but federal officials refused to transport her or temporarily release her so that others could take her to get the procedure. The teen was ultimately able to get an abortion in October as a result of the lawsuit, but the Trump administration has accused the ACLU of misleading the government during the case, a charge the ACLU has denied.The ACLU has since represented several other teens who have sought abortions while in custody, but the organization doesn\'t know of any others actively seeking abortions, Amiri said Friday night. The judge\'s order now covers any teens currently in custody or who come in to custody while the lawsuit goes forward.In a deposition taken in December as part of the litigation, Scott Lloyd, the director of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services\' Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees shelters for unaccompanied immigrant minors, said that pregnant teens in his agency\'s care have no right to abortion under the Constitution. Lloyd, who has written about his own opposition to abortion, said he had not approved any abortions since becoming director in March 2017. That included refusing the abortion request of a teen who had been impregnated as a result of rape.U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said in ruling Friday that Lloyd and his office are "certainly entitled to maintain and interest in fetal life, and even to prefer that pregnant" minors in their custody "choose one course over the other," but the government can\'t create or implement a policy that strips minors "of their right to make their own reproductive choices."___
A federal judge in Washington issued a sweeping order on Friday that temporarily prevents the government from blocking access to abortion services for undocumented, pregnant minors who have been detained in federal immigration custody.In issuing the preliminary injunction, Judge Tanya S. Chutkan of United States District Court barred the government from interfering with hundreds of teenagers access to medical appointments, counseling, abortion procedures or other care, writing that the governments practice of doing so infringed on the teenagers constitutional rights.Judge Chutkan also allowed the case to proceed as a class action that will include four plaintiffs whose high-profile cases date to October 2017.Since March 2017, the Office of Refugee Resettlement had instructed employees at federally funded shelters to not take any action that facilitates an abortion without direction and approval from the director of O.R.R., court documents say. The Trump administration has argued that their policies do not create a so-called undue burden because undocumented teenagers seeking an abortion can obtain one by finding a sponsor or voluntarily deporting themselves to their home country.This court does not find that either of these options mitigates the undue burden that O.R.R.s policy imposes on the young women in its custody, Judge Chutkan wrote, calling the governments proposal a Hobsons choice.While the Office of Refugee Resettlement and its director are certainly entitled to maintain an interest in fetal life, and even to prefer that pregnant teens in their custody choose one course over the other, federal officials may not create or implement any policy that strips the undocumented children of their right to make their own reproductive choices, Judge Chutkan, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, continued.Brigitte Amiri, deputy director of the American Civil Liberties Union Reproductive Freedom Project, said in a statement that the group was relieved that the court issued an order preventing the administration from continuing this practice while our case proceeds.With todays rulings, we are one step closer to ending this extreme policy once and for all and securing justice for all of these young women, she said.It was unclear late Friday whether the Trump administration would appeal the ruling. The Justice Department did not immediately respond Friday night to email and phone messages seeking comment.
Less than five weeks after declaring her candidacy for Congress, the actress Stacey Dash announced Friday that she was withdrawing from the race to represent a heavily Democratic House district in California.In a statement posted on Twitter, Ms. Dash  who is best known for her role in the 1995 movie Clueless  said she had concluded that the bitterness surrounding our political process, the rigors of campaigning and even the act of holding office itself would be harmful to her family.Deciding to withdraw my candidacy was a difficult choice, but I have to go where I feel God is leading me, she said.Ms. Dash, 51, is a Republican, and her decision to compete for a seat in Californias 44th District was puzzling. The district encompasses much of South Los Angeles, including largely black cities and neighborhoods like Compton and Watts, as well as communities that are increasingly Latino.Hillary Clinton received 83 percent of the vote there in the 2016 presidential election, and Barack Obama won similar shares in 2008 and 2012.Nanette Barragn, a Democrat, is the districts current representative and has announced that she is running for re-election. Among Ms. Barragns challengers will be Aja Brown, a highly visible Democrat who became Comptons youngest mayor in 2013.Ms. Dash came onto the political stage in earnest when she endorsed Mitt Romneys presidential campaign in 2012. She was a Fox News contributor from 2014 to 2016 and an early supporter of President Trump. Her endorsements of Republican candidates drew significant attention, and backlash, in part because she is black.In an interview with the journalist Nicholas Ballasy in June 2016, after she released a memoir titled There Goes My Social Life: From Clueless to Conservative, Ms. Dash said she had been ostracized in Hollywood because of her political views. Her agents had dropped her, she said, and she had not auditioned for a role in more than a year.Asked in that interview how she would pitch Mr. Trump to African-American and Hispanic voters, she paraphrased the adage that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.Why do you keep voting Democrat, and nothing changes? asked Ms. Dash, who has said she voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 before switching parties. Try something new.In her statement on Friday, she continued that line of attack, arguing that constituents in the 44th District had been forgotten by the Democratic Party.People on the lower end of the economic spectrum had been offered little more than symbolic gestures, she said. Politicians, she argued, had come to accept high crime, decaying infrastructure and staggering high school dropout rates as the norm.The people living here deserve better, she said. I will continue to speak out.
BERLIN   Germany\'s economy minister says he is confident that Europe and the United States can reach a "sensible compromise" by summer to resolve tensions over trade.President Donald Trump\'s administration has granted the European Union an exemption from punitive tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, but only until May 1. Several European leaders have criticized the little time that leaves for talks.German weekly Der Spiegel on Saturday quoted Economy Minister Peter Altmaier as saying that the EU and U.S. want to act together to counter the overcapacity in the global steel market that originated in China.Altmaier says they are seeking agreement on how to combat dumping prices and the theft of intellectual property.He said: "We want to find solutions that are compatible with international trade rules."
WASHINGTON  Massachusetts, which led the nation in expanding health insurance coverage, now wants to rein in the growth of prescription drug spending for low-income people on Medicaid, but its proposals have met an icy reaction from patients and drug companies.The state has asked the Trump administration for permission to limit the number of drugs that will be covered in its Medicaid program, seeking to exclude drugs with limited or inadequate evidence of clinical efficacy.The proposal has nationwide implications because many states are struggling with the costs of health care, including prescription drugs. Massachusetts officials say the decision on their request for a Medicaid waiver, which could set a national precedent if it is approved, will show just how serious President Trump is about his vow to bring down drug prices.Consumer advocates and drug companies have mobilized a campaign to block the proposal, telling the administration that it would deprive Medicaid beneficiaries of access to innovative, lifesaving treatments.Moreover, they say, it would be a radical departure from a grand bargain struck 28 years ago: Medicaid covers nearly all of a companys prescription drugs if the company agrees to provide deep discounts to Medicaid.Massachusetts officials said they were proud of coverage gains made since 2006, when the state adopted a health law that served in many ways as a model for the Affordable Care Act, signed four years later by President Barack Obama.But drug spending in the Massachusetts health program has doubled in the last five years, to $2.2 billion, and it threatens to crowd out important spending on health care and other critical programs, the state said in asking the Trump administration for the Medicaid waiver.In Massachusetts, Medicaid and the Childrens Health Insurance Program are combined into one program called MassHealth, which accounts for about 40 percent of the state budget.Marylou Sudders, the states secretary of health and human services, pointed to one reason for growing costs: a steady increase in the number of residents enrolled in MassHealth, which covers nearly 30 percent of state residents, and a simultaneous decline in the proportion of people covered by commercial insurance.To manage the rising drug spending, Massachusetts  under Gov. Charlie Baker, a moderate Republican  says it wants to use the same tools that have been widely employed by commercial insurers. State officials want to establish a list of covered drugs  what they describe in their proposal as a commercial-style closed formulary with at least one drug available per therapeutic class.With the ability to exclude drugs, the state said, it will be able to negotiate better deals with drug manufacturers, guaranteeing them additional sales for the drugs it does cover, in return for larger discounts, or rebates.State officials want to be able to exert the market leverage they believe they should have as a very large purchaser of prescription drugs, without being constrained by what they see as arcane and obsolete federal rules, said Tom Dehner, a former Medicaid director in Massachusetts.Massachusetts said it also wanted to use its own rigorous review process to identify new drugs whose clinical benefits have not been proved. In this way, it said, the state could avoid exorbitant spending on high-cost drugs that are not medically necessary.Mr. Trumps budget for the coming year includes a legislative proposal for a Medicaid demonstration project that would allow five states to determine their own drug formularies, much as Massachusetts wants to do. Medicaid officials in Arizona said they, too, would like more discretion to decide which drugs will be covered.Among those that have criticized the Massachusetts proposal are Health Care for All, a consumer advocacy group in Boston; the American Medical Association; the American Academy of Pediatrics; the American Cancer Societys Cancer Action Network; the American Diabetes Association; the National Alliance on Mental Illness; and drugmakers including Amgen, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly, Merck, Pfizer and Teva.The proposed waiver will reverse Massachusetts standing as a leader in public health and harm low-income patients who depend on Medicaid, said Harold P. Wimmer, the chief executive of the American Lung Association. The possibility of making available just one drug in a therapeutic class is a real threat to patients with lung cancer or asthma, who often need more than one medication, he said in a letter to federal health officials.Nonprofit groups that help people with diabetes, epilepsy and cystic fibrosis echoed that concern.Sharon Torgerson, a spokeswoman for the health and human services office in Massachusetts, said that Ms. Sudders, the head of the agency, and Daniel Tsai, the state Medicaid director, would not comment on such criticism because the state was discussing its proposal with the federal government.The objections from drugmakers are remarkably similar to the concerns expressed by patient advocacy groups.The Massachusetts proposal would dramatically limit access to lifesaving therapies for the poorest and most vulnerable patients, Wayne M. Sichel, a pharmacist and lawyer at Bristol-Myers Squibb, said in comments sent to the Trump administration.Dr. Joshua J. Ofman, a senior vice president of Amgen, said the proposed Medicaid waiver would tear apart the basic bargain enacted by Congress in 1990. Under the proposal, he said, Massachusetts would renege on its obligations, but would expect drug manufacturers to continue providing the price concessions required under the law. That, he said, is fundamentally unfair.Massachusetts officials said they were targeting certain costly new drugs that had received accelerated approval from the Food and Drug Administration. Using this procedure, the agency can, for example, approve a medication that shrinks tumors without waiting for clinical trials to show whether patients actually live longer.Patients advocates said that such drugs were sometimes the best option for people with life-threatening diseases.Andy Schmeltz, a senior vice president at Pfizer, said that federal approval of the Massachusetts waiver would undercut F.D.A.s role, by substituting the judgment of state officials for that of experts at the federal agency.Massachusetts said it would have an exceptions process that consumers could use to request coverage of drugs that are not on the formulary but might be medically necessary in individual cases.
Welcome to the weekend! Its a holiday, so maybe youve got friends and family crowding the house. If you need a mental getaway, heres some great journalism to feast on. The articles in this list are not political, for the most part, so feel free to discuss with frenemies and in-laws.After 21 years, Roseanne returned to ABC, and Roseanne Barrs portrait of working-class Americans is as topical as ever. Arts____Where, but in the Eternal City, is it possible to map a 2,000-year-old eyewitness account of history onto an intact urban fabric? Travel____The actor spares no one in Bob Honey Who Just Do Stuff, about a hired killer (maybe) and politics (for sure). Books____Floating villages spread across the surface of the Mekong Rivers waterways, playing host to ethnic Vietnamese whose status in Cambodian society is perpetually adrift. Magazine____A top Morgan Stanley broker was repeatedly accused of violence against ex-wives and girlfriends. Bank managers were told. But he kept his job. Business____A classmate of and tutor to the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School gunman called the idea that if other students had been kinder, Mr. Cruz would not have gone on a rampage, dangerous and a slap in the face to his victims. Opinion____When a call for peaceful protests came in the spring of 1919, a schoolgirl became the face of a nations collective yearning for freedom. Read other Overlooked pieces here. Obituaries____So far in 2018, our reporter David Gelles has hardly touched paper money or metal coins. There are no grimy bills folded alongside his drivers license, no quarters or pennies jangling in his pocket. Business____Touring for her fourth studio album, getting a star on the Walk of Fame and channeling her own #MeToo memories into a message of empowerment. Styles____The Times joined a family on their return to Puerto Rico months after fleeing Hurricane Marias fury. The homecoming was not what they expected. New York____Loyola-Chicago (and Sister Jean) and Villanova are in the Final Four in San Antonio, so here is a look at the deep connection between Catholic colleges and basketball. Sports
BEIJING   China wants to share its development opportunities with other countries, but protectionism will mean closing the door into China, the country\'s top diplomat said, amid a festering trade dispute with the United States.U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move last week to slap up to $60 billion in tariffs on some Chinese imports has since provoked a warning from Beijing that it could retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports.Speaking at a regional forum in Vietnam\'s capital Hanoi on Friday, Chinese State Councillor Wang Yi said the country\'s reform and opening up policy will neither be changed nor be affected by any external factors, China\'s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Saturday."China\'s reform and opening up is in line with the interests of the Chinese people, and will also benefit other countries," the statement cited Wang as saying, adding China will provide an even better investment environment for foreign companies."Opening up should work both ways. China opens itself to other countries and hopes others will be open to China," he said, without mentioning any countries by name.While friction and disputes over trade are normal, what is important is to work for reasonable solutions through equal consultations in line with laws and rules, Wang added."Any unilateral or protectionist measures are an approach against the trend of the history, will go nowhere and will see their own interests undermined," he said."Protectionism equals shutting the door into China, and they will suffer the consequences of their actions. Both time and facts will prove it."China has repeatedly promised to open its economy further, but many foreign companies continue to complain of unfair treatment.China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in the deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Susan Thomas)
Lawmakers in Vermont, a place long steeped in hunting culture, on Friday approved a sweeping package of new gun restrictions, making the state all but certain to join Florida in passing a raft of new gun control measures after a teenage gunman killed 17 people last month at a high school in Parkland, Fla.Gov. Phil Scott, a Republican, has vowed to sign the measure. It represents a remarkable departure from the states existing gun laws, which are some of the weakest in the country  and an about-face for Mr. Scott, who decided to consider new gun control measures only after a teenager was accused of plotting a school shooting in Vermont in the days after the violence in Parkland.No state is immune to the risk of extreme violence, Mr. Scott said in a statement on Friday, adding, If we are at a point when our kids are afraid to go to school and parents are afraid to put their kids on a bus, who are we?The bill, which passed the Senate, 17 to 13, on Friday after clearing the House earlier in the week, would raise the minimum age to purchase a gun to 21 and ban bump stocks, which are devices that allow semiautomatic rifles to fire more rapidly. It also contains restrictions that go beyond those in the measure signed in Florida, like an expansion of background checks and a limit on the capacity of magazines that can be sold or possessed in the state.The passage of the bill is likely to be hailed as a victory by activists pushing for tighter gun laws around the nation after the Parkland shootings. It comes less than a week after hundreds of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in protest of mass shootings and gun violence  including 2,500 who squeezed onto the steps of the Capitol in Montpelier.I think the message that most members of the Legislature  not all  took is that public opinion is changing in Vermont, said Eric Davis, an emeritus professor of political science at Middlebury College.Madison Knoop, a college freshman who organized last weekends march in Montpelier, called the bills advancement such a good first start.The day after the Parkland shooting, Mr. Scott, a moderate Republican who has kept his distance from President Trump, said he saw no need for new gun laws  a position in line with years of precedent in Vermont, a rural state with a committed population of hunters.Mr. Scott shifted his stance a day later, after a teenager was arrested and accused of planning a school shooting in Fair Haven, Vt. Everything should be on the table at this point, Mr. Scott said.Lawmakers are expected to approve two more gun control measures next week. One would allow law enforcement officers to remove guns from people considered at risk of harming themselves or others, and the other would allow firearms to be taken from people arrested or cited for domestic assault.Some Democrats joined Republicans in opposing the measures that advanced on Friday. State Senator Dick Sears Jr., a Democrat, expressed deep unease with the ban on high-capacity magazines, which had been included in the House bill.And State Senator John Rodgers, a Democrat representing a rural stretch of northern Vermont, mourned a change in the states culture before he voted against the bill.I think maybe if we pass this bill, maybe it is over, maybe the Vermont I grew up with is over, and its changed, Mr. Rodgers said, according to Vermont Public Radio.On Saturday afternoon, Recoil magazine and Magpul Industries, which makes firearms accessories, were planning to distribute free 30-round magazines at the State House to show their disdain for the expected law. Magazines of that size that are in residents possession before the ban goes into effect would not be subject to the law.Evan Hughes, vice president of the Vermont Federation of Sportsmens Clubs, which was opposed to the legislation, said he would be among the crowd on Saturday.Our legislators, he said, have drastically underestimated the response from the gun-owning community.
ALBANY  In his ceremonial unveiling of the new state budget on Friday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo presented the $168 billion blockbuster as a rebuttal to Washington, a defiant thrust of the chin at President Trump.But another of the bills targets could be found much closer to home.Seated in the State Capitols historic Red Room, flanked by several top advisers, Mr. Cuomo made it clear, again and again, that he intended to lay a heavy hand on matters concerning New York City, and, by extension, on matters concerning his intraparty rival, Mayor Bill de Blasio.The examples came fast and furious. An aggressive plan to add oversight of New York Citys mayor-controlled public school system. A quarter-billion-dollar package to rescue the citys deteriorating public housing authority, Nycha. A directive to force the city to pay $418 million for emergency subway repairs, a measure Mr. de Blasio has resisted.The governor also asserted the states legal right to develop a chunk of Midtown Manhattan surrounding Penn Station, depicting it as dangerous and vulnerable to terrorist attack, and he openly mocked the mayors decade-long timetable for shutting down Rikers Island, the citys decrepit jail.For Mr. Cuomo, a second-term Democrat with rumored presidential aspirations, the 2018-19 state budget represented more than the latest opportunity to rankle Mr. de Blasio, a man for whom, seemingly, he can barely contain his disdain.It also presented a chance to double down on his credentials and position himself as a progressive leader for New York  and perhaps the nation  as he faces a primary challenge from the left and a crescendo of voters across the country, at least within his own party, who seem to have little appetite or patience for moderates.The governors supporters argue that Mr. Cuomo merely feels that he must fix problems unattended to by the mayor and city officials. The mayor, unsurprisingly, sees it differently, often saying Mr. Cuomo is meddling in city affairs.City Hall offered a muted reply to the budget on Saturday, with Eric Phillips, the mayors press secretary, saying that the budget appears to respond to the mayors demands on behalf of the citys straphangers, in reference to plans that would protect subway funds and provide long-term revenue.There are no excuses left for the governor to hide behind, Mr. Phillips said in a statement. He must do his job and fix the subways.Governor Cuomos obsession with Mayor de Blasio is great when it means the governor lives up to his promises to public housing tenants, he added. The governors obsession is a problem when his focus is on adding bureaucracy and slowing down our efforts on schools and corrections reform.On Saturday, however, the governor said his budget decision had nothing to do with the mayor.There are significant problems in New York City that need significant help, Mr. Cuomo said during an Easter event at the Executive Mansion in Albany, listing his other efforts to use the budget to address homelessness as well as provide assistance for Nycha, the subways, commuters and inmates.So who wins? Straphangers, children in public housing, children in public schools and people who drive with traffic, and the people who have been suffering in Rikers, the governor said.The budget passed before dawn on Saturday morning, just hours after Mr. Cuomo announced an agreement with Albanys legislative leaders.While budgets often are concerned with the minutiae of state operations, Mr. Cuomos plan singled out some name-brand, nationally known locales  the subways, for one  which the governor said the city must help pay to repair or suffer hundreds of millions in withheld funds.Some city officials have rejected Mr. Cuomos call to pay for half the repairs, arguing that 70 percent of the operating budget of the controlling agency, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, already comes from New York City payroll and other taxes. And Mr. de Blasio rarely misses an opportunity to point out that the state, not the city, controls the subway system.The subways are also a key element in the subplot that many observers see undergirding the governors current fury with City Hall: the emergent candidacy of the actress Cynthia Nixon as a primary challenger to Mr. Cuomo.Ms. Nixon, a close ally of Mr. de Blasio who announced her campaign as negotiations on the budget heated up in mid-March, has made no secret of the fact that she intends to attack the governor on the state of the subways. (Her campaign website has a section devoted to #CuomosMTA.)She has already called Mr. Cuomos liberal credentials into question. At her campaigns debut, she asked if he was a real Democrat, and she has linked him to the Independent Democratic Conference, a group of eight breakaway Democrats in the State Senate who collaborate with Republicans. Several progressive groups in New York that have expressed their enthusiasm for Ms. Nixons candidacy have suggested that they will take their anger at President Trump out on the I.D.C. and its allies.The budget seemed a perfect opportunity for Mr. Cuomo, who has spent most of the last 40 years involved in New York State politics, to show his mastery of Albanys levers of power  and his knowledge of how to use them against his foes.Cuomo never, ever missed an opportunity to stick it to de Blasio, said Douglas Muzzio, a professor of political science at Baruch College.In the spending plan, Mr. Cuomo also sought and won new oversight of the citys public schools. The budget requires districts located in cities with populations of more than one million to submit a detailed, school-by-school accounting of how they spent state educational funds. Previously, the state allocated money to districts but did not oversee the distribution of that money.Like the citys subways, if districts do not comply, the state can withhold funding.Mr. Cuomo billed the move as a much-needed increase in transparency. But it also served a dual political purpose: It jabbed at the tradition of mayoral control of New York Citys schools, and it also allowed the governor to take an aggressive stand on the issue of educational equity  a marquee issue of Ms. Nixon, a longtime education activist who has placed the issue squarely at the heart of the early stages of her campaign.Specifically, Ms. Nixon has blasted Mr. Cuomo for underfunding schools, accusing him of neglecting children of color in the poorest districts. But Mr. Cuomo on Friday said the issue was not the amount of money being spent, but rather how it was being spent.The deteriorating conditions at the New York City Housing Authority, the most recent flash point in Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasios long-running rivalry, also took center stage in Fridays budget presentation. In addition to promising $250 million in new funding for the authority, Mr. Cuomo said he would issue an executive order to appoint an independent monitor, to be selected by the City Council in collaboration with tenants.Mr. Cuomo has visited public housing complexes in the city three times in the past few weeks, always with cameras and supporters in tow, blasting what he has called the authoritys mismanagement and abuse of tenants. His first visit, to a complex in the Bronx on March 12, took place when Mr. de Blasio was out of town.For its part, the mayors office has said that the state has been slow to deliver $200 million in already-promised funds.In his open feud with Mr. Cuomo, Mr. de Blasio has few allies in Albany, the state capital, where he also has alienated Republicans who rule the Senate with past campaigns to oust them. His single consistent bastion of influence is in the Assembly, where Democrats from the city dominate and where Carl E. Heastie, the chambers speaker, usually acts as a bulwark against policies that seem to overreach into city affairs.Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science at the State University of New York at New Paltz, said that the two mens political ambitions, Mr. de Blasios solid bona fides with progressive voters and Mr. Cuomos reputation as a centrist had combined to make their relationship especially fraught.I dont know if they like each other, he said. They appear not to.On Friday night, the reaction to the governors plans to use state control to devise plans for the Penn Station area, coveted by developers (including some who have been generous donors to Mr. Cuomos campaigns), was swift and angry.It is wrong for the governor to try to take over urban planning, traffic management and real estate development in New York City, said Richard Gottfried, the veteran Democratic assemblyman who represents the area. Thats what this bill is aimed at.In the Senate, too, downstate Democrats expressed alarm at the budgets perceived power grab in the city. Senator Liz Krueger, a consistently liberal voice who represents a district on the East Side of Manhattan, said during debate on the Senate floor that the bill signaled the death of home rule.And Assemblywoman Catherine Nolan, another veteran Democrat who chairs that chambers education committee, also predicted that the governors decision to allow his Division of the Budget to oversee and potentially limit the spending of big school districts, such as New York Citys, could backfire.Districts statewide are going to deeply resent the governors ability to withhold funds so arbitrarily in such a punitive fashion, said Ms. Nolan, who  for the first time in 33 years in Albany  said she voted no on a major part of a budget bill. Never underestimate the grass-roots power of local control.
In June 1966, less than two years before he was killed, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached from his Atlanta pulpit of the dynamic dance between Good Friday and Easter, between death and resurrection, between despair and hope.The church must tell men that Good Friday is as much a fact of life as Easter; failure is as much a fact of life as success; disappointment is as much a fact of life as fulfillment, he said. Dr. King added that God didnt promise us that we would avoid trials and tribulations but that if you have faith in God, that God has the power to give you a kind of inner equilibrium through your pain.From nearly the moment he emerged on the national scene in the mid-1950s until his tragic end in 1968, 10 days before Easter, Dr. King was hounded by death. It was his deep faith that saw him through his many trials and tribulations until the time he was fatally shot on that motel balcony at 6:01 p.m. on April 4 in Memphis.Faith summoned Dr. King, an ordained Baptist preacher, to the ministry. It made him a troublemaker for Jesus and it led him to criticize the church, criticize the world around him and, in turn, be criticized for those things. In honoring his legacy today, we must not let complacency or narrow faith blind us to what needs to trouble us too.Dr. King passionately believed that a commitment to God is a commitment to bettering humanity, that the spiritual practices of prayer and worship must be translated into concern for the poor and vulnerable. Dr. King would want us to live his specific faith: work to defeat racism, speak out in principled opposition to war and combat poverty with enlightened and compassionate public policy.In his lifetime, he was disappointed in the complacency of both black and white churches. He would be as disappointed today. The white church largely remains a bastion of indifference to the plight of black people. White evangelicals continue to focus on personal piety as the measure of true Christianity, while neglecting the Social Gospel that enlivens Jesus words for the masses. Dr. King saw faith as an urgent call to service, a selfless ethic of concern that, he said, quoting the Hebrew prophet Amos, made justice roll down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.Today, in the midst of resurgent bigotry and deep divisions in this country, faith is too often viewed as an oasis of retreat, a paradise of political disengagement. On this Easter Sunday, as we mark 50 years since Dr. Kings death, it is a perfect and necessary time to remember his faith  and rekindle its urgency.Dr. King often declared his preachers vocation by citing something like a biblical genealogy of black sacred rhetoric that traced through his family: I grew up in the church. My father is a preacher, my grandfather was a preacher, my great-grandfather was a preacher, my only brother is a preacher. My daddys brother is a preacher. So I didnt have much choice.But Dr. Kings faith underwent significant change. At first, he was discouraged from the ministry by a strain of black preaching that was long on emotion and short on reason. Then, at Morehouse College, his encounter with preachers like the schools president Benjamin Mays convinced him that the ministry was intellectually respectable.A midnight kitchen experience over a cup of coffee after he received phone calls threatening to blow out his brains and blow up his house during the Montgomery bus boycott gave the fear-stricken Dr. King a sense of Gods unshakable presence. He said that instead of inherited faith, he had to forge the terms of his own relationship to the Almighty.I had to know God for myself, he explained. I could hear an inner voice saying to me, Martin Luther, stand up for righteousness, stand up for justice, stand up for truth. And lo, I will be with you, even until the end of the world.For the rest of his life Dr. King did just that. His faith propelled him to fight Jim Crow, the ugly hatred it bred in the white soul and the haunting inferiority it left in black minds. It led him to speak valiantly against the lynching, bombing and shooting of black people who merely wanted what white people took for granted: a cup of coffee at any lunch counter, a room at any hotel they could afford, a drink at any water fountain they passed, a seat on a bus wherever they pleased and a desk in the nearest schoolhouse.Dr. Kings faith put him at odds with white Christians who believed it was their mission to keep separate the races  the same people whose forebears believed it was their duty to enslave Africans and punish blacks who sought to escape their hardship. Dr. King realized that he wasnt simply in battle against a society built on legal apartheid, but that he also had to fight against a racist culture that derived theological support from white Christianity.White evangelicals were opposed to Dr. King because they conveniently divided body and soul: Race was a social issue that should be determined by rules in society and laws generated by government. Such a view meant that the racist status quo was sacred. The point of religion was to save the souls of black folk by preaching a gospel of repentance for personal sin, even as segregation often found a white biblical mandate. After Dr. King spoke at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in 1961, the most prominent institution of the nations largest Protestant denomination, many white churches in the South withheld financial contributions to the school.If rabid racists were a clear threat to black well-being, it was the white moderates who claimed to support civil rights but who urged caution in the pursuit of justice who proved to be a special plague. In 1963, eight white Alabama clergymen issued a statement pleading for black leaders to slow their aggressive campaign against segregation in Birmingham, Ala. The clergymen cited outsiders who had come to Birmingham to lead demonstrations that were unwise and untimely.The white clergymen blamed the black protests for inciting hatred and violence through their extreme measures, arguing that their cause should be pressed in the courts and in negotiations among local leaders, and not in the streets.Their statement led Dr. King, imprisoned for his protests against injustice, to draft his well-known Letter From Birmingham Jail, in which he almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negros great stumbling block in the stride toward freedom is not the White Citizens Council-er or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate who is more devoted to order than to justice. It was the same white moderates who led Dr. King near the end of his life to conclude that most Americans are unconscious racists.It wasnt only the white church Dr. King had to combat. In 1961 he joined other black ministers who were dissatisfied with the conservative leadership of the National Baptist Convention to form a rival body, the Progressive National Baptist Convention. Dr. King reserved some of his harshest criticism for the black church. Less than two months before he perished, Dr. King and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference organization convened a meeting of ministers in Miami.We didnt come to Miami to play, Dr. King warned his listeners in an address titled To Minister to the Valley. And he didnt. Let us admit that even the black church has often been a taillight rather than a headlight, Dr. King preached. As social injustice roared, these ministers kept silent behind the safe security of stained-glass windows. As their members struggled with poverty, they mouthed pious irrelevancies and sanctimonious trivialities.Then Dr. King came in for the kill: Let us honestly admit that all too often weve been more concerned about the size of the wheelbase on our automobiles, and the amount of money we get in our anniversaries, than weve been concerned about the problems of the people who made it possible for us to get these things. Dr. King argued that the great tragedy is that Christianity failed to see that it had the revolutionary edge.Christianity is again failing to see that edge.While black bodies are punished or disappear into oblivion, under the repressive reign of police brutality, many white churches remain silent. Instead, an overwhelming number of white evangelicals line up in support of a president who has evinced even less of a public embrace of religion than Ronald Reagan did. Yet President Trump has been prayed for by white evangelicals as his administration and his words have preyed on black people, immigrants, transgender people and the poor. There are some brave contrarians among Southern Baptists, like the Trump critic Russell Moore, who have dared to dissent. But their voices are too few.The black churchs behavior has been shameful as well. With a few notable exceptions, black churches have often been chronically indifferent to the fight against white supremacy. . On this Easter Sunday, many ministers will dutifully preach about a crucified God without dwelling on the death in Sacramento of 22-year-old Stephon Clark in a police shooting that even the citys mayor, Darrell Steinberg, said was plain wrong.Instead, black churches have been invested in personal prosperity and upward climbing at the expense of the Social Gospel that Dr. King preached. For every progressive pastor like Frederick Douglass Haynes in Dallas, there are hundreds more who turn their dire warnings about sin into bigger cars and more cash for their lucrative pastoral anniversaries. For every preacher of the virtue of social conscience, like Gina Stewart in Memphis, there are so many more pastors who use the Bible only to reprimand fornicators and backsliders.Some black ministers have even frowned on Dr. King for his moral failures as an excuse to avoid the message that he trumpeted as an itinerant preacher for social justice. To Dr. Kings credit, he acknowledged his flaws and warned people against making him a saint.Martin Luther King Jr. was a man of faith who didnt mind making trouble for God. He believed his purpose in life was to bring justice to as many of Gods children as possible while proclaiming the revolutionary power of belief. And that wasnt a mere metaphor: He believed that America must undergo a revolution of values so that it might begin to fulfill the mandate of the Gospel to look after those who needed Gods help the most.God didnt call America to do what shes doing in the world now, Dr. King said in his famous Drum Major Instinct sermon, delivered from his home pulpit at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta two months before his assassination. God has a way of even putting nations in their place. The God that I worship has a way of saying, Dont play with me.As America in its present incarnation, with its present leadership, teeters toward an arrogance, isolationism and self-importance that are the portals of moral decline and political self-destruction, the nation must recall the faith of Martin Luther King Jr. He saw faith as a tool for change, a constant source of inspiration to remake the world in the just and redemptive image of God. On this holy day, instead of shrinking into the safety of faith, we should, as Dr. King did, bear the burdens of the less fortunate and rise again to serve humanity.
HANOI, Vietnam   The leaders of six countries along the Mekong River on Saturday adopted an ambitious investment plan worth $66 billion over the next five years.At least $7 billion will come from the Asian Development Bank and the rest from governments and the private sector.The plan was adopted at a summit in Vietnam that included the prime ministers of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam, as well as a vice president of Myanmar and the Chinese foreign minister.The Greater Mekong Sub-regional (GMS) economic cooperation program was initiated by the ADB in 1992 and has since mobilized $21 billion, with the bulk going to infrastructure projects."GMS is starting a new era of development with unprecedented opportunities and challenges which require us to have a creative approach with long term and comprehensive vision in order to tap into the internal power of each country while effectively promoting connectivity to create strength resonance across the GMS for rapid economic growth and harmonizing economic and social development with environmental protection," Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said in his opening remarks.The five countries along with China\'s Yunnan province and the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous region with the population of 340 million and combined GDP of $1.3 trillion have recorded one of the world\'s fastest-growing economies.Closing the one-day summit, Phuc said cooperation will remain the driving force the region\'s development."I believe that given the results we have realized as well as our solidarity and determination, GMS cooperation will continue to be part of the cooperation mechanism of the region and will make concrete contribution to the economic and social development of member countries, promote sustainable development and reinforce the peaceful and stable environment in the region," he said.In the meantime, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the world\'s second-biggest economy supports "the multilateral trading system and promotes an open, inclusive and balanced economic globalization that benefits all.""China has long been an advocate of an open world economy. China is committed to win-win cooperation in opening up and firmly opposes trade protectionism," Wang said. "Protectionism harms others without benefiting oneself  it is a one-way street that leads to nowhere. The right approach to address trade disputes is to conduct consultation in line with international rules and as equals."President Donald Trump\'s move last week to impose tariffs on as much as $60 billion on Chinese goods prompted Beijing to consider imposing tariffs on a number of American goods exported into the country.
WASHINGTON  When Kevin Carwile arrived to run the Justice Departments death penalty unit in 2010, he had never prosecuted or sat through an entire capital punishment case. He was moved into the job after overseeing the gangs unit, and some prosecutors worried he lacked the expertise to steer the division.Now Mr. Carwile has been removed from his post after The New York Times inquired about a series of grievances against him, including complaints that he promoted gender bias and a sexualized environment. He fostered a culture of favoritism and sexism, according to court records, internal documents and interviews with more than a half-dozen current and former employees. In one episode, his deputy groped an administrative assistant at a bar in view of their colleagues, according to some who were present. Mr. Carwile asked the witnesses to keep it secret, one said.Employees of the unit, the capital case section, complained about the issues to Justice Department officials, the inspector general and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission at least 12 times. Some allegations went unaddressed for years. In cases that were investigated, the accusers were never told what investigators found. Both Mr. Carwile and his deputy, Gwynn Kinsey, remained Justice Department employees despite the inquiries.Six employees, including the administrative assistant, said they eventually left the section or quit government altogether in part because of the toxic climate. A defendant in Indiana has asked in court for the government to drop the death penalty recommendation in his case because of the units emerging conduct issues.Mr. Carwile declined to comment. After The Times contacted the Justice Department for this article, he was demoted and detailed to a different division. Through his lawyers, Mr. Kinsey declined to comment.The Department of Justice takes these allegations extremely seriously but cannot discuss specific employee disciplinary actions, or comment on internally handled personnel actions or matters that may impact personal privacy, said Ian Prior, a Justice Department spokesman. The department confirmed that it referred some allegations made by employees to the inspector general, whose spokesman would not confirm or deny any investigation.The unit is poised to gain power. President Trump has suggested the United States start executing drug dealers, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions has urged prosecutors to seek the death penalty whenever possible in drug-related crimes.The Justice Department created the capital case section in 1998 to help the attorney general decide when to apply capital punishment. The sections prosecutors advise or work with trial teams on cases and a few trials a year. They were involved in some high-profile prosecutions like those of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, one of the Boston Marathon bombers, and Dylann S. Roof, who was convicted in 2016 of murdering nine people at an African-American church in South Carolina.As the death penalty fell out of favor in the United States, the influence of the unit, already one of the smallest in the Justice Department, waned. About half a dozen trial lawyers worked there in the beginning of 2012, along with a lawyer conducting protocol reviews and three others on loan from different parts of the department.Mr. Carwile had arrived just before the public learned of the Fast and Furious scandal, a botched operation in which agents at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives let criminals move guns across the border into Mexico to try to build a bigger case. Many of the firearms were later found at crime scenes. Mr. Carwile incorrectly told superiors that the A.T.F. learned about guns moving illegally only after the fact, according to a subsequent inspector general investigation. He was moved from his post as head of the gangs unit to the much smaller capital punishment division.He quickly gained a reputation as a mercurial manager with a hands-off style that bordered on neglect, according to current and former employees. He rarely responded to emails, four former employees said, and in meetings his questions revealed that he had not read their messages.But after his first year, Mr. Carwile received the Excellence in Management award for the criminal division as the sections lawyers prosecuted more cases.In 2013, Jacabed Rodriguez-Coss, a prosecutor who had herself won one of the departments highest awards, complained to human resources that Mr. Carwile expected her to involuntarily travel far more than her male counterparts.Though she lived in Connecticut and had cases in Rhode Island and Vermont, he assigned her to one in California. She protested that her family needed her nearby. Her husband, an F.B.I. agent, was one of the first on the scene of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School and was confronting the aftermath of having worked on the case.Ms. Rodriguez-Coss filed a complaint to the E.E.O.C., which notified the Justice Department. Mr. Carwile subsequently suspended permission for her to work from Connecticut. She sued the department in 2016, accusing him of gender discrimination and claiming that her permission to work in Connecticut was taken away in retaliation for her complaints.Seven men and women from the unit filed declarations in her support. Two male colleagues said that they had not been assigned so much travel. Bruce R. Hegyi, a former prosecutor, wrote that he left because of plainly unethical and improper conduct.He said in his filing that Mr. Carwile promoted a sexualized environment, took him to a restaurant with scantily clad waitresses and let a fellow prosecutor show naked photographs of a woman during a work gathering of both men and women.Other employees said in their declarations that Mr. Carwile held men-only meetings, sent emails only to men and assigned more desirable and high-profile cases to men. Women only go to law school to find rich husbands, he said, according to a declaration filed by one lawyer, Amanda Haines.Under Mr. Carwile, there was incentive not to stir things up, said Kevin Little, the lawyer representing Ms. Rodriguez-Coss.My client and other of her colleagues feared retaliation, he said.The Justice Department said in its response that Ms. Rodriguez-Cosss claims boil down to her admitted refusal to perform the essential requirements of her position, which included taking on cases that required travel.Around the same time, Ms. Haines, who worked as a federal prosecutor for 18 years before joining the division, alerted Mr. Carwile to persistent work-quality issues, warnings that she later described in a court filing.In one case in Pennsylvania, she said, she received no files describing the governments work by the previous prosecutor, despite numerous requests, and dozens of boxes with discovery materials had sat unreviewed.She told Mr. Carwile and Mr. Kinsey, but the problem went unaddressed. Her colleague instead received a plum assignment: the Boston Marathon bombing trial.In the Indiana case, Ms. Haines said her predecessor interviewed over a dozen witnesses without a law enforcement officer or other witness present, an error that could jeopardize the governments work. She said in a legal filing that the prosecutor, who later won a departmental award, destroyed his interview notes, which he initially denied but later acknowledged.After Ms. Haines took her concerns to Mr. Carwile, a colleague shared them in an email with Sung-Hee Suh, then the deputy assistant attorney general.Ms. Haines also described the errors in a declaration filed in Ms. Rodriguez-Cosss lawsuit. After her accusations became public, defense lawyers in the Indiana case pushed back on the governments recommendation to seek the death penalty for their client, Andrew Rogers, a felon accused of tying up his cellmate and stabbing him to death.The notes the prosecutor is accused of destroying could have been the difference between a verdict for life and a verdict for death, the defense wrote in a brief in January.If you pull on the thread, who knows how many cases could be impacted? said Mr. Little, Ms. Rodriguez-Cosss lawyer.Two years ago, another prosecutor in the section, Ann Carroll, was asked to travel for work after she had surgery. Around that time, she learned that a male colleague was allowed to forgo travel to accommodate his gluten intolerance.Over the 20 years I had worked at the Department of Justice, I had never experienced a complete lack of sensitivity in the immediate aftermath of a serious medical illness, Ms. Carroll wrote in a declaration. I felt Mr. Carwiles response was arbitrary, and gender-based. She quit that June.Before departing, Ms. Carroll said she described ethical violations to Ms. Suh, prompting a management review. Four former and current employees said in court declarations and to The Times that they told Ms. Suh and James Mann, the chief of staff to the head of the Criminal Division at the Justice Department, about the mishandled cases, sexualized culture and gender bias.Ms. Suh ultimately said that Mr. Carwile and Mr. Kinsey, as a result of the review, were now doing their best, according to Mr. Hegyis declaration, and she concluded that employees were unhappy because they wanted to work from home, to choose between trials and case reviews, and to be given more ways to bring concerns to management.Her conclusions dumbfounded employees who said they had shared more serious grievances. A person briefed on the matter said they were not told of steps being taken to address complaints because those were confidential.Ms. Suh, who now works at the asset manager Pimco, said she could not comment on the details of pending litigation or personnel matters. Any allegations of misconduct, discrimination, harassment or bias actually brought to my attention were fully and fairly investigated and addressed appropriately, she said.The years of warnings that their bosses had ignored or condoned misconduct came to a head last May. During a work-sanctioned happy hour at a restaurant near the Justice Department, colleagues watched Mr. Kinsey grope the administrative assistant, Alyssa tenBroek.Mr. Kinsey, who is a married man, began to take what seemed very clearly to be unwelcome liberties of a physical, sexual nature, Luke Woolman, an intern at the time, wrote in his declaration. He said Mr. Kinsey repeatedly touched Ms. tenBroek, whom he identified as A.T., inappropriately, openly and obviously in front of patrons, Mr. Carwile and at least one other Justice Department prosecutor.Mr. Woolman and the prosecutor, Sonia Jimenez, suggested everyone go home, he later told Ms. Haines. Ms. Jimenez tried to discourage Mr. Kinsey from trying to persuade Ms. tenBroek to go to a hotel with him, according to an internal memo by Ms. Haines.As the night wound down, Mr. Carwile pulled aside Mr. Woolman and asked him not to tell anyone what he had seen.He sternly reiterated his request, specifically stating that he was being serious, Mr. Woolman wrote.After that night, tensions in the unit exploded into view. Ms. tenBroek showed colleagues text messages from Mr. Kinsey in which he offered to give her money, pay her bills or take her on a trip. He also sent her photos of herself that he had downloaded from the internet.He signed off XOXOXOX, according to Ms. Hainess memo. In other messages, he appeared to apologize.Ms. tenBroek later told Ms. Haines and Julie Mosley, another prosecutor, that Mr. Kinsey groped her again in the cab and tried to coerce her into checking into a hotel.Ms. Mosley told the E.E.O.C., and Ms. Haines sent her memo to superiors at the Justice Department. I trust you will give this matter the serious attention it deserves, she wrote. Mr. Woolman said in a court filing that he shared his story with Mr. Mann and an investigator from the inspector generals office.Ms. tenBroek did not dispute her co-workers accounts and said in a statement that she had participated in the departments lengthy and taxing complaint process. She has since left the agency.I have always wanted to pursue a career with the Department of Justice, but it failed me when I reported misconduct, she said. No woman should feel compelled to deal with the pervasive harassment that I experienced, much less have her complaint be effectively disregarded.The departments inspector general began investigating, and Mr. Kinsey was demoted and moved to another division. He is appealing. A person close to Mr. Kinsey said that evidence in another investigation is favorable to him, but would not say who was conducting that inquiry.Current and former employees said the public understandably expects death penalty cases to be handled with integrity. As Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump push for more capital punishments, the sections history, they say, could work against the Justice Department.The same month as the happy hour, the inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, sent a memo to Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Sexual harassment, he wrote, profoundly affects the victim and affects the agencys reputation, undermines the agencys credibility, and lowers employee productivity and morale.
