
WASHINGTON  President Trump has been commander in chief for 14 months, but to an uncanny degree, he still sounds like the armchair statesman who ran for the White House in 2016.I want to get out, Mr. Trump said of the United States military engagement in Syria, at a news conference on Tuesday with leaders of the Baltic States. I want to bring our troops back home.Mr. Trumps words were at odds with the strategy his administration is pursuing in Syria. But they were almost verbatim what he said in pre-election tweets, as well as in debates two years ago against Republican challengers and his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.Far from learning on the job or modifying his views to fit the imperatives of Americas global role  as did so many of his predecessors  Mr. Trump is falling back on the familiar mix of belligerence and isolationism that fueled his America First campaign.The NATO alliance, he said, was delinquent. Russia is a partner with whom, he insisted, I think I could have a very good relationship. The United States should have kept the oil after the Iraq war. Rather than pursuing military adventures abroad, he said, I want to get back. I want to rebuild our nation.Mr. Trumps reversion to his campaign themes comes as he has reshuffled his national security team, ousting aides with more conventional views of American power, like Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser, in favor of more hawkish figures, like Mike Pompeo and John R. Bolton.How these new players will mesh with Mr. Trumps throwback persona may determine whether the president is signaling a midcourse correction in foreign policy or merely retreating to phrases and positions that give him comfort.Mr. Tillerson and General McMaster curbed some of Mr. Trumps most radical ideas  convincing him, for example, not to rip up the Iran nuclear deal. Along with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, they talked him into deploying more troops to Afghanistan.Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Bolton, analysts predict, will bend more readily to Mr. Trumps wishes. Add to that a difficult midterm election, which aides say will make the president determined to cater to his political base. And, after more than a year in office, they say Mr. Trump is more confident that his instincts are the right ones.He has been very consistent essentially since the 1980s, said Eric S. Edelman, a former under secretary of defense for policy in the George W. Bush administration. He knows very little about the world, about history, about the policy details. But he does have strong convictions and they are remarkably durable and apparently impervious to contrary evidence.They include, Mr. Edelman said, the belief that his predecessors were gullible, and that he will do better; that allies have exploited the United States, and must pay back their debts; that free trade is bad; and that military force should be used sparingly, but that we should be strong and scary and that will make people afraid to screw with us.All those convictions were on vivid display in the East Room on Tuesday.Mr. Trump reiterated his contention that the North American Free Trade Agreement is a phenomenal deal for Mexico and a horrible deal for the United States. Mexico, he complained, ran a trade surplus of more than $100 billion with the United States.He claimed that no one had been tougher on Russia than him, pointing to his recently passed $700 billion defense budget. But Mr. Trump said nothing about his administrations expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats as a punishment for the countrys role in a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter living in Britain.I could have a very good relationship with Russia, he insisted. And with President Putin. And if I did, that would be a great thing.Mr. Trump praised his three Baltic guests and promised that the United States would be a steadfast ally. But he slammed other NATO members for not paying their fair share of the alliances costs.Nor did Mr. Trump spare a more favored ally, Saudi Arabia, which he said was pressing the United States to stay militarily engaged in Syria. The White House said the president spoke on Monday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia, and Mr. Trump seemed to refer to the conversation at the news conference. I said, Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe youre going to have to pay, he recalled.Mr. Trumps remarks, which came two weeks after he welcomed the kings heir, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, to the White House, left some senior officials shaking their heads. They also created a split-screen moment that is becoming all too common in Washington.Even as he was talking about withdrawing the 2,000 remaining United States troops in Syria and cutting more than $200 million in recovery aid there, the administrations point man for combating the Islamic State, Brett McGurk, was making the case across town for more aid and troops staying until the job is done.Speaking at the United States Institute of Peace, Mr. McGurk said the $100 million the United States has already spent on recovery aid  used to clear away unexploded bombs and clean up giant piles of war rubble in Raqqa  was essential to allow many of the one million displaced residents to return home.Mr. Trumps order to suspend the future aid, pending a review, is not hampering our work in the field, Mr. McGurk insisted. He also seemed to suggest that American troops were not leaving anytime soon.Were in Syria to fight ISIS, Mr. McGurk said. That is our mission. Our mission isnt over. Were going to complete our mission.Above all, Mr. Trump has taken pride in delivering on his campaign promises. Earlier on Tuesday at a working lunch with the Baltic leaders, he noted that he had campaigned against trade deficits and was taking aim at them, with China.He has also promised to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv  and has done so, even at the risk of jeopardizing his goal of a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.But Bill Clinton and George W. Bush both promised to move the embassy during their campaigns, too, only to reverse course later when they realized the costs of such a decision.The best and most intelligent presidents are adaptive, said R. Nicholas Burns, a diplomat who served in the Clinton and Bush administrations. They reconsider some of their views from the campaign. I worry that we are looking at someone who is not adaptive  who is not learning on the job.
WASHINGTON  President Trump will issue a proclamation on Wednesday directing the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security to work with governors to deploy National Guard troops to the southwest border to assist the Border Patrol in combating illegal immigration.Its time to act, said Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, as she outlined the policy during a White House briefing.In recent days, and in anticipation of an annual increase in numbers of people who attempt to cross the border, the Trump administration has been ramping up plans to block migrants and asylum seekers, including young unaccompanied children, from entering the United States.The announcement came a day after Mr. Trump said he wanted to send the military to the southwest border to guard against growing threats from unchecked immigration, suggesting he might want to use active-duty armed forces to do what immigration authorities cannot.We are going to be guarding our border with our military, Mr. Trump had said on Tuesday during a meeting with Baltic heads of state. Thats a big step.By Tuesday evening, the White House said Mr. Trump had been referring to mobilizing the National Guard, a step that previous presidents have taken to support border enforcement.We do hope the deployment begins immediately, Ms. Nielsen said. Were working with all haste.The active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border. Even so, previous presidents have deployed National Guard troops to act in support roles on the border with Mexico.President Barack Obama sent 1,200 in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006. Governors of border states have done the same when faced with large inflows from the south.
EVELETH, Minn.  On northern Minnesotas Iron Range, where evergreen trees stretch on for miles and snowpack lingers into the spring, a political shift is underway.Generations of residents have gone to work in the mines, endured cycles of booms and layoffs, and mostly voted for Democrats. But President Trumps tariffs on imported steel are being celebrated as a boost to the local taconite mines, which supply American steel mills, and Republicans are hopeful that they can flip the areas congressional seat in November.President Trump is keeping his promises that he made on the campaign trail, said Pete Stauber, a retired police officer and former professional hockey player who is running for Congress as a Republican. He talked about leveling the playing field for the American worker. He did that with the tariffs.Much has been said about groups who dislike the tariffs: a bipartisan mix of manufacturers,  farmers and politicians who warn of trade disputes and unforeseen consequences. Chinas announcement on Wednesday of proposed tariffs on a range of American exports  including soybeans, chemicals and cars  heightened concern that a trade war could be looming.But in a few places where Republicans see openings to win seats and upend a national political forecast that seems to favor Democrats in November, the 25 percent tariff on foreign steel and the 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum are viewed as economic lifelines straight from the Oval Office.In Southern Illinois, where a Republican congressman, Mike Bost, faces a tough re-election campaign, a steel mill that laid off hundreds is calling back workers. In Ohio, where the governorship and a Senate seat are on this years ballot, another steel mill could soon reopen. And in upper Minnesota, where iron ore pits  vast canyons of red-tinted dirt  shape the landscape, the tariffs could be a stabilizing force for towns still recovering from mine closings.Its really strange, said Mayor Bob Vlaisavljevich of Eveleth, a longtime Democrat who in recent years has changed his registration to Republican and decorated his City Hall office with a Trump bumper sticker. A billionaire from New York is the one saving us.Many in northern Minnesota still speak fondly about the Democrats in their own congressional delegation, and plenty have criticisms of the presidents Twitter habit and of Republican attitudes toward labor unions. But there is a broad sense that Mr. Trump has taken up the regions cause right as the national Democratic Party is frustrating them with environmental regulations they see as unduly burdensome to miners and with calls for stricter limits on guns.I feel theyve kind of gone off the deep end, said Lyn Pahlen, 53, an auto-parts store owner who lives in Chisholm, Minn., where a 36-foot-tall statue of an iron miner towers above the main highway.Ms. Pahlen, a former Democratic voter who supported Mr. Trump, said her business suffered a few years ago when an influx of foreign steel, much of it from China, led many of the local mines to temporarily shut down. With less money being spent around town, Ms. Pahlen cut some employees hours and laid off others. Ms. Pahlen said she was taking a wait-and-see approach.Conditions are better now. Mines began reopening in the final months of Barack Obamas presidency, when he cracked down on steel dumping, and that growth has continued under Mr. Trump. The mines employ about 4,000 people in this sparsely populated region, according to the Iron Mining Association of Minnesota, and thousands of others work for mining industry vendors.Things are coming around, said Dan Pierce, who was out of work for about 15 months after a mine in Keewatin, Minn., shut down in 2015.Mr. Pierce, a Democrat and local union vice president, is no fan of Mr. Trump, and he was dismayed when the president temporarily exempted a few countries, including South Korea and Brazil, from the tariffs. Still, he said people were cautiously optimistic that the tariffs would have tangible benefits on the Iron Range.People are working overtime, Mr. Pierce said. People are spending money in the community.Mr. Stauber, the Republican candidate for Congress who serves now as a county commissioner, is hoping to capitalize on some of that economic momentum as he runs in Minnesotas Eighth District, which stretches more than 27,000 square miles from the Minneapolis exurbs through the Iron Range and up to the Canadian border.The district, which Mr. Trump won by 15.6 percentage points in 2016, according to DailyKos Elections, could be one of the Republicans best chances of flipping a Democratic seat in the House. Mr. Obama carried the district by 5.5 percentage points in 2012; he won by 8.6 percentage points four years earlier. Representative Rick Nolan, the incumbent Democrat, is retiring after narrowly winning re-election in 2016.Much is riding on November for both parties. Minnesotas United States senators, Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, both Democrats, are up for election, and the states Democratic governor, Mark Dayton, is retiring and leaving an open seat.Another congressional seat held by Democrats, the First District in the southern part of Minnesota, is also considered a tossup. Representative Tim Walz won a close race in 2016 and is running for governor this year instead of seeking another term in the House.Up on the Iron Range, Mr. Nolan supports the presidents tariffs and remains popular among miners. But he has faced pressure from some fellow Democrats who want stricter environmental regulations, as well as from right-leaning constituents disenchanted with his party. Democrats have not yet nominated a candidate to replace Mr. Nolan, 74, who said he was leaving office to spend more time with his family.Mr. Nolan said the president connects in his messaging on the Iron Range by focusing on economic anxiety. Democrats could improve their pitch to voters on that topic, Mr. Nolan said.Miners who are sitting on the bench hoping to go back to work someday, and you have someone saying, Hey, I care about you, Mr. Nolan said. That means a lot to people.In the union halls and restaurants of northern Minnesota, the enthusiasm for the tariffs is tempered by decades of ups and downs, hiring sprees and layoffs. People often use phrases like guarded optimism and stabilization.Many longtime residents  and it seems most everyone is a longtime resident  recall their fathers struggling without a job in the bust of the 1980s, or a grandfather encountering hard times. They tell of a time when places like Eveleth, where the population of 3,700 is about half of its 1930 peak, had more businesses, more young families, more high school graduates staying home instead of moving to the cities, Minneapolis and St. Paul.Brian Zarn, 54, grew up nearby and has worked at the mine in Eveleth for about 29 years. He said it had been a rewarding career with a salary that supported his family, but also work pockmarked by layoffs and frustration with foreign steel being sold cheaply on American shores.Were cautiously optimistic, but we know the industry has got a lot of problems. China keeps overproducing, said Mr. Zarn, a local union president, who was wearing a shirt that read, STEELWORKERS Not Made In China.We hope that the tariffs are in there long-term, he added. But were realists, too. We look at the past.
SEATTLE  Five times in the last week, President Trump has pointed his Twitter arrows at Amazon over what he insists is a bad deal for the United States Postal Service.Mr. Trump wrote on Tuesday that the agreement, which sets what Amazon pays the Postal Service for many orders, costs American taxpayers billions of dollars. I am right about Amazon costing the United States Post Office massive amounts of money for being their Delivery Boy, he wrote.The details about the deal are not public  they are considered commercially sensitive information  but some of the available evidence suggests the opposite: that Amazon has been a boon to the Postal Service.The Postal Service has experienced a steady decline in the amount of mail it ships as more of its customers turn away from postcards and letters in favor of email, texting and other forms of digital communication. The total pieces of mail it shipped last year was 149 billion, down from 212 billion a decade earlier.Yet there is a bright spot  its business of package shipping, including Amazon orders, which grew to 5.7 billion packages last year from 3.3 billion in 2008. Several years ago, the Postal Service added Sunday delivery for Amazon packages.The agency reported a net loss of $2.7 billion on $69.6 billion in revenue during its last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, and faces huge retirement benefit obligations. Without Amazons business, the financial picture at the Postal Service would most likely be bleaker, many analysts say.It is one thing to demand better financial performance from the U.S.P.S., but something very different, in our view, to equate the U.S.P.S. financial struggles with the rise of Amazon, Colin Sebastian, an analyst at Baird, a stock research firm, wrote in a research report on Tuesday. If nothing else, the U.S.P.S. was already generating billions of dollars in operating losses well before Amazon became a large customer.Of course, Amazon very much depends on the Postal Service to take their packages the last mile to their destination. By one estimate, about 40 percent of Amazons orders are delivered by the agency, with the rest handled by U.P.S., FedEx and a hodgepodge of other carriers.Companies that do a lot of shipping, like Amazon, often negotiate deals with the Postal Service to pay less than an ordinary person would to send goods. It is essentially a discount for buying in bulk.That is where the president seems to be focused, and partly why Amazons stock has fallen sharply in the last week. Its shares are down more than 20 points  nearly 1.5 percent  since March 28.But the Postal Service says all such deals it makes are profitable  and must be by law.An independent body, the Postal Regulatory Commission, oversees the rates that the Postal Service charges for its products. By law, the agreements it cuts with corporate customers like Amazon must cover their attributable costs that directly result from their use of the postal network.Amazon helps lower those costs by organizing the packages it takes to the Post Office by destination ZIP code in over 35 sorting centers around the country, leaving less work that must be done by postal workers. The company relies on the Postal Service strictly for last-mile delivery to customers, short trips that further limit the cost of delivering each package.But in one of his tweet attacks, Mr. Trump seemed to dispute whether Amazon was covering the Postal Services costs, saying that it is reported that the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon.Mr. Trumps figure appears to have come from an opinion piece published last year in The Wall Street Journal and written by an investor whose firm held shares in FedEx. The piece argued that the Postal Service was undercharging for the agencys fixed costs, like its post offices and trucks, when calculating its package contracts. The investor said that the minimum amount that the agency allocates to package delivery and similar products  5.5 percent of the agencys total fixed costs  is far too low.The piece relied on a research report from last April by Citigroup, which said that if those costs were fairly accounted for, it would cost $1.46 more to ship an average package through the Postal Service. Joseph Corbett, the chief financial officer of the Postal Service, said previously that it provided an inaccurate and unfair account of its package business.While the Postal Service is subject to Freedom of Information Act requests, there is an exemption in the federal law that allows it to avoid releasing particulars of its deals with private businesses like Amazon, said Kevin Kosar, vice president of policy at the R Street Institute, a nonprofit conservative-leaning think tank, who has studied the Postal Service.Amazons silence about the details of its contract havent helped clarify matters. Spokesmen for both the Postal Service and Amazon declined to comment for this article.A spokesman for the White House, Raj Shah, didnt respond to a request for comment.Mr. Kosar said he considered it wildly unlikely that Mr. Trump has reviewed the Postal Services contract with Amazon and that the president is kind of talking through his hat. Still, he said the Citigroup analysis of the accounting of the Postal Services deals with companies like Amazon shouldnt be dismissed.There are four commissioners on the Postal Regulatory Commission, none of whom was nominated by Mr. Trump, with one vacancy. The nominations require Senate confirmation.Mr. Kosar said he expected rates to rise. He said the commission had indicated in regulatory filings  before the flurry of tweets by Mr. Trump  that it would consider increases in shipping prices.Its just a question of magnitude, he said.
WASHINGTON  Amazon, youre not alone.President Trump once accused Verizon of making a STUPID deal for AOL. He ridiculed Coca-Cola as garbage  but said he would keep drinking it. He called both H&R Block and Nordstrom terrible. He said Sony had really stupid leadership and described executives at S&P Global, a financial firm, as losers.Before and after he became president, Mr. Trump attacked tech firms, military contractors, carmakers, cellphone companies, financial firms, drug companies, air-conditioner makers, sports leagues, Wall Street giants  and many, many media companies, which he has labeled shameful, dishonest, true garbage, really dumb, phony, failing and, broadly, the enemy of the American people.Lately, Mr. Trumps antibusiness rants have become particularly menacing and caused the stocks of some companies to plunge. His Twitter posts have carried with them the threat, sometimes explicit, that he is prepared to use the power of the presidency to undermine the companies that anger him.The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, long a booster of Republican presidents, is not happy. Its inappropriate for government officials to use their position to attack an American company, said Neil Bradley, the executive vice president and chief policy officer of the chamber. Mr. Bradley, who did not specifically name Mr. Trump, added that criticism of companies from politicians undermines economic growth and job creation.Amazons stock price dropped sharply before rebounding this week after Mr. Trump threatened the company with possible antitrust action. The presidents remark in November that the merger of AT&T and Time Warner would not be good for the country roiled the continuing antitrust fight between the companies and the government. His earlier complaint on Twitter that Boeings $4 billion price for a new generation of Air Force One was out of control forced a fresh round of negotiations, although the price fell only to $3.9 billion.Most presidents have clashed with business interests and industries, sometimes in ways that generated headlines. But Mr. Trump is unique in singling out individual companies for ridicule with regularity. And rarely have presidents done so because of a personal pique or grudge, as happens with Mr. Trump.This is an unprecedented situation for companies. The presidents tweets can cause significant reputational harm, said Dean C. Garfield, the president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which represents big technology companies like Amazon, Dell, Facebook, Google and IBM. We are now at a place where about 90 percent of the companies we represent now have a presidential Twitter strategy in place.Its no laughing matter, he said.For many companies, that strategy comes down to waiting out the storm. In recent days, Amazon has all but ignored the presidents taunts, which he issued in a flurry of tweets.Theres no real advantage going toe-to-toe with him, said Joe Lockhart, a press secretary for President Bill Clinton who was a spokesman for the National Football League, another favorite target of Mr. Trump. And his attention span is so short, he will move on. Hell find another target.Associates say the president is often riled up by Amazons connection to The Washington Post, whose owner, Jeff Bezos, founded the retail giant. People close to the president have said his attacks on one of the countrys largest businesses have usually been prompted by articles in The Post that Mr. Trump perceives as negative.Likewise, the presidents interest in the AT&T merger with Time Warner largely stems from his repeated clashes with CNN, a subsidiary of Time Warner, which he regards as biased against him.Mr. Trumps lashing out at the N.F.L.  he has repeatedly criticized football players for kneeling at games and once said he hoped a player sues the hell out of the @nfl for incompetence & defamation  comes in part from his decades-long legal fight with the N.F.L. after he bought a team in the competing United States Football League.As a private citizen, Mr. Trump has attacked companies, including calling several times for boycotts. The remarks served to raise his profile and fed the image of a no-holds-barred businessman who was unafraid to rebuke his rivals or his critics. But in those days, such comments had little ability to move stock prices or affect sales.As a candidate and as the president, Mr. Trump also uses his verbal assaults on companies to bolster his populist message that he is on the side of workers, not big business. (Still, Mr. Trump secured a large tax cut last year for corporate America.)Mr. Trumps most ardent supporters say they appreciate his willingness to criticize the corporate establishment.He continues to go directly after the companies and not care about political correctness, said Terry Bowman, a former Trump campaign organizer who works at a Ford Motor parts factory in Ypsilanti, Mich. He says things that a polished politician would never say. He says things that come directly from the American worker.President Barack Obama once singled out Staples, the office supply company, for failing to provide more health care for its employees. Shame on them, he said. Earlier in his presidency, Mr. Obama broadly criticized Wall Street bankers whose firms took federal bailout money only to turn around and award bonuses to their executives.That is the height of irresponsibility, Mr. Obama said in 2009 without identifying specific companies. It is shameful.Mr. Clintons Justice Department aggressively pushed to break up Microsoft on the grounds that it was abusing its monopoly position in personal computing to dominate the internet.President John F. Kennedy avoided naming individuals during a fight with the steel industry in 1962. He criticized a tiny handful of steel executives whose pursuit of private power and profit exceeds their sense of public responsibility.President Franklin D. Roosevelt on occasion assailed business executives as malefactors of great wealth, attributing the memorable phrase to his cousin, Theodore Roosevelt. Neither president made a practice of identifying specific companies or executives.Mr. Trump has had no such reticence.In his most recent attacks on Amazon, he has accused the company of using the United States Postal Service as its Delivery Boy and claimed that the federal agency was being ripped off by the online retailer. On Tuesday, he insisted that he was right.A report just came out. They said $1.47, I believe, or about that for every time they deliver a package, the United States government  meaning the post office  loses $1.47, the president said.He added, ominously: So Amazon is going to have to pay much more money to the post office. Theres no doubt about that.Mr. Trumps numbers were inaccurate  the Postal Service makes money from Amazon  but business executives say such statements have a chilling effect.When Mercks chief executive, Kenneth C. Frazier, quit a presidential business council last year in protest of some of the White Houses policy positions, other members were initially reluctant to come to his defense for fear of a verbal attack by Mr. Trump. The council eventually disbanded but only after much internal negotiation among members to quit in force.The multiday decline of Amazons stock price after Mr. Trumps repeated jabs at the company has exacerbated such fears, said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, a professor at the Yale School of Management and president of the Chief Executive Leadership Institute.Other business leaders dont want to catch the contagion, he said.But he added that refusing to engage could also be risky. He said that Mr. Bezoss silence had hurt the company, leaving it exposed to Mr. Trumps accusations that it received subsidies from the Postal Service and was not paying its fair share of taxes.The right answer for C.E.O.s is not to engage in a mud fight but to come with facts, Mr. Sonnenfeld said. U.P.S. and FedEx have their facts, but we havent heard from Amazon.


WASHINGTON  Facebook on Wednesday said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm connected to President Trump during the 2016 election  a figure far higher than the estimate of 50 million that had been widely cited since the leak was reported last month.Mark Zuckerberg, the companys chief executive, also announced that Facebook would offer all of its users the same tools and controls required under European privacy rules. The European rules, which go into effect next month, give people more control over how companies use their digital data.Facebook had not previously disclosed how many accounts had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, the firm connected to the Trump campaign. It has also been reluctant to disclose how it was used by Russian-backed actors to influence the 2016 presidential election.Among Facebooks acknowledgments on Wednesday was the disclosure of a vulnerability in its search and account recovery functions that it said could have exposed most of its 2 billion users to having their public profile information harvested.The new effort to appear more transparent about the data leaks  including a rare question-and-answer session with Mr. Zuckerberg and reporters  came just before Mr. Zuckerbergs expected testimony next week on Capitol Hill, where he will most likely face criticism over how the company collects and shares the personal data of its users. Sheryl Sandberg, Mr. Zuckerbergs top deputy, has several national television interviews scheduled for later this week.The company said that on Monday it would start telling users whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook in Washington, said the 87 million figure was an estimate of the total number of users whose data could have been acquired by Cambridge Analytica. He said that the estimate was calculated by adding up all the friends of the people who had logged into the Facebook app from which Cambridge Analytica collected profile data.We wanted to put out the maximum number of people who could have been affected, Mr. Zuckerberg told reporters.It remains unclear exactly how many users had their personal information accessed by Cambridge Analytica. The firm said Wednesday that it had licensed data for no more than 30 million users of the social network.Facebook also released a lengthy document describing how it would protect personal data in the future. In that document, Facebook said its search and account recovery systems had been open to abuse by anyone who already had some information about an individual, such as a phone number or email address. The vulnerability extended to much of the platforms user base before it was closed on Wednesday, Facebook said.The company also said it would limit the types of data that can be harvested by software used by outside businesses. The changes mean that users will have to give permission before an app can collect information beyond their names and addresses.The company also said it would no longer allow outsiders to use apps to gather information about the religious or political views of its users. And it will stop using third-party data from companies such as Experian and Acxiom to help supplement its own data for ad targeting.Its clear now that we didnt focus enough on preventing abuse, Mr. Zuckerberg said. We didnt take a broad enough view of what our responsibility is. That was a huge mistake, and it was my mistake.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a 2011 agreement meant to protect users privacy. User data is crucial to the companys business, because it is used to deliver advertising to users.Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify about the companys handling of sensitive user data before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees on Tuesday and the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday.This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues, said Representatives Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, and Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, of the House committee.Senator Chuck Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said, With all of the data exchanged over Facebook and other platforms, users deserve to know how their information is shared and secured.Facebooks problems stretch back before the reports about Cambridge Analytica, to earlier investigations into how Russian actors infiltrated the platform by placing ads and posts to influence the 2016 election. Mr. Zuckerberg initially dismissed the idea of foreign interference on Facebook as a crazy idea.Since then, the company has been the focus of investigations by law enforcement and congressional committees that are delving into the Russian influence campaign. Facebook now acknowledges that its platform was used to sway voters.All those troubles have prompted investors to flee the company, and its stock has fallen sharply in recent weeks.In response, the company has put its executives front and center.Mr. Zuckerberg typically talks to groups of reporters only after the company releases its quarterly financial reports. But after not responding in public for several days following the Cambridge Analytica disclosure, he has given a series of interviews.And Ms. Sandberg, Facebooks chief operating officer and the second most recognizable face at the company, is set to be interviewed this week by Fox News, PBS NewsHour, NBCs Today show and Bloomberg. Ms. Sandberg will be interviewed remotely from California.Facebook said its new openness was meant to show that it takes the intense criticism over its handling of user data seriously.In Washington, Facebook employees and public relations firms retained by the company have talked to regulators and congressional staff members about new privacy measures, including updates to policies that are intended to make them easier to understand.On Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg provided a preview of what he will tell Congress next week. He said Facebook was an idealistic and optimistic company.But he acknowledged that the company had committed serious errors by not ensuring that robust safeguards were in place for users.Asked if he should still be leading the company, he said, Yes. Life is about learning from the mistakes and learning what you need to go forward.Terrell McSweeny, a Democratic member of the Federal Trade Commission, said that Mr. Zuckerberg has a big task ahead of him in Washington.I think it is important for Zuckerberg to clearly explain how Facebook plans to earn back consumer trust, Ms. McSweeny said. Consumers need reassurance that their data are not being misused.
MATAS ROMERO, Mexico  With a sarcastic half-smile, Nikolle Contreras, 27, surveyed her fellow members of the Central American caravan, which President Trump has called dangerous and has used as a justification to send troops to the border.More than 1,000 people, mostly women and children, waited patiently on Wednesday in the shade of trees and makeshift shelters in a rundown sports complex in this Mexican town, about 600 miles south of the border. They were tired, having slept and eaten poorly for more than a week. All were facing an uncertain future.Imagine that! said Ms. Contreras, a Honduran factory worker hoping to apply for asylum in the United States. So many problems he has to solve and he gets involved with this caravan!The migrants, most of them Hondurans, left the southern Mexican border city of Tapachula on March 25 and for days traveled north en masse  by foot, hitchhiking and on the tops of trains  as they fled violence and poverty in their homelands and sought a better life elsewhere.This sort of collective migration has become something of an annual event around Easter week, and a way for advocates to draw more attention to the plight of migrants.But this particular caravan caught the attention of Mr. Trump, apparently after he heard about it on Fox News. In a Twitter tirade that began Sunday, he conjured up hordes of dangerous migrants surging toward the border. He demanded that Mexican officials halt the group, suggesting that otherwise he would make them pay dearly in trade negotiations or aid cuts.Mr. Trump even boasted that his threat had forced Mexicos government to halt and disperse the caravan participants. But there was no evidence of that on Wednesday.Mexican migration authorities were distributing transit permits that would either give the migrants 20 days to leave the country or 30 days to formally apply for legal immigration status in Mexico.Irineo Mujica, Mexico director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, an advocacy group that is coordinating the caravan, called Mr. Trumps Twitter attacks and promise of a militarized border campaign craziness.There are 300 kids and 400 women, he said. Babies with bibs and milk bottles, not armaments. How much of a threat can they be?After making steady progress for a week through southern Mexico, the group has been camped at the sun-blasted sports complex here since Saturday, before Mr. Trump started tweeting about it, surviving on food and water donated by residents in this rural town. They have slept on the ground, or in the bleachers of a soccer stadium, or under the roofs of a few derelict structures on the property.A stream, shrouded by bushes and trees, is the latrine for the group, which once numbered about 1,500 but now hovers around 1,100, organizers said.The caravan population has declined as participants have received travel papers and departed, though many of the hundreds who remain hope to continue moving north in a large group, which they do for safety from criminals.Organizers said they were seeking buses or other transportation to move the migrants to the city of Puebla, about 250 miles away, to attend planned know-your-rights workshops on immigration law in Mexico and the United States.The group, organizers and advocates said, represented a regional humanitarian problem, not a security crisis for the United States, as Mr. Trump has suggested.What hes attacking is a supremely vulnerable population, said Gina Garibo, projects coordinator in Mexico for Pueblo Sin Fronteras.In response to Mr. Trumps tweets and his plans to militarize the border, the Mexican Senate unanimously passed a nonbinding statement on Wednesday urging President Enrique Pea Nieto to suspend cooperation with the United States on immigration and security matters  as long as President Donald Trump does not conduct himself with the civility and respect that the Mexican people deserve.Caravan organizers also said their intent was never to storm the border, especially not with a caravan of this size. While the original plan included the possibility of escorting the caravan to the northern border of Mexico, organizers had expected the group to mostly dissolve by the time it had reached Mexico City.But now the leaders expect to end the caravan at the capital, owing to the unwieldy size of the group, leaving migrants to decide for themselves what action to take from there.Most caravan members interviewed here on Wednesday said their dream was to reach the United States, though some said that if they were unable to enter legally, they might seek legal status in Mexico.Bayron Cardona Castillo, 27, said he had been traveling with his 2-year-old daughter, Glirian Dayani, from their home in Honduras and was hoping to apply for asylum in the United States. But he did not seem clear on the requirements.The truth is, what were looking for is a way to live in peace, in tranquillity, with employment, he said. In my case, all I ask is an opportunity, a chance to work and help my family.Organizers said that once the migrants consult with volunteer lawyers in Puebla, many will conclude their cases are not strong enough to apply for legal protections in the United States and will choose to remain in Mexico.Even without a wall and the United States military, getting into the United States is tough, Mr. Mujica said.Youre like the waves crashing into the border and bouncing back, he said. And you end up working in Mexico.Mexico has increasingly become a destination for migrants from Central America. Last year, about 14,600 applied for asylum, 66 percent more than in 2016 and 11 times as many as five years ago. Many applicants in recent years have been from Honduras.Some of the increase reflects stronger enforcement on Mexicos southern border because of a United States-backed plan to curb illegal northbound migration. Once stopped by the Mexican authorities, many detainees have come to learn they may be eligible for sanctuary in Mexico.On Tuesday, Mr. Trump suggested that pressure he had applied on the Mexican government had stopped the caravan in Matas Romero. But organizers from Pueblo Sin Fronteras said that the caravans momentum had simply slowed, because of its size and many vulnerable participants, especially young children and infants.Mr. Pea Nietos administration also appeared to push back at Mr. Trumps contention that he had coerced them.In a joint statement, the ministries of interior and foreign relations said the caravan was halted by the participants, and not because of any external or internal pressure.Guillermo Baltazar Rivas, 20, from El Salvador, and his two sisters, were among the scores of migrants who were given travel permits on Wednesday. They slipped the documents into their passports for safekeeping.They said they did not know exactly what they would do next  head out on their own or remain with the group. Eventually, though, they hoped to apply for asylum in the United States, where close relatives lived, on the grounds that gangs murdered their brother and threatened the rest of the family with death.With little access to news or social media among the caravan members, word of Mr. Trumps fixation on their northward journey spread via word-of-mouth.He says we are criminals, that we are assassins, that he isnt going to let us enter, that hes going to send the military, Mr. Rivas said. Its very  how do I say it?  its very selfish that he doesnt let us pass.Ms. Contreras said she knew many caravan participants who had plans to make new lives in Mexico City, Puebla and Tijuana. But she, too, had designs on making it to the United States, as did two travel-mates. Asylum was her goal: She had been threatened with death by a drug trafficker after she had spurned his romantic advances and his efforts to recruit her into his criminal business.The common denominator among caravan participants, Ms. Contreras said, was their agonizing decision to migrate.Who wants to leave their country, the comfort of their home, their families? she asked. Its a very difficult thing.
It looks a lot like a trade war.On Monday, China imposed tariffs on 128 American products imported into the country, including wine, pork and steel pipes.The next day, the Trump administration took a direct hit at China, announcing tariffs on about $50 billion worth of imports like flat-screen TVs, medical devices and aircraft parts.The day after that, China upped the ante. And on Thursday, President Trump said the United States should go further, suggesting additional tariffs on $100 billion of Chinese goods.With each move, the worlds two biggest economies have appeared more than willing to one-up the other to protect their interests, as the Trump administration tries to enact policies to help American workers and the Chinese government tries to become a global leader across a variety of cutting-edge industries.American companies have complained that they dont have a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. The Chinese government provides big subsidies for its homegrown players, as part of a broader state-led plan. The country has taken advantage of gaps in international rules or hasnt bothered to follow them.China has been particularly aggressive in the high-tech realm. It has forced American companies to hand over technology or form joint ventures, in exchange for access to China, the worlds second largest economy. Some American companies contend that Chinese players have stolen their secrets outright.One area of concern for the United States is Chinas ambitious agenda called Made in 2025. Under that plan, Beijing aims to dominate cutting-technologies like semiconductors, artificial intelligence and electric cars. China is putting huge resources behind this industrial policy, which it sees as crucial to its economic future and its national security.Both countries are getting ever more protective of these industries. In the United States, regulators are increasingly blocking Chinese companies from buying American assets, as Congress considers beefing up its rules around foreign acquisitions.China may not stop tariffs as it remains in a retaliatory crouch. Some of the biggest American companies have operations there, and Beijing could begin freezing the companies out.In many ways, the United States and China have been waging a cold war over technology  one that is now escalating and threatening to spill over into the global economy.Stock markets have waffled over the prospect that a trade war between the United States and China could crimp growth in the global economy  or disrupt the worldwide supply chain.And many of Chinas tariffs, including those on soybeans and automobiles, take direct aim at the farm belt and manufacturing hubs, both big bases for President Trump.If the tit-for-tat conflict intensifies, it not only could hurt the economy, but the entire global trading system. The World Trade Organization, which governs the rules of trade, looks increasingly vulnerable. It is part of a broader assault on the post-World War II order that has promoted democratic ideals and international trade, as a way to prevent broader conflicts.
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherIt started with a report on Fox News, and ended with calls for United States troops at the border with Mexico.We look at how President Trumps approach to immigration transformed over just 72 hours.On todays episode: Julie Hirschfeld Davis, who covers the White House for The New York Times.Background reading: President Trump said on Tuesday that he planned to deploy the National Guard to the border with Mexico to confront what the White House calls the growing threat posed by illegal immigrants and crime. Three days of presidential tweets contained many false and misleading accusations. Heres a fact-check.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.
SHANGHAI  China hit back at the United States on Wednesday with proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of American soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods, in a move likely to stoke fears that the countries escalating confrontation could become an all-out trade war.Moving with unusual speed, Chinese officials outlined plans to make it more costly to import 106 types of American goods into China. They are intended to hit the United States square in the farm belt  a major section of President Trumps political support but also a major supplier of what China stocks in its supermarkets.Beijings plan to institute new tariffs was announced just hours after the Trump administration detailed its own protections on a similar value of Chinese-made aircraft parts, cars and car parts, televisions, steel and much more. Following a previous round of tit-for-tat tariffs unveiled over the past few days, the new measures have sparked concerns that the dispute could widen further, hurting jobs and growth in both countries.Investors drove financial markets lower over the prospect that the two sides were not yet done fighting.China has never succumbed to external pressure, Zhu Guangyao, vice minister of finance, said at a news briefing on Wednesday. He added, External pressure will only make the Chinese people more focused on economic development.The question now is whether the two sides will intensify their efforts to punish each other before they sit down to negotiate. Neither set of tariffs go into effect right away, though the exact timing of the Chinese measures was not clear.The dueling tariffs still do not impact the majority of trade between the two countries, which is valued at nearly $650 billion a year. Still, economists say that the clash could escalate quickly if the two sides fail to find a way to quickly resolve their differences, threatening a commercial relationship that is essential to the world economy.Letting the dispute turn into a test of wills would be a mistake, said Jie Zhao, a senior research fellow at Fudan University in Shanghai.We should negotiate in a professional way, Ms. Zhao said, and make it less ideological and emotional.Chinas proposed new tariffs cover a significant chunk of what it buys from the United States. The protections on the $50 billion of goods announced on Wednesday, together with those on the $3 billion worth of products that Beijing unveiled earlier this week in retaliation for American tariffs on global steel imports, account for about a third of Chinas American imports.By contrast, because the United States imports significantly more from China, tariffs on the same amount of products make up roughly one-ninth of its Chinese imports. That gives the United States more room to find other Chinese products to target.Even as Chinese officials struck a defiant tone on Wednesday, they still said they wanted to avoid escalating the conflict.Chinas attitude is clear, Mr. Zhu, the vice minister of finance, said. We dont want a trade war because a trade war would hurt the interests of both countries.China could still fight back in other ways. Its control over its domestic economy and news media, and its homegrown internet, give it a strong hand in controlling public opinion and minimizing the potential impact on its consumers. In the past, China has mobilized its vast ranks of consumers to turn up their noses at products from Japan, the Philippines and South Korea during political disputes, though getting Chinese consumers to stop buying iPhones and Chevrolets could be trickier.The two sides are clashing with the future in mind. President Trump instituted his latest round of tariffs against China while citing Beijings government-driven efforts to retool the countrys economy to focus on the technologies of the future. Known as the Made in China 2025 program, the plan specifies efforts to build up cutting-edge industries like robotics, aerospace and electric cars.Many companies in Europe and the United States say they fear the program will create state-supported competitors, an argument that has won backing in the Trump administration. Some companies say that Beijing finds ways to force them to hand over technology if they want to sell their wares in China, an allegation that Chinese officials dispute.China appears to show little interest in putting the Made in China 2025 efforts on the negotiating table. A report in state-controlled media on Wednesday described the development of advanced manufacturing as an inherent requirement for the transformation and upgrading of Chinas manufacturing industry, and it is also the only way for Chinas economy to enter a high-quality development stage.For now, Chinas new tariffs could create a more immediate issue for the Trump administration.While they include plenty of goods Americans make, they have a heavy focus on products Americans grow: soybeans, corn, cotton, beef, frozen orange juice, even tobacco and whiskey. Many of those products come largely from Republican-dominated states, where lawmakers might be expected to have some influence with President Trump and could therefore persuade him to back down from his latest trade demands.For manufactured goods, the new Chinese tariffs include cars and car parts, plastics, aerospace products and chemicals. Many of those products are also sold by European companies, giving Chinese buyers alternatives. The new tariffs announced on Wednesday will amount to 25 percent on the American products.Chinese officials  who blamed President Trump for provoking the clash  have appealed to the World Trade Organization, which sets trade rules and moderates disputes, to resolve the feud. But both sides risk censure by the W.T.O.  the Trump administration for its tariffs, and China for swiftly retaliating without a proper review.A key time has come for the United States and China to form a new consensus that includes intellectual property and the opening up of markets, said Song Guoyou, the deputy chief of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University. Otherwise, trade may fluctuate a lot.
Stocks rose on Wednesday in a roller-coaster trading session during which investors were whipsawed by updates on an escalating trade dispute between the United States and China.The Standard & Poors 500-stock index finished up 1.2 percent, an upbeat end to a session that started with a steep, nearly 1.5 percent decline driven by jitters of worsening trade tensions between the worlds two largest economies.Stocks reversed course after Larry Kudlow, President Trumps newly installed director of the National Economic Council, sought to play down the risks of an outright trade war in late-morning comments to reporters.Washington and Beijing have announced a series of tariffs and counter-tariffs in recent days, with China saying on Wednesday that it planned to impose some $50 billion in import duties on soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods from the United States.The moves came in response to Mr. Trumps recent decision to place tariffs on steel, aluminum, aircraft parts, flat-screen televisions and other products from China, which he has long accused of engaging in unfair trade practices.Investors initially seemed willing to discount the possibility of a trade war, perhaps in the belief that the Trump administrations protectionist talk would fade amid negotiations through traditional channels. But the tit-for-tat tariffs rolled out by the United States and China may be stripping away some of that confidence.The scale and speed of Mr. Trumps actions would have been difficult to predict at the start of the year, analysts at Deutsche Bank said in a note to clients on Wednesday before American markets opened. The growth outlook is more uncertain than it was.The latest volley between the United States and China has mostly involved advanced manufacturing technologies, a dispute that parallels the countries fight over steel and aluminum. The overall value of the duties at issue is small given that total trade between the two countries amounts to around $650 billion a year. But economists and investors say the tensions could ratchet up quickly, and that the tariffs could become more punishing.The growing tensions have helped erode many of the stock market gains that Mr. Trump had touted since taking office. The Dow Jones industrial average has recently slipped to its lowest level of the year, despite generally positive economic growth around the world and tax legislation in the United States that has helped bolster corporate profits.The trade dispute also reverberated in commodities markets Wednesday. Cotton prices fell 2.9 percent, and soybean prices dropped 2.2 percent. Corn prices declined by 1.9 percent.Analysts at Goldman Sachs said Chinas imposition of tariffs on soybeans, an agricultural staple in Midwestern swing states, was a sign of worsening friction between Washington and Beijing.We view the inclusion of soybeans in todays announcement as political in nature and reflective of the escalation of the trade dispute with the United States, Goldman Sachs commodities analysts said in a note to clients.Despite the volatility in stock trading, there was little sign of a rush to the safety of United States Treasury bonds. Instead of falling sharply  a signal of a panicky market  yields on 10-year Treasury notes were largely stable, finishing the day at 2.78 percent.
WASHINGTON  White House officials moved quickly on Wednesday to calm fears of a potential trade war with China, saying the administrations proposed tariffs were a threat that would ultimately help, not hurt, the United States economy, hours after China said it would punish American products with similar levies.The administrations insistence that a trade war was not imminent came as the United States and China traded tit-for-tat penalties that caused wild swings in stock markets from Hong Kong to New York. Led by more audacious leaders than either country has had in decades, China and the United States are now locked in a perilous game of chicken, with the possibility to derail the global economic recovery, disrupt international supply chains and destabilize the huge yet debt-laden Chinese economy.White House officials reiterated on Wednesday that China must stop the unfair trading practices President Trump believes have disadvantaged American companies and workers, but they held out the possibility that tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods outlined on Tuesday might never go into effect.Theres no trade war here, Larry Kudlow, Mr. Trumps new top economic adviser, said in an interview on Fox Business Network. He described the threat of tariffs as just the first proposal in a process that would involve negotiations and back-channel talks. I understand the stock markets anxiety, he said. But on the other hand, dont overreact.Behind the scenes, however, top officials remained split over the administrations approach as the United States and China move into a period of high-stakes negotiations. That includes how far to go in punishing China and the types of concessions the White House should accept to avoid a protracted and damaging trade war.People familiar with the negotiations say Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, have at times argued for more dialogue with the Chinese and quicker concessions that would help diminish the trade deficit  the gap between what China ships to the United States and what America ships in the other direction. Other top trade advisers, including longtime China critics like Robert Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, have taken a tougher stance, arguing that these changes would do little to address the mercantilist and protectionist trade policies China has adopted for decades.Mr. Trumps advisers said the president remains resolute and views the pugilistic approach as the only way to force China to end two decades of industrial policies that have hollowed out American manufacturing and resulted in a ballooning trade deficit.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump suggested in a tweet that he saw no reason to back down, since the United States was already on the losing end of trade with China.We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S., he wrote. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!He added in another tweet, When youre already $500 Billion DOWN, you cant lose!It remains unclear whether China will bend to the pressure and make significant changes to its economy  or whether the White House strategy will instead tip the two nations into a trade war that could harm both countries. Producers of American goods like soybeans, pork, automobiles and semiconductors depend on access to the Chinese market both for exports and production and say they are fearful about a conflict.Companies are definitely caught in the middle of this, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai.Economists predict that the direct effects of the tariffs will be relatively small for both China and the United States, since they apply to only a fraction of each countrys economic output.Its hardly a life-threatening activity, Mr. Ross said in an interview on CNBC. He added that the volume of the tariffs was in line with the White Houses calculation that the Chinese have cheated the United States out of $50 billion worth of intellectual property through coercion and cyberattacks.While tariffs would affect a small part of the overall United States economy, they impinge on a relatively large share of American exports to China. If China places tariffs on $50 billion of goods from the United States, as promised, that would be more than one-third of American exports to China. In contrast, American tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese goods would affect only one-tenth of Chinas vast exports to the United States.Within that slice of the economy, the pain could be acute. American farmers and manufacturers, in particular, could suffer. On Wednesday, China said it would penalize American soybeans, cars, chemicals and other goods, hours after the United States announced tariffs on flat-screen televisions, medical devices and industrial machinery.The economic effects could also quickly escalate beyond tariffs. The United States is preparing  restrictions that could prevent China from investing in high-tech industries like semiconductors and electric vehicles, and it may consider other restrictions, including visas.China, in return, could make life more difficult for the many American companies that do business in the country, or pare back its purchases of United States debt. China is the largest foreign holder of American debt, holding about $1.17 trillion in United States bonds, notes and bills in January, according to the Treasury Department.China has many ways it can make life exceedingly uncomfortable for a large number of American businesses, both those that are hoping for access to Chinas fast-expanding market, and those that use China as an important part of their supply chains, said Eswar Prasad, a professor of international trade at Cornell University.The Trump administration contends that if it does not challenge Beijing now, the Chinese government will heavily subsidize its companies to become dominant producers of cutting-edge industries from robotics to electric cars. That could imperil the United States ability to create good-paying jobs for future generations, relegating the country to producing food, fossil fuels and financial services, while China extends its lead as the worlds largest manufacturer.But the administrations strategy for halting Chinas rise has been hard to discern, with some advisers insisting that China must remake its economy, while others say the priority is to reduce the trade deficit, prioritize market access for American companies or end Chinas infringement on American intellectual property. Some top officials have indicated the tariffs may never be implemented.On Wednesday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, refused to say whether the tariffs would ultimately go into effect, adding, I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they dont stop the unfair trade practices, then we would move forward.Companies have until May 22 to submit comments to the administration about the tariffs, with the penalties to be imposed at an undetermined date. Separate tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from China and other nations went into effect late last month.In the meantime, American officials including Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Lighthizer have been in talks with the Chinese about ways to resolve their differences. Yet conversations have so far focused on concessions like China reducing tariffs on American cars, opening up its market for financial services and purchasing more semiconductors or natural gas  minor wins that are unlikely to satisfy Mr. Navarro and Mr. Lighthizer, who are pushing for significant and sweeping changes to Chinas market, according to people familiar with the negotiations.The United States has also asked for a $100 billion reduction in the $375.2 billion trade deficit it runs with China. But the goods China has offered to buy to narrow that gap  including semiconductors  are not products the Trump administration wants to export. And some advisers say these kind of sales will not do anything to address the underlying problems with the Chinese economy.China experts say an inconsistent message and approach could undermine Americas ability to successfully negotiate.Were all over the map, said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. The Chinese are trying to take advantage of this lack of consensus and get the United States to take a quick deal that leaves Chinas industrial policy machine intact.Beijing is also eager to show other trading partners that it will not be bullied into changing its policies.Im not very positive about large concessions or changes that are going to come from China, said Heiwai Tang, an assistant professor of international economics at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Chinas current government is more assertive than recent ones, he said, and the country is heavily dependent on technology transfers from advanced economies as it tries to transform its own.For the Chinese to successfully negotiate, analysts said, they have to be able to present the deal to their own people as a win. But the United States has refused to give concessions and has painted the confrontation as one in which China must ultimately lose.Tariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating, Mr. Prasad said.On Wednesday, Cui Tiankai, the Chinese ambassador to the United States, said China preferred to resolve the conflict through talks but would keep its options open.Negotiation would still be our preference, but it takes two to tango, Mr. Cui said. We will see what the U.S. will do.

WASHINGTON  A witness who is cooperating in the special counsel investigation, George Nader, has connections to both the Persian Gulf states and Russia and may have information that links two important strands of the inquiry together, interviews and records show.Mr. Naders ties to the United Arab Emirates are well documented  he is an adviser to its leader  but the extent of his links to Russia had not been previously disclosed.Mr. Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman, has a catalog of international connections that paved the way for numerous meetings with White House officials that have drawn the attention of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. For example, Mr. Nader used his longstanding ties to Kirill Dmitriev, the manager of a state-run Russian investment fund, to help set up a meeting in the Seychelles between Mr. Dmitriev and a Trump adviser days before Donald J. Trump took office.Separately, investigators have asked witnesses about a meeting Mr. Nader attended in 2017 with a New York hedge fund manager, where he was joined by Jared Kushner and Stephen K. Bannon, who at the time were both senior advisers to Mr. Trump.The investigative trail even led Mr. Muellers team to stop an Australian entrepreneur with ties to the U.A.E. after he landed at a Washington-area airport, according to people briefed on the matter. The investigators questioned the entrepreneur about Mr. Nader, including Mr. Naders relationship with Russia and his contacts with Mr. Trumps advisers, as well as the movement of money from the U.A.E. into the United States.Mr. Nader has received at least partial immunity for his cooperation, and it appears unlikely that Mr. Mueller is trying to build a case against him. Instead, it is common for prosecutors to interview as many people as possible to corroborate the testimony of a key witness like Mr. Nader.Mr. Naders dealings with Russia date at least to 2012, when he helped broker a controversial $4.2 billion deal for the government of Iraq to buy Russian weapons. At the time, he was an informal adviser to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, and he accompanied Mr. Maliki to Moscow in September 2012 to sign the arms deal at a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Mr. Naders role in the deal was earlier reported by Al-Monitor.The deal was canceled shortly after because of concerns about corruption, and a spokesman for the prime minister said it would be renegotiated.Earlier that year, Mr. Nader also attended the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, an invitation-only conference organized by senior officials close to Mr. Putin that Russia presents as its answer to the World Economic Forum held annually in Davos, Switzerland. Mr. Nader is on a list of participants from 2012. Representatives of the St. Petersburg forum did not respond to inquiries about his attendance in subsequent years.Since then, according to people familiar with his travels, Mr. Nader has returned frequently to Russia on behalf of the Emirati government. He even had his picture taken with Mr. Putin, according to one person who has seen the photograph, although it is unclear when the picture was taken.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al-Nahyan of Abu Dhabi, the de facto ruler of the U.A.E., is a close ally of the United States and a frequent visitor to the White House. He has also visited Moscow and met with Mr. Putin several times in recent years. One person briefed on the matter said Mr. Nader had accompanied the crown prince to Moscow on numerous occasions.Last year, days before Mr. Trump took office, Mr. Nader helped set up a meeting at a Seychelles resort between Mr. Dmitriev, Emirati officials and Erik Prince, the former head of Blackwater Worldwide and an adviser to Mr. Trumps transition team. The meeting, at the bar of a Four Seasons Hotel overlooking the Indian Ocean, was brokered in part to explore the possibility of a back channel for discussions between the Trump administration and the Kremlin, according to people familiar with the meeting.Such contacts are at the heart of Mr. Muellers investigation, and his investigators have repeatedly used aggressive tactics to press witnesses. About four weeks ago, F.B.I. agents working with Mr. Muellers team stopped a Russian oligarch at a New York-area airport, questioned him about his dealings with Mr. Trump and seized his electronics, according to a person familiar with the matter, which was first reported by CNN.Mr. Muellers investigators have asked multiple witnesses about the Seychelles meeting, part of a broader line of inquiry surrounding contacts between Emirati advisers and Trump administration officials. They have also pressed for details about a meeting Mr. Nader attended in New York in early 2017 with Mr. Kushner and Mr. Bannon with the hedge fund manager Richard Gerson, a friend of Mr. Kushners and the founder of Falcon Edge Capital.Mr. Muellers particular interest in that meeting is unclear, although Mr. Gerson has had business dealings with the court of the U.A.E.s Prince Mohammed. Mr. Gerson has developed relations with several senior Emirati officials over the years, including with Prince Mohammed himself, and he has often sought investments from Emirati state funds.Mr. Gersons family also has business and philanthropic ties to the Kushners. Mr. Kushner has been friends for more than a decade with Mr. Gersons brother Mark, a founder of the specialized research company Gerson Lehrman Group. Mark Gerson was also an early investor in Cadre, a real estate technology company founded by Mr. Kushner and his brother, Josh.Jared Kushners family foundation has also donated tens of thousands of dollars to an Israeli medical aid group led by Mark Gerson.A lawyer for Mr. Nader and a spokesman for Rick Gerson declined to comment. Mark Gerson did not reply to requests for comment.Mr. Muellers investigators have also questioned Joel Zamel, an Australian entrepreneur who has an office in Tel Aviv and knows Mr. Nader, according to people briefed on the matter. Mr. Zamel has had contacts with senior U.A.E. officials close to its ruler since at least 2014.In February, federal agents working for Mr. Mueller stopped Mr. Zamel at Reagan National Airport outside Washington and briefly seized his electronic devices, the people said. Mr. Zamel later appeared before a grand jury and was questioned about Mr. Nader, though it was unclear whether Mr. Zamel had any information about Mr. Naders ties to Russia.Mr. Zamel is a witness in Mr. Muellers investigation and is not suspected of any wrongdoing, according to Marc Mukasey, a lawyer for Mr. Zamel and his crowdsourced consulting firm, Wikistrat. The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that Mr. Zamel informally met with Mr. Muellers team.Joel and Wikistrat have not been accused of anything, have done nothing wrong and are not the focus of the special counsel, said Mr. Mukasey, a global chairman of Greenberg Traurigs white-collar defense and special investigations practice. Prosecutors like to question as many people as they can  even if they have tangential involvement and limited knowledge.Mr. Zamel briefly met last spring with Jared Kushner at the White House, another person said, though that meeting does not appear to be a focus of Mr. Muellers inquiry.Wikistrat, which pays security experts around the world for their insights, has landed several government contracts, according to databases and news reports. Its website says the firm can draw from a group of more than 2,200 analysts worldwide who share their thinking on an interactive platform.Some well-known experts serve on Wikistrats advisory council, including Michael V. Hayden, a former head of the C.I.A. and the National Security Agency, and Dennis Ross, a former United States diplomat with deep expertise in the Middle East.

Roseanne mania has cooled slightly, but the ratings numbers for the shows second night suggest that it is indeed a bona fide hit for ABC.The first two episodes of the revived sitcom, which aired back to back on March 27, scored huge ratings, surprising television executives and making the case that traditional networks are not about to cede their audiences to Netflix and other streaming services.In its return on Tuesday, the show notched 15.4 million viewers, according to Nielsen, a sturdy performance after last weeks blockbuster debut. The numbers were expected to increase once delayed viewing is factored in later this week.Including those viewers who watched the Roseanne premiere in the days after it aired, 25 million people saw it, according to Nielsen. That was the biggest audience for a sitcom in nearly four years.President Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Roseanne Barr, the shows co-creator and a supporter of Mr. Trump, who was at the center of a national conversation in a way she had not been since Roseanne was an ABC stalwart from 1988 to 1997. Network executives moved quickly to renew the show for another season.In all, Tuesdays figures were a 16 percent decline from the premiere. In the 18-to-49-year-old demographic vital to advertisers, Roseanne notched a 3.9 rating, a 25 percent decline.The loss, however, was in line with what executives at ABC and rival networks expected. And at a moment when the number of live viewers is plummeting, the figure suggests that a sizable audience is willing to watch TV the old-fashioned way.In conversations on Tuesday, network executives said that if the second week of Roseanne experienced a decline in ratings of around 15 percent, ABC should still count it as a success. Stomachs were likely to churn at ABCs Burbank, Calif., headquarters only if the show lost more than 25 percent of its initial audience.Other recent revivals have experienced significant ratings losses once the novelty of their returns faded. In September, NBCs Will & Grace lost 30 percent of its audience from its first week to its second. The show has continued to bleed viewers, but its ratings have stayed strong enough to make it a top 10 program. In 2016, Foxs The X-Files lost 40 percent of its audience for its second episode. On Showtime, Twin Peaks experienced a decline of more than 50 percent between its first and second weeks.The robust return of Roseanne has made the show and its namesake star political lightning rods. Fox News pundits joined Mr. Trump in hailing the success of the Roseanne premiere as a victory of their own. Some viewers on the left have expressed misgivings about supporting the show. And there were hot-take commentators who argued that Roseanne is surprisingly subversive, with more nuanced politics than either its ardent fans or its vocal detractors have acknowledged.The third episode was about a generational parenting conflict that pitted Roseannes stricter, more traditional style against the looser, hands-off approach of her daughter Darlene.A wild card factor is how much of a ratings drop will come in the shows third week. Will Roseanne suffer mild, 5-to-10-percent declines as it moves closer to its ninth and final episode? Or will the falloff be steeper?To make matters more complicated, Ms. Barr has her Twitter feed back.Two months before the show premiered, she was not much of a presence on Twitter. She said her family had taken her password away, and she mentioned that she did not want it to overshadow the show.But in recent weeks, Ms. Barr has been posting frequently on Twitter, and it did not take long for her to stir up controversy. Over the weekend, she seemed to endorse a fringe conspiracy theory known as The Storm, which suggests that Mr. Trump is breaking up child sex-trafficking rings involving Democratic politicians.The message, which was later deleted, raised questions about whether Ms. Barr might eventually cause a revolt among viewers or advertisers, a cause for some concern among ABC executives, who have publicly backed their reborn star.You cant control Roseanne Barr, Ben Sherwood, the president of Disney and ABCs television group, said in an interview last week. Many who have tried have failed. Shes the one and only.The Roseanne reboot came out of a strategy hatched at ABC after Mr. Trumps victory in November 2016. The goal was to increase the networks appeal to Middle America. The premiere episode more than doubled ABCs internal ratings estimates, and it performed best in heartland cities that do not usually light up the Nielsen meters.If the show continues to deliver strong numbers, it could help take ABC out of last place among the four major broadcast networks.
MANCHESTER, N.H.  John Kasich had been here before. This much he pointed out, twice, before anyone had a chance to wonder why he was back.Wow! he called out, stepping into the Red Arrow Diner on Tuesday for an unannounced stop, emitting the kind of surprise that only a politician can summon over three dozen people eating lunch. It was just this crowded the last time.Mr. Kasich sidled up beside the counter, squatting to greet a young customer, Sophia Bauer, whose name he seemed to hear as Sylvia.How old are you? he asked. Five? Are you going to be in first grade? Do you have a dog? Oh, really? Soon, Sophia was being tickled by the two-term Republican governor of Ohio.He led her by the hand toward a booth in the corner, where a television camera was waiting. Isnt that cool? he said. The two peered into the camera together. The governor smiled. Then Sophia was dismissed. All right, Sylvia, he said. Go back to your mom. It was time to talk to CNN again.It is both unclear what Mr. Kasich is doing here, in the first-in-the-nation primary state, and entirely clear what he is doing. He is not not running for president.There would be nothing unusual about this  convening with past supporters and advisers from his 2016 campaign, making the rounds to talk up his record, congratulating the locals on their wisdom, their food, their can-do attitude  but for some inconvenient political context for Mr. Kasich.President Trump intends to run for re-election in 2020, and he has beaten Mr. Kasich before  here (by nearly 20 percentage points), elsewhere, and everywhere but the governors home state during the last round of primaries. In a party that, since then, has broadly pledged itself to Mr. Trump in sickness and in health, the president would almost certainly beat him again if the race were held today.But then, the race is not being held today, and Mr. Kasich is not exactly who he was in 2016, when he finished a semi-surprising second here. He is now one of the few prominent Republicans willing to knock Mr. Trump on health care, climate change, Russia and other issues in front of any television camera that will have him. In doing so he has won a new set of national admirers, though not always those who vote in Republican primaries.I think Im increasingly viewed now as not just a Republican but as something different, kind of a hybrid, he said in a half-hour interview on Tuesday, shuttling between stops in an S.U.V. I have people of all shapes, sizes, philosophies and party preferences that approach me. But what does that mean? I dont know. Im on television, so all the sudden they want to talk to me. Television moves everybody up, right?That remains to be seen, electorally. A University of New Hampshire poll released in February found that 60 percent of the states Republicans would support Mr. Trump again in a primary; 18 percent planned to vote for someone else. Another recent poll was more generous to Mr. Kasich, though it still showed Mr. Trump with a clear edge. And while some prominent Republicans in the state, like former Senator John E. Sununu, remain vocal Kasich defenders, few sitting officeholders have made a point of consistently challenging Mr. Trump.Mr. Kasichs case against Mr. Trump rests as much on tone as substance. The governor, a longtime supporter of free-trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, has been sharply critical of the presidents tilt toward protectionism on trade, saying it runs afoul of the Republican Party he knew. He has also lamented the presidents bid to dismantle DACA, the program aimed at protecting young undocumented immigrants from deportation.On this and other issues, though, Mr. Kasich has sought to contrast himself with Mr. Trump most pointedly as a spokesman for national decency. Rarely was he more animated on Tuesday than during a discussion of the presidents Easter morning tweet declaring, NO MORE DACA DEAL. On Easter, the governor said on Tuesday, later adding, Come on, leaders dont do that.Officially, Mr. Kasich says, another run for president is not on his immediate radar, but he is keeping his options open, maintaining the relationships required for any prospective campaign.Regardless of his eventual choice, Mr. Kasich has succeeded, at least, in installing himself permanently in the grand drama of the Trump era, drawing a pack of reporters to New Hampshire in an off-year on the pretext of a question-and-answer session at a college and ensuring that the news media will continue to track his doings once his term expires in January.He enjoys being consequential, said Tom Rath, a senior national adviser to Mr. Kasichs 2016 campaign and a former attorney general of New Hampshire. That alone would be enough to continue this effort, whatever you want to call this effort.Mr. Kasich, 65, has excelled for decades at such relevance retention, to say nothing of reinvention. During a hiatus from politics in the early and mid-2000s, he was the host of a Fox News show, Heartland With John Kasich, broadcast live from Columbus, Ohio  and at times, a fill-in for Bill OReilly  while working as an investment banker for Lehman Brothers.Known to colleagues as prickly and blunt as a nine-term congressman, he now projects a cant-we-all-get-along buoyancy about the ways of the world, calling himself the prince of light and hope in the 2016 primary field and proving to be a prolific purveyor of campaign trail hugs.Since then, Mr. Kasichs perpetual skepticism of the president has contributed to the impression that he was something of a silver medalist in 2016, the last man standing between Mr. Trump and high office. In practice, that was Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mr. Trumps only true threat by the middle of the primary season. Mr. Kasich, who did stay in the race one day longer than Mr. Cruz despite trailing him by about 400 delegates, was such a nonfactor that Mr. Trump did not bother with a nickname for him until late April 2016. It was 1 for 38 Kasich.If the governor ran again, said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trumps one-time campaign manager and a veteran of New Hampshire politics, Hed be 0 for 50 John.Jeanie Forrester, the chairwoman of the New Hampshire Republican Party, reported few rank-and-file voter concerns about their leader in Washington, even as Trump critics like Mr. Kasich and Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, who visited last month, make pilgrimages to the state. Everybody is feeling pretty good, she said.Still, Kasich allies see a way, noting the states wealth of independent voters and observing that far more New Hampshire residents sided against Mr. Trump, who won the primary with 35 percent of the vote, than with him. (Many more, of course, declined to support Mr. Kasich, who received 16 percent.)As the generally popular governor of a longtime bellwether state, Mr. Kasich has distinguished himself from some fellow Republicans on policy, expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and pushing for new gun restrictions after recent mass shootings.At least as central to his political brand, currently, is a contrarian streak that lurches beyond substance. He can speak at times like a sort of Midwestern oracle with a sweet tooth, by turns invoking Aristotle and Aquinas, raising the radio volume for Stairway to Heaven and holding forth on the majesty of dessert.Human reason is imperfect, he said at one point during the interview, borrowing from his recent State of the State address back home.I like Bowie. I love Lady Gaga, he said at another.Friendlys! he cried soon after, when a fellow passenger mentioned that a Friendlys was near. I want to go to Friendlys. (He got to go to Friendlys, chasing his fish-and-chips from the diner with a kind of omnibus sundae known as the Jim Dandy.)A short while later, Mr. Kasich arrived for the stated purpose of the trip: a fireside forum at New England College in Henniker, where a bipartisan crowd of some 150 students and political veterans received him warmly. Hes a positive voice, said Gary Glines, 60, whose wife, a Democrat, had turned his attention to Mr. Kasich before the 2016 primary. She said, You need to listen to this guy. He sounds like you. By the nights end, Mr. Kasich, appearing for over an hour, sounded like a person running for president  or, at least, a person reminding New Hampshire that he is not this president.He lamented the namby-pamby of his fellow politicians. He pledged to do the best I can at doing the best I can. He encouraged the crowd to give an ovation to Dana Bash of CNN.And when the moderator asked if Mr. Kasich believed New Hampshire should keep its place at the head of the political calendar, the governor pandered knowingly. The Iowa caucus, he said gently, should probably still come first, despite that states shortcomings. I spent a year there one week, Mr. Kasich said. Just kidding, Iowa!The joke did not kill, even in this room.

David D. Smith, the chairman of Sinclair Broadcast Group, says the media is getting his company all wrong.His remark, in a lengthy email exchange with The New York Times, came in response to renewed scrutiny of Sinclair after a video spread rapidly showing anchors at dozens of its stations across the country reciting the same speech about media bias.Mr. Smith defended the anchors segments, known as must-runs, and likened them to the late-night shows that networks air on their local affiliates.Not that you would print it, but do you understand that every local TV station is required to must run from its network their content, and they dont own me, he wrote on Tuesday. That would be all their news programming and other shows such as late-night talk, which is just late-night political so-called comedy.In the Sinclair-mandated segments, the anchors warned that some media outlets published fake stories. They also said they were concerned about the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country.Our commitment to factual reporting is the foundation of our credibility, the anchors added. Now more than ever.The video was assembled by the sports news site Deadspin and posted on Saturday. Soon after it went online, it triggered an outcry on social media and prompted many critics to denounce Sinclairs practice of requiring its local television stations to air must-runs.The company, already the countrys largest broadcaster, is set to expand its empire: Sinclair is waiting for regulators to approve its $3.9 billion deal for Tribune Media. The transaction, which was announced in May, would extend Sinclairs reach into seven in 10 American homes, with more than 200 stations in cities big and small.Opponents of the deal have cited the dangers of media consolidation, as well as Sinclairs willingness to use must-runs to advance a mostly right-leaning agenda.In subsequent emails on Tuesday, Mr. Smith, said that the networks do exactly the same promotional things that we do and that such segments were standard practice in the industry.Asked about the widespread criticism prompted by the Deadspin compilation, Mr. Smith expressed disbelief.You cant be serious! he wrote. Do you understand that as a practical matter every word that comes out of the mouths of network news people is scripted and approved by someone?He also said the promotional segments were tested by a well-recognized research firm in this industry.Other must-runs that Sinclair has required its stations to air include commentary segments featuring Boris Epshteyn, a former spokesman for President Trump, as well as a daily segment from a Terrorism Alert Desk with updates on terrorism-related news.Last year, Sinclair asked its stations to run a segment featuring Scott Livingston, now the companys senior vice president of news, who read a script similar to the one the anchors recently recited.Mr. Smith, whose father, Julian Sinclair Smith, founded Sinclair in 1971, called the notion that the company used must-runs to push right-leaning views nonsense.On Monday, the criticism directed at Sinclair drew the attention of President Trump, who often praises media outlets that espouse his viewpoints and denounces other news organizations.So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC, which is a total joke.The Trump administration has enacted or proposed policy changes that would seem to benefit Mr. Smith and his company.Mr. Smith did not answer a question about his relationship with Mr. Trump and said he did not engage in Twitter, Facebook or other such activities and have not read anything the president has said.Sinclair, which is based in Hunt Valley, Md., has responded forcefully to the criticism prompted by the Deadspin video. On Monday, Mr. Livingston, the Sinclair news executive, said in a statement, We arent sure of the motivation for the criticism, but find it curious that we would be attacked for asking our news people to remind their audiences that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media, which result in an ill-informed public with potentially dangerous consequences.Mr. Livingston also sent an email to employees about the video, urging context and perspective.I know many of you and your stations are now in the media spotlight after the launch of our corporate news journalistic responsibility promotional campaign, he wrote. He added that the false stories that the script referred to were unsubstantiated ones (i.e. fake/false) like Pope Endorses Trump which move quickly across social media and result in an ill-informed public.Employees at one Sinclair-owned station, KATU in Portland, Ore., received an email from their general manager warning them not to reply to calls or complaints about the video.Please DO NOT answer any questions or get into any discussions with callers, as they try to navigate to someone internally, the general manager, Robert Truman, wrote. Most certainly dont talk to any press about this issue.The attention on Sinclair has embarrassed, frustrated and angered current and former employees, some of whom have decided to speak out about the promo and working for Sinclair. One employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity out of fear for his job, said he was troubled that the promo had overshadowed his stations journalism.Across the entire company, I can tell you there is very little respect for the must-run pieces, said Aaron Weiss, who worked several years ago as a news director for Sinclair in Sioux City, Iowa. Im sure you can find pockets of folks who think theyre great. But in general, no one thought that these were good journalism. Mr. Weiss also wrote an opinion piece critical of Sinclair for HuffPost that was published on Monday.Another Sinclair employee, Molly Shen, an anchor at KOMO, a station in Seattle, took another view. In a Facebook post on Monday, she wrote that she wasnt forced to read the script.I didnt do it to save my job or anyone elses, Ms. Shen added. I did it because I do sincerely believe in what we do every day at KOMO as local journalists.On Wednesday, a segment from the Sinclair pundit Mr. Epshteyn escalated Sinclairs response to concerns about the company.In terms of my analysis playing during your local news, as you see, my segments are very clearly marked as commentary, Mr. Epshteyn, wearing a navy jacket and red tie, said. The same cannot be said for cable and broadcast news hosts, who inject their opinions and bias into news coverage all the time without drawing any lines between them.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump has been criticizing Amazon over the past week, and on Thursday he suggested  inaccurately  that the company is ripping off the United States Postal Service.Jimmy Kimmel was dumbfounded by the criticism, and Jimmy Fallon took the opportunity to poke fun at Trump.Dwayne Johnson sat down with Kimmel on Tuesday, 48 hours after April Fools Day, but he still found a way to play a prank on the host. He told Kimmel with seeming sincerity that his girlfriend had played an April Fools joke on him, pretending to go into labor and nearly letting him take her to the hospital before she revealed the joke. (All of that turned out to be completely made up.)A perfectly reasonable  that is, nonsensical  debate on Late Night turned into a set-destroying stunt sequence. All parties seemed pleased.Trumps team wants to take its legal battle with Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic-film actress known as Stormy Daniels, into private arbitration. Kimmel thinks private arbitration sounds like the name of a porn film.Mike Myers appears in Terminal, a new comic thriller. His part isnt big, but its his first live-action film role since 2009. He will talk to Fallon on Wednesday night.Cardi B, the rapper, whose interview with Fallon in January became a viral smash, will co-host The Tonight Show with him on Monday. Itll be the first time the show has officially had a co-host.
WASHINGTON  It was the kind of story destined to take a dark turn through the conservative news media and grab President Trumps attention: A vast horde of migrants was making its way through Mexico toward the United States, and no one was stopping them.Mysterious group deploys caravan of illegal aliens headed for U.S. border, warned Frontpage Mag, a site run by David Horowitz, a conservative commentator.The Gateway Pundit, a website that was most recently in the news for spreading conspiracies about the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., suggested the real reason the migrants were trying to enter the United States was to collect social welfare benefits.And as the president often does when immigration is at issue, he saw a reason for Americans to be afraid. Getting more dangerous. Caravans coming, a Twitter post from Mr. Trump read.The story of the caravan followed an arc similar to many events  whether real, embellished or entirely imagined  involving refugees and migrants that have roused intense suspicion and outrage on the right. The coverage tends to play on the fears that hiding among mass groups of immigrants are many criminals, vectors of disease and agents of terror. And often the president, who announced his candidacy by blaming Mexico for sending rapists and drug dealers into the United States, acts as an accelerant to the hysteria.The sensationalization of this story and others like it seems to serve a common purpose for Mr. Trump and other immigration hard-liners: to highlight the twin dangers of freely roving migrants  especially those from Muslim countries  and lax immigration laws that grant them easy entry into Western nations.The narrative on the right this week, for example, mostly omitted that many people in the caravan planned to resettle in Mexico, not the United States. And it ignored how many of those who did intend to come here would probably go through the legal process of requesting asylum at a border checkpoint  something miles of new wall and battalions of additional border patrol would not have stopped.They end up in schools on Long Island, some of which are MS-13! declared Brian Kilmeade on the presidents preferred morning news program, Fox & Friends, referring to the predominantly Central American gang.The coverage became so distorted that it prompted a reporter for Breitbart News who covers border migration, Brandon Darby, to push back. Im seeing a lot of right media cover this as people coming illegally or as illegal aliens. That is incorrect, he wrote on Twitter. They are coming to a port of entry and requesting refugee status. That is legal.In an interview, Mr. Darby said it was regrettable that the relatively routine occurrence of migrant caravans  which organizers rely on as a safety-in-numbers precaution against the violence that can happen along the trek  was being politicized. The caravan isnt something thats a unique event, he said. And I think people are looking at it wrong. If youre upset at the situation, its easier to be mad at the migrant than it is to be mad at the political leaders on both sides who wont change the laws.As tends to be the case in these stories, the humanitarian aspects get glossed over as migrants are collapsed into one maligned category: hostile foreign invaders.In November, Mr. Trump touched off an international furor when he posted a series of videos on Twitter that purported to show the effects of mass Muslim migration in Europe. Initially circulated by a fringe ultranationalist in Britain who has railed against Islam, the videos included titles like Muslim migrant beats up Dutch boy on crutches! Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary! and Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!The assailant in one video the president shared, however, was not a Muslim migrant. And the other two videos depicted four-year-old events with no explanation.These items tend to metastasize irrespective of the facts, but contain powerful visual elements to which Mr. Trump is known to viscerally respond.Last February, Mr. Trump  insinuated that some kind of terror-related episode involving Muslim immigrants had taken place in Sweden. Who would believe this? Sweden, he said at a rally in Florida, leaving Swedes and Americans baffled because nothing out of the ordinary had happened at all. They took in large numbers. Theyre having problems like they never thought possible.Like the caravan story, which apparently came to Mr. Trumps attention as he watched Fox & Friends, the president was referring to something he had seen on cable news. And he later had to clarify that he was referring to a Fox News segment on issues Sweden was having with migrants generally, not any particular event.The conservative National Review later called the piece in question sensationalistic and pointed out that a lack of government data made it virtually impossible to determine whether crime rates in the country were related to immigration.When the president himself has not spread stories about immigration that were either misleading or turned out to be false, his White House aides have. Last year, the White House joined a pile-on by the conservative news media after it called attention to the account of a high school student in Montgomery County, Md., who said she was raped at school by two classmates, one of whom is an undocumented immigrant. The case became a national rallying cry on the right against permissive border policies and so-called sanctuary cities that treat undocumented immigrants more leniently. Fox News broadcast live outside the high school for days.Prosecutors later dropped the charges after they said the evidence did not substantiate the girls claims.The story of the caravan has been similarly exaggerated. And the emotional outpouring from the right has been raw  that was the case on Fox this week when the TV host Tucker Carlson shouted You hate America! at an immigrants rights activist after he defended the people marching through Mexico.The facts of the caravan are not as straightforward as Mr. Trump or many conservative pundits have portrayed them. The story initially gained widespread attention after BuzzFeed News reported last week that more than 1,000 Central American migrants, mostly from Honduras, were making their way north toward the United States border. Yet the BuzzFeed article and other coverage pointed out that many in the group were planning to stay in Mexico.That did not stop Mr. Trump from expressing dismay on Tuesday with a situation where you have thousands of people that decide to just walk into our country, and we dont have any laws that can protect it.The use of disinformation in immigration debates is hardly unique to the United States. Misleading crime statistics, speculation about sinister plots to undermine national sovereignty and Russian propaganda have all played a role in stirring up anti-immigrant sentiment in places like Britain, Germany and Hungary. Some of the more fantastical theories have involved a socialist conspiracy to import left-leaning voters and a scheme by the Hungarian-born Jewish philanthropist George Soros to create a borderless Europe.Anyone watching Fox News this week would have heard about similar forces at work inside the caravan.This was an organized plan and deliberate attack on the sovereignty of the United States by a special interest group, said David Ward, whom the network identified as a former agent for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. They rallied a bunch of foreign nationals to come north into the United States to test our resolve.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump will be attending another dinner held by a super PAC.America First Action will be hosting the president as well as House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy at a dinner in Washington Wednesday night.That's according to the group's spokeswoman, Erin Montgomery.The dinner is the third of its kind Trump has attended in recent weeks.The White House has stressed the events are not fundraisers  though they've been attended by top donors to the group.Trump campaigned against super PACs, complaining they had too much influence in politics.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is remembering the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the 50th anniversary of the civil rights leader\'s assassination.Trump on Wednesday tweeted a video clip of remarks he delivered on King\'s birthday in January. Trump says in the video that the cause for which King gave his life "gained strength and force and power with the passage of time." Trump asked all citizens to join him in remembering "this great American hero" and in carrying on his legacy of justice, equality and freedom.In a separate proclamation declaring Wednesday a "day to honor Dr. King\'s legacy," Trump says it\'s the American people who will achieve Dr. King\'s ideals, not government.Vice President Mike Pence tweeted that King\'s words, faith and "courageous example" have inspired generations of Americans.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump denied on Wednesday that the United States was in a trade war with China, hours after Beijing slapped tariffs on a list of U.S. imports in retaliation for similar duties levied by the White House one day earlier."We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S.," Trump wrote in a post on Twitter.(Corrects typing error in headline)(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
INDIANAPOLIS   An Indiana Senate candidate who carries a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump to campaign rallies, dons a "Make America Great Again" hat in a TV ad and ridicules an opponent for being a "Never Trumper" called the eventual president "vulgar, if not profane" in a little-noticed 2016 interview.During the February 2016 interview with Indianapolis-based WXIN TV, Republican Rep. Todd Rokita used harsh words to explain why he supported Sen. Marco Rubio for president instead of Trump."When you see Marco contrasted with Donald Trump  I mean someone who is vulgar, if not profane," Rokita said. "At some point you have to be presidential. People expect that and you see that in Marco Rubio."It\'s a stunning contrast to the rhetoric Rokita has employed since launching his primary bid in August for a chance to challenge Democratic Sen. Joe Donnelly in November. Since then, Rokita  whose campaign slogan is "Defeat the Elite"  has blasted his opponents for not supporting Trump enough, while presenting himself as the one true embodiment of the president\'s populist appeal.Take his most recent TV ad released Tuesday, which the Washington Post labeled as "the all-consuming tribalism of Trump\'s Republican Party, in one 30-second ad."In the ad titled "MAGA"  short for Make America Great Again  Rokita attacks primary opponents, fellow Rep. Luke Messer and former state Rep. Mike Braun, as insufficiently supportive of the president.Rokita labels Braun, who regularly voted in Democratic primaries until 2012, as a RINO  a derisive acronym standing for "Republican In Name Only."But he saved his toughest criticism for Messer."Luke Messer? He plotted with the \'Never Trumpers\' to steal the nomination from President Trump. You\'ve got to be kidding me," Rokita says before donning a red "Make America Great Again hat. "I\'m Todd Rokita and I\'ll proudly stand with our president and Mike Pence to Drain the Swamp."In a statement Wednesday, spokesman Nathan Brand insisted Rokita was still "the only Republican who steadfastly supported Donald Trump against Hillary Clinton.""This is why the 2016 Trump-Pence Indiana team has expressed support for Todd," which Brand contrasted with Messer, who made critical comments against Trump even after he had a lock on the Republican nomination.Messer\'s campaign fired back with its own statement Wednesday, suggesting Rokita\'s Trump-based campaign amounted to political opportunism that doesn\'t always extend to voting with the president in Congress."Todd Rokita is a consummate politician and a classic Washington hypocrite," said campaign manager Chasen Bullock. "He is what he says he is against. The worst part is Congressman Rokita wears a Trump hat on TV, but votes against President Trump in Congress."Rokita\'s stance since the February 2016 interview, which was given in the midst of the Republican Presidential primary, is yet another example of the dramatic shift in the party since Trump\'s election. Now, in Indiana\'s Republican Senate race, all three candidates are falling over each other to proclaim their admiration for the president.Messer, whose criticisms were even more pointed, accused Trump of "race-baiting" while suggesting that he was a hard candidate for many GOP voters to swallow."Our party is united that we\'re not for Hillary Clinton. The question is can folks put on a Donald Trump tee shirt? And the reality is it\'s hard to do," Messer told CNN after Trump secured the nomination.Rokita, meanwhile, hedged his bets, acknowledging during the WXIN interview that "even if (the nominee) is Donald Trump, I will be supporting Donald Trump."
Facebook said on Tuesday that it had found and removed more than 270 accounts and pages controlled by Russias Internet Research Agency, the so-called troll factory that became notorious for posting fraudulent and divisive material on the platform during the 2016 presidential election.The company said most of the accounts and pages were in Russian and aimed at users in Russia and neighboring or nearby countries, including Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan. The company did not claim the new accounts and pages had violated the companys policies, but it said they had been taken down because of the Internet Research Agencys past fraud.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, told Reuters that the Russian company, which operates under several names, has repeatedly acted to deceive people and manipulate people around the world, and we dont want them on Facebook anywhere.In a blog post, Facebooks chief security officer, Alex Stamos, said that uncovering this activity took months of work by our team. He said the company had taken down 70 accounts and 138 pages on Facebook and 65 accounts on Instagram, which Facebook owns.We removed this latest set of pages and accounts solely because they were controlled by the I.R.A.  not based on the content, Mr. Stamos wrote. This included commentary on domestic and international political issues, the promotion of Russian culture and tourism as well as debate on more everyday issues.He said that more than a million people had followed the Facebook pages and that 493,000 had followed the Instagram accounts. He said the company would update a tool on its help center to allow Facebook and Instagram users to find out whether they had followed the pages and users.The company also removed $167,000 worth of ads purchased by the Russian-controlled pages since 2015, Mr. Stamos said.The Internet Research Agency came to widespread attention with a profile in The New York Times Magazine in 2015 describing how its paid trolls, working in St. Petersburg, posted false stories and inflammatory comments on various sites across the internet.In September, Facebook disclosed that it had discovered and taken down several hundreds fraudulent profiles and pages, most of them praising Donald J. Trump, denigrating Hillary Clinton or simply spreading inflammatory memes and comments on such divisive issues as race, immigration and guns.In February, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the election, indicted 13 Russians associated with the Internet Research Agency, including Yevgeny Prigozhin, a Russian businessman with Kremlin ties who the indictment said controlled the Internet Research Agency and related businesses.None of those Russians have been arrested, and Russia is not expected to extradite any of them to the United States. But the indictments were widely viewed as Mr. Muellers effort to establish that crimes had been committed in the Russian interference, which President Trump has frequently derided as a hoax.The Internet Research Agency and similar operations with ties to Russian government officials have carried out influence operations not only in the United States but also in Russia and many other countries in Eastern and Western Europe. The campaigns have generally reflected Kremlin political goals, attacking critics of Russia inside and outside the country.Facebook also released in the blog post on Tuesday several examples of the material it had taken down, including a photo of Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, offering a toast; scantily clad sunbathers in snowy Siberia; and tourist shots of St. Petersburg. The company said it would make more material public.Representative Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said he was pleased that Facebook had made its actions public. He said the report demonstrates that activity linked to the I.R.A. has continued on social media platforms and did not cease when their activities were exposed last year.
WASHINGTON   Ohio Republican Governor John Kasich said on Wednesday he was unlikely to challenge U.S. President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, in the 2020 presidential election as an independent, CNN reported."Am I going to run as an Independent? No, I\'m not even thinking about that ... It\'s unlikely, but when you have options on the table, all options are on the table, right?" Kasich said in an interview with CNN.Kasich, who ran against Trump for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, has been a vocal critic of the president.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by Tim Ahmann)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump will sign a proclamation on Wednesday ordering the deployment of the National Guard to help protect the border with Mexico, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said."The president has directed that the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security work together with our governors to deploy the National Guard to our southwest border to assist the Border Patrol," Nielsen said at a White House  briefing."The president will be signing a proclamation to that effect today."(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Writing by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Eric Beech)
WASHINGTON   A former business associate of President Donald Trump who worked as an informant for U.S. government agencies met with representatives of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday, according to three people familiar with the meeting.The sources said committee officials spoke with Felix Sater, a long-time government informant and businessman who once had a business card describing him as a "Senior Advisor to Donald Trump," according to a copy of the card seen by Reuters.Television crews spotted Sater leaving the Senate panel\'s secure Capitol Hill office early Wednesday afternoon. Committee officials had no immediate comment on the substance of the panel\'s discussions with Sater.But Ronn Torossian, a New York public relations executive hired by Sater, confirmed that Sater had met with representatives of the panel, and also said that Sater "has for years helped the U.S. government on vital issues."In a statement circulated earlier this year by Torossian, Sater, whose Bayrock Group property company was involved in business deals with the Trump Organization, said his work as a government informant included "preventing attacks on U.S. financial institutions." He also said he had "provided  significant intelligence with respect to nuclear weapons in North Korea" as well as information on al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden.In the late 1990s, Sater became embroiled in a federal racketeering case involving a $40 million stock fraud. As part of a plea agreement, he agreed to become a U.S. government informant. Documents filed in Federal Court in Brooklyn, New York, include redacted FBI testimony confirming Sater\'s work as an informant.Media reports last year said that at the time he was running for president in late 2015 and early 2016, Trump\'s company was pursuing a scheme to build a Trump Tower in Moscow and that Sater, who was born in Russia, urged Trump to visit Moscow to promote the plan. Trump never made such a trip, and the Washington Post reported the project was later abandoned.(Reporting by Mark Hosenball and Nathan Layne; Editing by Tom Brown)
FLORENCE, Ala.   A mural depicting President Donald Trump holding a handgun and school children in pools of blood has been painted over after it appeared in an Alabama city.WAAY-TV quotes Florence Mayor Steve Holt in a Tuesday report as saying that the mural was on private property and that its owner told the city they could paint over it.News outlets report the mural was painted sometime Sunday night or Monday morning.The mural was displayed on a wall in an abandoned lot in the city's downtown.
WASHINGTON   U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller told President Donald Trump\'s attorneys last month he was continuing to investigate the president but did not consider him a criminal target in the Russia probe "at this point," the Washington Post reported on Tuesday.Mueller, in private negotiations in early March about a possible presidential interview, described Trump as a subject of his investigation into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, said the Post, which cited three unnamed people familiar with the discussions.Trump attorney Jay Sekulow and his former attorney John Dowd did not immediately respond to requests for comment.The Post said Mueller also told Trump\'s lawyers that he was preparing a report about the Republican presidents actions while in office and potential obstruction of justice."Mueller reiterated the need to interview Trump  both to understand whether he had any corrupt intent to thwart the Russia investigation and to complete this portion of his probe," the newspaper said.It said Trump and some in his inner circle interpreted Mueller\'s words as assurance that his risk of criminal jeopardy was low, while other advisers cautioned that Mueller was baiting Trump into an interview that could put him in greater legal danger.Mueller is also investigating potential collusion between Trump\'s presidential campaign and Russia as well as whether Trump has committed obstruction of justice by trying to thwart the Russia probe.Trump has denied any collusion with Russia and has called the Mueller investigation a witch hunt.(Reporting by Mohammad Zargham; Additional reporting by Karen Freifeld; Editing by Sandra Maler and Peter Cooney)
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico & Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way - they want people to pour into our country unchecked....CRIME! We will be taking strong action today. [0719 EDT]- We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue! [0722 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
WASHINGTON   Steve Bannon, President Donald Trump\'s former chief strategist and 2016 campaign CEO, had a fiery response on Wednesday to Wall Street\'s dim view of Trump\'s trade actions against China.Ask the working people in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan about Wall Street. Wall Street supported and cheered on the export of their jobs. To hell with Wall Street if they dont like it. Its time somebody stood up to them and Donald Trump is the perfect guy. Wall Street is always short term. Trump is trying to protect the beating heart of American capitalism - our innovation," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.Bannon, who maintains ties to the White House, said Trump\'s recent moves to impose tariffs are a signal to the Chinese that "the game of continual delay is over" and that they will have to address the central issue of forced technology transfers.""Its full throwdown. Trump has planned this out for a long time. He led with the smart things, forced technology transfers. Its obvious the Chinese have no real response to this. I think they played completely into his hands. By putting tariffs on agricultural products and avoiding addressing the technology questions theyve shown once again they consider us nothing more than a tributary state.This is the beating heart of American capitalism: Technology innovation that the Chinese have either stolen or forced American companies to turn over. Trump has signaled that those days are over," he said.Just 11 hours after the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products, China responded with a list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   Before last month\'s special congressional election in Pennsylvania, U.S. President Donald Trump, who ridiculed his rivals in the 2016 election as Liddle Marco, Lyin Ted, and Crooked Hillary, tried it again, tagging Democratic candidate Conor Lamb as Lamb the Sham.This time, the tactic failed.But it illustrated a penchant for often brutally effective nicknames that Democrats are bracing for Trump to employ when he campaigns for Republicans in November\'s congressional elections.All 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives and a third of the 100-member Senate will be up for grabs. A Democratic takeover of one or both chambers could derail much of the Republican president\'s policy agenda.While acknowledging that the tabloid-style strategic branding may have worked for Trump in the presidential election, Democrats insist they will not be baited into fighting back with name-calling of their own."I dont think that we should ever do stuff like that, Representative Keith Ellison, deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee, told Reuters.Ellison is all too familiar with Trumps scorched-earth shorthand. In 2016, he was an early and fervent supporter of Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, or Crazy Bernie, as Trump called him. When they go low, we should go high, Ellison said in a comment echoed by other Democrats.So far, the nicknaming that Trump wielded like a political sledgehammer in the 2016 election has had limited success in congressional races. While Republicans Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz and Democrat Hillary Clinton were all vanquished in the 2016 presidential race, Lamb beat his Trump-backed rival in a result that rattled the Republican establishment.In the widely watched U.S. Senate race in Alabama in December, Trump branded Democrat Doug Jones as Liberal Puppet Jones. But Jones pulled off a major upset over Republican Roy Moore, becoming the first Democrat elected to the Senate from Alabama in 25 years.Still, Trump is showing no inclination to abandon the practice. On Tuesday, he unveiled on Twitter a new handle for former President Barack Obama: "Cheatin\' Obama" - although it was not clear what Trump meant by the moniker.LASTING DAMAGEPolling suggests, however, that Trumps nicknames often work and can inflict long-lasting political damage. Exhibit A: Jeb Bush. After Trump derided his presidential rival as Low energy Jeb Bush, the nickname appeared to stick. A Reuters/Ipsos poll in 2016 found that more than a third of Republican voters believed Bush, a former Florida governor, was a low energy person.He defines his opponents brands, Tim Calkins, a marketing professor at Northwestern University, said of Trump.Dismissing Trumps broadsides as simple schoolyard taunts carries political risk, as Clinton found out. Experts in communications and marketing warn not to underestimate the ability of Trump, a former reality TV star, to define opponents and issues in easy-to-grasp language that resonates with the public.Aides say Trump believes his labels are effective because they can carry a ring of truth.You have to brand people a certain way when theyre your opponents, Trump told a rally in Boca Raton, Florida, in early 2016. At that event, he took the time to make sure that attendees knew that his label for Rubio was spelled L-I-D-D-L-E, which apparently made it more demeaning.The crowd ate it up. A few days later, Trump trounced Rubio in the Florida Republican primary, and Rubio dropped out of the race.In Rubios case, the shot was not just a reference to his height  - he is 5 feet 9 inches tall - but to his relatively brief time in the Senate, amounting to a suggestion he was not ready to be president, said a former campaign adviser to Trump who asked to remain anonymous to discuss the matter.\'DEFINING THE BATTLEFIELD\'The name-calling is juvenile and unpresidential, but theres no doubt it can be effective, said Alex Conant, a top adviser to Rubio at the time. Trump understands the power of branding more than any politician ever has.The danger for Trumps opponents, said Dietram Scheufele, a professor of communications at the University of Wisconsin, was letting him define the battlefield.Some Republicans appear inclined to take a cue from Trump\'s playbook. At a presentation to Republican state senators in California in February, a leading Washington Republican pollster urged 2018 candidates to go negative, saying it would help define the choices for voters.In a PowerPoint slide, the pollster wrote: The best defense is a good offense. Dont be afraid of \'giving your opponent name ID\'  especially if that name ID is of the negative kind.But Ellison said Democrats should not get into a war of insults with Trump, even if it is to their advantage.Even if some really smart person showed that name-calling like that got you an extra percentage point, Im still thinking I wouldnt do it, he said. Its wrong and we dont want our children to do it and we dont think its right.Republican Senator Jeff Flake, a Trump critic often mocked by the president as Jeff Flakey, said Trumps attacks could excite his political base but may not have a broad appeal to voters in congressional races.Its counter-productive if you are trying to maintain a majority and even if you are seeking re-election, said Flake, who is not running again in Arizona.(Reporting by James Oliphant and Caren Bohan; Additional reporting by Sharon Bernstein in Sacramento, Calif., Chris Kahn in New York and Kieran Murray in Washington; Editing by Peter Cooney and Tom Brown)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is pointing to a 50 percent job approval rating that may not fully comport with reality.TRUMP: "Thank you to Rasmussen for the honest polling. Just hit 50 percent, which is higher than Cheatin\' Obama at the same time in his Administration."  tweet Tuesday.THE FACTS: Trump cites an approval rating that doesn\'t jibe with other polls.The daily tracking poll from Rasmussen Reports released Monday finds half of likely voters said they approve of Trump\'s performance in office. That\'s 4 points higher than what President Barack Obama scored on the same poll on April 2, 2010.But Rasmussen stands alone among frequent pollsters in finding such a high rating for Trump, and its findings are often seen as less reliable because of the automated calling method it uses. It\'s against federal law to have computers dial cellphones, so a big chunk of U.S. adults who don\'t have landline phones  many of them young people  cannot be reached using the survey\'s phone interviews.Rasmussen says that to reach adults who do not have landline phones, about 20 percent of its interviews are conducted using an online panel. More than half of American adults do not have a landline phone, according to the most recent estimate from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Rasmussen did not provide more information about how the panel it uses is recruited.In contrast, a Gallup poll finds that based on a weekly average, Trump had an approval rating of 39 percent as of Sunday. That figure is lower than Obama\'s rating of 49 percent during the comparable time period, according to Gallup.A new poll last week by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found Trump\'s approval rate to be 42 percent, in the ballpark of Gallup\'s.Neither the AP nor Gallup uses automated phone calls to tally its results.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
WASHINGTON   Asserting the situation had reached "a point of crisis," President Donald Trump on Wednesday signed a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration."The lawlessness that continues at our southern border is fundamentally incompatible with the safety, security, and sovereignty of the American people," Trump wrote in a memo authorizing the move, adding that his administration had "no choice but to act."The announcement came hours after Trump pledged "strong action today" on immigration and a day after he said he announced he wanted to use the military to secure the southern border until his long-promised, stalled border wall is erected.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said she had been working with governors of the southwest border states to develop agreements on where and how many Guardsmen will be deployed.She suggested some troops could begin arriving as soon as Wednesday night, though other administration officials cautioned that details on troop levels, locations and timing were still being worked out.Trump has been frustrated by slow action on building his "big, beautiful wall" along the Mexican border  the signature promise of his campaign  as well as a recent uptick in illegal border crossings, which had plunged during the early months of his presidency, giving Trump an accomplishment to point to when he had few.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support.Nielsen said the effort would be similar to a 2006 operation in which President George W. Bush deployed troops to help U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel with non-law enforcement duties while additional border agents were hired and trained. President Barack Obama also sent about 1,200 troops in 2010 to beef up efforts against drug smuggling and illegal immigration.Nielsen said her department had developed a list of locations where it would like assistance on things like aerial surveillance and other support, and was discussing with the governors how to facilitate the plans. She declined to say how many personnel would be needed or how much the operation would cost, but she insisted, "It will be as many as is needed to fill the gaps that we have today."One congressional aide said that lawmakers anticipate 300 to 1,200 troops will be deployed and that the cost was expected to be at least $60 million to $120 million a year. The Pentagon would probably need authorization from Congress for any funding beyond a few months, said the aide, who wasn\'t authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.Under the mechanism the administration is looking to use, the Guard would not be mobilized as a federal force. Instead, governors would control the Guard within their states.Governors of the four U.S. states bordering Mexico were largely supportive of the move. The office of California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat who has sparred with Trump on immigration issues, said any federal request would be promptly reviewed to determine how the state could best offer its assistance.The Mexican foreign ministry said Nielsen told Mexico\'s top diplomat that troops deployed to the border "will not carry arms or carry out migration or customs control activities."Senators in Mexico urged President Enrique Pena Nieto to temporarily suspend cooperation with the U.S. on immigration and security issues. In a nonbinding statement approved unanimously Wednesday, the senators asked Mexico\'s government to freeze joint efforts "in the fight against transnational organized crime" until Trump starts acting "with the civility and respect that the people of Mexico deserve."Trump first revealed Tuesday that he\'d been discussing the idea of using the military at the border with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis."We\'re going to be doing things militarily. Until we can have a wall and proper security, we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump said.He spent the first months of his presidency bragging about a dramatic drop in illegal border crossings, which some DHS officials had even dubbed the "Trump effect." Indeed, arrests at the border last April were at the lowest level since DHS was created in 2003, and the 2017 fiscal year saw a 45-year low for Border Patrol arrests.But the numbers have been slowly ticking up since last April and are now on par with many months of the Obama administration. New statistics released Wednesday show about 50,000 arrests of people trying to cross the southwest border last month, a 37 percent increase from the previous month, and a 203 percent increase compared to March 2017. The monthly increase follows typical seasonal fluctuations.Trump\'s new focus on hard-line immigration policies appears aimed, at least in part, in drawing a political contrast with Democrats heading into the midterm elections. He has also been under growing pressure from conservative backers who have accused him of betraying his base for not delivering on the wall, and he was set off by images played on his favorite network, Fox News, of a "caravan" of migrants making their way through Mexico.In Texas, which already has about 100 National Guard members stationed on the border, Republican Gov. Greg Abbott, said the president\'s decision "reinforces Texas\' longstanding commitment to secure our southern border and uphold the Rule of Law."New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez, a Republican, said she appreciated the Trump administration\'s efforts to involve states in the effort to better secure the border. Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, also a Republican, tweeted that his state "welcomes the deployment of National Guard to the border. Washington has ignored this issue for too long and help is needed."___Associated Press writers Lolita C. Baldor, Matthew Daly and Robert Burns in Washington and Nomaan Merchant in Houston contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump is not attacking the business sector with his recent critiques of Amazon.com Inc but wants the online retailer to do more when it comes to taxes, his economic adviser said on Wednesday."His view on Amazon is we\'ve got to have a level playing field with regards to taxes," Kudlow told reporters at the White House. "They have improved their tax collections, but more can be done."Trump, a Republican, has been harshly critical of the company in recent days, making unsubstantiated claims that the U.S. Postal Service is losing money shipping Amazon\'s packages and accusing the retailer of not paying enough taxes.Shares of Amazon have slumped, and on Wednesday were down 0.3 percent in mid-day trade on the Nasdaq amid a wider losses on Wall Street over the latest U.S.-China trade spat that has drawn in the technology sector. [.N]Seattle-based Amazon voluntarily collects state sales tax on items it sells direct to customers in all 45 states that impose one, but is not required to collect taxes on third-party sellers using its Marketplace service.Asked about that, and the bulk shipping rate that Amazon and other companies pay, Kudlow said: "There\'s a lot of glitches in that" but gave no other details.Representatives for the retailer could not be immediately reached for comment.(Reporting by Steve Holland and Susan Heavey; Editing by Doina Chiacu and Jeffrey Benkoe)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting this week to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer to defeat Islamic State but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.Trump did not approve a specific withdrawal timetable at Tuesday\'s meeting, the official said. He wants to ensure Islamic State militants are defeated but wants other countries in the region and the United Nations to step up and help provide stability in Syria, the official said."Were not going to immediately withdraw but neither is the president willing to back a long-term commitment," the official said.Trump had signalled his desire to get U.S. forces out of Syria in a speech last Thursday in Ohio, and officials said he had privately been pressing for an early withdrawal in talks with his national security aides.Trump told a news conference on Tuesday with Baltic leaders that the United States was very successful against Islamic State but that "sometimes its time to come back home."His advisers have been urging him to maintain at least a small force in Syria to ensure the militants are defeated and to prevent Syrian President Bashar al-Assad\'s ally Iran from gaining an important foothold.The United States is conducting air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including special operations forces whose advice has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State, also known as ISIS.White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders rejected concerns that a U.S. withdrawal from Syria might encourage deeper Iranian involvement in the country, saying U.S. allies and partners in the region could help with security."The purpose would be to ... train local enforcement as well as have our allies and partners in the region who have a lot more at risk to put more skin into the game," Sanders told a briefing. "Certainly that\'s something that the president wants to see happen, for them to step up and for them to do more."Sanders did not say which regional partners might play a role in Syria, but Trump has said Saudi Arabia should pay more if it wants the United States to remain.The White House said in a statement on Wednesday that the United States remained committed to eliminating ISIS in Syria, but it added that the U.S. military mission was "coming to a rapid end, with ISIS being almost completely destroyed."U.S. Army General Joseph Votel, who oversees U.S. troops in the Middle East as the head of Central Command, estimated on Tuesday that more than 90 percent of the groups territory in Syria had been taken back since 2014.In the National Security Council meeting, Trump made clear that he did not want to stay in Syria for a lengthy period. The senior official said the impression Trump left was that he would like to withdraw in a year or less."He\'s not going to tolerate several years to a half decade," the official said.Brett McGurk, the U.S. special envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, on Tuesday said: "We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn\'t over and we are going to complete that mission."(Reporting by Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Jonathan Landay, Doina Chiacu and Phil Stewart; Editing by Alistair Bell and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his "big, beautiful wall" is erected.He said during a news conference Tuesday: "Until we can have a wall and proper security, we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military."He has been frustrated by the lack of progress on fulfilling the signature promise of his campaign.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support.The administration appears to be considering a model similar to a 2006 operation deployed by President George W. Bush
WASHINGTON   White House officials sounded increasingly doubtful Thursday about the future of embattled Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, even as President Donald Trump appeared to throw him a public lifeline.Speaking Thursday to reporters aboard Air Force One, Trump used a series of superlatives to describe Pruitt."I think he\'s done a fantastic job," the president said. "I think he\'s done an incredible job. He\'s been very courageous. It hasn\'t been easy, but I think he\'s done a fantastic job. I think he\'ll be fine. "That was contrasted by more tepid remarks earlier from White House deputy press secretary Hogan Gidley."They say we all serve at the pleasure of the president," Gidley told reporters. "The president himself said he had confidence (in Pruitt), and so that\'s where we stand today."Pruitt has been under fire for days amid numerous ethics questions, including his rental of a bargain-priced Capitol Hill condo with ties to a fossil fuels lobbyist. If Trump were to fire him, he would be the fourth agency head ousted in the Trump administration\'s first 15 months.Trump has often lavished praise on Pruitt, a former Oklahoma attorney general who has worked relentlessly to scrap, delay or rewrite Obama-era environmental regulations opposed by the oil, gas and coal industries.But he also has publicly expressed support for other administration officials who were fired or resigned, right up until sending tweets announcing their departure.A review of Pruitt\'s ethical conduct by White House officials is underway, adding to other probes already being conducted by congressional committees and EPA\'s inspector general into outsized spending on luxury air travel and unusual security precautions.The ranking Democrat on the House oversight committee, Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland, called Thursday for Pruitt to appear on Capitol Hill next week to provide sworn testimony. In a letter to the committee chairman, Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican, Cummings said EPA had failed to fully comply with prior demands for Pruitt\'s travel records and requested that the documents be subpoenaed.The New York Times reported Thursday that at least five EPA officials were reassigned or demoted after pushing back against spending requests that included a $100,000-a-month private jet membership, a bulletproof vehicle and $70,000 to replace two desks in the administrator\'s office suite. None of those purchases were approved, but Pruitt is reported to have gotten an ornate refurbished desk comparable in grandeur to the one in the Oval Office.CBS News first reported that the head of Pruitt\'s security detail was demoted last year after the career employee refused the administrator\'s demand to use the lights and sirens on his EPA vehicle to get him through D.C. traffic faster.Meanwhile, an EPA ethics official said Wednesday he wasn\'t provided all of the relevant "factual information" before determining last week that Pruitt\'s $50-a-night rental was not an ethics violation.EPA lawyer Kevin Minoli said his finding that Pruitt was paying fair-market value was based on the assumption that Pruitt occupied only one bedroom for $50 a night, as outlined in the lease.Media reports later disclosed that Pruitt\'s college-aged daughter occupied a second bedroom in the unit while she interned at the White House last summer. Minoli said he did not consider the value of a second room in his analysis.Pruitt paid about $1,000 a month, less than a third of what Minoli\'s review found nearby two-bedroom homes listed for. The Associated Press obtained a copy of Minoli\'s letter, which was first reported by CNN.Pruitt had gone on the offensive Wednesday, trying to shore up his position in a series of interviews with Fox News and conservative media outlets during which he continued to suggest he had lived alone.White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Wednesday that Trump is not OK with some of the details that have emerged, including news this week of enormous raises awarded to two of Pruitt\'s close aides. In a combative Fox News interview, Pruitt said he didn\'t approve the raises and doesn\'t know who did.Rep. Elise Stefanik of New York on Thursday became the third House Republican to say Pruitt should go, joining a growing chorus of Democrats and environmentalists. She was speaking to about 200 constituents in her home district.Amid the ethics cloud, one of Pruitt\'s closest aides has resigned. Samantha Dravis served as his senior counsel and associate administrator for policy. EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said Thursday that Dravis, 34, was leaving to pursue other opportunities.Dravis previously worked for a fundraising group founded by Pruitt before being hired at EPA. She often accompanied the administrator on his frequent trips across the country and oversees.The condo rented by Pruitt is co-owned by the wife of J. Steven Hart, chairman and CEO of the powerhouse lobbying firm Williams & Jensen.On Pruitt\'s lease, a copy of which was reviewed by AP, Steven Hart\'s name was originally typed in as "landlord" but was scratched out. The name of his wife, health care lobbyist Vicki Hart, was scribbled in.Federal disclosure reports show Hart\'s firm lobbied EPA, including Pruitt himself, extensively over the past year.The Associated Press reported last week that while living in the Hart condo he met in his EPA office with a lobbyist from Hart\'s firm and two executives from an energy company seeking to scuttle tighter pollution standards for coal-fired power plants.Beyond the question of whether Pruitt paid a fair-market value for the rental, Hart\'s business interests potentially raise other ethics issues that Minoli said he did not consider as part of his earlier review of whether the favorable lease constituted an improper gift to Pruitt from the lobbyist.Ethics rules covering federal officials say they must remain impartial when making regulatory decisions and can\'t show favoritism. Pruitt also signed an ethics pledge when joining the Trump administration in which he promised not to accept gifts from lobbyists.But, ultimately, it\'s up to the president to determine whether Pruitt goes or stays."I\'ll make that determination," Trump said when asked whether he was bothered by the ethics issues surrounding Pruitt. "But he\'s a good man, he\'s done a terrific job. But I\'ll take a look at it."___Associated Press reporters Zeke Miller, Catherine Lucey and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.___
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump persists in using a phony number to justify his market-shaking trade actions against China.TRUMP tweets Wednesday: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S. Now we have a Trade Deficit of $500 Billion a year, with Intellectual Property Theft of another $300 Billion. We cannot let this continue!" "When you\'re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can\'t lose!"THE FACTS: He overstates the trade deficit by $163 billion.He does this by counting Americans\' purchases of goods from China as a loss for the U.S., while ignoring what China buys from the U.S. He also ignores another big part of the equation  trade in services.Last year, Americans bought about $505.6 billion in goods from China while China bought about $130.4 billion in goods from the U.S. So the actual trade deficit in goods was just over $375 billion.Factor in trade in services and the actual U.S trade deficit with China was $337 billion.As for intellectual property theft, it\'s not clear where Trump gets his figure of $300 billion, though it may be a plausible estimate.Illicit activities such as counterfeit goods, pirated software, theft of trade secrets and copyright and trademark infringement cannot be precisely measured. An independent bipartisan U.S. commission estimated that U.S. interests lost $300 billion from global intellectual property theft in 2013, with China the main culprit. The commission, in a 2017 update, gave a wide-ranging estimate, $225 billion to $600 billion, with thefts led by "thousands of Chinese actors."The Trump administration this week announced planned tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports; Beijing responded with plans to penalize imports from the U.S. by the same amount. This followed an opening salvo of U.S. penalties on steel and aluminum imports from overseas, including China, and Beijing\'s retaliatory taxes on $3 billion of U.S. products.The escalating dispute between the world\'s two largest economies has roiled global markets. The S&P 500 has fallen more than 4 percent since March 1.___2017 U.S. trade statistics: https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/Press-Release/current_press_release/exh20.pdfIntellectual property theft report: http://www.ipcommission.org/report/IP_Commission_Report_Update_2017.pdf___Associated Press writers Christopher Rugaber and Josh Boak contributed to this report.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bd
WASHINGTON   Special counsel Robert Mueller\'s team of prosecutors has informed President Donald Trump\'s attorneys that the president is not currently considered a criminal target in the Russia investigation, according to a person familiar with the conversation.The person, who was not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations and spoke on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press on Wednesday that the president is considered a subject of Mueller\'s probe  not a target. A subject is typically someone whose conduct is of interest to investigators but prosecutors are not certain they\'ve gathered enough evidence to bring charges.The designation could change at any time, though. The development was first reported Tuesday by The Washington Post.Trump\'s designation as a subject came up as prosecutors and the president\'s legal team negotiate the terms of an interview with him. The president has said he wants to speak with Mueller\'s team, but his lawyers have not publicly committed to allowing him to be questioned.On Wednesday, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to say whether the president remains willing to be questioned. In response to a question about the president being a subject, not a target, of the investigation, Sanders reiterated the president\'s claim that his campaign didn\'t collude with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign."We know what we did and what we didn\'t do, so none of this comes as much of a surprise," Sanders said. She referred further questions to Trump\'s attorneys.Trump attorney Jay Sekulow declined to confirm or discuss the conversations with Mueller, saying: "We do not discuss real or alleged conversations between our legal team and the Office of Special Counsel." White House lawyer Ty Cobb declined to comment.The Justice Department typically treats people involved in investigations as witnesses, subjects or targets. Mueller\'s determination that Trump is a subject suggests he\'s more pivotal to the investigation than a mere witness, a designation for someone who has observed events of interest to agents and prosecutors."The government will say you\'re a subject trending to witness or you\'re a subject trending toward target," said Sharon McCarthy, a former federal prosecutor in Manhattan.Although targets tend to be people the government is gathering evidence against with the goal of prosecuting, subjects have a much looser, broader definition."A subject means we\'re still looking at you," McCarthy said. "You\'re a person of interest in this investigation."Still, the import of the designation wasn\'t immediately clear. It is not known, for instance, if Mueller\'s office has concluded that, at the moment, there is insufficient evidence to consider Trump a target. It is also possible that prosecutors agree they are bound by a Justice Department legal opinion that contends that a sitting president cannot be indicted.A grand jury is the way indictments are issued. Yet the White House witnesses with the most direct information about Trump\'s actions in the White House have spoken privately with Mueller\'s team instead of being summoned before the grand jury, a possible indication that their statements are being used for the purposes of assembling a report rather than pursuing criminal charges.Mueller\'s team has signaled that they\'re interested in discussing several key episodes in the early parts of the Trump administration as they probe possible obstruction of justice.Prosecutors have told the legal team they want to question Trump about the firings of former FBI Director James Comey and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.Investigators want to discuss conversations Trump had with Comey in which the former FBI director has said the president encouraged him to end an active investigation into Flynn. They\'re also interested in the events leading up to Flynn\'s February 2017 firing.Investigators have said they want to hear from the president to understand his intent and thinking during those events.___Associated Press writers Eric Tucker and Darlene Superville contributed to this report.___
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump is dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria as he pushes for a quick military withdrawal, Trump administration officials said Wednesday, abandoning plans to stay long-term to stabilize the country and prevent the Islamic State group from re-emerging.Trump has given no formal order to pull out the 2,000 U.S. troops currently in Syria, nor offered a public timetable, other than to say the United States will pull out just as soon as the last remaining IS fighters can be vanquished. But Trump has signaled to his advisers that ideally, he wants all troops out within six months, according to three U.S. officials - a finale that would come shortly before the U.S. midterm elections.In his haste to withdraw from Syria, Trump stands alone. The Pentagon, the State Department and CIA are all deeply concerned about the potential ramifications if the U.S. leaves behind a power vacuum in Syria, as are Israel, Arab leaders and other nations in the U.S.-led coalition that has fought IS in Iraq and Syria since 2014.The president made clear his patience was running out as he met top national security aides on Tuesday. Yet the meeting concluded with no hard-and-fast deadline handed down, leaving Trump\'s team struggling to deduce how fast is fast enough for Trump, according to officials briefed on the meeting who weren\'t authorized to discuss it and requested anonymity.The tense disagreement between Trump and his team has played out in chaotic and increasingly public fashion. On Tuesday, before the Syria meeting, Trump was telling television cameras he wanted to "get out," just as the U.S. special envoy for fighting IS insisted "our mission isn\'t over." And on Wednesday, the White House issued a statement that declared the IS mission is "coming to a rapid end" but avoided specifics altogether."We will continue to consult with our allies and friends regarding future plans," said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Urging him to slow down, Trump\'s aides have been emphasizing that IS fighters remain active in Syria, evidence that Trump\'s own, publicly stated objective - the total defeat of IS - has yet to be met. Officials said the U.S. is tracking two pockets where IS remains viable - one in the Middle Euphrates River Valley region, another along the Iraq-Syria border. And despite the White House\'s insistence that the group is "almost completely defeated," a string of renewed IS attacks in recent weeks has raised fears about a resurgence.Regardless of exactly when the troops leave, the decision to remove them as soon as possible has forced an immediate realignment of long-term U.S. objectives in the country, officials said.With no military presence to ensure security for American personnel, the U.S. will have to call off other planned operations to clear land mines, restore basic services like water and electricity, and create political conditions needed to resolve Syria\'s civil war. Already, Trump has put an indefinite hold on $200 million he pledged previously for those operations.Those efforts by U.S. diplomats and aid workers have been seen as critical to ensuring that Syria\'s territory isn\'t exploited in the future by IS remnants, other extremists or Iran. They formed a key component of Trumps new Syria strategy, laid out by then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in a speech in January declaring it "vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria." But the speech, while formally approved by the White House, angered Trump, officials said, and the president fired Tillerson last month.Instead, Trump will leave stabilizing Syria to other nations, in line with his long-stated view that the United States shoulders too much of global costs and should put "America first.""I want to get out," Trump said. "I want to bring our troops back home. I want to start rebuilding our nation."Trump has asked Saudi Arabia, which is keenly interested in keeping Iran out of Syria, to contribute $4 billion toward reconstruction and stabilization efforts that the U.S. no longer plans to undertake. He came away from a phone call Monday with King Salman confident that the king will agree to give the money, two U.S. officials briefed on the conversation said. The Saudi Embassy in Washington did not immediately comment.Securing foreign dollars while pulling out troops could allow Trump to argue before the November midterms that he\'s shifted the burden of resolving far-flung crises away from America. But ceding influence over Syrian territory could hand more control to countries whose interests in the Middle East are sharply at odds with the United States.As the White House was talking up a U.S. withdrawal on Wednesday, the leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran were meeting in Ankara to hash out their own plans for Syria\'s future, including a continued Turkish operation to oust U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters from northern Syria. The three nations have been pushing their own diplomatic track for resolving Syria\'s civil war, even as the U.S. tries to rejuvenate United Nations-led talks."We have agreed to expand the entire range of our trilateral cooperation in Syria," Russian President Vladimir Putin said in the Turkish capital, claiming credit on the trio\'s behalf for the Islamic State group\'s near-defeat.Russia has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad for years, with increasing help from Iranian-backed Shiite militias such as Hezbollah - to the dismay of U.S. allies such as Israel. A phone call Wednesday between Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu grew tense because of the Israeli leader\'s concerns that the U.S. will withdraw and allow Israel\'s enemies to gain a further foothold in a neighboring country, two U.S. officials said.Nor is it clear that the U.S. has capable local partners lined up to handle basic security and prevent a total collapse following a precipitous U.S. pullout - a prospect that offers unsettling echoes of the 2011 U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. As a candidate, Trump derided President Barack Obama for that decision and argued that the resulting power vacuum enabled the formation of the Islamic State.The Syrian Kurds, the most effective fighting force in Syria aligned with Washington, recently shifted to fighting Turkish forces in the area of Afrin. That forced a pause in operations against the main IS holdout in Syria. The Pentagon has warned that the distraction could give IS the reprieve it needs to regroup after four years of being pummeled.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller, Matthew Lee, Robert Burns, Catherine Lucey and Darlene Superville in Washington and Philip Issa in Beirut contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump, unable to get the U.S. Congress or Mexico to fully fund his border wall, will post National Guard troops along the Mexican frontier, officials said on Wednesday, in a move that was likely to escalate tensions with a key U.S. ally.The Trump administration was working with the governors of the four southwestern U.S. states along the border to deploy the Guard, said Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, adding that the troops would not be involved in law enforcement.In a supporting role, possibly for aerial reconnaissance, the Guard will help U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel with stopping illegal immigrants from entering the country, Nielsen said at a White House briefing with reporters.In a memorandum laying out the new initiative, Trump directed Defense Secretary James Mattis to request the use of National Guard personnel to help the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border.He ordered Mattis, Nielsen and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to submit a report within 30 days detailing an action plan and recommendations for any other executive authorities to be invoked to protect the border.The administration\'s move drew criticism from Democrats. Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado said Trump has failed to engage with lawmakers on bipartisan immigration reform that would satisfy both parties\' agendas on the volatile issue."Unfortunately, the president failed to lead, and rather than find real solutions on immigration, he continues to stoke fear," Bennet said in a statement.The Mexican government has told the United States that "if the announced deployment of the National Guard turned into a militarization of the border, that would gravely damage the bilateral relationship," Mexico\'s Foreign Ministry said.It said Nielsen discussed the planned National Guard deployment with Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray on Wednesday and told him the troops will not carry arms.In keeping with a theme he often invoked as a candidate in 2016 and has continually returned to since taking office, Republican Trump has sharpened his anti-immigrant rhetoric, warning that illegal immigrants threaten U.S. safety and jobs.His plan to deploy troops comes after his failure so far to persuade either the Mexican government or the U.S. Congress to fully fund a wall he wants to build along the border.At the same time, the Republican-controlled Congress has failed to meaningfully overhaul U.S. immigration law, despite demands from Trump for a deal. With campaigning by lawmakers for November\'s midterm congressional elections getting under way, little legislative action was expected in months ahead.The National Guard is a reserve wing of the U.S. armed forces that is partially under the authority of governors.Trump\'s plans were hailed as welcome and needed by the Republican governors of Arizona and Texas.The California National Guard will promptly review Trump\'s request "to determine how best we can assist our federal partners," said a spokesman for the state\'s unit in a statement. He added he was speaking for Governor Jerry Brown, a Democrat.WALL ON BASES?Trump last month signed a federal spending bill that contained $1.6 billion to pay for six months of work on his wall. He had asked for $25 billion for it.Nielsen told reporters the administration was looking into possibly constructing some wall on border land owned by the U.S. military.After Nielsen spoke, a senior administration official said, "We expect personnel to be on the border quickly but at this time we don\'t have a date, but that will be coming soon."Many National Guard personnel are federally funded and can be put under the direction of Washington when they are carrying out federal missions. There are thousands of U.S. National Guard now serving on federal missions, including in Afghanistan.Nielsen did not give details on the number of the troops to be deployed to the border or the cost of the operation.She said the administration had drafted legislation and would be asking Congress to provide the legal authority and resources to address "this crisis at our borders." She said the Guard could conduct aerial surveillance along the border.Nielsen said that despite steps taken by the administration, drug smuggling, illegal immigration and dangerous gang activity across the border were at unacceptable levels."Until we can have a wall and proper security we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump told reporters at the White House on Tuesday, lamenting what he called "horrible" U.S. laws that left the border poorly protected.On Wednesday, he said in a tweet: "Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico & Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW!"While the Trump administration speaks of an immigration "crisis" on the border, U.S. Border Patrol statistics show the fewest apprehensions of illegal immigrants on the border in 46 years. In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2017, there were 303,916 such arrests, the lowest level since fiscal 1971.Under Republican President George W. Bush, the National Guard between 2006 and 2008 provided border-related intelligence analysis, but had no direct law enforcement role.In 2010, President Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support to U.S. Border Patrol agents.(Reporting by Jeff Mason, Richard Cowan and Phil Stewart in Washington, Ben Klayman in Chicago and Julia Love in Mexico City; Writing by Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Sandra Maler)
TOKYO   Japanese government officials are bracing for Donald Trump to get tough in trade talks, and are particularly anxious that the U.S. president could target Prime Minister Shinzo Abe\'s weak-yen policies.The deal Trump clinched with South Korea last month, which was reached in unusually quick negotiations and included a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation, was the kind of agreement Tokyo fears most.The officials told Reuters that they worry that similar tactics could be used against Tokyo when Trump meets Abe for a summit at Mar-a-Lago, the president\'s Florida resort, later this month.If Trump forces Bank of Japan and currency policy into discussions, Japanese policymakers dont have an obvious way to appease him, especially given the unpredictable nature of his attacks.The biggest risk is if Trump links trade with currency policy and accuses Japan of keeping the yen artificially weak through ultra-easy monetary policy, especially as he seeks to appeal to voters ahead of Novembers mid-term U.S. congressional elections. Back in January 2017, Trump alleged that Japan used its "money supply" to weaken the yen and give exporters an unfair advantage.Any such concerted pressure could bind Tokyo\'s hands in dealing with a climb in the yen, which would hurt the nations export-reliant economy that has been growing but may not be resilient to such a sideswipe."As mid-term elections draw near, it\'s possible Washington could put Japan\'s currency policy to notice," said a Japanese government official with knowledge of the negotiations.Another official said: "It\'s hard to predict what Trump would say, so the BOJ\'s policy could come under fire. It\'s not an immediate risk but something in everyone\'s mind.WARY OF SENDING SIGNALTo be sure, the side agreement on the won that South Korea agreed to is not binding and focuses on what Japan already does  disclose details on currency intervention such as how much was spent and when. Still, Japan is wary of sending out any signal to markets that Trump is attacking Japans currency policy and that this could in any way prevent Tokyo from acting to restrain excessive yen gains.When Abe and Trump met in February 2017, they kicked off a bilateral economic dialogue led by their deputies to discuss a series of issues, including trade, infrastructure and technical aid.By broadening the agenda, Japan has managed so far to avert direct U.S. demands for negotiations over a bilateral trade pact, known as a free trade agreement (FTA).Japan has long upheld a multilateral framework as its export-reliant economy has benefited greatly from global free trade. This approach helps Japan diffuse direct pressure from countries like the United States to open up its politically sensitive markets, such as agriculture.Japanese officials say they will resist two-way trade deals with the United States at the summit, even if that reduces the chance of gaining exemptions for Washington\'s recently introduced steel and aluminum tariffs. Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union from these import duties. South Korea avoided tariffs but at a cost of agreeing to export quotas.There are now major questions about whether the Japanese multilateral approach will be good enough for Trump.The U.S. Trade Representative last week criticized what it said were non-tariff barriers to the Japanese car market and called for greater access to Japan for American beef and rice."The United States is only interested in a bilateral deal and probably won\'t listen to Japanese calls for a multilateral approach on trade," said Naoyuki Shinohara, Japan\'s former top currency diplomat who retains close contact with incumbent policymakers."Japan will eventually have to enter FTA talks" and face U.S. pressure to open up its auto and farm markets, he said.BOJ\'S COMMUNICATION CHALLENGESome officials say Japan is in a stronger position than South Korea and won\'t have to compromise as much. That is because it still does not have a bilateral FTA, is transparent on currency policy and hasn\'t intervened in the currency market since northeastern Japan was hit by a massive earthquake and resulting tsunami in 2011."Japan has far more to lose from a bilateral FTA. It doesn\'t make sense to do this to avoid tariffs," said a third government official directly involved in bilateral negotiations. "We\'ll never allow currency issues be tied to trade. That\'s absolutely unacceptable."A renewed attack on Japan\'s currency policy will be damaging particularly since Tokyo has hardly any ammunition left to fight another yen spike.Fears of a trade war have boosted investors\' demand for the safe-haven yen and pushed up the Japanese currency to around 106 against the dollar, significantly stronger than the 109-level on which many exporters base their earnings forecasts for the current fiscal year to March 2019.Japanese policymakers have warned that the yen\'s 7 percent gain against the dollar this year is too volatile a move, though such verbal warnings have had little effect in keeping yen rises in check.While currency intervention hasnt been ruled out if the yen spikes to less than 100 to the dollar, gaining U.S. consent for such a move would be extremely hard, the officials say.That leaves monetary policy as a last resort, though the BOJ too has barely any tools left to fight a currency gain or another recession after BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda\'s "bazooka" stimulus that started in 2013.The BOJ\'s huge buying has dried up bond market liquidity and years of near-zero interest rates have eroded bank profits, raising concern that more easing could do more harm than good.Even maintaining the current policy, which pegs Japanese government bond yields at zero even as U.S. interest rates rise, could draw U.S. heat if Washington perceives it as intended to weaken the yen, some analysts say.The BOJs current framework is clearly a weak-yen policy. Japan would struggle to explain otherwise if it comes under heat by the United States, said Yasuhide Yajima, chief economist at NLI Research Institute.Hiroshi Watanabe, a former top Japanese currency diplomat, said Tokyo could face criticism if the dollar rises to around 115 yen and the U.S.-Japan interest rate gap widens to around 350 basis points."The BOJ should be mindful that at some point, the United States could argue that it\'s using monetary policy" to keep the yen weak, he said.(Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Martin Howell)
MOSCOW   Russia long saw Donald Trump as the wild card in its strategy to improve relations with the United States.But 14 months after he became U.S. president, Moscow is close to viewing him as a busted flush, unable to enact his pledge for better ties.Trump reluctantly signed off on new sanctions against Moscow last summer over allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Last week he backed the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats and the closure of Russia\'s Seattle consulate over the poisoning of an ex-Russian agent in Britain.After betting the farm on Trump, Russia has seen relations with the West sink so low that there is talk of a new Cold War. President Vladimir Putin\'s options for a change of strategy, banking less on Trump and his ability to sway those around him on Russia, is severely limited as he prepares for a new term.One option being explored is to try to widen splits in the West by courting France and Germany. Another is to draw closer to China and India. But the relationship with Washington is still seen in Moscow as central to Russian foreign policy."Washington has become fixated with the fight against a non-existent, so-called Russian threat," Sergei Naryshkin, Russia\'s foreign intelligence agency chief, said on Wednesday."This has reached such proportions and acquired such absurd characteristics that it\'s possible to speak of a return to the dark times of the Cold War."Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said earlier this week that the standoff was worse than during the Cold War between East and West after World War Two."...Then some kind of rules and appearances were kept up. Now, as I see it, our Western partners ... have cast aside all proprieties," Lavrov said.The Cold War saw the Soviet Union square off against the United States, with the threat of nuclear war hanging over the world until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.But the standoff was kept under control by arms treaties, superpower summits and both proscribed and informal rules of engagement.The new standoff, raw and unpredictable, has been likened to a "fight without rules" by Konstantin Kosachev, head of the upper house of Russian parliament\'s foreign affairs committee.The risk of miscommunication, miscalculation and sudden escalation into a hot war is higher than during the original Cold War, he says.ARCH HAWKSTrump\'s appointment of Mike Pompeo and John Bolton, whom Moscow regards as arch Russia hawks, to key foreign policy posts last month has further soured the mood in Moscow, say analysts and people close to Russian decision makers.When it comes to the United States, these sources say Moscow is not willing to change course, make concessions or launch new initiatives.Russia will therefore continue to engage only if and when the United States is ready to do so, and, if faced with more hostile action - such as further diplomatic expulsions - will respond in kind, the people close to decision makers say."All we can do is keep the doors open for negotiation and  wait and see what will happen. That\'s the predominant view," said Andrey Kortunov, head of a think-tank close to the Russian Foreign Ministry.In particular, Moscow is keeping the door open to a possible summit between Trump and Putin, an idea floated by Trump, and is also keen for U.S.-Russia talks on strategic nuclear stability to avoid a costly arms race.But its baseline scenario is a downward spiral in ties."Washington is the standard bearer of a new Cold War,"  Fyodor Lukyanov, a foreign policy expert close to the Kremlin, wrote in government daily Rossiyskaya Gazeta after last week\'s  U.S. diplomatic expulsions."There\'s no point in hoping for an improvement in ties or any progress in any area for the foreseeable future," said Lukyanov, who has warned the Russian elite to brace for sweeping Iran-style financial sanctions.EASTWARDS, FRANCO-GERMAN PIVOTWhile better ties with the United States are seen as a remote possibility, improved relations with France and Germany are seen as "more interesting opportunities for political investment," said Kortunov.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov praised France\'s "constructive position" after Paris confirmed French President Emmanuel Macron would still visit Russia in May despite tensions. Alexei Pushkov, a senator specializing in foreign policy, has lauded German Chancellor Angela Merkel\'s decision to back Russia\'s proposed Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.The planned pipeline will connect Germany and Russia, despite concerns from other EU nations who fear it will harm the bloc\'s energy security.Lukyanov said Moscow should look to beef up ties with Beijing and Delhi as they had "freedom to maneuver" on the world stage and were not vulnerable to Western pressure on Russia.Moscow believes the only wild card it has with Washington is Trump who, in Russian eyes, appears to have been playing a game of good cop bad cop, offering Russia a glimmer of hope, while Congress and his administration read Russia the riot act.Russia casts Trump as a hostage of the U.S. political establishment who it accuses of reducing his room for maneuver by boxing him in with the special investigation into his associates\' possible collusion with Moscow and what Russia says are false allegations it meddled in U.S. politics.Its disappointment with Trump has unfolded in stages.Trumps decision to launch a missile strike against a Syrian air base, drop a large bomb in Afghanistan in an attack on Islamic militants and stick with Obama-era policies over Russia\'s annexation of the Crimea region from Ukraine, and, until recently, his tough talk on North Korea, went down badly in Moscow.And initial euphoria over his victory gave way to dismay last summer when the man they hoped would end U.S. sanctions reluctantly reinforced the penalties.His decision to back the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats over the Skripal affair was a new inflection point."Increasingly, diplomacy is becoming irrelevant in Russian-U.S. relations," Dmitri Trenin, a former colonel in the Russian army and director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, said of the move."It seems to be the time to hit/retaliate/prepare for a fight."Trump\'s approval of the expulsions was seen as a bad omen for his relationship with Putin by an online Russian newspaper viewed as close to the Russian presidential administration."If 14 months after taking office Trump has not won himself freedom of maneuver, it\'s very hard to count on him getting it in what\'s left of his presidential time," wrote Vzglyad.Trump\'s congratulatory phone call to Putin after the Russian leader\'s re-election, his talk of a U.S.-Russia summit in the same call, and his statement on Tuesday saying it would be "a great thing" if he had a "very good relationship" with Putin have provided small shards of hope to Moscow."In theory, one can imagine that if President Trump somehow clears himself of the allegations of collusion with Russia .. he might get out of the cage and exercise a little bit more autonomy in rebuilding this relationship," said Kortunov, the think-tank head close to the Foreign Ministry."But these hopes are very slim."(Editing by Timothy Heritage)

WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):9:55 p.m.The Mexican foreign ministry says U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has told Mexico\'s top diplomat that U.S. National Guard troops being deployed to the border "will not carry arms or carry out migration or customs control activities."Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Videgaray is in Washington on a visit. A foreign ministry statement issued Wednesday night says Nielsen told Videgaray that the troops will only be providing support for Department of Homeland Security work.It says the deployment will be similar to ones in 2006 under President George Bush and in 2010 with President Barack Obama.Trump signed a proclamation earlier Wednesday ordering the secretary of defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and migrants.___8:30 p.m.Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey says his state welcomes the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border.In a statement Wednesday, Ducey says he looks forward to working closely with federal officials on the issue.President Donald Trump has ordered the Secretary of Defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and people.Ducey says "Washington has ignored this issue for too long and help is needed."The governor says he\'s been in touch with Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen multiple times this week and Arizona will cooperate fully with the Trump administration.___8:15 p.m.President Donald Trump has signed a proclamation directing the National Guard to be deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border.Trump says Wednesday in a memorandum to his secretaries of defense and homeland security and to his attorney general that the "situation at the border has now reached a point of crisis."The document orders the Secretary of Defense to support the Department of Homeland Security in securing the southern border to stop the flow of drugs and people.And it orders the agency heads to submit a report within 30 days outlining what other steps can be taken.Trump says that "lawlessness" at the southern border is "fundamentally incompatible with the safety, security, and sovereignty of the American people." And he says his administration "has no choice but to act."___7:35 p.m.New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez says she appreciates the Trump administration\'s efforts to involve states as the federal government takes steps to better secure the border.Martinez spokesman Mike Lonergan said Wednesday that the Republican governor offers her full support to the New Mexico National Guard as the Trump administration announced it would deploy Guardsmen to the southwest border.The governor\'s office says the U.S. wouldn\'t be in the current situation if Congress would act on immigration reforms that address border security.Martinez often has framed immigration issues as a matter of public safety for New Mexico, and she has been a proponent of close cooperation between local law enforcement and Immigration and Customs Enforcement.She clashed with Trump on his comments about Mexican immigrants during his campaign for president.___6:55 p.m.Mexican senators are urging President Enrique Pena Nieto to temporarily suspend cooperation with the U.S. on immigration and security issues, responding to angry tweets from President Donald Trump about their country.The nonbinding statement was approved unanimously Wednesday. It asks Mexico\'s government to freeze joint efforts "in the fight against transnational organized crime" until Trump acts "with the civility and respect that the people of Mexico deserve."The senators condemn the "baseless and offensive comments about Mexico and Mexicans," reject efforts to militarize the countries\' shared border and ask the U.S. Congress to insist the president deal with Mexico "on the basis of respect and collaboration."Pena Nieto told reporters his government is waiting for clarifications about U.S. intentions to send troops to the border before presenting a "very clear" position on the issue.___6:05 p.m.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott\'s office says he will add more National Guard members to the roughly 100 already deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border in the state.Abbott said in a statement Wednesday that he welcomed the Trump administration\'s announcement that it will "immediately" deploy guardsmen to the southwest border. The Republican governor said the announcement "reinforces Texas\' longstanding commitment to secure our southern border."Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry ordered 1,000 guardsmen to the border in July 2014 during a large spike in crossings by unaccompanied migrant children. State leaders announced months later that they would wind down most of that deployment.Texas also has state troopers stationed at its border to assist the Border Patrol and local law enforcement.___5:45 p.m.Republicans who lead congressional Homeland Security committees are supporting President Donald Trump\'s plan to deploy National Guard troops on the U.S.-Mexico border.Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House homeland panel, calls the move "a positive step toward providing the safety this nation has long demanded" on the border.Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, chairman of the Senate homeland panel, also backs Trump\'s action and says he is working with the administration to fix the "broken" immigration system and close legal loopholes that encourage illegal immigration.Johnson says the president and Congress have a duty to protect American citizens and secure the border.Democratic Sen. Tom Udall of New Mexico denounced the plan as "another pitiful attempt to distract attention from the dangerous chaos" Trump has created.___3:45 p.m.The Trump administration says it is working with governors to "immediately" deploy the National Guard to combat illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said Wednesday that DHS and the Pentagon will be working closely with governors in the affected states.She says that deployment will be done as expeditiously as possible and that Guard troops could begin heading to the border as soon as Wednesday night.Trump announced his plan to send the military to the border during a meeting with Baltic leaders Tuesday.Trump has been frustrated by Congress\' refusal to fund building a wall along the length of the U.S. border as well as an increase in illegal border crossings.___3:30 p.m.President Donald Trump will be signing a proclamation directing the departments of Defense and Homeland Security to work together with governors to deploy the National Guard to the southwest border.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen made the announcement at the White House on Wednesday. She says he\'ll sign the proclamation later in the day.Nielsen is also railing against the country\'s current immigration laws and calling on Congress to make changes.She says the current system "rewards bad behavior" and "it\'s time to act."She says details are still being worked out, but National Guard personnel are expected to assist with U.S. Customs and Border Protection\'s mission.Trump announced on Tuesday that he plans to deploy the military to the southern border until his long-promised wall is built.___7:35 a.m.President Donald Trump is promising "strong action today" on immigration.Trump says on Twitter: "Our Border Laws are very weak while those of Mexico & Canada are very strong. Congress must change these Obama era, and other, laws NOW! The Democrats stand in our way  they want people to pour into our country unchecked....CRIME! We will be taking strong action today."The president did not detail what that action would be. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Trump said Tuesday that wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is erected. The White House later said Trump wanted to mobilize the National Guard.___6:45 a.m.President Donald Trump wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his "big, beautiful wall" is erected.He said during a news conference Tuesday: "Until we can have a wall and proper security, we\'re going to be guarding our border with the military."He has been frustrated by the lack of progress on fulfilling the signature promise of his campaign.Federal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., unless specifically authorized by Congress. But over the past 12 years, presidents have twice sent National Guard troops to the border to bolster security and assist with surveillance and other support.The administration appears to be considering a model similar to a 2006 operation deployed by President George W. Bush.
PARIS   France and the United States are committed to stamping out Islamic State, Emmanuel Macron\'s office said on Wednesday after the French president spoke with his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump."France and the United States are determined to pursue their actions within the international coalition to fight to the end this terrorist organization," the Elysee Palace said in a statement"Nothing should distract us from the objective of preventing Islamic State\'s resurgence in the region and allowing an inclusive political process in Syria," it added.(Reporting by Leigh Thomas; editing by Richard Lough)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and Syria (all times local):11:10 a.m.The White House says the U.S. military mission to eradicate the Islamic State group in Syria is coming to a "rapid end" but offers no timetable for withdrawal.President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he wants to bring troops home to start rebuilding the U.S.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that the U.S. and its partners remain committed to eliminating the small Islamic State group presence that continues in Syria.Sanders says the administration will continue to consult with allies regarding future plans.Trump discussed Syria in a meeting with his national security team on Tuesday.___9:20 a.m.The director of national intelligence says the White House will announce a decision about U.S. involvement in Syria "relatively soon."Dan Coats told reporters Wednesday that top national security officials met Tuesday in an "all hands on deck" meeting and that "some decisions were made."President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we\'ve almost completed that task."Trump\'s comments conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries.__12:11 a.m.President Donald Trump expects to decide very quickly whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission of defeating the Islamic State group is almost completed.Trump\'s comments at a White House event on Tuesday conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of who spoke at a separate event in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group.Later on Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump\'s entire national security team strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.
WASHINGTON   The U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday that a decision had been made on the future of American troops in war-torn Syria and the White House would make it public soon.Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the decision was reached at an "all hands on deck" National Security Council meeting on Tuesday.President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable. [nL2N1RG1HN]At the same time, Trump\'s advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilize areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.Trump said at a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent."It\'s time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw American forces.The Pentagon and State Department have said a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State\'s defeat is a lasting one.(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by David Gregorio)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on embattled Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt and the ethical questions surrounding his travel and ties to Washington lobbyists (all times local):4:30 p.m.The White House says President Donald Trump is not OK with recent revelations involving embattled Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt.The statement from spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders came as Pruitt spoke in a series of interviews with Fox News and other conservative media, attempting to shore up his eroding position.Pruitt is denying he knew about big raises given to two of his closest aides while insisting he did nothing wrong in renting a bargain-priced condo tied to an energy lobbyist.Sanders said Wednesday that the White House is reviewing the allegations against Pruitt and declined to confirm reports by The Associated Press and others that the president called Pruitt in recent days to offer support.___12:07 a.m.President Donald Trump is offing a measured gesture of support for Environmental Protection Agency Aministrator Scott Pruitt. But those words of encouragement also came with a White House warning about the ethical questions surrounding his travel spending and ties to Washington lobbyists.Trump told reporters Tuesday, "I hope he\'s going to be great."  But he declined to reiterate publicly his private praise for Pruitt\'s work.In a phone call Monday, Trump told the EPA chief that "we\'ve got your back" and urged him to "keep his head up" and "keep fighting," according to two administration officials. Trump\'s call was quickly followed by one from chief of staff John Kelly, who laid out the White House\'s displeasure over being caught blindsided by some of the ethical problems raised, according to two other officials.Those officials said the praise referred to Pruitt\'s work in loosening environmental regulations and his success at getting under the skin of environmental groups. But they added that the tone of Trump\'s call was not entirely positive.
NEW YORK   The audience for the second week of ABC\'s "Roseanne" reboot was down, but not by much. The Nielsen company said that 15.2 million people watched the show on Tuesday night.That\'s off 16 percent from the 18.2 million who watched the show\'s premiere last Tuesday. With delayed viewing, that first show has already been seen by more than 25 million people.It has to be heartening to ABC that so many people who sampled the sitcom stuck with it. The audience is roughly triple what ABC drew for "The Middle" when it aired in the same time slot a year ago.President Donald Trump has taken some credit for its popularity because Roseanne Barr\'s character supports him in the show.
NEW YORK   The third wife of former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has filed for divorce.Judith Giuliani filed divorce papers Wednesday at a court in Manhattan, listing the case as "contested."The filing comes 15 years after the couple was married in Manhattan, with Donald Trump as a guest long before his successful 2016 run for the presidency on the Republican ticket.Divorce proceeding documents are not public in New York City, though the title of the case is entered into the court computer system. It was not immediately clear who will represent Giuliani.Before his third marriage, Giuliani was married for 20 years to Donna Hanover. Previously, he was married for 14 years to his second cousin, Regina Peruggi. That marriage was later annulled.
WASHINGTON   The United States plans additional responses to Russian activities that will include a number of steps to defend November congressional elections against meddling from Moscow, the top U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday.Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats said the United States would take more actions in response to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in England as well as "the entire range of malign Russian activities."U.S. President Donald Trump last month ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States and closed the Russian consulate in Seattle in response to a March 4 attack on former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia with a military-grade nerve agent.Moscow has denied responsibility for the attack and has retaliated with its own expulsions.At a breakfast with reporters, Coats was asked whether Washington would take action beyond kicking out the 60 diplomats."This is under considerable consideration and more things will be done, and soon, above where we are right now," Coats said. "I would just stay tuned on that. I think we are more and more aware of the potential for Russia to continue to engage in any number of ways relative to our elections and a lot of steps are being taken."U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election to sway the vote to Trump. A federal special counsel is investigating potential collusion by the Trump campaign with Moscow.(Reporting by Jonathan Landay; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Franklin Paul and Bill Trott)
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   Central American migrants stranded on a journey through Mexico because of U.S. President Donald Trump\'s pressure on the Mexican government say they will struggle on toward the United States, even as their "caravan" said it would disband in Mexico City.Fearful of the risks to children among the bedraggled and tired knot of travelers, the organizers of the annual caravan, U.S.-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, said it would end in the capital, not at the border as had been planned."It\'s not because of Donald Trump," said Irineo Mujica, director of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which has staged the caravan since 2010 to draw attention to migrants\' rights and help them.Mujica said the group did not want to put children on freight trains, which are traditionally used to cover part of the journey to the border. Nicknamed "la bestia" (the beast), the train is infamous for causing injury to migrants.Trump has lashed out at the caravan, accusing Mexico of failing to stop illegal immigrants heading to the border.The president took a hard line on illegal immigration during the 2016 election campaign and is frustrated by the failure of Congress to fund his long-promised border wall.Trump would sign a proclamation on Wednesday ordering the deployment of the National Guard to the border with Mexico, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said.Mexican officials, meanwhile, have screened people in the caravan, stalling it and dispersing migrants. The foreign ministry denied putting pressure on the migrants, saying that the caravan was breaking up of its own volition.By mid-afternoon on Wednesday in the southern town of Matias Romero, migrants were sprawled in the fields singing songs or tying to sleep off the searing sun.Sitting in the dust was a seven-year-old boy who removed his dirty flip-flops and splayed his feet, revealing flaking and blackened cracks between his toes from days of walking with his mother and sister from El Salvador.A number of the children in the caravan were suffering from diarrhea, vomiting, respiratory problems and dehydration, said a local doctor, Julio Cesar Iglesias.Some migrants may get permits to stay, while others will be sent back to their home countries, the Mexican government says.Hundreds of the migrants, many from Honduras, marched in  Matias Romero on Tuesday evening to draw attention to their plight near the field where they have been bivouacked since the weekend.There were shouts to oust Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez, whose disputed re-election victory in a November vote split the country.International observers criticized the result due to serious concerns over vote-rigging, though Mexico and the Trump administration recognized it a few weeks later. Some migrants in the caravan saw no future for themselves in Honduras.One of them, Maria Elena Colindres Ortega, an opponent of Hernandez and former member of the Honduran congress who is seeking U.S. political asylum, said the march on Tuesday aimed to show the migrants were not giving up."We\'re marching and moving to prove to (Trump) that we are not afraid," said Colindres Ortega, a mother of seven.Migration officials on Wednesday continued to register names and issue permits to some migrants that give them 20 days to leave Mexico - a far shorter period than the caravan has taken to reach the U.S. border in previous years, organizers said.The organizers said that on Sunday about 300 migrants, most of them men, left the group, and headed to the eastern state of Veracruz. There, according to three witnesses, four truckloads of immigration officials gave them 48 hours to disperse.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Editing by Dave Graham and Grant McCool)
MADISON, Wis.   The Latest on Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):8:45 a.m.Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker says the win by a liberal candidate for state Supreme Court deals a "serious blow" to the conservative movement.Walker is issuing the warning in a fundraising email following a torrent of tweets the Republican incumbent sent Tuesday night and Wednesday morning.Liberal Milwaukee judge Rebecca Dallet trounced conservative opponent Michael Screnock by 12 points in the election, fueling optimism among Democrats for more wins in the midterms. President Donald Trump narrowly won Wisconsin by less than 1 percentage point in 2016.Walker says the Dallet win shows "we are at risk of a Blue Wave in Wisconsin." He issued a similar warning after a Democrat won a special state Senate election in January.Walker is up for re-election to a third term in November.___12:04 a.m.Democrats in Wisconsin are crowing over capturing a state Supreme Court seat  and Republican Gov. Scott Walker is warning of a possible "blue wave" in elections later this year.Rebecca Dallet, a liberal Milwaukee judge, easily beat conservative Sauk County judge Michael Screnock on Tuesday to win the 10-year term on the court.The race was nonpartisan in name only, with national figures such as Joe Biden and Eric Holder and groups like the National Rifle Association pouring in money and endorsements.Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court races haven\'t always been reliable predictors of elections later in the year. But Democrats are eager to see momentum, especially after they won a special Senate election in January for a reliably conservative seat in the western part of the state.Donald Trump carried Wisconsin by a single point in 2016.
WASHINGTON   U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday he expects trade actions between the United States and China will likely lead to a negotiated deal, but that it was unclear whether such talks would happen by the end of May or later."It wouldn\'t be surprising at all if the net outcome of all this is some sort of a negotiation," Ross said in an interview with CNBC. "It\'s very difficult to put a specific time denomination on negotiations that are as complex as these."Ross\' comments come after China slapped retaliatory duties on a number of American products earlier on Wednesday in response to Trump\'s planned tariffs on Chinese goods, rattling global financial markets."I\'m frankly a little surprised that Wall Street was so surprised by it. This has been telegraphed for days and weeks," Ross said.U.S. President Donald Trump earlier Wednesday stood by his administration\'s actions, tweeting: "We are not in a trade war with China."Ross echoed those sentiments, telling CNBC that China\'s response was "relatively proportionate to the tariffs that we put on based on the intellectual property."He added that he also expected other countries to start "coalescing against China" over its trade practices.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Makini Brice; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
(Reuters) - Broadcom Inc said on Wednesday it had completed its move back to the United States from Singapore, weeks after President Donald Trump blocked its $117 billion offer to buy Qualcomm Inc on national security grounds.Broadcom, which was a U.S. company until it was bought in 2016 by Singapore's Avago, had announced its plan to redomicile on Nov. 2, days before making its first offer for Qualcomm.The company said it exchanged all shares of Broadcom Ltd to newly issued stock of Broadcom Inc on a one-for-one basis and that its stock would continue to trade under the same ticker.Broadcom's existing co-headquarters in San Jose, California will become its sole headquarters, the company said.The move to the United States could allow Broadcom to buy U.S. companies without coming under the scrutiny of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS),  which has the power to stop deals that could harm national security.Broadcom's shares were up 0.4 percent at $237.97 in after hours trading.(Reporting by Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)
WASHINGTON   The United States plans to sanction Russian oligarchs this week under a law targeting Moscow for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, in what could be the most aggressive move so far against Russia\'s business elite.The action, which could affect people close to President Vladimir Putin, reflects Washington\'s desire to hold Russia to account for allegedly interfering in the election - which Moscow denies - even as U.S. President Donald Trump holds out hope for good relations with Putin.Trump has faced fierce criticism for doing too little to punish Russia for the election meddling and other actions, and Special Counsel Robert Mueller is probing whether his campaign colluded with the Russians, an allegation the president denies.The sanctions, which two sources said would be announced as early as Thursday, would follow the March 15 U.S. decision to sanction 19 people and five entities, including Russian intelligence services, for cyber attacks stretching back at least two years.While the steps were the most significant taken against Moscow since Trump took office in January 2017, his decision at the time not to target oligarchs and government officials close to Putin drew criticism from U.S. lawmakers in both parties.This week\'s actions will include sanctions against Russian oligarchs, including some with ties to Putin as well as to the Russian government, according to two U.S. officials briefed on the deliberations.Four sources said the sanctions would be imposed under the Countering America\'s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, also known as CAATSA, which was passed by Republicans and Democrats seeking to punish Russia for its 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, involvement in the Syrian civil war and meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.U.S.-Russian ties have worsened with allegations, which Moscow denies, that Russia was responsible for a March 4 nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain. On March 26, the United States and several European states announced plans to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats in response.The White House and Treasury declined comment on whether they planned to impose sanctions this week. When asked about the issue, a senior U.S. official said:"The administration is committed to implementing the CAATSA law as we have said many times. We published an oligarch designation recently and the secretary of the Treasury said further action would be taken. But at this time we dont have anything specific to announce."Complying with the law, the Trump administration on Jan. 30 published a list of the heads of Russian state-owned companies and "oligarchs," including such prominent figures as Alexei Miller, the chief executive of Gazprom, and Igor Sechin, the chief executive of Rosneft.(Additional reporting by Steve Holland, Arshad Mohammed, Lesley Wroughton, Patricia Zengerle and Phil Stewart; Writing By Arshad Mohammed; Editing by Mary Milliken, Alistair Bell and Peter Cooney)
SEATTLE   Eight unknown Democrats are fighting for a spot to challenge a high-profile Republican in Washington state\'s reliably red 8th District.It\'s a familiar battle in the 8th, where voters have chosen the Republican for almost four decades since the U.S. House district\'s creation in 1980. But with the national GOP bracing for big midterm losses, the Democrats hope to finally prevail.The retiring incumbent, Rep. Dave Reichert, even said in an interview last year with The Seattle Times that he expects the seat will be "hard" to keep in Republican hands. The non-partisan Cook Political Report lists the contest as a toss-up. In a telling sign, a GOP House leadership-backed super PAC has opened an office in the area to help the Republican candidate.The district includes the eastern suburbs of Seattle and stretches into the rural Cascade Mountains. It is among about two dozen across the country that are held by Republicans but whose voters chose Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, making it a critical potential pickup for the Democrats trying to gain control of the House for the first time since 2010.But to do that, they\'ll have to defeat Dino Rossi, a former state senator who ran two close but unsuccessful efforts for governor and another for U.S. Senate. In each of those contests, he had a double-digit advantage in the 8th District."We\'re not giving much thought to the opinions of political horse race handicappers," said Andrew Bell, Rossi\'s campaign manager. "There\'s not much change from previous strategies. Dino has always been a fiscal conservative with a social conscience."By the end of 2017, Rossi had raised about as much money as his top five Democratic opponents combined, according to the Federal Election Commission.Still, Democrats have other factors playing in their favor, including Trump\'s low approval ratings and momentum from Conor Lamb\'s victory in the March special election for a Pennsylvania district that was held by Republicans for 15 years. Voters there had favored Trump by almost 20 percentage points in 2016. In Washington\'s 8th District, Trump lost by 3 percentage points."This is, without a doubt, the best chance Democrats have had to win this district, but they can\'t just rely on their voters, even if they are angry and motivated. They have to draw Republicans and independents," said Todd Schaefer, a political science professor at Central Washington University.Rossi\'s name recognition and centrist appeal put him in a much better position than Republicans running in other competitive districts, Schaefer said.District 8 includes Seattle\'s eastern suburbs of Sammamish and Issaquah, which have seen their populations grow on the back of Microsoft, Google and other expanding technology companies. The district runs south to parts of Pierce County and east to include Chelan and Kittitas counties across the Cascades, rural economies that are heavily dependent on agricultural exports. The district stands to be among the most impacted in the Northwest if resident workers that benefit from Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals were removed, according to a 2017 study conducted by the University of Southern California and the Center for American Progress. The research shows economic output for the district would slump by more than $120 million annually.Trump ordered a repeal of DACA in September, putting at least 800,000 beneficiaries at risk of deportation.Rossi has stated his opposition to the Trump administration\'s imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. On DACA, he told The Seattle Times in March that it wouldn\'t be "logical" to deport beneficiaries.Kim Schrier, a pediatrician who\'s leading the Democratic field in fundraising, supports the 2017 Dream Act, a measure introduced in Congress to protect minors who entered the U.S. with their parents from deportation and provide a path to citizenship. The legislation shouldn\'t be tied to partisan issues, she said.Washington State Democratic Chairman Tina Podlodowski said Lamb\'s surprise win puts her party in a position to flip the 8th District "and a lot of other districts around the country."It\'s a sign of growing public discontent, not only with President Trump, but also Republican policies such as tax reforms and attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, she said. Democrats are mounting serious challenges in two other Republican-held districts in the state, including that of Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the only woman in House GOP leadership. McMorris Rodgers has enjoyed easy victories in her eastern Washington district since 2004.Washington is a so-called top-two primary state, meaning the top two vote getters in its August primaries will compete against each other in November - regardless of political affiliation. In fundraising terms, the Democratic field is led by Schrier, Jason Rittereiser, a labor-rights lawyer, and Shannon Hader, a doctor and former Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official. Podlodowski said she expects the fundraising advantage to remain with Rossi.Democrats need to pick up 23 districts to reach the 218-seat threshold required to control the House."We\'re dealing with a majority that\'s vulnerable," David Wasserman, a House analyst at Cook, said of Republicans. "Democrats have had a tough time breaking strongholds like Washington\'s 8th, but this is shaping up to be a really good year for them nationally."
MANBIJ, Syria   A week ago, there was just a single house where U.S. soldiers had hoisted an American flag on a hill not far from a tense front line in Syria.On Wednesday, there was a growing fortified position with a perimeter of large sand barriers and barbed wire, a new watch tower and a half-dozen armored vehicles.Even as U.S. President Donald Trump spoke of pulling out of Syria "very soon," an Associated Press team saw American forces setting up front-line positions outside the strategic northern town of Manbij, west of the Euphrates River.The area is the scene of a tense standoff. U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces who hold Manbij are facing off against Turkish-backed Syrian fighters.Turkey has vowed to retake Manbij and other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border; the U.S. troops stationed here are a key reason why they are holding back.The U.S.-led coalition in Syria said last week that there were no U.S. bases in the area and that U.S. patrols were not fixed in one place.In response to an AP query, Pentagon spokesman Eric Pahon said the coalition cannot discuss specific movements and locations of forces in Syria.He said that commanders are delegated the authority and the responsibility to position people and resources needed to accomplish the mission and to protect themselves."Occasional modifications to force size would therefore be normal," Pahon said in an email.The AP team, which was escorted by Kurdish fighters, saw that the new U.S. outpost was a work in progress.A half-dozen armored vehicles sat on opposite sides of the outpost, each with a soldier on watch. A couple of soldiers at one end plowed the ground to lay sandbags, while another group worked out at the other end. Inside an observation post atop a roof, a soldier scanned the horizon through binoculars. A forklift was parked near some wooden planks, indicating more work remains to be done.The outpost was clearly visible from a main road, with civilians and a mosque nearby.A front-line commander in Manbij and a member of the Manbij Military Council, the joint Kurdish-Arab body leading the U.S.-allied forces here, said the post went up a week ago."We are 1 kilometer from (the village of) Datat, the front line. There is a new U.S. position constructed here. It has been here for seven or eight days here," said the commander, who spoke on condition of anonymity in line with the Kurdish-led force\'s regulations but goes by the nom de guerre of Ali Manbij.Previously, the U.S. forces only patrolled the front line and kept one position near Manbij, but now more forces are expected at the new post, the local commander said."Before, it was only patrols. Now it is better," he said. "It is to protect the area and to ensure that there is no attack from Turkey or from the mercenaries in the area."A Kurdish official on the site said more such posts are expected to be built along the more than 50-kilometer front line with Turkey-backed Syrian fighters.Trump and his national security team are having a contentious debate about the U.S. role in Syria, where the coalition has been fighting the Islamic State militant group since 2014. About 2,000 U.S. troops are in Syria. Manbij was liberated from IS control in 2016 after fierce battles that lasted nearly three months.Trump told reporters Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove the forces, saying their primary mission was to defeat IS."We\'ve almost completed that task," he said.The White House said Wednesday the U.S. military mission in Syria was coming to "a rapid end" but offered no firm timeline for withdrawal.With allies anxious about a hasty U.S. withdrawal, the Trump administration said it would stay in Syria to finish the job of defeating IS and was committed to eliminating the militants\' "small" presence that "our forces have not already eradicated.""We will continue to consult with our allies and friends regarding future plans," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a brief written statement. "We expect countries in the region and beyond, plus the United Nations, to work toward peace and ensure" that IS never comes back.The head of the U.S.-backed Manbij Military Council noted the conflicting statements from Washington but said the U.S. officials in Syria, including senior military commanders, have said "they will stay in Manbij."The council official, who spoke on condition of being identified only by his nom de guerre Mohammed Abu Adel in line with regulations, said other coalition forces may take over if the U.S. decides to withdraw."The statements from U.S. President Trump may cause concern on the street level. He is a president, after all, saying these things. This causes concern in the street but we hope they stay here," the official told AP. "These statements  we don\'t know their meaning exactly, but the forces are currently there on the front line."
LOS ANGELES   Four Marines were killed when their helicopter crashed while they were practicing desert landings in Southern California, the Miramar air station in San Diego said Wednesday.The Marines took off from a ground-combat center in the city of Twentynine Palms for the routine training mission on Tuesday.The massive CH-53E Super Stallion crashed about 100 miles (160 kilometers) to the south in a remote desert area just outside of El Centro, near the U.S.-Mexico border. There were no survivors.The helicopter was with the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing out of Miramar air station in San Diego.Practicing desert landings is a routine part of training, said Capt. Morgan Frazer with the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing."We\'re supposed to practice landing in austere environments," Frazer said. "It allows them to practice landing with reduced visibilities because of the dust that gets blown up from the rotor."Such landings also require extremely good communication among a team, since some crew members might not be able to see anything at all, she said.The cause of the crash is under investigation and could take months to determine.Weather doesn\'t appear to be a factor."It was pretty much a warm clear day," said Chief Deputy Thomas Garcia with the Imperial Valley Sheriff\'s Office. "Nothing stormy or rainy or anything like that."The bodies of the Marines were recovered from the crash site late Tuesday and taken to a coroner\'s facility, said Deputy Coroner Derrick Lindberg with the Imperial Valley Sheriff\'s Office.The Marine Corps will take custody of the bodies to conduct autopsies, he said."We ask that you keep these brave service members in your thoughts and prayers," said a Facebook post by the nearby Naval Air Facility El Centro, one of the many agencies that responded to the crash site.The names of the Marines were expected to be released on Thursday.President Donald Trump sent his condolences to the families, tweeting that his thoughts and prayers were with the fallen Marines."We pray for their families, and our great @USMC," Trump tweeted .The CH-53E Super Stallion is the largest helicopter in the U.S. military and has been in service for more than 30 years. It is used for minesweeping and transport and can carry dozens of troops and tons of cargo.Two CH-53Es collided off the coast of Oahu in Hawaii two years ago, killing 12 Marines.Tuesday\'s crash is the deadliest involving a Marine aircraft since a KC-130T transport plane went down in Mississippi last July, killing 15 Marines and a sailor.

WASHINGTON   In attempting to punish China for its trade practices, President Donald Trump may open the door for other countries to grab U.S. market share, including Mexico and Japan, which he has also targeted with sharp trade rhetoric.According to detailed U.S. import data those nations are among the top alternate suppliers of some 1,300 product lines due to be hit with a 25 percent tariff if they are imported from China, and the possible winners of such an abrupt shift in relative prices.Mexico already ships about $6 billion of flat-screen televisions to the United States, about twice that of China, while Thailand\'s $3.5 billion in hard disk drive exports to the United States is about four times that of China.Japan, Malaysia and Vietnam are all rivals in the market for printer parts.Shifts to those and other countries won\'t happen overnight. The list of hundreds of goods Trump wants to tax is subject to appeal and could be withdrawn if, as some analysts suspect, the aim is to reach a negotiated settlement with China over broader trade issues.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s office deliberately targeted products that could be sourced elsewhere in devising its China tariff list, which was aimed at inflicting maximum pain on Chinese exporters and minimum pain on Americans. An algorithm developed to choose the products ranked them according to their impact on U.S. consumers, and products readily available outside of China were given a lower impact rating, a USTR official told Reuters."A proposed product list was then compiled by selecting products with the lowest consumer impact from the ranked list," the official said.Former U.S. Deputy Trade Representative Robert Holleyman said, "I do think that it is designed in part to allow shifts in supply chains over time," rather than try to outright curb U.S. imports regardless of the source.Though he said the use of tariffs has put key U.S. industries like agriculture and aerospace at risk, "the administration did do some careful analysis on this. They tried to minimize some direct damage on U.S. consumers."According to U.S. census data, despite some high-profile items, like televisions, the list seemed tilted toward goods with less Chinese market penetration. However research firm Panjiva noted that in some cases, such as thermostats, China supplies in excess of 40 percent of U.S. imports, with alternatives perhaps less available.Several dozen of the items, including a list of drugs like epinephrine and veterinary vaccines, registered no imports in 2017. The weighted market share of those with a least a dollar of imports was 7.7 percent.That may be good news in terms of the consumer impact of the tariffs. But it also shows the complexity Trump faces in trying to reorganize a tightly integrated global economy.TCL Multimedia, China\'s largest television maker, said it would shift some production to a plant it has in Mexico, underlining the difficulty of targeting imports in a world of multinational companies with several production bases.While the tariffs may indeed pose a cost to Chinese businesses, they are unlikely to shift much production to U.S. firms. Meanwhile, U.S. companies will have to find alternative sources for more expensive imports, if they can, and those industries on the receiving end of Chinese retaliation will also suffer."If this is a long-term strategy to put in place and maintain tariffs on Chinese inputs to change the trade deficit with China, then that is problematic, because the retaliation will stay in place and that will hurt large classes of exporters," Holleyman said.(Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
WASHINGTON   Both Democrats and Republicans think the stalemate between President Donald Trump and Congress over immigration can help them in November\'s congressional elections. Each could be right.In House races across the country, both parties are using the fight over immigration  fanned by tweets from President Donald Trump about a crisis on the Mexican border that others say doesn\'t exist  to fire up base voters in midterm elections. Democrats think it can help them reach minorities, young people and suburban moderates repelled by Trump\'s strident anti-immigrant stances, while Republicans have noted his success in using promises to crack down on immigration to energize disaffected conservatives.As a result, Democrats are using the issue to emphasize inclusivity and are targeting border regions, suburbs and areas with immigrant populations. Republicans, whose districts tend to be less diverse, plan to make immigration a law-and-order issue that appeals to conservatives all around the U.S.The debate is likely to roil races in California, Texas, Florida, Arizona, perhaps New Mexico and Virginia\'s Washington, D.C., suburbs. One diverse Southern California House district centered on the sprawl of Orange County has already become a testing ground for each party\'s immigration strategy.The retirement of 13-term Republican Rep. Ed Royce makes the seat a prime target for Democrats trying to pick up 23 seats in November\'s elections, enough to grab House control. Seventeen GOP, Democratic and independent candidates are vying in a multiparty June 5 primary, a group that includes a Republican who has worked to scuttle pro-immigrant sanctuary city laws and a Democrat who fled Vietnam as a child.Mai Khanh Tran\'s campaign website praises "the open arms of a country" that offered "my shot at the American Dream."Trump this week amplified his rhetoric with tweets about "ridiculous" laws making it hard to send arrivals from Mexico "back where they came from." On Wednesday, he signed a proclamation directing National Guard troops to secure the U.S.-Mexico border.It\'s the sort of language Democrats hope will send voters their way. Although the economy and health care register higher as voter concerns, Democrats see advantages from touting Congress\' attempt to shield young "Dreamer" immigrants from deportation. That effort collapsed in February after Trump rejected $25 billion to build his treasured border wall with Mexico in exchange for offering possible citizenship for Dreamers who were brought illegally to the U.S. as children and who have been temporarily protected by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.Democrats say the gridlock lets them convey a message of tolerance that can woo voters, contributors and volunteers  including liberals, minorities and moderates alienated by Trump\'s words."Immigration is one of those cultural touchstone issues" that shows Democrats are ready to "stand up to Trump," said Mike Lux, a liberal Democratic consultant.Democrats say GOP incumbents vulnerable to attacks over immigration include Reps. Carlos Curbelo of South Florida, David Valadao of California\'s Central Valley and Will Hurd of West Texas. Their districts are around 70 percent Hispanic.While the U.S. population is around 18 percent Hispanic, 62 congressional districts had at least double that mark in 2016, the most recent breakdown available, according to the nonpartisan Pew Research Center. Underscoring how Hispanics tend to vote Democratic, just 13 of those districts are represented by Republicans, three of whom are retiring: Florida\'s Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, New Mexico\'s Steve Pearce and Texas\' Blake Farenthold.Republicans envision campaigns raising the specter of sanctuary cities, where local authorities limit cooperation with federal immigration officials, and casting such policies as enabling immigrants in the U.S. illegally to commit crimes and grab jobs. That could help in places like Arizona and northern and central Florida, they say.Many voters view Democrats "as the party of protecting illegals over citizens," said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Congressional Leadership Fund, a political committee aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis. "This issue works across the country."Bliss\' group ran TV ads attacking Democrat Conor Lamb on immigration in the waning weeks of last month\'s special election in an open, overwhelmingly white House district in western Pennsylvania that heavily backed Trump in 2016.The spots said Lamb favors "amnesty to millions of immigrants" and as an Obama administration official encouraged sanctuary cities, "which put illegal immigrants who commit crimes back on the street." Lamb won narrowly, which Bliss attributed to a weak GOP candidate.Republicans acknowledge that Democrats\' pro-immigration stance could attract moderate suburban voters. But the GOP could also use it to energize conservatives concerned about "the proliferation of non-English speaking people in this culture, a sense that we\'re losing what America used to be," said GOP strategist Whit Ayers.In California, conservative Shawn Nelson is among several GOP contenders running in the Orange County contest. As a member of the county board of supervisors, Nelson helped push that body to join a federal lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of California\'s sanctuary law."Even if you\'re not seeing illegals crossing the border into your state, they\'re potentially stealing your jobs, they\'re potentially making you less safe," John Thomas, Nelson\'s chief strategist, said of the issue\'s appeal.One of Nelson\'s Democratic opponents is Tran, a pediatrician who was evacuated to the U.S. from Vietnam in 1975.Tran policy adviser Jack Hipkins says her message that America is "supposed to be open and inclusive and diverse" could attract Republicans displeased with the party\'s harsh tone on the issue. The district is roughly evenly divided among whites, Hispanics and Asians.The top two finishers in the crowded primary will meet in the Nov. 6 election.
BEIJING   China\'s decision to impose tariffs on imports of soybeans from the United States is \'regrettable\' and \'won\'t solve the trade imbalance\', the China director of the U.S. Soybean Export Council said on Wednesday.U.S. soybean futures fell more than 5 percent following the announcement. A Beijing-based soybean trader said there are growing concerns about the cancellation of previously purchased cargoes by the world\'s top buyer of the oilseed.Soybeans, the top U.S. agricultural export to China, were among the 106 U.S. products on which Beijing plans to impose an  additional 25 percent in tariffs.The U.S. is the second-biggest soybean supplier, after Brazil, to China, the world\'s largest consumer of the bean.The move had been expected by the U.S. soybean industry, China Director Zhang Xiaoping told Reuters, despite the Council, which represents American soybean producers, having done "everything" to prevent it.China may still buy U.S. soybeans, despite the additional tariff, if the market needs supplies, added Zhang.However, the Beijing-based trader said he had already received calls from customers who are worried about the tariffs being applied to cargoes not yet shipped."Some customers still have contracts in hand. They will wash out those cargoes (if the duties are implemented soon)," said the trader, who works for an international firm and declined to be identified.The effective date for the tariffs was not announced, but China\'s Ministry of Finance said it was dependent on the $50 billion in tariffs due to be adopted by the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump.(Reporting by Dominique Patton; Editing by Clarence Fernandez and Christian Schmollinger)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s nominee to be CIA director will fully explain what her role was  and what it wasn\'t  in the agency\'s use of harsh interrogation practices on terror suspects after 9/11, the top U.S. intelligence chief said Wednesday.Deputy CIA Director Gina Haspel will face tough questions about her activities with the interrogation program, which critics call one of the darkest chapters in the agency\'s history.In the run-up to her confirmation hearing and a full-Senate vote on her nomination, lawmakers are asking the CIA to declassify information about her 30-plus years, mostly undercover career at the CIA. It\'s unclear how much information will be publicly disclosed.After Trump chose her to be the next director of the CIA, details were leaked about her time as chief of base of a secret prison in Thailand where terror suspects were waterboarded after 9/11. Haspel also drafted a memo that called for the destruction of 92 videotapes of interrogation sessions. Their destruction, ordered by a higher-ranking CIA official in 2005, prompted a lengthy Justice Department investigation that ended without charges."Gina plans to be totally transparent in regards to this issue," Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats told reporters at a breakfast briefing. "I have looked deeply into this and she will be making that fully available to the relevant (congressional) committees."He added that some negative public reports about her activities with the interrogation program have been inaccurate. "What is being alleged is simply not true," said Coats, who described Haspel as an "exceptional, professional and talented individual.""We want to declassify as much as possible without jeopardizing someone\'s sources and methods," Coats said. "Every effort will be made to fully explain exactly what her role was and what it wasn\'t."
MISSION, Texas   On Tuesday, the same day that U.S. President Donald Trump announced his intention to deploy military to help patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, Edwin Valdez and four other Central American migrants were walking through dense brush at a south Texas wildlife reserve, hoping to escape notice.The men had illegally crossed into the United States that morning, guided by a smuggler who had since abandoned them. Now they were lost and uncertain how to proceed.In vehicles nearby, U.S. Border Patrol agents had been alerted to migrants moving through the area, and after detecting movement in the bushes, they swooped in to arrest the men.It was business as usual in the Rio Grande Valley, one of the busiest crossing points for migrants trying to enter the United States illegally.In just a few hours that morning, 61 migrants, including Valdez, were rounded up in the area. Ten, including four from China, were caught with the help of a tracking dog in a sugar cane field. Two Hondurans were taken into custody at a public park.Several of those caught said they were unfazed by tough talk from Trump, who has made headlines around the world with tweets railing about border security and threatening to end the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) unless Mexico does more to "stop the big drug and people flows."Trump\'s renewed frustration about border security, rekindled over the weekend by news of a "caravan" of Central American migrants moving through Mexico toward the U.S. border, reflects the broader frustration of his administration.In the months after Trump took office, the number of migrants caught along the U.S.-Mexico border fell dramatically, hitting a low of about 15,700 in April, from more than 42,400 in January 2017, U.S. Customs and Border Protection data shows.But arrests have crept back up since, and in the first months of 2018 have reached levels at, or near, those seen during the last year of his predecessor, President Barack Obama.Rising arrests of families and unaccompanied minors along the border are a particular concern.In March, their numbers surpassed the previous three years and "rivaled fiscal year 2014, when we had a crisis," Manuel Padilla, chief of the border patrol\'s Rio Grande Valley sector, said in an interview with Reuters.He said families with children, who are more difficult to deport quickly, form about 49 percent of the current apprehensions in his region. He said they often walk up to the first U.S. officials they find to ask for help."It doesn\'t matter how many agents are out there," when it comes to families, he said, "because this population is turning themselves in."REVOLVING DOORValdez, 20, who worked as an electrician\'s assistant in his home country of El Salvador, said he previously tried to cross the border illegally in 2016.That time, he was picked up by border patrol officers after wandering lost and dehydrated in the desert for four days. After six months in detention, he was deported last year, but decided to travel north again after gangs threatened him at his job.While crossing has become more and more difficult in recent years, Valdez said, need is a powerful motivator."Necessity forces people to leave their countries so they can bring a better life to their families," he said. "That\'s why people are willing to suffer through all this."People like Valdez who have been previously deported can often be quickly sent home.Immigrants traveling with small children when caught, however, often spend only a few days in custody because of a shortage of detention facilities suitable for families and court settlements that preclude prolonged detention of minors.In the Rio Grande Valley, parents are often released with electronic ankle monitors and ordered to appear with their children in court on a specific date for deportation proceedings. Trump has railed against the practice, which he calls "catch and release."At the Hidalgo port of entry, one of the busiest crossings in South Texas for legal trade and traffic across the U.S.-Mexico border, Customs and Border Protection officers seemed largely indifferent to the renewed rhetoric from Washington."Everyone who is in office has their own agenda, which is different than the law. But the law is the law and that\'s what we are enforcing," said Port Director Carlos Rodriguez, who has been with the enforcement agency for 20 years. "That has been true consistently through administrations."For migrants like Jose Romero, 27, who made the harrowing days-long trip through Mexico with his 8-year-old daughter in the back of a dark cargo truck, threats from the president are little deterrent.In his mountain home in Honduras, Romero made just $4 a day as a farm laborer, not enough to feed his family of five, he said. After his arrest at the border and subsequent release to wait court proceedings, he said he doubted if migrants can be deterred."They will keep coming," he said, because of violence and poverty south of the border. "The people are afraid."(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg; Editing by Sue Horton, Clarence Fernandez and Richard Chang)
BEIJING   Beijing has announced a $50 billion list of U.S. goods for possible tariff hikes in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.That followed the release of a U.S. government list of Chinese goods targeted for punitive tariffs in response to complaints Beijing pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.On Monday, China raised duties on $3 billion of U.S. pork, apples, and other goods in response to higher American import duties on steel and aluminum.The issues at stake:___Q: WHY DID THIS DISPUTE BLOW UP?A: U.S. President Donald Trump says Beijing is violating its free-trade commitments by pressuring foreign companies to hand over technology to potential Chinese competitors in exchange for market access.Trump has pledged to narrow the U.S. trade deficit with China, which Washington put at $375.2 billion last year, a record for any country.A key irritant is Beijing\'s long-range industry plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025," which calls for creating Chinese global leaders in electric cars, robotics and other fields. Foreign companies complain that will limit or outright block their access to those industries.___Q: WHAT HAVE THE TWO SIDES DONE SO FAR?A: Trump approved tariff increases on steel and aluminum imports in response to complaints American suppliers were threatened by unfairly low-priced imports.The United States buys little steel and aluminum from China, but analysts said Beijing felt compelled to respond, partly as a "warning shot" ahead of an expected fight over technology.On Monday, China raised duties on pork and aluminum scrap by 25 percent and on apples, sparkling wine, steel pipes and other goods by 15 percent. The measures appeared to target farm states that voted for Trump in 2016.___Q: WHAT IS AT STAKE?A: The United States and China have the world\'s biggest trading relationship. That gives them an incentive to reach a settlement to avoid damaging many businesses on both sides.Exports to China directly or indirectly supported 1.8 million new U.S. jobs in 2015, according to the U.S.-China Business Council, an industry group.Wednesday\'s Chinese tariff hike targeted goods including soybeans, the biggest U.S. export to China, and aircraft.Economists and investors worry other governments might respond by raising their own import barriers. That might chill commerce and set back a global economic recovery.___Q: WHY DOES TECHNOLOGY MATTER?A: The latest tariff dispute strikes at the heart of technology industries China\'s leaders consider vital for its economic future.Chinese factories assemble most of the world\'s smartphones, computers and consumer electronics. But Beijing wants to capture more of the profits by becoming a creator of technology instead of a low-cost factory.The ruling Communist Party is spending heavily and pressing foreign companies for help in developing Chinese global competitors in telecoms, electric cars and other technologies.Washington is trying to promote technology exports to offset its imports from China and support higher-paying jobs.American and other foreign companies have long complained about Chinese rules that require automakers and others to work through local partners, compelling them to share technology with potential competitors.Last month, Washington filed a World Trade Organization complaint over Chinese policy it said limits the ability of foreign companies to control and profit from their technology.___Q: WHAT\'S LIKELY TO COME NEXT?A: Chinese officials have acknowledged their country has more to lose in a full-blown conflict with Washington but say they will endure the cost.Beijing has options for retaliating against U.S. companies operating in China. Regulators could withhold licenses or alter other conditions to hamper foreign business activity.Some economists have suggested Washington could target state-owned enterprises that dominate industries including energy, telecoms and banking.Europe and Japan also have grumbled about the monopolies and other privileges given to SOEs. Washington may try to get them to jointly pressure Beijing for change.
WASHINGTON/BEIJING   The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the Chinese ambassador to Washington said it "takes two to tango."(Graphic: U.S. trade in goods with China - http://tmsnrt.rs/2GcOZIH)Just 11 hours after President Donald Trump\'s administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products, China shot back with a list of similar duties on major American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.Beijing\'s swift and forceful response raised the prospect of a quickly spiraling dispute between the world\'s two economic superpowers that could harm the global economy.(Graphic: U.S. imports from China - http://tmsnrt.rs/2FMsz1Q)While Trump posted defiant messages on Twitter, his administration signaled possible wiggle room.Asked whether the U.S. tariffs announced on Tuesday may never go into effect and may be a negotiating tactic, Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, told reporters: "Yes, it\'s possible. It\'s part of the process." He called the announcements by the two countries mere opening proposals.Kudlow later told Fox News Channel: "I don\'t think it\'s a trade war. I think there is going to be intense negotiations on both sides.""I think we\'re going to come to agreements," he said, adding that "I believe that the Chinese will back down and will play ball."Cui Tiankai, China\'s ambassador to the United States, held an hour-long meeting at the U.S. State Department in Washington with acting Secretary of State John Sullivan."Negotiation would still be our preference, but it takes two to tango. We will see what the U.S. will do," the ambassador said afterward.The trade actions will not be carried out immediately, so there may be room for maneuver. Publication of Washington\'s list on Tuesday started a period of public comment and consultation expected to last around two months. The effective date of China\'s moves depends on when the U.S. action takes effect.If the two countries are unable to settle the dispute, a full-scale trade war could destabilize U.S.-Chinese commercial ties, an important component of the global economy.China\'s action rattled U.S. farmers, while shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile.After dropping at the outset of trading, Wall Street\'s three major indexes staged a comeback to close about 1 percent higher as investors turned their focus to earnings and away from the trade fight.White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said U.S. implementation of the tariffs would depend on China\'s behavior."It\'s going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," she told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they don\'t stop the unfair trade practices, then we would move forward," Sanders said.Trump, who contends his predecessors served the United States badly in trade matters, wrote on Twitter: "We are not in a trade war with China that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."POLITICAL DAMAGEWhile Washington targeted products that benefit from Chinese industrial policy - including its "Made in China 2025" initiative to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products in strategic industries such as advanced IT and robotics - Beijing appeared to offer a response intended to inflict political damage.Washington\'s list was filled with many obscure industrial items, but China\'s struck at signature U.S. exports, including soybeans, frozen beef, cotton and other agricultural commodities produced in states from Iowa to Texas that voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.The list extends to tobacco and whiskey, both produced in states including Kentucky, home of U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, like Trump a Republican.Trump said last month that "trade wars are good, and easy to win," but key fellow Republicans expressed unease over the latest developments.McConnell said he was nervous about the "growing trend in the administration to levy tariffs" that could become a "slippery slope," while Senator Chuck Grassley, whose home state of Iowa is a major agricultural producer, said: "Farmers and ranchers shouldn\'t be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country."The possibility of an escalating U.S.-China trade war will result in "a bumpy ride" for the U.S. economy, said James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.China said its list of 25 percent additional tariffs on U.S. goods covered 106 items with a trade value matching the $50 billion targeted on Washington\'s list.U.S.-made goods that appear to face added tariffs in China include Tesla Inc electric cars, Ford Motor Co\'s Lincoln auto models, Gulfstream jets made by General Dynamics Corp and Brown-Forman Corp\'s Jack Daniel\'s whiskey.Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017. Trump has demanded that the China cut the trade gap by $100 billion.The U.S. move was aimed at forcing Beijing to address what Washington says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese competitors, charges Chinese officials deny.The U.S. tariff list followed China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by Trump.(Reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Michael Martina in Beijing; Additional reporting by  Lesley Wroughton, David Brunnstrom, Jason Lange, Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland, Jeff Mason, Makini Brice, Susan Heavey, David Chance and Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Michael Martina, Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard, Tony Munroe, Cate Cadell, Philip Wen, Dominique Patton, Josephine Mason and Stella Qiu in Beijing, Engen Tham in Shanghai and Brenda Goh in Shanghai, Tom Miles in Geneva and Michael Hogan in; Hamburg; Writing by Will Dunham; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON/BEIJING   The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the Chinese ambassador to Washington said it "takes two to tango."Just 11 hours after President Donald Trump\'s administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products, China shot back with a list of similar duties on major American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.Beijing\'s swift and forceful response raised the prospect of a quickly spiralling dispute between the world\'s two economic superpowers that could harm the global economy.While Trump posted defiant messages on Twitter, his administration signalled possible wiggle room.Asked whether the U.S. tariffs announced on Tuesday may never go into effect and may be a negotiating tactic, Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, told reporters: "Yes, it\'s possible. It\'s part of the process." He called the announcements by the two countries mere opening proposals.Kudlow later told Fox News Channel: "I don\'t think it\'s a trade war. I think there is going to be intense negotiations on both sides.""I think we\'re going to come to agreements," he said, adding that "I believe that the Chinese will back down and will play ball."Cui Tiankai, China\'s ambassador to the United States, held an hour-long meeting at the U.S. State Department in Washington with acting Secretary of State John Sullivan."Negotiation would still be our preference, but it takes two to tango. We will see what the U.S. will do," the ambassador said afterward.The trade actions will not be carried out immediately, so there may be room for manoeuvre. Publication of Washington\'s list on Tuesday started a period of public comment and consultation expected to last around two months. The effective date of China\'s moves depends on when the U.S. action takes effect.If the two countries are unable to settle the dispute, a full-scale trade war could destabilise U.S.-Chinese commercial ties, an important component of the global economy.China\'s action rattled U.S. farmers, while shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile.After dropping at the outset of trading, Wall Street\'s three major indexes staged a comeback to close about 1 percent higher as investors turned their focus to earnings and away from the trade fight. [MKTS/GLOB]White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said U.S. implementation of the tariffs would depend on China\'s behaviour."It\'s going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," she told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behaviour of China and they don\'t stop the unfair trade practices, then we would move forward," Sanders said.Trump, who contends his predecessors served the United States badly in trade matters, wrote on Twitter: "We are not in a trade war with China that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."POLITICAL DAMAGEWhile Washington targeted products that benefit from Chinese industrial policy - including its "Made in China 2025" initiative to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products in strategic industries such as advanced IT and robotics - Beijing appeared to offer a response intended to inflict political damage.Washington\'s list was filled with many obscure industrial items, but China\'s struck at signature U.S. exports, including soybeans, frozen beef, cotton and other agricultural commodities produced in states from Iowa to Texas that voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.The list extends to tobacco and whiskey, both produced in states including Kentucky, home of U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, like Trump a Republican.Trump said last month that "trade wars are good, and easy to win," but key fellow Republicans expressed unease over the latest developments.McConnell said he was nervous about the "growing trend in the administration to levy tariffs" that could become a "slippery slope," while Senator Chuck Grassley, whose home state of Iowa is a major agricultural producer, said: "Farmers and ranchers shouldn\'t be expected to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country."The possibility of an escalating U.S.-China trade war will result in "a bumpy ride" for the U.S. economy, said James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.China said its list of 25 percent additional tariffs on U.S. goods covered 106 items with a trade value matching the $50 billion targeted on Washington\'s list.U.S.-made goods that appear to face added tariffs in China include Tesla Inc electric cars, Ford Motor Co\'s Lincoln auto models, Gulfstream jets made by General Dynamics Corp and Brown-Forman Corp\'s Jack Daniel\'s whiskey.Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017. Trump has demanded that the China cut the trade gap by $100 billion.The U.S. move was aimed at forcing Beijing to address what Washington says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese competitors, charges Chinese officials deny.The U.S. tariff list followed China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest U.S. steel and aluminium tariffs imposed last month by Trump.(Reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Michael Martina in Beijing; Additional reporting by  Lesley Wroughton, David Brunnstrom, Jason Lange, Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland, Jeff Mason, Makini Brice, Susan Heavey, David Chance and Lindsay Dunsmuir in Washington; Michael Martina, Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard, Tony Munroe, Cate Cadell, Philip Wen, Dominique Patton, Josephine Mason and Stella Qiu in Beijing, Engen Tham in Shanghai and Brenda Goh in Shanghai, Tom Miles in Geneva and Michael Hogan in; Hamburg; Writing by Will Dunham; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Peter Cooney)
WASHINGTON   The United States and China, the world\'s two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other\'s goods.The United States on Tuesday said it would impose 25 percent duties on $50 billion of imports from China, and China quickly retaliated by listing $50 billion of products that it could hit with its own 25 percent tariffs. Earlier in the week, Beijing announced separate import duties on $3 billion of U.S. goods in response to the Trump administration\'s duties on all steel and aluminum imports, including from China.U.S. officials sought to downplay the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. Even so, economists warned that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could escalate."The seeds of a more serious conflict are there," said Adam Slater, lead economist at Oxford Economics, a consulting firm.Some of the largest American brands, from Apple to Boeing to Kentucky Fried Chicken, are increasingly intertwined with the Chinese market. They either sell billions of dollars of goods there or make some of their products in China, or both.So h did we get here, and what might the impact be?:__WHY DID THIS DISPUTE BLOW UP?President Donald Trump says Beijing is violating its free-trade commitments by pressuring foreign companies to hand over technology to potential Chinese competitors in exchange for market access.A U.S. trade official said Wednesday that the administration was moved by concerns that China is increasing its use of unfair trade practices, expanding them from industries such as steel to high-tech industries where U.S. companies dominate.A key irritant is Beijing\'s long-range industry plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025." It calls for establishing Chinese global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields. Foreign companies complain that the initiative will limit or outright block their access to those industries.Trump has also pledged to narrow the U.S. trade deficit with China, which Washington estimated at $337.2 billion last year, a record for any country.__WILL U.S. CONSUMERS END UP PAYING MORE?Not yet. The United States plans to impose tariffs on mostly machinery and high-tech goods typically purchased by businesses. The duties would mostly steer clear of the billions of dollars of consumer goods that the U.S. imports from China, such as iPhones, toys, and shoes. Only about one-tenth of China\'s goods exports to the United States would be affected.Still, economists say many companies might try to pass their extra costs from the tariffs onto consumers. Prices would rise, though likely only slightly. Kathy Bostjancic, an economist at Oxford Economics, estimates they could raise inflation by just one-tenth of a percentage point.__WILL THE DISPUTE HURT U.S. ECONOMY?The steps taken so far shouldn\'t have much of an impact. Only about 2.5 percent of all U.S. imports are affected by the tariffs. And imports from all countries amount to just 15 percent of the economy.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody\'s Analytics, estimates that the tariffs threatened so far could slice U.S. growth by just one or two-tenths of a percentage point this year."So far, at least, this is relatively minor," he said. "It\'s going to take a lot to derail this economy."Still, specific industries would feel some pain if threats of higher tariffs are carried out. China is the top overseas market for U.S. soybeans. And China has included soybeans on its list of 106 products that would be hit by retaliatory tariffs.Automakers such as Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz would also be hit. BMW exports 89,000 cars a year from the U.S. to China, while Mercedes-Benz sends 65,000 cars, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein. Tesla expects to sell about 15 percent of its Model S and Model X cars in China this year.__WHAT WILL LIKELY HAPPEN NEXT?So far, no tariffs have actually been imposed. And some U.S. officials say they\'re at least partly intended as a negotiating ploy. U.S. officials say they\'ll hold hearings on the administration\'s proposed target list of 1,300 products in mid-May and haven\'t set a deadline for when the tariffs would take effect.Nor has China set a date for imposing tariffs on the 106 products it has targeted."It will be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented, and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said.___Associated Press Writer Joe McDonald in Beijing contributed to this report.
JERUSALEM   The head of Israel\'s Mossad intelligence agency is "100 percent certain" that Iran remains committed to developing a nuclear bomb and believes the international community must change or scrap its nuclear deal with the Islamic Republic.The comments by Yossi Cohen added an influential voice to a global debate over Iran\'s nuclear program ahead of a deadline set by President Donald Trump for toughening the deal. Trump, like Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, has been a fierce critic of the 2015 nuclear deal.Trump has set a mid-May deadline to reach agreement with the European nations to toughen restrictions on Iran, including by extending the limitations on nuclear activity that are currently set to expire under the deal in several years. If the U.S. and the Europeans can\'t agree on new punishments that are to Trump\'s liking, he will withdraw from the deal and re-impose U.S. sanctions on Tehran, the White House has said.With the clock ticking, Cohen has been holding discussions on the matter and delivered his assessment in a recent closed meeting with senior officials, according to a person who attended the meeting. Cohen\'s analysis signaled Israeli support for Trump\'s efforts.Cohen called the nuclear deal a "terrible mistake," saying it allows Iran to keep key elements of its nuclear program intact and will remove other restraints in a few years."Then Iran will be able to enrich enough uranium for an arsenal of nuclear bombs," Cohen said, according to the meeting participant, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was discussing a classified security matter.Cohen also criticized the deal\'s easing of sanctions, saying it has resulted in "significantly increased" aggression by Iran, and noted Iran\'s continued development of long-range ballistic missiles."As head of the Mossad, I am 100 percent certain that Iran has never abandoned its military nuclear vision for a single instant. This deal enables Iran to achieve that vision," Cohen said. "That is why I believe the deal must be completely changed or scrapped. The failure to do so would be a grave threat to Israel\'s security."Under the deal, Iran agreed to curbs and inspections on its nuclear program in exchange for relief from international sanctions. Proponents have said the deal puts Iranian nuclear development on hold for 10 to 15 years and opens the way for engagement with the Iranians on other issues.Netanyahu has been a leading critic of the deal, saying it did not contain sufficient safeguards to prevent Iran from reaching nuclear-weapons capability or address Iran\'s other activities across the region.Trump\'s disdain for the deal has been a welcome development for Netanyahu. Israel has identified Iran as its top threat, citing the nuclear program, its hostile rhetoric, support for anti-Israel militant groups and its development of long-range missiles.Yet the confrontational approach also carries risks. It appears increasingly unlikely that the U.S. and Europe can reach a compromise by Trump\'s deadline, especially after Trump\'s recent named a new national security adviser and secretary of state who have both firmly opposed the Iran deal in the past.It also is unclear how Iran will react if the U.S. withdraws. Iran has said U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions would destroy the agreement and has threatened a range of responses, including immediately restarting nuclear activities currently barred under the deal.The issue has also set off some debate within Israel\'s security ranks. As head of a powerful agency, Cohen is one of the most influential voices in that debate and appears to be siding firmly with Netanyahu.Yet other security experts, both active and former, have taken a more nuanced approach. While Israeli officials widely panned the deal when it was reached, some have noted that it has some positive aspects.In a recent interview, Lt. Gen. Gadi Eisenkot told the newspaper Haaretz that he knows of no violations of the nuclear deal by Iran, though he said Israel is closely watching."If its intentions change, we will know. Right now the agreement, with all its faults, is working and is putting off realization of the Iranian nuclear vision by 10 to 15 years," he was quoted as saying.
NEW YORK   U.S. prosecutors on Wednesday asked a federal judge to sentence a Turkish banker convicted of helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions to about 20 years in prison, in a case that has strained diplomatic ties between the United States and Turkey.Mehmet Hakan Atilla, 47, a former deputy general manager at Turkey\'s state-controlled Halkbank, had been found guilty by a federal jury in Manhattan in January.Lawyers for Atilla did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the sentencing request.Prosecutors said Atilla conspired with Turkish-Iranian gold trader Reza Zarrab and others from 2010 to 2015 in using fraudulent gold and food transactions to help Iran evade sanctions, which targeted the movement of oil proceeds and U.S. bank note and precious metals transactions."At a time when the United States and the community of nations were engaged in the momentous undertaking of depriving the Government of Iran of funding for its malign and deadly activities," including its alleged pursuit of nuclear weapons and support for terrorist groups, "Atilla was a key player in massively undermining those efforts," prosecutors said in a court filing.Atilla is to be sentenced on April 11 by U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in Manhattan.In 2015, the United States and other world powers agreed to lift sanctions on Iran in exchange for Tehran limiting its nuclear program.U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to pull out of the accord, which his predecessor Barack Obama supported, unless European signatories fixed its "terrible flaws" by May 12.In a court filing last week, Atilla\'s lawyers urged leniency, saying the case did not involve "economic crimes" or a "crime of American disloyalty" by their client, a Turkish national, and that "no victims" suffered a financial loss.They also said a lengthy sentence would keep Atilla, who has been detained for a year, more than 5,000 miles (8045 km) away from his wife and only son for too long.Nine defendants have been charged in the case, but seven remain at large.Zarrab pleaded guilty and became the star witness against Atilla, describing in several days of trial testimony a sprawling bribery scheme carried out with the blessing of President Tayyip Erdogan.Erdogan has denounced the case, calling it a politically motivated attack on his government.U.S. prosecutors said Atilla deserves a sentence "comparable" to the roughly 20 years imposed in analogous cases, and in any event longer than 15 years, eight months. They also said federal sentencing guidelines recommended a 105-year term.(Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Grant McCool)
PARIS   Ten rights groups urged French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday to use a visit by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to press him to end a blockade of Yemeni ports and work for a diplomatic solution to the conflict there.Pressure is mounting on Macron to scale back military support for Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which are leading the coalition fighting the Iran-aligned Houthi group that controls most of northern Yemen and the capital Sanaa.The conflict has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced more than three million.With Prince Mohammed arriving in France on Sunday for a three-day visit, lawmakers and rights groups want Macron to suspend weapons sales to the two countries, which are among its biggest purchasers."The bombing of civilians in Yemen must stop and we call on all sides in the conflict to stop them immediately," Anne Hery of Handicap International said."Ahead of the visit of Crown Prince Mohammed, President Macron has a choice: protect civilians or sell weapons."Some European countries, notably Germany, have curtailed ties with the Saudi-led military coalition. But France, Britain and the United States have not followed suit.However, Paris has grown increasingly concerned by a worsening humanitarian situation and in December Macron called for a "complete lifting" of a Saudi blockade on Yemen.The alliance, which includes other Sunni Muslim states, has conducted thousands of air strikes targeting Houthi fighters and has often hit civilian areas, although it denies ever doing so intentionally."France has to have a larger discussion not just about the sale of arms, but the blockade of this country. That strategy hasn\'t worked," Jonathan Cunliffe, Director of Middle East operations for Action Against Hunger, told reporters.Prince Mohammed\'s visit comes at a delicate moment in French-Saudi relations. Ex-president Francois Hollande nurtured closer ties with Sunni-ruled Gulf Arab states, in particular Saudi Arabia, as Paris took a tough stance on Iran during nuclear negotiations.Hollande awarded former Crown Prince Mohammed bin Nayef France\'s highest honor the Legion d\'Honneur in 2016.However, the 32-year-old new crown prince has in past months emphasized closer ties with U.S. President Donald Trump just as Macron has sought to improve relations with Iran, Saudi Arabia\'s Shi\'ite rival for regional influence."Prince Salman deserves neither the Legion d\'Honneur nor the red carpet, he deserves sanctions," said Benedicte Jeannerod, director of Human Rights Watch in France.(Reporting by John Irish; Editing by Richard Balmforth)
BEIRUT   A top Syrian Kurdish politician suggested on Wednesday that the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the Iraqi government could mount joint operations against Islamic State in the area on the border of the two countries.Aldar Xelil warned of a jihadist revival in eastern Syria, where operations by the U.S.-backed SDF have tapered off since they diverted fighters to the northwest to fight a Turkish offensive."Iraq is a neighboring state and is also suffering from Daesh terrorism," he said in a telephone interview with Reuters, using the Arabic acronym for Islamic State."Daesh is present in the shared area between us, and this points to the possibility of conditions arising that would pave the way for joint actions against Daesh," he said.Xelil is co-chair of the Movement for a Democratic Society, a coalition of mainly Syrian Kurdish parties, and an architect of plans for autonomy in northern Syria.The SDF, which the Kurdish YPG militia spearheads, has been the main partner of the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State in Syria, helping drive the jihadists out of swathes of northern and eastern Syria last year.But its operations against Islamic State have been sidetracked since Turkey, backed by allied Syrian insurgents, mounted an invasion in northwestern Syria targeting the YPG-controlled Afrin region of the northwest.The SDF sent fighters to Afrin from other areas, and the     U.S.-led coalition has said this resulted in limited offensive operations against Islamic State.Turkey views the YPG militia as a terrorist group and a threat to its national security. Turkey and its Syrian militia allies captured Afrin town last month, leading the YPG to declare a new phase of guerrilla war in the northwest.Xelil said the shift in tactics away from direct confrontation meant fewer fighters were needed in the northwest."The number has reduced a lot," he said. "The surplus number will head to the other areas to strengthen the defence of these areas," against Islamic State and "any other threat"."After Afrin, Daesh has revived and has started to expand in the region, and has benefited a lot from the vacuum," Xelil said. "This is a danger we are thinking about, and we are tying to fine the appropriate means to take measures against the expansion of Daesh," he said.President Donald Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting on Tuesday to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.(Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
VREDEPEEL, Netherlands   The German military on Wednesday put a short-range air defence unit with about 450 soldiers under Dutch command, further deepening ties between the two NATO allies.German Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen lauded the unique nature of the closer bilateral cooperation, which began in 1995 with the creation of a multinational formation that takes part in NATO readiness rotations."We share common values and interests, believe in our European future, and are strong partners in the trans-Atlantic alliance," von der Leyen said during a ceremony marking the latest tie-up between the two countries\' militaries."We want to tap into synergies to improve our existing capabilities and build up new ones."Brigadier General Michael Gschossmann, commander of ground-based units for the German air force, said last week the move was politically significant and could pave the way for joint development of new weapons and joint operation of longer-range missile defence systems such as the Patriot.Germany and other European countries are racing to expand defence cooperation, citing perceived U.S. isolationism under President Donald Trump and the threat posed by Russia as well as instability in Africa and the Middle East.The German and Dutch militaries have already knitted together some land forces and naval elements, train together on missile defence, and have developed a joint concept of operations for missile defence forces.Wednesday\'s move marks the first expansion of those ties to include the German air forces.The German unit will be under Dutch control, but its troops will remain based in the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein, responsible for the ground-based Mantis system used to protect military sites from artillery and rocket attacks.For possible overseas missions, the German unit will revert to German control or, if both countries agree, it could be deployed together with its Dutch counterpart. Some elements of the unit are currently deployed in Mali as part of a United Nations peacekeeping force there, military officials said.Germany has closer military ties with the Netherlands than any other European Union country. The Dutch military put some 2,000 paratroopers under German control in 2014, and the two countries linked up their tank divisions two years later.(Reporting by Andrea Shalal and Sabine Siebold; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
MILAN/LONDON   European shares fell for a second day after China unveiled new tariffs against U.S. products, increasing concerns of an escalating trade standoff between the two countries.China hit back quickly on Wednesday against U.S. plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.The pan-European STOXX 600 index and Germany\'s exporter-heavy DAX fell 0.5 and 0.4 percent respectively, suffering their second straight day of losses.Both however ended off earlier lows following an initial kneejerk reaction."Investors might expect further escalation, but we must come back to the view that this process has all the hallmarks of a Trump negotiation where we see the president back down from the worst case scenario in return for key concessions," said ETX Capital analyst Neil Wilson.Later on Wednesday, U.S. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said people should not overreact to the trade actions and said they should be seen as "a negotiation, using all the tools".The basic resources and tech sectors were worst performers with falls of 2.4 and 1.7 percent respectively, while cyclical stocks such as financials and industrials also weighed heavily.Even though trade war concerns dampened the broader sentiment, traders said some European companies such as Airbus or Adidas could get a competitive edge against U.S. rivals in Chinese markets as a result of the tariffs.Airbus shares fell 0.8 percent, outperforming heavy losses in its U.S. rival Boeing, while Adidas rose 1.3 percent, broadly in line with gains in U.S. peer Nike.Elsewhere among individual stocks, WPP fell 2 percent after the advertising group said it was conducting an investigation into an allegation of personal misconduct against its chief executive, Martin Sorrell, who denied any wrongdoing.Swiss Re fell 3.9 percent after the reinsurer said Japan\'s SoftBank was in talks to buy a stake which is unlikely to exceed 10 percent.Bloomberg reported on March 29 that SoftBank was looking to buy a 25 percent stake in Swiss Re, worth about $9.6 billion, as part of its drive to broaden its investments, which include its $93 billion Vision Fund for technology projects.German IT leasing specialist Grenke rose 3.5 percent after a positive trading update for the first quarter.(Reporting by Danilo Masoni; Editing by David Holmes)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A shooting at YouTube, hope in Kosovo and an itinerant celebrity knitter. Heres the latest: Britains opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, reignited a fading crisis over anti-Semitism in the Labour Party by celebrating Passover with a self-described radical leftist Jewish group that has called Israel a steaming pile of sewage.A Labour lawmaker accused Mr. Corbyn, above, of deliberately baiting mainstream Jewish groups by attending the ritual meal organized by Jewdas, a provocative organization opposed to Zionism and capitalism.Separately, Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince said that Israelis have the right to have their own land, reflecting his view of Israel as an economic and strategic partner amid growing tensions with Iran, the kingdoms main rival._____ Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military.President Trump made the pledge on his third day of railing about Americas weak border laws, stirred by Fox Newss alarmist coverage of a caravan of migrants slowly heading north through Mexico.Our reporters note that the U.S. military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions like apprehending people at the border. Above, Mr. Trump viewing border wall prototypes in San Diego last month.Meanwhile, the Trump administration outlined more than 1,000 Chinese electronics, aerospace and other products that will face tariffs. But Mr. Trumps trade actions against China are now drawing fierce opposition from some of Americas biggest companies._____ The fridge is full now.Hungarys far-right prime minister, Viktor Orban, is claiming to have conjured an economic miracle as he seeks to be re-elected on Sunday.But things arent quite as rosy as his allies would like voters to believe.Rising corruption and questionable employment programs have tainted the glow of Orbanomics, while democracy advocates have condemned his relentless reshaping of Hungarys political system, institutions and society.Above, public workers in Siklosnagyfalu, Hungary, last month._____ The last chance to finally make our people free. Thats how a victim of long-past violence, shown above in February, sees a new war crimes tribunal in The Hague.Almost two decades after Kosovo broke free from Serbia, ethnic Albanians there are hoping the tribunal will provide justice for attacks committed by their political rivals in the Kosovo Liberation Army, an ethnic Albanian guerrilla force whose former commanders now run the country.But some of those very leaders, including the president, are less than thrilled about past atrocities coming to light. And then theres the question of whether anyone will dare testify._____ The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated 50 years ago.Today, we remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.The Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African-Americans.He was their voice of anguish, it reads, their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity. The Walt Disney Company offered to buy Sky News  an effort to help Rupert Murdochs 21st Century Fox buy full control of Sky Newss parent company, the broadcaster Sky. Above, Mr. Murdoch last month. Welcome to the Big Board: Spotify shares began trading at $165.90, initially giving the Swedish company a valuation of more than $33 billion. (There was some botched hospitality: The New York Stock Exchange flew the Swiss flag.) Tesla says it is rapidly addressing bottlenecks in the production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week  a nice jump from last year but still short of investors hopes. Teslas shares, which have been battered recently, rose on the news. Grindr, the gay-dating app, has prompted an uproar for sharing users H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal information with outside companies. U.S. stocks were up across the board. Heres a snapshot of global markets. A shooting at YouTubes headquarters in California, above, has left three people injured. The attacker, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound. President Trump tweeted thoughts and prayers. [The New York Times] The son-in-law of a Russian billionaire, a Dutch lawyer, was the first person to be sentenced in the U.S. special investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. He got 30 days in prison and a $20,000 fine for lying to investigators. [The New York Times] Britains military laboratory says it has not confirmed whether the nerve agent that poisoned a Russian former double agent and his daughter came from Russia. The government of Prime Minister Theresa May said the laboratorys work was only one part of the intelligence picture. [The New York Times] A wave of strikes in France is disrupting the countrys railways, the biggest challenge yet to President Emmanuel Macron as he tries to reform Europes second largest economy. [France24] No politicians, no corruption: Mexicos coming elections  and the vote-buying they fuel  wont happen in a tiny indigenous town. Thats because residents expelled all political parties years ago, and they dont want them back. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips. Save your relationship  outsource the chores (if you can!). Recipe of the day: Tonight, an ideal dinner would be Swedish meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam. Stitch and snap. Samuel Barsky, above, has gained fame online for knitting sweaters of famous landmarks  and then posing in front of them. Indias jeweler to the stars rubbed elbows with British royalty and Donald Trump Jr. Now hes on the run, accused of building his global empire with nearly $3 billion obtained illegally from government-run banks. No sweatpants in public and ideal body weight requirements: A Times reporter found stringent rules in place for N.F.L. cheerleaders, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons  even as the sport grapples with accusations of domestic violence and sexual harassment. From our At War blog: Alissa J. Rubin, our former Baghdad bureau chief, made a return trip to northern Iraq  and found herself navigating checkpoints as endless as the rival armed fighters manning them.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from last Wednesdays crossword puzzle:  Like ___, all tears: Hamlet. The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in William Shakespeares Hamlet:It was arrogance that was Niobes undoing, and the cause of her tears.The story of Niobes tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to earth and killed all of Niobes children. In deep anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to end her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would not feel anymore.However, even as a rock, Niobes tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mothers eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON   The world\'s two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there\'s still time to pull back from the brink.Financial markets bounced up and down Wednesday over the brewing U.S.-China trade war after Beijing and Washington proposed tariffs on $50 billion worth of each other\'s products in a battle over the aggressive tactics China employs to develop its high-tech industries."The risks of escalation are clear," Adam Slater, global economist at Oxford Economics, wrote in a research note. "Threats to the U.S.-China relationship are the most dangerous for global growth."There\'s time for the two countries to resolve the dispute through negotiations in the coming weeks. The United States will not tax 1,300 Chinese imports  from hearing aids to flamethrowers  until it has spent weeks collecting public comments. It\'s likely to get an earful from American farmers and businesses that want to avoid a trade war at all costs.Also, China did not say when it would impose tariffs on 106 U.S. products, including soybeans and small aircraft, and it announced it is challenging America\'s import duties at the World Trade Organization.Lawrence Kudlow, the top White House economic adviser, sought to ease fears of a deepening trade conflict with China, telling reporters that the tariffs the U.S. announced Tuesday are "potentially" just a negotiating ploy."We\'re very lucky that we have the best negotiator at the table in the president, and we\'re going to go through that process," said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. "It will be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented, and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing."The prospect of a negotiated end to the dispute calmed nerves on Wall Street. After plunging in early trading, the Dow Jones industrial average ended up rising 231 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 24,264.The sanctions standoff started last month when the United States slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. On Monday, China countered by announcing tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. products. The next day, the United States proposed the $50 billion in duties on Chinese imports, and Beijing lashed back within hours with a threat of further tariffs of its own.Things could easily escalate. The U.S. Treasury is working on plans to restrict Chinese technology investments in the United States. And there\'s talk that the U.S. could also put limits on visas for Chinese who want to visit or study in this country.For its part, China conspicuously left large aircraft off its sanctions list Wednesday, suggesting it is reserving the option to target Boeing if relations deteriorate further.Douglas Irwin, a Dartmouth College economist who has just written a history of U.S. trade policy, said the tit-for-tat tariffs are shaping up as the biggest trade battle since World War II."It\'s huge," he said.In 1987, the Reagan administration triggered shockwaves by slapping tariffs on just $300 million worth of Japanese imports  that\'s million with an "m\'\'  in a dispute over the semiconductor industry. Those tariffs covered less than 1 percent of Japanese imports at the time.The tariffs the U.S. unveiled Tuesday apply to nearly 10 percent of Chinese goods imports of $506 billion.And during the dispute three decades ago, Japan, a close U.S. ally, chose not to retaliate. It eventually gave in to U.S. demands."What we\'ve seen with China is very different," Irwin said. "When the steel tariffs went in  boom, they came back with retaliation. ... They were not going to take it lying down."Making matters trickier, the dispute over Chinese technology policy strikes at the heart of Beijing\'s ambitions to become the global leader in cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence and quantum computing.In August, President Donald Trump ordered the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to investigate China\'s tech policies, particularly longstanding allegations that it coerces U.S. companies into handing over sensitive technology to gain access to the Chinese market. The tariffs proposed Tuesday were the result of that investigation.The U.S. also accuses China of treating U.S. companies unfairly when they try to do business there and of encouraging Chinese hackers to break into U.S. corporate computer systems and steal trade secrets.The Trump administration is coming under intense pressure to de-escalate the dispute. American farmers, who disproportionately supported Trump in the 2016 election, are especially outspoken in seeking trade peace. After all, China buys nearly 60 percent of American soybean exports."American farmers are waking up this morning to the prospect of a 25 percent tax on exports that help sustain their farming operations," said former U.S. Sen. Max Baucus, co-chair of Farmers for Free Trade. "We urge the administration to reconsider escalating this trade war."Some analysts predict Beijing will ultimately yield to U.S. demands because it relies far more heavily on the U.S. market than American businesses rely on China\'s."It is no coincidence that the Chinese have not yet set the date when these new tariffs will become effective," said Raoul Leering, head of international trade analysis at ING. "It is likely that China will, in the end, cut its losses and be willing to give Trump something."But Robert Holleyman, a former U.S. trade official, said he worries that both sides will impose tariffs  and they will stick indefinitely."That would hit American consumers in the pocketbook and would reduce access by American businesses and farmers to the largest market in the world," he said.And the Eurasia Group consulting firm warned in a research note about fear that the dispute "could spiral dangerously out of control, given that this trade action is really less about trade and more about China\'s rise as a technology leader."___AP writers Zeke Miller and Darlene Superville in Washington contributed to this report.___Animated explainer on trade disputes:https://youtu.be/qWF5DF_XQYk____
ANKARA, Turkey   Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday that his military "won\'t stop" trying to oust Syrian Kurdish fighters from northern Syria, as he met with the leaders of Russia and Iran for talks on trying to resolve the conflict.The three countries, which have teamed up to work for a Syria settlement despite their differences, reaffirmed their commitment to Syria\'s territorial integrity and the continuation of local cease-fires. They called on the international community to provide more aid for war-ravaged Syria.Erdogan, President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani were holding their second summit to discuss Syria\'s future since attending a similar meeting in Sochi, Russia, in November. Russia and Iran have provided crucial support to President Bashar Assad\'s forces, while Turkey has backed the rebels seeking to overthrow him.Speaking at a joint news conference, Erdogan said Turkish troops, which last month took control of the northwestern Kurdish enclave of Afrin, would move eastward into Manbij and other areas controlled by the U.S.-backed Kurdish militia, the Peoples\' Protection Units, or YPG, which Turkey considers to be terrorists."I say here once again that we will not stop until we have made safe all areas controlled by the (YPG), starting with Manbij," Erdogan said.He stressed that Turkey\'s fight against the YPG would not distract from efforts to eliminate remnants of the Islamic State group from the country.Wednesday\'s summit came as the White House said its military mission to eradicate IS in Syria was coming to a "rapid end," though it offered no timetable for withdrawal of the roughly 2,000 U.S. troops currently in Syria as part of an American-led coalition fighting the Islamic militants since 2014. President Donald Trump had said a day earlier that the U.S.\'s primary mission was to defeat IS and "we\'ve almost completed that task."With allies anxious about a hasty U.S. withdrawal, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Wednesday that the U.S. would stay in war-torn Syria to finish off the job of defeating the Islamic State group and was committed to eliminating the militants\' "small" presence that "our forces have not already eradicated."But Sanders suggested that would not be a long-term endeavor, and she described the extremist group that once controlled vast swaths of Syria and Iraq as "almost completely destroyed."Trump\'s comments conflict with views of his top military advisers, some of whom spoke at a separate event in Washington on Tuesday about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries.Asked about a possible U.S. pullout, Rouhani suggested Wednesday that the U.S. threat to withdraw from Syria was an excuse for soliciting money from countries that want U.S. forces to remain there."One day they say they want to pull out of Syria. ... Then it turns out that they are craving money," he said. "They have told Arab countries to give them money to remain in Syria."It was unclear what Rouhani was referring to. But Trump in recent weeks has asked Saudi Arabia to contribute $4 billion for reconstruction in Syria as part of his efforts to get other countries to help pay for stabilizing the country, according to a U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn\'t authorized to discuss the conversations publicly.Rouhani also reiterated that there can be no military solution to the Syrian crisis. "It should be resolved through political solutions," he said.Russia, Iran and Turkey have sponsored several rounds of talks between the Syrian government and the opposition, and brokered local truces in four areas, helping to reduce hostilities. Their next tripartite meeting will be held in Tehran.Erdogan said the Turkish and Russian militaries were discussing the possibility of establishing field hospitals in Syria\'s Tal Abyad town to care for people injured in the Syrian government offensive on the rebel-held Damascus suburbs of eastern Ghouta. "Be it the Turkish armed forces, be it the Russian armed forces, (we) want to quickly establish a field hospital so that initial treatment can be provided," Erdogan said.Meanwhile, the Russian military said Wednesday that it expects a rebel evacuation from the suburbs of the Syrian capital to be completed in the coming days.The Russian Defense Ministry and Syrian rebels struck a deal on Sunday for the Army of Islam, the biggest opposition group in eastern Ghouta, to leave the area for the rebel-controlled north.The rebels were still leaving the town of Douma, but the evacuation was expected to wrap up in the coming days, said Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy of the Russian General Staff.Earlier, Russia\'s Defense Ministry said that more than 3,000 rebels and their family members had evacuated Douma since Sunday.The evacuation comes after a blistering five-week government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds of people and caused catastrophic damage in the besieged suburbs.___Associated Press writers Josh Lederman in Washington, Zeina Karam and Bassem Mroue in Beirut, Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow, Cinar Kiper in Istanbul and Amir Vahdat in Tehran contributed to this report.
SAN BRUNO, Calif.   A woman who had voiced complaints online about YouTube opened fire with a handgun at the tech company\'s headquarters near San Francisco on Tuesday, wounding three people before shooting herself dead, authorities and media said.It was the latest in a string of mass shootings in the United States in recent years. Most recently, the massacre of 17 people at a Florida high school has led to calls for tighter curbs on gun ownership.Police did not identify the suspect or say what might have motivated Tuesday\'s shooting at YouTube, a video-sharing service owned by Alphabet Inc\'s Google which employs nearly 2,000 people at the San Bruno, California offices.The woman approached an outdoor patio and dining courtyard on the campus around lunchtime and began to fire before entering the building, police said.An affiliate of ABC and other local media, citing unnamed sources, identified the woman as Nasim Aghdam.San Bruno police officials could not immediately be reached for comment on the identity of the attacker.YouTube spokeswoman Jessica Mason could not immediately be reached for comment on the identification by media.The website NasimeSabz.com, which media said was linked to the attacker, had several posts about Persian culture and veganism, interspersed with screeds against YouTube.Those complaints included claims the company was not sharing enough revenue with people who create videos for the platform."There is no equal growth opportunity on YouTube, or any other video-sharing site, your channel will grow if they want to," read one posting on the site.A YouTube account in the name of Nasime Sabz was deleted on Tuesday evening.A U.S. government security official told Reuters there was no known connection to terrorism.ABC News, citing unnamed law enforcement sources, said the  suspect was 35 to 40 years old, and lived in Southern California.A YouTube product manager, Todd Sherman, described on Twitter hearing people running, first thinking it was an earthquake before he was told that a person had a gun."At that point every new person I saw was a potential shooter. Someone else said that the person shot out the back doors and then shot themselves," Sherman said in a tweet."I looked down and saw blood drips on the floor and stairs. Peeked around for threats and then we headed downstairs, and out the front," Sherman said.In a recording of a 911 call posted online by the Los Angeles Times, a dispatcher can be heard saying: "Shooter. Another party said they spotted someone with a gun. Suspect came from the back patio ... Again we have a report of a subject with a gun. They heard seven or eight shots being fired."Dozens of emergency vehicles quickly converged on the YouTube campus, and police could be seen on televised aerial video systematically frisking several employees leaving the area with their hands raised.One victim, a 36-year-old man, was listed in critical condition at San Francisco General Hospital. A 32-year-old woman was listed in serious condition and a 27-year-old woman in fair condition. Authorities did not release names of the victims.The three patients taken to San Francisco General Hospital were all awake, Dr. Andre Campbell, a trauma surgeon at the hospital, told a news conference. All were victims of gunshot wounds, Campbell said, but none of them had undergone surgery.A fourth person was taken to a local hospital with an ankle injury from fleeing the scene."It\'s with great sadness that I tell you - based on the latest information - four people were injured in this horrific act of violence," Google Chief Executive Sundar Pichai said in letter to employees posted on Twitter."I know a lot of you are in shock right now. Over the coming days, we will continue to provide support to help everyone in our Google family heal from this unimaginable tragedy."In a separate tweet, Pichai said he and YouTube Chief Executive Susan Wojcicki were "focused on supporting our employees and the @YouTube community through this difficult time together."President Donald Trump said on Twitter that he had been briefed on the shooting."Our thoughts and prayers are with everybody involved," Trump tweeted. "Thank you to our phenomenal law enforcement officers and first responders that are currently on the scene."In response, Twitter Chief Executive Jack Dorsey tweeted: "We cant keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it wont happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots. Its beyond time to evolve our policies."Last month, YouTube announced it would ban content promoting the sale of guns and gun accessories, as well as videos that teach how to make guns.Female mass shooters are rare. A recent Washington Post analysis shows only three of 150 U.S. shootings with more than four victims since 1966 were carried out by women. In 2015, a husband and wife killed 14 people in San Bernardino, California.(Additional reporting by Gina Cherelus in New York, Suzannah Gonzales in Chicago, Mark Hosenball in Washington, D.C.; Andrew Hay in Santa Fe, New Mexico, Alex Dobuzinskis and Dan Whitcomb in Los Angeles; Salvador Rodriguez, Heather Somerville, Noel Randewich, Stephen Nellis and Jeffrey Dastin in San Francisco; Keith Coffman in Denver; Writing by Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Peter Cooney and Clarence Fernandez)
(Reuters) - Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China may dent production of German luxury SUVs made in the U.S. South and sent to China, with exports from electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and Ford Motor Co also vulnerable.If a tit-for-tat tariff dispute between the two countries erupts into a full-blown trade war, auto production in both will be affected, but U.S. factories would feel the strongest effect because China imports nearly 270,000 U.S. vehicles, worth $11 billion, and sends relatively few back.Tesla\'s California plant, which ships an estimated 15,000 cars a year to China, as well as BMW\'s South Carolina facility and Daimler AG\'s Alabama factory, could lose hundreds of millions of dollars\' worth of production if China goes ahead with its threat to double import tariffs. All three export high-margin luxury models, many of them sport utility vehicles, to China.Ford\'s problem is twofold, involving both imports of premium Lincoln vehicles to China and a plan to export low-cost Focus compacts from China to the United States.General Motors Co\'s exposure is limited because it imports only 30,000 Buick Envision crossovers a year from China, while sending just a handful of vehicles back.Shares of automakers ended higher on Wednesday as Wall Street stocks changed course in the afternoon when investors\' trade fears subsided. [.N] Tesla shares closed 7.3 percent higher at $286.94, Ford shares gained 1.6 percent to close at $11.33, and GM shares were up 3 percent at $38.03.Barclays auto analyst Brian Johnson, in an investor note on Wednesday, predicted that Tesla "would bear the brunt of any increased auto tariff on a relative basis," with China accounting for 17 percent of the company\'s revenue.The United States has a 60-day comment period on plans, and China is waiting for U.S. action before implementing its own. A  Washington-based source close to one of the automakers called the moves "a posturing exercise by both countries (and) part of a process" that will play out over the next two months.China has threatened to double tariffs to 50 percent on imported automobiles and other U.S.-made goods to retaliate against the Trump administration\'s proposed tariffs on a broad range of products, including vehicles and automotive parts.The proposed U.S. tariffs on Chinese-made vehicles could affect Ford\'s plans to shift production of the compact Focus next year from Michigan to China, a move the company said last year would save it $500 million.The Lincoln brand meanwhile is struggling to gain traction in China\'s crowded luxury car market. Ford has said it ships about 80,000 vehicles a year to China, including various Lincoln models.Ford declined to comment specifically on plans for the Focus and Lincoln. It said in a statement on Wednesday: "We encourage both governments to work together to resolve issues between these two important economies."A Mercedes-Benz spokesman said the company does not speculate on ongoing negotiations, adding that it is "monitoring the situation closely."BMW said in a statement: "A further escalation of the trade conflict between the U.S. and China would be harmful for all stakeholders."Tesla declined to comment. A spokesman for the United Auto Workers union, which represents workers at Ford and GM, but not at Tesla, BMW and Mercedes-Benz, declined to comment.GM said on Wednesday it is "too early" to say how the Trump administration\'s proposed tariffs will impact its future production plans for the Envision.Chinese vehicle imports from all markets last year climbed to 1.2 million, according to the China Automobile Dealers Association. Less than a quarter of those - 267,473, according to Statista - came from U.S. auto plants, including 100,000 from BMW\'s South Carolina factory.Decisions on whether and where to shift vehicle production could be complicated by U.S. President Donald Trump\'s moves to significantly revamp or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement that allows tariff-free shipments of vehicles to the United States from Mexico and Canada.(Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit and Norihiko Shirouzu in Beijing; additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington,  Allison Lampert in Montreal and Alexandria Sage in San Francisco; Editing by Peter Henderson and Matthew Lewis)
MADISON, Wis.   The dominating victory by a liberal candidate in Wisconsin\'s Supreme Court race emboldened Democrats deflated by years of defeats, pushing Republican Gov. Scott Walker to issue a series of warnings Wednesday about a possible "blue wave" in the red state.Democrats heralded Rebecca Dallet\'s victory as the clearest sign yet voters are back on their side after seven years of Republican control of the Wisconsin Statehouse and Donald Trump\'s 1-point victory in the state in 2016."Last night is another indication that every Republican in Wisconsin should be running scared," said Democratic strategist Joe Zepecki on Wednesday. "The progressive candidate here over-performed recent history in every type of community, rural, urban, suburban, exurban and that puts everything in play for this fall."Walker, who is up for re-election in November, exhorted supporters on Twitter to see the warning signs."We are at risk of a Blue Wave in Wisconsin," Walker said in a fundraising email Wednesday. "After these two defeats, it is clear that our big bold reforms are in jeopardy."Democratic U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin, a top GOP target, also is on the ballot in November, along with the entire state Assembly and half the Senate.Dallet won 24 counties across the state that Trump had carried in 2016, a troubling sign for Republicans. Her win also comes after a surprise Democratic victory in a special state Senate election that had been under Republican control for 17 years and that Trump carried.Three months ago, Walker called the special election loss a "wake up call."Those two wins, coupled with Doug Jones\' victory over Republican Roy Moore for an Alabama U.S. Senate seat in December, shows Democrats are on pace for big gains nationally in November, said Paul Maslin, a Wisconsin-based national Democratic pollster."Everything is lining up in one direction," Maslin said. "There\'s no question they\'re headed for a major defeat and we\'re headed for a major victory. ... Our people are motivated and are taking action in the best way possible, which is at the ballot box."But Republicans argue spring elections  where turnout is roughly half of what it will be in November  are poor indicators of what will happen in the fall. Still, longtime political observers in Wisconsin on both sides agreed the win emphasizes that Democrats are more energized at the moment than Republicans."It\'s clearly a wake-up call," said Republican strategist Brandon Scholz. "I don\'t think a poorly run campaign makes a blue wave, but I do think the Republicans are challenged with having to draw the passion factor equal."Walker last month was forced to call special elections for two other legislative vacancies after three judges ordered him to proceed against his wishes. Those elections, for seats that had been held by Republicans until they left to join Walker\'s administration, will be June 12.Martha Laning, director of the Wisconsin Democratic Party, cast the Dallet victory as a referendum on Walker since he had endorsed her opponent in the officially nonpartisan race."How many more wake-up calls do Walker and the GOP need before they realize their extremism is out-of-touch with Wisconsin values?" Laning said.Dallet trounced conservative challenger Michael Screnock by 12 points  56 percent to 44 percent  to become the first liberal candidate to win election to the Wisconsin Supreme Court when there\'s an open seat since 1995. Her victory means that six of the seven seats on the state\'s highest court will be women, but conservatives will still control it 4-3.Only Washington state has more women on its highest court, but in percentage terms Wisconsin is the highest, according to the University of Minnesota\'s Smart Politics.Turnout was 22.2 percent, the highest for a spring election since 2011 and second-highest over the past 12 Supreme Court elections.Dallet\'s candidacy won support from national Democrats, something never-before-seen in a state Supreme Court race, with an endorsement from U.S. Sen. Cory Booker, of New Jersey, former Vice President Joe Biden recording robocalls and a group run by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder dumping half a million dollars into the contest.Holder, who sued to force Walker to call the two upcoming legislative special elections, said the Dallet win was really about Walker."Under the leadership of Scott Walker and his administration, the right to vote has been systematically attacked and the concerns of corporations, outside special interests and the Republican party placed ahead of the people," he said in a statement. "Today, the voters of Wisconsin took a critical first step toward a state government that better reflects their needs and interests."___
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   The Mexican government began handing out transit or humanitarian visas to people in a caravan of Central American migrants, and said the procession of 1,000 or so migrants that drew criticism from President Donald Trump had begun to disperse.Some migrants who awoke at the camp Wednesday said they would try their luck at requesting asylum in the United States, others in Mexico.Elmer Zelaya Gomez, 38, from eastern El Salvador, has been sleeping with his wife and three children aged 7, 13 and 14 on the soccer field under blankets as they wait for temporary transit visas from Mexico to continue to the US border. He hopes to request asylum and join relatives in New York."We didn\'t leave our countries just because we wanted to," Zelaya Gomez said. "It\'s for the safety of our children."Like many, he had joined the caravan  which was never expected to be so big, and never planned to go all the way to the border  because there was safety in numbers.Now, the family faces the prospect of travelling solo; the caravan is scheduled to make its last stops this week at a migrants rights symposium in the central city of Puebla, and end in Mexico City."It seems a little complicated, with the robberies, kidnappings, and all of that," Zelaya Gomez said. "It\'s a little scary, to travel without the caravan."Organizer Irineo Mujica said, "We will try to find a better way of doing our caravans" in coming years. "We didn\'t anticipate, or want, a caravan of this size."The caravan is an annual, symbolic event held around Easter each year to raise awareness about the plight of migrants and has never left southern Mexico, though some participants then continue north on their own.Trump\'s strong criticism of the caravan and Mexico\'s supposed permissiveness in allowing it to proceed, have confused and befuddled families here, who deny they are a threat. Many say they never intended on going all the way to the United States after the end of the "Stations of the Cross" caravan. Some are seeking asylum in Mexico itself.Even coordinators of the caravan seemed to misunderstand the debate in the U.S. when Trump\'s endorsed a "nuclear option" for pushing funding for his border wall through Congress. They told worried families Tuesday that the U.S. president had floated the idea of using a nuclear weapon against the caravan of mostly women and children who have fled violence in Central America.The Mexican government said in a statement late Tuesday that its immigration policy "is not subject to pressure," but noted the caravan "began to disperse by decision of the participants."It said 465 migrants had asked for transit visas and 230 had gotten them, and another 168 were likely to get some sort of visa to stay in Mexico.Though the caravan is uncomfortable  the migrants cook meager, donated rations on fires and sleep under the stars  they said risks they have taken should be an indication of how unsustainable their circumstances are back home. Hondurans predominate in this year\'s caravan, but it includes families from Guatemala and El Salvador as well.Sitting on a thin foam pad and trying to corral her sons, 2-year-old Jonathan and 6-year-old Omar, Gabriela Hernandez wondered aloud at what Trump must think of them."I see it as something really sad, because I don\'t understand how a child this age can make things difficult for him," said Hernandez, a 27-year-old who is two months pregnant.She would like to get into the U.S., where she has a cousin in Houston. Crime in Honduras was so bad that she decided to embark on the difficult a journey across several international borders with two young asthmatic sons, the younger of whom is now sick and on antibiotics.Late Tuesday, the first migrants began receiving documents from Mexican immigration authorities. Some give them 20 days to transit the country on their way to the U.S. border with the stated goal of applying for asylum. Others got papers in a first step toward a humanitarian Mexican residency visa for especially vulnerable people or a start to the application process for asylum in Mexico.Mayra Zepeda, 38, of Honduras, said that once she gets documents to cross Mexico, she and her husband will continue their journey toward the border city of Tijuana. She said they hope to find better paying jobs there and aren\'t planning to try to cross into the U.S.The couple left Honduras in December after incumbent President Juan Orlando Hernandez was declared the winner of a contested election. The factory where she made T-shirts for export closed due to the weeks of instability that followed the election, she said.She and her family stopped in the Mexican town of Tapachula at the Guatemala border for three months and she worked in a restaurant. When the caravan came together there they saw it as a good opportunity to make a move with safety in numbers.On Tuesday afternoon, she cooked a cauldron full of sliced squash and eggs over an open fire for the caravan\'s security team, volunteers who keep an eye on things."Honestly, I want to be Mexican," Zepeda said. "We\'re not going to cross. We\'re just going to stay here."
BEIJING   China on Wednesday vowed to impose measures of the "same strength" in response to a proposed U.S. tariff hike on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods in a spiraling technology dispute that has fueled fears it might set back the global economic recovery.The Commerce Ministry said it would immediately challenge the U.S. move in the World Trade Organization."At the same time, we are preparing to take measures of the same strength and same scope against U.S. goods," said a ministry statement. "These measures will be announced shortly."The clash reflects growing tension between President Donald Trump\'s promises to narrow the multibillion-dollar U.S. trade deficit with China and the ruling Communist Party\'s development plans. Those include using access to China\'s vast market as leverage to induce foreign automakers and other companies to help create or improve industry and technology.Beijing was reacting to a U.S. announcement Tuesday of a list of Chinese goods targeted for a tariff hike previously approved by Trump. They include medical, aerospace and information technology.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s Office said those products benefit from Chinese policies that including requiring foreign companies to hand over technology in violation of Beijing\'s free-trade commitments.Chinese officials have given no indication what U.S. goods might be targeted in response but businesspeople and economists have cited Boeing jetliners and soybeans as possible targets.The dispute has fueled fears it might set back the global recovery if other governments are prompted to raise their own import barriers.Asian governments will closely watch Beijing\'s reaction in a dispute that "may compel countries to pick sides," said Weiliang Chang of Mizuho Bank in a report.On Wednesday, Asian stock markets were mixed. Market benchmarks in Hong Kong and Tokyo were off 0.2 percent at midday but the Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.8 percent.American companies have long chafed under Chinese regulations that require them to operate through local partners and share technology with potential competitors in exchange for market access. Business groups say companies feel increasingly unwelcome in China\'s state-dominated economy and are being squeezed out of promising industries.Chinese policies "coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to domestic Chinese enterprises," said a USTR statement.A USTR report released Tuesday also cited complaints Beijing uses cyber spying to steal foreign business secrets, but it was unclear whether the latest tariff hike was in response to that.In a separate dispute, Beijing raised tariffs Monday on a $3 billion list of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe in response a higher American import duties on steel and aluminum.The technology-related tariffs are more sensitive for President Xi Jinping\'s government because they strike at industries seen by communist leaders as vital for China\'s future development.Companies have warned Trump\'s action might hurt U.S. companies and consumers."The administration is rightly focused on restoring equity and fairness in our trade relationship with China," said the executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Myron Brilliant, in a statement. "However, imposing taxes on products used daily by American consumers and job creators is not the way to achieve those ends."The USTR also launched a WTO case last month challenging Chinese policies it said unfairly limit foreign companies\' ability to control their technology.U.S. authorities say Beijing denies foreign companies the right to block use of technology by a Chinese entity once a licensing period ends and imposes contract terms that are less favorable than for local technology.Foreign companies are increasingly alarmed by initiatives such as Beijing\'s long-range industry development plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025," which calls for creating Chinese global leaders in electric cars, robots and other fields. Foreign companies complain that strategy appears to limit or outright block access to those industries.Beijing reported a trade surplus of $275.8 billion with the United States last year, or two-thirds of Beijing\'s global total. Washington reports different figures that put the gap at a record $375.2 billion.China has accused Trump of damaging the global system of trade regulation by taking action under U.S. law instead of through the WTO. The Commerce Ministry\'s statement Wednesday criticized the latest moves as "a typical unilateralist and protectionist practice."___Chinese Ministry of Commerce (in Chinese): www.mofcom.gov.cn
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   The Latest on commemorations of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. (all times local):8:30 p.m.Stevie Wonder has released a video featuring celebrities espousing the need to continue the works of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the 50th anniversary of his assassination.Wonder says in the video released online Wednesday night that the teachings of the slain civil rights icon are still alive.Former President Barack Obama, Samuel L. Jackson and Billie Jean King are among the dozens of artists, activists and athletes saying the "dream still lives," and calling for equal rights and peaceful co-existence.At the end of the five-minute video, Wonder asks viewers to post their own dreams online.Wonder was a proponent of creating the King national holiday. The King Center in Atlanta says Wonder in 1980 released the song "Happy Birthday" celebrating King and advocating for the holiday. In 1982, Coretta Scott King and Wonder presented a petition with more than 6 million signatures supporting a King holiday to the speaker of the U.S. House of representatives. The holiday was approved in 1983.___6:05 p.m.Bells in Memphis and Atlanta are ringing to mark the 50th anniversary of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination.The crowd gathered outside Memphis\' old Lorraine Motel where King was shot on April 4, 1968, fell silent Wednesday evening as the bell began to ring there. A red and white wreath was placed on the balcony where he had been standing.Moments later, the Rev. Al Green sang "Take My Hand, Precious Lord," the song King had requested moments before he was killed at age 39.In Atlanta, King family members pulled a rope together to ring a bell 39 times at the pool surrounding the crypt of King and wife Coretta Scott King. The family then laid a wreath of multicolored flowers in front of the crypt.___This item has corrected the name of the song "Take My Hand, Precious Lord."___4:35 p.m.A crowd is gathered at the site where the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated 50 years ago in Memphis, Tennessee.Hundreds gathered Wednesday afternoon outside the old Lorraine Motel, which is now the National Civil Rights Museum.A large screen showed excerpts of his final speech, and a 120-year-old, 1,700-pound bell brought to the museum sits ready for ringing. Speakers addressed the crowd from the old motel\'s balcony, where King was assassinated on April 4, 1968.President Barack Obama addressed the crowd by video on the screen. He says progress has been made in civil rights, but more needs to be done.___2:30 p.m.A relative of one of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s chief opponents is honoring the slain civil rights leader on the anniversary of his death.The daughter of former Alabama governor and one-time segregationist George Wallace, Peggy Wallace Kennedy, participated in an event Wednesday commemorating King in Montgomery, Alabama.King got his start in civil rights in Montgomery, where he led a boycott over segregated city buses.Kennedy was among nine people to read from King\'s speeches at Alabama\'s main history museum. Kennedy tells The Associated Press that King\'s teachings are needed now more than ever because "it seems like our country is moving backward."George Wallace survived an assassination attempt while running for president in 1972. He renounced his segregationist views in later years.___1:25 p.m.Thousands are marching through a Tennessee city to honor the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the 50th anniversary of his death.Memphis Police spokesman Louis Brownlee says the department\'s aircraft estimated that as many as 10,000 or so had gathered for the march on Wednesday.The march started in the early afternoon with a mix of emotions and ages. Some marchers were smiling and chanting; others were staring ahead with serious looks on their faces.Some marched arm-in-arm, while others held signs saying "I Am a Man" in honor of a 1968 sanitation workers strike that King was supporting at the time of his death. People sang "We Shall Overcome."The marchers included Martin Luther King III, Al Sharpton, Bernie Sanders and Andrew Young.At age 91, civil rights leader the Rev. James Lawson was also marching. He noted that he has been part of the struggle for 50 years, telling a reporter: "I\'m still anxious and frustrated. The task is unfinished."___12:15 p.m.The rapper Common and pop singer Sheila E have the crowd dancing and bobbing their heads before the start of a march honoring the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.Common performed his poignant song "Glory," which was featured in the film Selma. He finished his performance by raising his fist and bowing his head.Singer Goapele also performed to the crowd of hundreds.The performances took place at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee.King was in Memphis to support a strike by sanitation workers when he was killed in 1968.___11:10 a.m.President Donald Trump says it\'s up to people, not the government, to achieve the ideals expressed by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.Trump\'s comments came in a White House proclamation issued Wednesday on the 50th anniversary of King\'s slaying in Memphis, Tennessee.Trump proclamation echoes King\'s own words in saying: "We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters lest we perish together as fools." And he says it\'s the people of the United States, not government, who will achieve King\'s goals.Trump proclaimed the anniversary as a day to honor King. He also sent a tweet about King\'s legacy.___10:45 a.m.As part of the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., two lawyers were awarded a prize celebrating his legacy of nonviolence.The Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize was presented Wednesday by King\'s daughter, the Rev. Bernice King, to Benjamin Ferencz and Bryan Stevenson at the King Center in Atlanta.Ferencz, who recently turned 99, prosecuted Nazi war crimes. He cracked jokes before turning serious and urging the audience to never give up on things that are important.Stevenson founded the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Alabama, and has devoted his career to helping the poor, those in prison and death row inmates. He said he\'s always drawn inspiration from King and said it\'s important to continue to demand justice for those who are treated unfairly.___10:30 a.m.Thousands have gathered in Memphis for events to commemorate the anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.One of them was 73-year-old Fredna White from Waco, Texas. She\'s retired from the department of Veterans Affairs.She said the commemoration of King\'s assassination brings the issues he fought for back to the forefront  such as equality and economic justice.She said: "This a good reminder to tell us to get back with it, work it, united for all the causes."She said the diverse nature of the crowd gives her hope that "there may be some coming together of our country, our people, our nation."___10:05 a.m.The daughter of the late Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. is calling him "the apostle of nonviolence" on the 50th anniversary of his assassination.The Rev. Bernice King said Wednesday her father was known as a civil rights leader and great orator, and he was both of those things. But she says his message of nonviolence is a vital part of his legacy.She spoke during a ceremony to award the Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize held at the King Center in Atlanta.The award was being presented to Benjamin Ferencz, a lawyer who prosecuted Nazi war crimes, and Bryan Stevenson, a public interest lawyer who founded and heads the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Alabama.___9:50 a.m.The Indianapolis park where Robert Kennedy called for peace and unity just hours after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. is being designated a National Historic Site.A bill approved by Congress for the designation was signed by President Donald Trump on Tuesday, ahead of Wednesday\'s events at the park marking the 50th anniversary of King\'s death.The park near downtown Indianapolis is where Kennedy was to make an April 1968 presidential campaign speech, but instead told the crowd of King\'s assassination and asked for a nonviolent reaction.Participants in Wednesday\'s event included Georgia congressman and 1960s civil rights activist John Lewis and Robert Kennedy\'s daughter, Kerry Kennedy.Indianapolis Rep. Andre Carson says he hopes the historic designation is a reminder of the need for non-violence and tolerance.___9:05 a.m.Hundreds of people gathered at a union headquarters Wednesday morning hours before a march marking the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in Memphis, Tennessee.Workers at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees office chanted, banged drums and held signs saying "I Am"  one of the slogans for events surrounding the anniversary of King\'s death. One man hauled a cart full of commemorative T-shirts he was selling for $10.Andre Gipson, the local president for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, says about 400 members from other cities are in Memphis for the march. He says the march promised to be a "very special" event for workers.People were bundled up on a chilly yet sunny morning.____For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
SAN DIEGO   The Latest on a deadly Marine helicopter crash in the California desert. (all times local):3:20p.m.Military officials say the four crew members killed when a Marine helicopter crashed during a training mission in Southern California were all Marines.The Miramar air station in San Diego says the crew had taken off from a ground-combat center in the city of Twentynine Palms on Tuesday to practice helicopter landings in "unimproved zones."The CH-53E Super Stallion crashed about 100 miles (160 kilometers) to the south in a remote desert area just outside of El Centro, near the U.S.-Mexico border.The helicopter was assigned to the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing out of the Miramar air station in San Diego.The cause of the crash is under investigation. The Marines haven\'t been identified but the air station is expected to release their names later Wednesday.___1:20 p.m.President Donald Trump has sent his condolences to the families of four crew members killed when a Marine helicopter crashed during a training mission in Southern California.The president tweeted Wednesday that his thoughts and prayers were with those who lost their lives.He added, "We pray for their families" and the U.S. Marine Corps.The CH-53E Super Stallion crashed Tuesday in a desert area just outside El Centro, near the U.S.-Mexico border. It was a warm, clear day.The helicopter was assigned to the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing out of the Miramar air station in San Diego.The cause of the crash is under investigation. The crew members haven\'t been identified.The Imperial Valley Sheriff\'s Office says the crew members have been recovered and taken to the coroner\'s facility.___10:30 a.m.Officials say the bodies of four crew members killed when a Marine helicopter crashed during a training mission in Southern California have been removed from the crash site.Deputy Coroner Derrick Lindberg with the Imperial Valley Sheriff\'s Office said Wednesday that the crew members were recovered late Tuesday and taken to the coroner\'s facility.He says the Marine Corps will take custody of the bodies to conduct autopsies.The CH-53E Super Stallion crashed Tuesday in a desert area just outside El Centro, near the U.S.-Mexico border. It was a warm, clear day.The helicopter was assigned to the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing out of the Miramar air station in San Diego.The cause of the crash is under investigation. The crew members haven\'t been identified.___11:30 p.m.A Marine helicopter has crashed during a Southern California training mission and authorities believe all four crew members were killed.The military says the CH-53E Super Stallion went down shortly after 2:30 p.m. Tuesday near El Centro.The helicopter was with the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing out of the Miramar air station near San Diego.The cause of the crash is under investigation.Authorities aren\'t releasing the names of the victims or their home towns.
BEIJING   China will struggle to replace U.S. soybean supplies after implementing an additional 25 percent tariff on American shipments, likely inflicting severe financial pain on domestic companies, analysts and executives at feedmakers said.The world\'s top importer of the oilseed will impose the tariffs on soybeans and 105 other U.S. products, state broadcaster CCTV said on Wednesday, an expected retaliation following Washington\'s aggressive trade actions.Soybeans are considered one of the most powerful weapons in Beijing\'s trade arsenal because a drop in exports to China would hurt Iowa and other farm states that backed U.S. President Donald Trump. Soybeans were the biggest U.S. agricultural export to China last year at a value of $12 billion.China gobbles up about 60 percent of globally traded soybeans to feed the world\'s largest livestock industry.     Factories crush the oilseed to make meal - a key ingredient in animal feed."There simply aren\'t enough soybeans in the world outside of the U.S. to meet China\'s needs," said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics."As for reducing dependence on imports, there are a few options, but none is a magic bullet that could hurt U.S. farmers without generating costs at home."Brazil supplied half of China\'s imports last year while the United States shipped around 33 million tonnes, about a third of the total. Replacing those U.S. tonnes will be no easy feat.Crops in Argentina, the world\'s No. 3 producer, have been hit by a drought, cutting exports from there to less than 7 million tonnes in the 2017/18 season, its smallest in a decade, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.Outside of Brazil, the United States and Argentina, about 17 million tonnes of soybeans comes from a handful of countries.China grows only about 14 million tonnes of soybeans, mainly to make food for human consumption.OPTIONS AT HOMEThere are options at home, including tapping the government\'s emergency strategic reserves and rejigging the ingredients that go into feed, analysts, experts, traders and buyers at feed mills say."Some people say they could just drain their state reserves. That\'s a possibility, (but) nobody knows how many tonnes are in it," said U.S. Soybean Export Council Asia Director Paul Burke.Some feedmakers are quietly drawing up contingency plans, such as finding substitute ingredients.Feed mills could add more corn, a grain in abundance at home, distillers\' dried grains (DDGS), a byproduct of ethanol production, or rapeseed and cottonseed meal to their feed.But maintaining protein levels is complicated. The maximum amount of DDGS in feed is around 20 percent, and toxic ingredients found in rapeseed mean it can only make up 5 percent of pig feed, and it usually isn\'t put in sow or piglet food.Mills also worry that additional demand and tighter supplies will drive up their overheads, inflating prices of pork, a staple in Chinese diets, and increasing people\'s cost of living.China already has stiff tariffs on DDGS imports, and is investigating U.S. sorghum imports for possible antidumping penalties.The threat of action has pushed Brazilian export prices to all-time highs and fueled gains in domestic soybean and soymeal futures prices."I don\'t want China to escalate the trade tension," said a feedmaker\'s purchasing manager, worried about higher prices and a lack of alternative feed sources with comparable protein content to soymeal."Sales from Brazil would normally end around September and it\'s usually U.S. beans between October to March. Where do we get beans from during that time if we only buy from Brazil?"(Reporting by Hallie Gu, Josephine Mason and Dominique Patton; Editing by Tom Hogue)
OTTAWA/MEXICO CITY   Mexico, Canada and the United States have made good progress in their bid to modernize the NAFTA trade pact but still have work to do, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Wednesday.Freeland also said she would be flying to Washington for a meeting on Thursday with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, who is pushing hard for a quick deal in principle to finish before a July 1 presidential election in Mexico.The three members of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) could announce by mid-April the outlines of a settlement that would likely tackle the key issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, say sources familiar with the matter."We\'re making good progress on NAFTA ... having said that, we\'re not there yet," Freeland told business executives in Winnipeg. The meeting was televised.One of the biggest chapters to be resolved is a U.S. demand that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA nations be increased to 85 percent from 62.5 percent.A Mexican source said U.S. negotiators had shown "some flexibility" on the issue, adding that the three nations were now looking at alternatives.Only six of the roughly 30 chapters have been closed and wide differences remain on topics such as dispute resolution and government procurement.Canadian officials do not see how the three nations can close the remaining chapters in the next two weeks, a source familiar with Canada\'s negotiating position said on Wednesday."There\'s a possibility they could come up with a symbolic agreement in principle that signaled they had reached a consensus on five or six key issues," said the source, who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation.Chief negotiators will meet in Washington next week and there are no current plans for an eighth round of talks, which officials had earlier suggested would start on April 8, the source added.U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to ditch NAFTA if it cannot be reworked to his satisfaction, and talks to modernize the 24-year-old treaty have dragged on since August.Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, predicted on Wednesday that there would be "some positive news on NAFTA ... and I think the stock market is going to love that."Moises Kalach, a senior member of the CCE business lobby, which represents Mexico\'s private sector in the NAFTA talks, said he expects signs of progress even if ministers do not reach a formal agreement.The United States "is in more of a rush than before ... the window of opportunity is now open, it\'s a couple of weeks," Kalach said on Mexican television.Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo and Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray held talks on Wednesday with Lighthizer and Jared Kushner, Trump\'s son-in-law and close adviser, the Mexican government said in a statement.Guajardo and Videgaray "agreed to continue the dialogue to advance on shared positions in the pending chapters," the Mexican government said. "These discussions will be maintained at the technical level with both the U.S. government and the Canadian government."NAFTA negotiating teams have been meeting for weeks to try to narrow their differences, Guajardo said on Monday, sounding a positive note for making further advances at a regional summit of leaders in Peru that begins on April 13.If an initial NAFTA deal is reached, a longer period will be needed to finalize technical details, Guajardo said.(Additional reporting by Anthony Esposito, Daina Beth Solomon and Julia Love in Mexico City and Steve Holland in Washington; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Sandra Maler)
(Reuters) - Shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile on Wednesday after China proposed duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in retaliation to Trump administration tariff plans.China was hitting back against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods with similar tariffs on U.S. goods even as Trump\'s top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said the administration was involved in a "negotiation" with China rather than a trade war.While the broader U.S. equity market recovered somewhat as the day wore on industrial stocks were still down significantly by late afternoon. [.N]Shares in U.S. aerospace giant Boeing Co were last down 2.5 percent making it one of the biggest drags on the S&P 500 though it was not immediately clear how much the tariffs would affect Boeing\'s newer products. The United States exported $15 billion of aircraft to China in 2016, ranking the sector equally with agricultural products like soybeans, according U.S. trade data."We understand some big-picture concern but it appears to us that the specific proposals from China this morning are calibrated carefully to avoid a major impact on Boeing and are therefore intended more as a message to the U.S. administration that additional trade barriers will be met with an escalating response," said JPMorgan analyst Seth Seifman.DowDuPont Inc said its agriculture unit could be hurt by the escalating conflict as there could be "price declines in the total market" for soybeans, with negative impacts on U.S. farmers. Its shares were last down 0.6 percent.General Motors shares reversed earlier losses and were last up 0.7 percent after the No. 1 U.S. automaker called for constructive U.S./ China dialogue, citing an "interdependence between the world\'s two largest automotive markets."Agricultural machinery maker Deere & Co was down 4.5 percent. Eli Lustgarten, industrial outlook consultant at ESL Consultants, St Louis, said he was more concerned about the impact to food commodity exports, which would hurt Deere\'s U.S. farm customers, than farm equipment exports.Soybean exporter Archer Daniels Midland Co and another agribusiness Bunge Ltd reversed their premarket losses and were last up more than 1 percent.Some analysts including Mizuho\'s Jeremy Scott saw a silver lining for meat producers though as soybean supply could be stranded on the U.S. market. This could cut costs for U.S. meat companies. Tyson Foods shares were up 2 percent as a result.Investors in the S&P 500\'s technology sector were also rattled since it has the biggest revenue exposure to China out of the benchmark\'s 11 major sectors. Chipmakers such as Nvidia Corp, with a 1.7 percent drop, and Intel Corp, with a 1.0 percent decline, were among the biggest percentage losers in that sector."These are some of the companies most exposed to potential tariffs. They would affect their business directly, immediately. said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer of Commonwealth Financial Network in Waltham, Massachusetts.Shares of Caterpillar, also a big exporter to China, fell 1.5 percent.(Additional reporting by April Joyner, Scott Alwyn, Charles Mikolajczak and Lewis Krauskopf in New York, Taenaz Shakir in Bengaluru; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and David Gregorio)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on U.S.-China trade tensions (all times local):___4:00 p.m.Sen. Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, says the United States needs to protect its intellectual property and competitiveness but shouldn\'t force farmers and ranchers to bear the brunt of retaliation for the entire country."It\'s not fair, and it doesn\'t make economic sense," Grassley says in a statement. "The administration knew that if it imposed tariffs on Chinese goods, China would retaliate against U.S. agriculture. I warned President Trump as much in a White House meeting in February."He said the federal government has a responsibility to "help those Americans and mitigate the damage it caused" to those suffering economic hardship from the tariffs.___3:00 p.m.The American Chemistry Council, a lobbying group, says China\'s threatened tariffs would come down hard on U.S. chemical companies.The group says 40 percent of the products China said it would target Wednesday are chemicals, including PVC and plastics. China imported 11 percent of all U.S. plastic resins last year, or $3.2 billion worth.The council, which represents Dow, DuPont and other major chemical companies, says its members have planned $185 million in new U.S. factories or expansions based on current tariff levels. It says a trade war with China would jeopardize those plans."We strongly urge both the U.S. and Chinese governments to work together to come to a satisfactory and mutually beneficial decision before this situation escalates further," council President and CEO Cal Dooley says in a statement.___2:45 p.m.U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, is critical of the Trump administration\'s tariffs."A trade war always has unanticipated consequences," he said during a press conference at the state capitol Wednesday. "The last two days are an indication of exactly what I\'ve been most concerned about."He says the tariffs could affect Missouri\'s ability to export food abroad, and the U.S. should instead focus on pursuing trade cases it already has against China with the World Trade Organization.___12:45 p.m.The American Soybean Association, a lobbying group that says it represents 21,000 U.S. soybean producers, says China\'s proposed 25-percent tariff on soybeans would be "devastating" to U.S. farmers. China is the largest consumer of U.S. soybeans, buying about one-third of all U.S. soybean production each year, the group says.Association President John Heisdorffer, an Iowa farmer, is calling on the Trump administration to withdraw its proposed tariffs and meet with soybean farmers to discuss ways to improve competitiveness without resorting to tariffs.The association says soybean farmers lost an estimated $1.72 billion on Wednesday morning alone as soybean futures tumbled."That\'s real money lost for farmers, and it is entirely preventable," Heisdorffer says in a statement.___12:10 p.m.Ford and General Motors are calling for continued dialogue to resolve escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China.Both automakers issued statements Wednesday after China proposed steep retaliatory tariffs on imports of U.S.-made vehicles and other goods.Ford says it encouraged the governments to work together. GM urges the countries to "engage in constructive dialogue and pursue sustainable trade policies."GM would be affected by U.S. tariffs because it imports the Buick Envision SUV from China. Ford has plans to import a new version of the Focus compact car from China next year. Both make most of their vehicles in China that are sold there and ship only a small number of vehicles from the U.S. to China.___11:45 a.m.National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow is suggesting that proposed tariffs on Chinese imports may not ultimately go into effect.Kudlow is trying to soothe stock market fears over a potential trade war with China. He says the tariffs announced Tuesday are "potentially" a negotiating ploy in an effort to get China to level the playing field for U.S. businesses.Kudlow tells reporters: "There are carrots and sticks in life," adding that the U.S. is encouraging China to lower trade barriers.He adds that China should take Trump "seriously" on tariffs, but that ultimate the president is a "free-trader."Kudlow says the Trump administration is focused on growing the U.S. economy, saying: "Sometimes the path to this kind of growth is a little rocky. That\'s the way the world works."____11:30 a.m.Boeing shares are sinking after China proposed steep tariffs on U.S. aircraft as trade tension grows between the United States and China.China is a key market for Boeing, accounting for nearly one-fourth of the Chicago company\'s deliveries of commercial airplanes last year.Chinese tariffs on U.S.-made planes are not certain, and the proposal only covers planes within a certain weight range. Analysts say the tariffs would hit older versions of the Boeing 737 that are still in production, but not newer MAX models. Larger wide-body aircraft would not be affected.Still, the threat that Boeing Co. could be caught in trade war crossfire sent the shares down nearly 6 percent in morning trading. They regained some ground by late morning  down $9.65, or 2.9 percent, to $321.17.___10:35 a.m.Analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein are saying that BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Tesla are the biggest potential losers from higher Chinese tariffs on U.S. auto imports.Bernstein said in a note Wednesday that BMW sends 89,000 vehicles annually from the U.S. to China while Daimler AG\'s Mercedes-Benz ships 65,000. Tesla sells about 14,000 but China accounts for around 15 percent of forecast Model S and X sales this year.If enforced, the measures announced by Beijing earlier would increase tariffs on cars from the United States to 50 percent from the usual 25 percent.BMW is headquartered in Munich, Germany but claims the title of biggest U.S. car exporter by shipping vehicles including its X5 SUV from its Spartanburg, South Carolina plant. Stuttgart-based Daimler builds Mercedes in Vance, Alabama.The Bernstein team raised the question of whether the threat of a U.S-China trade war could "nudge the Germans toward localization"  that is, moving production to China.___10:00 a.m.China says it has made a "request for consultations" at the World Trade Organization in response to U.S. tariffs against Chinese products.The Chinese Ministry of Commerce confirmed the step taken Wednesday at the Geneva-based trade body, which triggers the WTO\'s dispute settlement mechanism that will begin with consultations between the two countries.China said the request centers on a proposed product list subject to the additional tariffs under U.S. Section 301 rules.___8:15 a.m.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross is brushing off concern over trade war with China. In an interview with CNBC Wednesday morning, Ross said that tariffs imposed by China amount to 0.3 percent of U.S. GDP and that some action on tariffs has been "coming for a while.""What we\'re talking about on both sides is a fraction of 1 percent of both economies," he said.The larger concern, Ross said, is the protection of U.S. intellectual property.Still, U.S. stock futures slumped over concerns that the back-and-forth tariff actions will stunt trade and growth. Ross said he would not comment on the stock market\'s reaction, but then said he thinks "it\'s being out of proportion."___All times below this point are local time for Beijing.___7:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says the U.S. lost a trade war with China "years ago."In a tweet Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, Trump said: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."China announced tariffs worth $50 billion on a series of U.S. products including soybeans, whiskey and cars.Chinese officials said they were obliged to act after the U.S. announced plans for retaliatory tariffs in an escalating dispute over China\'s technology program and other trade issues.___7:00 p.m.The chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China says Beijing\'s potential retaliation in an escalating dispute with Washington is a concern for every U.S.  company doing business in China.William Zarit told The Associated Press in an interview Wednesday that proposed tit-for-tat tariff hikes by both sides would first hit global stock markets.Zarit said he still hopes Washington and Beijing will not follow through on their threats.Instead they should work toward a "serious negotiation."U.S. business groups mostly agree that something needs to be done about China\'s aggressive push in technology. But they worry that China\'s measures targeting U.S. exports of aircraft, soybeans and other products could help bring on a tit-for-tat trade war of escalating sanctions between the world\'s two biggest economies.___6:40 p.m.A senior Chinese commerce official has defended the official technology policy at the center of an escalating trade dispute with the United States.Wang Shouwen, a deputy commerce minister, told reporters Wednesday that the long-range industrial strategy known as "Made in China 2025" is open to foreign companies, including American firms, and to private companies, not just state-owned enterprises.The policy calls for creating Chinese global leaders in electric cars, robots and other fields.Wang said the plan, which lays out specific targets for domestic brands\' share of the market in some sectors, should be seen as a guide rather than mandatory.Foreign business groups complain that strategy will limit or outright block access to those industries.___6:00 p.m.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman has urged the U.S. to come to the table and discuss an escalating trade dispute.Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told reporters in Beijing on Wednesday that China\'s door to dialogue with Washington remains open "but the U.S. has missed the opportunity time and time again."Geng made the comments after Beijing announced plans to raise tariffs on imports from the U.S.He said talks between the two countries require "mutual respect and equal treatment, instead of being coerced by one party unilaterally and condescendingly."Geng added that neither side should be "threatening the other with senseless and unreasonable demands."___5:50 p.m.European stock markets have fallen sharply after China announced a series of tariffs on U.S. goods, stoking fears that the two countries were on the brink of a full-scale trade war.Among the region\'s major indexes, Germany\'s DAX was down 1.2 percent while the FTSE 100 index fell 0.4 percent, in the wake of China\'s decision to raise tariffs on $50 billion of U.S. goods including soybeans, aircraft and automobiles. China was responding to Washington\'s equivalent duties on Chinese goods.Joshua Mahony, market analyst at IG, said it\'s "no surprise that we are seeing traders flock to safe havens in response, with gold and the yen both sharply higher throughout the morning\'s trade."Gold, for example, was up 0.8 percent at $1,347.40 an ounce.___5:30 p.m.A senior Chinese finance official has warned that attempts by foreign countries to pressure China on trade will fail, striking a firm note as Beijing announced proposed tariff hikes on American goods in response to planned U.S. duties.Zhu Guangyao, China\'s deputy finance minister, said Wednesday that Beijing hopes both sides can work together in a constructive manner, "instead of acting in a willful way."He made the comment at a briefing to discuss China\'s plans to impose a 25 percent tariff hike on U.S. soybeans, autos, aircraft and other goods valued at $50 billion.Zhu said that China never gives in to outside pressure and that "pressure from the outside will only urge and encourage the Chinese people to work even harder" and to innovate and develop.___5:15 p.m.A senior official with China\'s Commerce Ministry says Beijing will keep the door to negotiations with the U.S. open, after announcing a plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion worth of U.S. goods in response to proposed U.S. tariffs.Wang Shouwen, a vice minister of Commerce, said Wednesday at a briefing with reporters that Beijing doesn\'t want a trade war but will fight one if forced to.Wang said Beijing was willing to resolve these disputes with the U.S. through dialogue on the basis of "mutual respect and mutual benefit."Wang said: "If anyone wants to fight, we\'ll be there with him, if they want to negotiate, the door is open."___4:20 p.m.China has raised tariffs on $50 billion of U.S. goods including soybeans, aircraft and automobiles in response to Washington\'s increased duties on Chinese goods in a technology dispute.The Commerce Ministry on Wednesday criticized the U.S. move as a violation of global trade rules and said China was acting to protect its "legitimate rights and interests."It said a 25 percent tariff would be imposed and the date the charges will take effect would be announced later.The dispute stems from U.S. complaints that Beijing pressures foreign companies to hand over technology in return for market access.Companies and investors worry the conflict could dampen worldwide commerce and set back the global economic recovery.
WASHINGTON   An escalating trade dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies heightened fears Wednesday of a global trade war, sent global stock markets tumbling but also left the door open to a negotiated settlement that might prevent any serious damage before it begins.The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled after markets fell in Europe and Asia on worries of an intensifying trade conflict between the United States and China.After the United States unveiled plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports Tuesday, China lashed back within hours, matching the American tariffs with plans to tax $50 billion of U.S. products, including soybeans and small aircraft.The tariffs wouldn\'t kick in right away. The U.S. government is inviting public comment on its trade sanctions through May 11 and will hold a hearing on the plan May 15. And China set no date for its 25 percent duties to take effect, saying it is waiting to see what President Donald Trump does.U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross brushed off concern about a trade war. In an interview with CNBC on Wednesday morning, Ross said the tariffs announced by China amount to a mere 0.3 percent of America\'s gross domestic product. He added that some U.S. punitive action against Beijing has been "coming for a while" over what the United States calls China\'s predatory behavior involving technology."What we\'re talking about on both sides is a fraction of 1 percent of both economies," Ross said.The larger concern, the commerce secretary said, is the protection of U.S. intellectual property.Asked whether the U.S. tariffs against China were a negotiating ploy, Lawrence Kudlow, Trump\'s top economic adviser, said: "Potentially. It\'s part of the process. I would take the president seriously on this tariff issue. There are carrots and sticks in life... Both sides benefit by positive solutions that lower barriers."Beijing\'s list of 106 products included the biggest U.S. exports to China, reflecting its intense sensitivity to the dispute over American complaints that it pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.The clash reflects the tension between Trump\'s promises to narrow a U.S. trade deficit with China that stood at $375.2 billion in goods last year and the ruling Communist Party\'s development ambitions. Regulators use access to China\'s vast market as leverage to press foreign automakers and other companies to help create or improve industries and technology.In a tweet Wednesday after China\'s announcement, Trump said: "We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S."A list the U.S. issued Tuesday of products subject to tariff hikes included aerospace, telecoms and machinery, striking at high-tech industries seen by China\'s leaders as the key to its economic future.China said it would immediately challenge the U.S. move in the World Trade Organization. A deputy finance minister, Zhu Guangyao, appealed to Washington to "work in a constructive manner" and avoid hurting both countries but warned against expecting Beijing to back down.Companies and economists have expressed concern that global economic activity might sputter if other governments are prompted to raise their own import barriers.China announced tariffs worth $50 billion on a series of U.S. products including soybeans, whiskey and cars. Chinese officials said they were obliged to act after the U.S. announced plans for tariffs in an escalating dispute over China\'s technology program and other trade issues."U.S. companies at this point would like to see robust communication between the US government and the Chinese government and serious negotiation on both sides, hopefully to avoid a trade war," said the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China, William Zarit. "I can only hope that we solve our differences as soon as possible to avoid damage to the U.S. economy, Chinese economy and to U.S. companies."American companies have long chafed under Chinese regulations that require them to operate through local partners and share technology with potential competitors in exchange for market access. Business groups say companies feel unwelcome in China\'s state-dominated economy and are being squeezed out of promising industries.Chinese policies "coerce American companies into transferring their technology" to Chinese enterprises, said a statement by the U.S. Trade Representative.Foreign companies are increasingly alarmed by initiatives such as Beijing\'s long-range industry development plan, dubbed "Made in China 2025." It calls for creating global leaders in electric cars, robots and other fields. Companies complain that might block access to those industries.Wang, the commerce official, defended "Made in China 2025." He said it was "transparent, open and non-discriminatory" and foreign companies could participate. Wang said the plan, which sets targets for domestic brands\' share of some markets, should be seen as a guide rather than mandatory.A report released Tuesday by the U.S. Trade Representative also cited complaints that Beijing uses cyber spying to steal foreign business secrets.The Chinese list Wednesday included soybeans, the biggest U.S. export to China, and aircraft up to 45 tons in weight. That excludes high-end Boeing Co. jetliners such as the 747 and 777, leaving Beijing high-profile targets for possible future conflicts.Also on the list were American beef, whisky, passenger vehicles and industrial chemicals.Zhu, the deputy finance minister, expressed thanks to American soybean farmers who he said had lobbied the Trump administration to "safeguard hard-won economic relations between the United States and China."To minimize the cost to China, regulators picked products for which replacements are available, such as soybeans from Australia or Brazil, said Tu Xinquan, director of WTO studies at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing.The Global Times newspaper, published by the ruling party and known for its nationalistic tone, suggested that further retaliatory action might target service industries in which the United States runs a trade surplus. Regulators have wide discretion to withhold licenses or take other action to disrupt logistics and other service businesses.In a separate dispute, Beijing raised tariffs Monday on a $3 billion list of U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipe in response to increased duties on imports of steel and aluminum that took effect March 23.___McDonald reported from Beijing.___AP Writers Zeke Miller, Gillian Wong and Christopher Bodeen and AP researchers Shanshan Wang and Yu Bing contributed.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce (in Chinese): www.mofcom.gov.cn
THE MAKING OF A DREAM How a Group of Young Undocumented Immigrants Helped Change What It Means to Be American By Laura Wides-Muoz Illustrated. 361 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99.On Jan. 1, 2010, four student activists began a 1,500-mile walk from Miami to Washington, D.C. They wore white Nikes and, later, white T-shirts that said Undocumented. They chose the start of a new decade for their walk because it seemed auspicious. Exhausted by years of lobbying for immigration reform that never came to pass and a Dream Act that never materialized, the friends wanted to stage a protest. When they got to Washington, they hoped to persuade President Obama to address their predicament, one shared by hundreds of thousands of young people.That quandary, aptly summarized by the veteran journalist Laura Wides-Muoz in The Making of a Dream: How a Group of Young Undocumented Immigrants Helped Change What It Means to Be American, was this: They were kids raised in a country whose language and culture they identified with, whose Pledge of Allegiance they recited every morning in school  and yet a country that sought to render them akin to ghosts the moment they became adults, making it impossible for most to seek a college education, work legally or have any official say in the political system. Consigning young immigrants to illegitimacy makes no sense, Wides-Muoz points out, because taxpayers invest about $130,000 to educate a given student, and can only recoup that investment when students go on to work legally and pay taxes themselves.The Making of a Dream is a sweeping chronicle of the immigrant rights movement in which the four walkers took part. The teenagers profiled by Wides-Muoz refused to accept their parents ghostlike status, and instead evolved into some of the most politically engaged student leaders in the nation. Wides-Muoz casts their fight as the latest chapter in the civil rights movement; as they planned their march, the Latino students from Miami read Martin Luther King Jr.s Letter From Birmingham Jail, and selected a route that allowed them to visit important sites from the civil rights era.The young Dreamers wrestled with one question in particular: What should they ask of Barack Obama? Initially, the countrys first biracial president had signaled that he wanted to pass comprehensive reform, but then Wall Street melted down. After that, Obama became consumed by the raucous debate over health care. It had been thus for years. Early in George W. Bushs presidency, the proposed legislation known as the Dream Act, which would have granted a path to citizenship to children who had been brought into the country without legal permission through no fault of their own, received promising support from key leaders like Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois. But its first big hearing in Congress was slated for Sept. 12, 2001. After 9/11, the Dream Act sputtered, and Congress instead passed the Patriot Act, allocating more technology and personnel to domestic security, including surveillance along the borders.Yet the Dreamers kept fighting. Wides-Muoz expertly describes the broader reform movement, through vivid thumbnail portraits of key students. The walk to Washington by the four activists provides one of the more dramatic sections of her narrative. The students believed Obama might sympathize with them because he had a Kenyan father. But they knew comprehensive reform would be a tough sell. At the same time, asking for passage of the Dream Act felt like a betrayal of the family members who had sacrificed so much on their behalf. The Dreamers did not want to choose between saving their parents and saving themselves.One of the walkers, Gaby Pacheco, had an idea: Instead of picking between competing solutions, one that would grant a path to citizenship to minors only, the other that would grant it to every undocumented immigrant regardless of age, why not ask for deferred action for all Dreamers  in other words, a guarantee that law-abiding students would not be targeted for deportation. Then they could continue to support both comprehensive reform and the Dream Act. Gaby and a friend hatched the idea after getting to know Marie Gonzalez, a Missouri student who had been allowed to remain in the United States even after her undocumented status was publicly revealed. Maries father had overstayed a visa, and wound up on the evening news because he worked for the state governor. After Marie began blogging about the familys ordeal, federal officials deferred her deportation because she had not broken laws of her own volition (though they deported her parents). The four students from Miami envisioned making deferred action available to all who shared Maries circumstances. And that was what they asked for when they finally made it to Washington: deferred action for childhood arrivals, or DACA, as the program eventually became known.Wides-Muoz covered immigration for The Associated Press, and she capably depicts how the Dreamer movement grew out of two decades worth of political activity by students, attorneys, politicians and grass-roots advisers, all of whom helped make DACA a reality. That program, which went into effect in 2012, transformed the lives of hundreds of thousands of undocumented students by granting them temporary permission to remain in the country and to work legally, even though it offered them no path to citizenship.It is deeply ironic that a book about the achievements of these student activists must conclude with the election of Donald J. Trump, who campaigned on the idea of ending DACA entirely. While Trump has since expressed sympathy for Dreamers, one of his first actions as president was to appoint as his attorney general Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama. Sessions appears throughout Wides-Muozs saga as one of the primary critics of the immigrant rights movement, a figure who blocked any attempt at comprehensive reform and every iteration of the Dream Act.Even as Trump vacillates, it seems likely that his administration will take a hard stance against immigrants who lack legal status, and the tenuous victory for belonging that the student activists worked so hard to achieve is likely to unravel. The only real solution to structural illegitimacy that will adequately protect these immigrants is comprehensive reform with a path to citizenship. For that to pass Congress, however, these brave kids and their allies will have to take up the fight once more. Wides-Muoz reminds us that thanks to the ability of young people to dream, what seems impossible today may yet prove achievable tomorrow.
NEW YORK   The Latest on Facebook\'s privacy scandal (all times local):8:35 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has agreed to testify in a second congressional hearing next week, this time in the Senate.Zuckerberg will appear at a rare joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees on April 10.Earlier Wednesday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee announced that Zuckerberg would be testifying at a hearing on April 11.Lawmakers have called for Zuckerberg to appear personally after revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. The company has also been under scrutiny after Russians used Facebook and other social media to meddle in the 2016 elections.Zuckerberg will be the only witness at the hearing.___5:15 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says fixing the company\'s problems will take many years.In a conference call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg said he wishes he could snap his fingers and solve everything in three to six months. But, he said, "these are big issues" and a big shift for Facebook.That says, he says the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of these issues by the end of the year.Zuckerberg has set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018.The issues Facebook needs to address go beyond the privacy scandal involving Trump-affiliated consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media\'s effect on people\'s mental well-being.___4:20 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is admitting to mistakes and says his company hasn\'t taken a broad enough view of what its responsibility is in the world.In a call with media on Wednesday, Zuckerberg calls this a "huge mistake" and added, "it\'s my mistake."Referring to the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal, he said that it isn\'t enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Earlier in the day, Facebook revealed that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed by Cambridge Analytica  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.___2:45 p.m.Facebook is restricting the user data it allows outsiders to access as part of steps it\'s taking to address the fallout from its worst privacy crisis in years.The company is reeling from news that a Trump-affiliated data-mining firm used ill-gotten data from millions of users to try to influence elections. Facebook says as many as 87 million people may have had their data accessed  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.Among the latest changes: Facebook is restricting access that apps can get about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends who may have a common name, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way.___2:30 p.m.Facebook says as many as 87 million people may have had their data accessed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm affiliated with President Donald Trump\'s campaign, has been accused of using ill-gotten data from Facebook users to try to influence elections.This coming Monday, all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want.Users who had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that within that notice. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.___12:30 p.m.Now that Mark Zuckerberg is set to testify before Congress, he\'ll need advice not just from lawyers but from communications specialists, too, on addressing Facebook\'s privacy scandal.Public-relations experts who have prepped CEOs before say that congressional hearings are more political theater than public policy. The so-called "optics"  how things look  are as important as what you say.Other advice for the Facebook CEO? Appear sympathetic and be ready for a beating. Take responsibility. Don\'t feign ignorance.The stakes are high for Zuckerberg\'s April 11 appearance before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.___NoonFacebook\'s new privacy policy aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly  but doesn\'t actually change what it collects and shares.The company unveiled the revisions Wednesday as it faces one of its worst privacy scandals in history. Although Facebook says the changes aren\'t prompted by recent events, it\'s an opportune time. CEO Mark Zuckerberg is also set to testify before Congress next week for the first time.Among Wednesday\'s changes: Facebook has added a section explaining that it collects people\'s contact information, which may include call logs and text histories. The previous policy did not mention call logs or text histories. Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting such data.___8:30 a.m.The leaders of a House oversight committee say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before the panel on April 11.In an announcement Wednesday, Reps. Greg Walden and Frank Pallone say the hearing will focus on the Facebook\'s "use and protection of user data." Facebook is facing scrutiny over its data collection following allegations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica obtained data on tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Walden, R-Ore., is the House Energy and Commerce committee\'s chairman. Pallone of New Jersey is the panel\'s top ranking Democrat. They say the hearing will be "an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online."
WASHINGTON   Facebook isn\'t just a company. It\'s a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It\'s tricky and it\'s going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we\'re going to keep the wild, wild West  I don\'t think it\'s sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook\'s reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia\'s use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital\'s pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it\'s questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress\' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that\'s not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama\'s final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook\'s vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team\'s newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he\'s open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he\'d get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he\'s encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November\'s elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook\'s biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission\'s charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who\'s written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government\'s antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook\'s largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg\'s net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook\'s market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   Fifty years after a shot rang out in Memphis, killing the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., freedom rang from the balcony of the Lorraine Motel as a bell tolled 39 times to mark a life cut short by racism.King died among the most hated men in America, but Wednesday, admirers grateful for his life and legacy mourned his loss and pledged to carry on his unfinished work to end racial injustice and economic inequality"Nothing would be more tragic than for us to stop at this point," said the Rev. William Barber, who will renew King\'s Poor People Campaign this spring. "We must go up together or go down together. What he said then is what we must do now."A host of tributes to the slain civil rights leader were held across the country. At the epicenter was Memphis, where King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, while in town for a sanitation workers\' strike. The dignity of the workers paralleled this year\'s anniversary, with teachers in Oklahoma and Kentucky walking out of schools to push for more funding.The triple evils of racism, poverty and war that King hammered at the end of his life linger  from economic, educational, housing and health disparities to the looming threat of nuclear war. Both the speakers and marchers of the day pledged their commitment to picking up King\'s mantle.The Rev. James Lawson, who invited King to Memphis 50 years ago to assist with the sanitation workers\' strike, said more progress is needed toward King\'s goal of equality for all."I\'m still anxious and frustrated," said Lawson, his black hair turned gray. "The task is unfinished."Speaking in King\'s hometown of Atlanta, the Rev. Bernice King recalled her father as a great orator whose message of peaceful protest was still vital decades later."We decided to start this day remembering the apostle of nonviolence," she said during a ceremony to award a prize named for her father.As painful as losing her father was, she said she wouldn\'t change history."Actually, I\'m glad that everything happened the way that it happened because I can\'t imagine the world that we live in without the contributions of Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King and the sacrifice that they made," she said.As a march began in Memphis, people locked arms or held signs as they chanted and sang songs such as "We Shall Overcome." Memphis police estimated the crowd at about 10,000."We know what he worked hard for, we know what he died for, so we just want to keep the dream going," said Dixie Spencer, who came from nearby Hardeman County, where she\'s an NAACP leader. "We just want to make sure that we don\'t lose the gains that we have made."Martin Luther King III addressed marchers at the end of their route."There\'s something wrong in our nation where a minimum of 48 million people are living in poverty. That\'s unacceptable. We must do better. America should be embarrassed about having people living in poverty," he said.In the evening, ringing bells marked the moment King was gunned down at age 39. Members of King\'s family pulled a rope together to ring a bell 39 times at the pool surrounding the Atlanta crypt of King and his wife. The family then laid a wreath of multicolored flowers in front of the crypt. The crowd gathered outside the Lorraine Motel fell silent as the bell began to ring there. A red and white wreath was placed on the balcony where King had been standing when he was shot.Small-time criminal James Earl Ray pleaded guilty to the killing and quickly recanted, claiming he was set up. The conviction stood, and Ray died in prison in 1998.Marking the anniversary of the assassination, President Donald Trump issued a proclamation in honor of the slain leader, saying: "In remembrance of his profound and inspirational virtues, we look to do as Dr. King did while this world was privileged enough to still have him."The president has been the target of veiled criticism by some speakers at King commemorations in recent days as they complained of fraught race relations and other divisions since he was elected.Shirley Mason was a young woman living in Detroit when King was killed. Now 70, she said she came to Memphis not only to honor King\'s legacy but to call for his work to be continued."(King) went through the struggle and gave up his life," she said. "Why not get out ourselves and do some sacrificing?"____Brumback reported from Atlanta.____For AP\'s complete coverage on the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.\'s assassination, go to https://apnews.com/tag/MartinLutherKingJr
DES MOINES, Iowa   Iowa is set to become the latest Republican-led state to target so-called sanctuary cities by withholding money from local governments that don\'t comply with federal immigration laws, even though the plan could lead to court challenges.A bill outlining an expansive immigration enforcement plan is expected to receive final legislative approval this week. It comes as President Donald Trump ramps up calls for more stringent immigration enforcement.Critics say it would essentially allow racial profiling, but Republican lawmakers frame the measure as a public safety policy. Republican Rep. Steven Holt of Denison, a western Iowa community with a growing Latino population, said the bill focuses on immigrants living in the U.S. without legal permission who are suspected of crimes."This legislation is about the rule of law, and the safety of all people, citizens and immigrants alike," Holt said shortly before the Iowa House approved the bill Tuesday on a 55-45 vote, with one Democrat voting for it and five Republicans against it.The legislation was being debated in the Republican-controlled Senate late Wednesday. Republican Gov. Kim Reynolds has indicated she would sign the measure, highlighting it in a fundraising email for her gubernatorial campaign.Immigration activist Berenice Nava said she believes immigrants will be racially profiled even if the bill specifically prohibits it. She noted the bill would allow authorities to question people about their immigration status if they\'re "under lawful detention or under arrest.""I feel very threatened," the 26-year-old Des Moines resident said before she and other activists gathered in the House gallery Tuesday waving American and Iowa flags. "I\'m not light skin. I don\'t have blonde hair. My family, my friends, they\'re brown skin. So I fear for everyone."The primary focus of the legislation is on "sanctuary cities," a catch-all label for jurisdictions that limit local involvement in federal immigration enforcement. Trump\'s administration has threatened to deny federal grant money to sanctuary cities, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' office recently sued California over the state\'s law barring police in many cases from turning suspects over to federal agents for deportation.Iowa has no sanctuary cities, though some communities and schools have varying guidelines on how to handle immigration related issues. School districts in Des Moines and Iowa City, for example, have adopted policies directing immigration enforcement requests to be funneled to their superintendents\' offices.Under the Iowa legislation, a local entity  such as a city and county government  would lose state funding if they adopted policies that prohibit or discourage the enforcement of immigration laws.Law enforcement agencies would have to comply with requests from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to hold a jailed person 48 hours after they would otherwise be detained. Immigration attorneys say that provision could open the state to litigation if an individual is held beyond the time he or she would otherwise be released.The bill would also block municipalities from preventing Iowa jails from being used as part of federal agents\' work.Law enforcement officials have testified against the bill, saying they already follow immigration laws. The measure could also hurt public safety by discouraging trust between immigrants and authorities during investigations, said Sen. Matt McCoy, a Des Moines Democrat."You\'re making communities less safe," he said Wednesday during floor debate.Supporters of the legislation disagree, pointing to language in the bill that\'s supposed to protect immigrants who report crimes.More than a dozen groups, including the Iowa attorney general\'s office and the Iowa Coalition Against Domestic Violence, are registered against the bill. Two organizations are registered in support.There were an estimated 40,000 immigrants living illegally in Iowa in 2014, the most recent data available, according to the nonpartisan Pew Research Center.The Iowa legislation has raised questions about its impact to schools. A nonpartisan analysis by the Legislative Services Agency concluded that it was unclear whether schools fell under the legislation\'s definition of a public entity. That could open the door for school immigration policies to be challenged.Sen. Julian Garrett, a Republican from Indianola who wrote the bill, dismissed that assessment on Wednesday. He later added the bill would survive any lawsuits."It\'s legal. It\'s supported by the public," he said.More than 30 states considered bills last year similar to Iowa\'s proposal, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, while 15 states and the District of Columbia sought legislation to support sanctuary cities.Only a handful of states have actually enacted such bans in recent years, with a range of enforcement provisions. The most high-profile was a Texas law passed last year that threatened jail time for officials who don\'t follow federal immigration directives. A federal appeals court upheld the law last month amid a lawsuit.David Hernandez is an 18-year-old from Denison in western Iowa, where Holt resides. Hernandez said Iowa has always been a melting pot with communities like Denison and Storm Lake in northwestern Iowa. Hernandez said Wednesday he feels fearful for families seeking refuge from violence in Latin America."This is going to target immigrants," he said.
WASHINGTON   A federal judge tore into all of the legal arguments that a lawyer for President Donald Trump\'s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort made on Wednesday in his long-shot civil case to convince her that Special Counsel Robert Mueller\'s investigation has run amok and should be reined in."I don\'t really understand what is left of your case," U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson said to Kevin Downing, Manafort\'s attorney, after peppering him with a lengthy series of questions.Manafort filed a civil lawsuit on Jan. 3 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, the Justice Department official who appointed the special counsel, in a key legal test of how far Mueller\'s mandate extends.Jackson did not say when she might rule on the civil case, which the Justice Department is seeking to dismiss.Mueller is investigating possible collusion between Trump\'s campaign and Russia as well as whether the president has unlawfully tried to obstruct the probe.Mueller has charged 22 individuals and entities to date, including Manafort and his associate Rick Gates.  Manafort\'s civil case marks the first time a defendant has sought to challenge his authority.Manafort, who performed lobbying work for a pro-Russian former Ukrainian president before serving as Trump\'s campaign chairman in 2016, is facing two indictments brought by Mueller in federal courts in Washington and Alexandria, Virginia. The charges against him include conspiring to launder money, failing to register as a foreign agent, bank fraud and filing false tax returns.Manafort has pleaded not guilty and none of the charges directly relate to work he performed for Trump\'s campaign.Trump has denied colluding with Russia and called Mueller\'s probe a witch hunt.Manafort\'s civil lawsuit relies on an arcane law called the Administrative Procedure Act, which spells out the process federal agencies must follow when writing regulations. The suit alleges that Rosenstein\'s order laying out Mueller\'s investigative mandate violates Justice Department rules because it is overly broad and therefore "arbitrary and capricious."Legal experts from the start have said Manafort\'s civil lawsuit faced an uphill battle.The Justice Department\'s regulations explicitly say that private parties have no right to challenge them in court. Judges in prior cases also have generally not permitted defendants in criminal cases like Manafort to use civil litigation to try to challenge criminal charges.SCALED-BACK COMPLAINTBut Manafort\'s case appeared to be even weaker in Jackson\'s eyes on Wednesday after Downing told her he was scaling back the scope of the civil complaint against the Justice Department.Manafort\'s lawsuit originally asked the judge to declare that Rosenstein\'s entire order appointing Mueller was invalid and to set aside the criminal charges against him.On Wednesday, Downing said he is only challenging a portion of Rosenstein\'s order, and that he is not asking the judge to toss the charges in this case, but instead seeking to protect his client from potential future charges also unrelated to Russia.That prompted Jackson to ask an array of questions, including how Manafort can have legal standing to challenge the order if he has not suffered any harm, how he can know for sure whether or not Mueller may bring future charges within the proper scope of Rosenstein\'s order, and whether there was legal precedent allowing someone to challenge a prosecution under the Administrative Procedure Act."It seems to me you are trying to have it both ways," she said, adding that Downing is not trying to dismiss the indictment but still has a problem with Manafort being prosecuted.Downing told the judge Rosenstein\'s order violates the rules governing special prosecutors because it lets Mueller broadly investigate "any matters that arose or may arise directly from" the probe into Russian interference.He stressed that Manafort never even had an office in Russia and that the criminal case against him dates back to 2014, well before the campaign.A court filing on Monday appeared to somewhat undermine that claim by showing that Rosenstein specifically authorized Mueller in August 2017 to investigate both whether Manafort colluded with Russia to interfere with the 2016 presidential election and his activities prior to 2016 involving Ukraine\'s former pro-Russia government.Jackson also is handling the criminal case against Manafort and is expected to hear oral arguments for that later this month, when Downing will ask her to dismiss the indictment.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Will Dunham and Bill Trott)
TOKYO   Asian shares bounced from two-month lows on Thursday as world equities recovered from a selloff triggered by escalating Sino-U.S. trade tensions, with investors hoping a full-blown trade war between the world\'s two biggest economies can be averted.Sentiment was lifted as the United States expressed willingness to negotiate a resolution to the trade fight after the proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods prompted a quick response from Beijing that it would retaliate by targeting key American imports.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose 0.5 percent, a day after it hit its lowest in almost two months. Trade-dependent Singapore\'s Straits Times Index rose more than 2.0 percent.Japan\'s Nikkei gained 1.6 percent while markets in mainland China, and those in Hong Kong and Taiwan, are closed for the Tomb Sweeping Day holiday on Thursday.U.S. S&P 500 mini futures <ESc1> rose 0.4 percent in Asia.On Wednesday, the S&P 500 gained 1.16 percent and the Nasdaq Composite added 1.45 percent, clawing back heavy losses of more than 1.5 percent right from earlier in the U.S. session."I think that the substance of trade restrictions and their real impact will be far less than the headlines," said Jeffery Becker, Chairman and CEO at Jennison Associates in New York. "U.S. and Chinese cross border trade has grown significantly over the last decade and economic inter-dependence runs very deep, deeper than the actual trade numbers. And both countries have a lot to lose by escalating a trade war."Many investors viewed U.S. President Donald Trump\'s latest tariffs plan as part of his negotiation strategy, rather than his final policy.Indeed, Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, when asked whether the latest U.S. tariffs plan may never go into effect and may be a negotiating tactic, told reporters: "Yes, it\'s possible. It\'s part of the process." He called the announcements by the two countries mere opening proposals.The U.S. trade actions will not be carried out immediately, giving the two countries room for maneuver and providing investors with hope of a compromise.The proposed 25 percent U.S. tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products from China now see a public comment and consultation period that is expected to last around two months."Our view on the China-U.S. trade situation is that typically, the initial headline is worse than what we expect the implementation to ultimately turn out to be. So our expectation is it will remain a tense situation but will not break out, and to an all out trade war," said Mike Lillard, chief investment officer at PGIM Fixed Income in Newark, New Jersey.Many suspect Washington will likely back down on some fronts after Beijing threatened tariffs on U.S. soybeans, the top U.S. agricultural export to China.It is considered one of the most powerful weapons in Beijing\'s trade arsenal given the impact on Iowa and other farming states that backed Trump in the election."The U.S. administration will have to tread cautiously considering the risk this could hurt the election prospects," said Yukino Yamada, senior strategist at Daiwa Securities.Optimists also argued that the global economy is currently running so strong that it could cope with the impact of the proposed tariffs, which cover a fraction of the world\'s trade.U.S. economic data published on Wednesday underscored the prevailing bullish view on the economy. U.S. private payrolls increased solidly in March as hiring rose across the board, boding well for Friday\'s jobs data.Yet others also cautioned that uncertainties caused by fears of a trade war could result in many companies delaying capital expenditure investments in the near term.Concerns about trade wars could also hit some specific assets, such as U.S. soybeans <Sc1> and corn <Cc1>. Both products licked their wounds after having fallen 2.2 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively, on Wednesday on China\'s trade moves.Oil prices bounced back in tandem with global share prices, and on a surprise draw in U.S. crude stockpiles.U.S. crude futures <CLc1> traded at $63.71 per barrel, up 0.5 percent.In the currency market, the recovery in risk appetite helped to boost the dollar against the yen. The U.S. currency changed hands at 106.93 yen <JPY=>, near last week\'s high of 107.015.The euro <EUR=> was little changed at $1.2283, off Tuesday\'s two-week low of $1.2254.The Canadian dollar <CAD=D4> hit a five-week high of C$1.2745 per U.S. dollar while the Mexican peso held near a six-month high of 18.065 peso to the dollar <MXN=D2> hit the previous day, both helped by optimism over a NAFTA trade deal.(Additional reporting by Tomo Uetake; Editing by Sam Holmes and Jacqueline Wong)
WASHINGTON   U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley on Wednesday blasted the Trump administration over its handling of trade issues, saying while the United States should act, China\'s retaliatory moves were disproportionately affecting America\'s agriculture sector."If the federal government takes action on trade that directly results in economic hardship for certain Americans, it has a responsibility to help those Americans and mitigate the damage it caused," the Iowa Republican said, adding that he planned to take action in the Senate Judiciary and Finance committees.(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Kevin Drawbaugh; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
(Reuters) - Ford Motor Co on Wednesday said it encouraged the U.S. and Chinese governments to "work together to resolve issues" after China retaliated against U.S. plans to impose tariffs with a list of similar duties."We encourage both governments to work together to resolve issues between these two important economies," Ford said in a statement.Responding to tariffs imposed by the Trump government less than 11 hours later, China issued a list of duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in a move that sent global markets lower.(Reporting By Aparajita Saxena in Bengaluru; Editing by Shounak Dasgupta)
(Reuters) - Liberal judge Rebecca Dallet cruised to victory in race to serve on the Wisconsin Supreme Court for a 10-year term, the Associated Press reported late on Tuesday.Dallet defeated conservative judge Michael Screnock who was endorsed by Wisconsin's Republican governor, Scott Walker, narrowing conservative control of the court to 4-3 from 5-2, AP said.The candidates were backed by partisans with Screnock supported by the National Rifle Association and the state GOP which backed him with a $400,000 contribution. Dallet received the support of former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, according to the report.Dallet, who has been a Milwaukee County circuit judge since 2008, will join the higher court in August, AP reported.The Democrats scored an upset in a Wisconsin state Senate special election in January, capturing a conservative district held by Republicans since 2000.A judge had ruled in March that Governor Walker must hold special elections in two state districts in Wisconsin after Democrats said he was putting off the votes over fears of losing the formerly Republican-held seats.Wisconsin was among the handful of battleground states that helped Trump win the presidency over Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in the 2016 elections. Trump carried Wisconsin by 22,748 votes.(Reporting by Kanishka Singh in Bengaluru; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier)
WASHINGTON   The White House said on Wednesday it hoped China would change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that would avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs."It\'s going to be a couple months before tariffs on either side would go into effect and be implemented and we\'re hopeful that China will do the right thing," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters."I would anticipate that if there are no changes to the behavior of China and they don\'t stop the unfair trade practices then we would move forward," she said.(Reporting by Jeff Mason; Writing by Tim Ahmann; Editing by James Dalgleish)
KHUZAA, Gaza Strip   Palestinian activists chanted "death is better than humiliation" as three-wheelers stacked with old tires drove into a tent camp in a barley field near Gaza\'s border. The tires are to be burned at a mass protest on Friday, in hopes clouds of black smoke will shield demonstrators from Israeli snipers.For some of the young Gaza men hanging around the camp, the chant wasn\'t just rousing hyperbole. They have been throwing stones and burning tires near the border in recent days, despite new warnings by Israel\'s defense minister that anyone getting too close to the fence risks getting killed.It\'s not an idle threat  19 people were killed by Israeli fire since last Friday, including 14 in border protests, and many more were wounded.Nahed Qudih, a 17-year-old high school student, said he has nothing to lose by joining his peers in the seemingly futile and dangerous act of running toward armed soldiers who fire from behind a fence, some perched on high earthen berms providing cover."If I was wounded or became a martyr, my family would be proud," he said.Qudih\'s family would like to see him realize his dream of becoming an engineer, but "not an idle engineer," he said, referring to bleak job prospects amid rising Gaza unemployment, now at 48 percent, according to the Palestinian statistics bureau.Such desperation has helped drive what Gaza\'s Islamic militant Hamas rulers hope will be several weeks of border protests, with the largest crowds expected on Fridays.The idea was initially floated by social media activists, but has since been coopted by Hamas, with the backing of smaller militant factions.Employing its organizational prowess, Hamas set up five tent camps near border points as a magnet for protesters, offering bus shuttles and monitoring developments from an operations room.For Hamas, it\'s perhaps the last chance to break a Gaza border blockade enforced by Israel and Egypt since seizing the territory from its rival, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, in 2007.The blockade has devastated Gaza\'s economy, made it virtually impossible for people to enter and exit the territory and left residents with just a few hours of electricity a day. Tap water is undrinkable and the Mediterranean coastline has been polluted with untreated waste.Other blockade-busting tactics by Hamas have failed over the years, including three cross-border wars with Israel and repeated rounds of unsuccessful power-sharing talks with the West Bank-based Abbas. The last round collapsed last month, in part because Hamas refused to disarm.Hamas leaders have billed the final protest, set for May 15, as the "Great March of Return" of Palestinian refugees and their descendants, implying they would try to enter Israeli territory. But they have stopped short of specifically threatening a mass breach of the border fence.It\'s a risky plan.Three senior Hamas official said the group wants to avoid another devastating war with Israel, but border tensions could quickly escalate  especially if Israel makes good on threats to target Hamas positions deeper inside Gaza unless the protests stop.The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were discussing confidential strategy, acknowledged they don\'t have a Plan B if the blockade remains in place after May 15.At a minimum, Hamas hopes to draw international attention to Gaza and improve leverage if Egypt brokers a new round of talks with Abbas, the officials said. In a sign that the pressure is working, the Egyptian intelligence met with Abbas this week to try to prevent a Gaza escalation.Israel has accused Hamas, which it considers a terrorist group, of cynically exploiting Gaza\'s civilians for its political gains by sending them to the dangerous border area.It argues that it has a right to defend its border, alleging that Hamas used last week\'s protest as cover for trying to damage the border fence, plant explosives and, in one incident, fire on soldiers. Military officials believe Hamas is encouraging people to break through the border.Israel has rejected criticism of open-fire orders that allowed soldiers last Friday to target the "main instigators" of protests and those approaching the fence. Rights groups have said firing at protesters who don\'t pose an imminent threat to the lives of soldiers is "blatantly unlawful."Israel argues that Hamas could have ended the suffering of Gaza\'s 2 million people by disarming and renouncing violence. Hamas has refused to give up its weapons  even at the cost of derailing talks on getting Abbas to assume the burden of governing Gaza, a prerequisite for opening Gaza\'s borders.Critics say the closure policy has backfired by largely harming Gaza civilians, while leaving Hamas solidly in control. They also accuse Israel of using the blockade to advance political aims, such as deepening a separation of Gaza from the West Bank, both sought for a future Palestinian state.In a protest camp near the village of Khuzaa in central Gaza, about 500 meters (yards) from the border fence, organizers were busy preparing for the next round of marches.Musab al-Qasas, 26, unemployed and supervising tire collection Tuesday, said the protests gave him and his friends a sense of purpose. He said he has been injured twice in protests near the border since President Donald Trump recognized contested Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital in December.Al-Qasas said desperation over bleak job prospects and economic hardship isn\'t the sole motive for continuing to risk his life. "I love my homeland and I\'m ready to sacrifice for it," he said.Israel has alleged that the protests are led by militant groups, saying at least 11 of those killed belonged to armed factions, including two who opened fire on Israeli soldiers Friday.Organizers have portrayed those affiliated with militant groups as fellow protesters who left weapons and faction insignia at home.By sunset Tuesday, thousands of people, including families with children, had flocked to the Khuzaa encampment, which has become a center of nightly entertainment.Patriotic songs played over loudspeakers, and people performed folk dances in small circles. Vendors sold falafel and ice cream. Those who wanted more calm spread their prayer rugs and mats on a drying barley field behind the camp and sat there, sipping coffee and tea they from thermos bottles.The camp was equipped with portable toilets, floodlights and internet service. Earthen berms between the border and the camp provided additional protection. Ambulances were on stand-by to ferry the wounded to hospitals."People come here out of frustration," said Qudih, the high school student. "If the situation is good, you won\'t see anybody here."___Associated Press writer Mohammed Daraghmeh in Ramallah, West Bank, contributed.
BEIRUT   The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):6:35 p.m.U.S. President Donald Trump the past week has spoken of pulling out of Syria "very soon." But American forces have been setting up new front-line positions outside the strategic northern town of Manbij, west of the Euphrates River.The area is the scene of a tense standoff where U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces who hold Manbij face Turkish-backed Syrian fighters. Turkey has vowed to retake Manbij and other Kurdish-held territory along the Syrian-Turkish border; the U.S. troops stationed here are a key reason why they are holding back.The U.S.-led coalition in Syria had said there are no U.S. bases in the area and that U.S. patrols were not static. There was no immediate comment from the coalition Wednesday.___5:35 p.m.The leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran have urged the international community to provide more aid for war-ravaged Syria.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Russian President Vladimir Putin called for bigger humanitarian aid supplies, as well as assistance in clearing land mines and aid to help restore the destroyed infrastructure.Speaking after Wednesday\'s summit in Ankara, Erdogan pointed at the EU\'s failure to deliver 3 billion euros in assistance he said it promised for helping restore Syria\'s north. He added that Turkey will continue to invest its own funds in rebuilding Syria.Putin also issued a strong call on other nations to participate more actively in Syria\'s restauration efforts.___5:20 p.m.The leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran say they stand against "separatist" agendas that would undermine Syria\'s sovereignty and territorial integrity.In a joint statement released at the end of their summit meeting in Ankara, Russia\'s Vladimir Putin, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Turkey\'s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday they "rejected all attempts to create new realities on the ground under the pretext of combating terrorism."They reaffirmed their commitment to working toward achieving cease-fires between conflicting parties in Syria and emphasized commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Syria.The statement said the countries reaffirmed determination to continue cooperation " in order to ultimately eliminate" the Islamic State group and other entities associated with al Qaida.The leaders said their next summit meeting would take place in Iran.___5:15  p.m.Iran\'s President Hassan Rouhani says the United States\' pullout from Syria is an excuse for soliciting money from countries that want them to remain there.During a trilateral summit with Turkish and Russian Presidents, Rouhani said: "One day they say they want to pull out of Syria ..., then it turns out that they are craving money. They have told Arab countries to give them money to remain in Syria."___4:40 p.m.The United Nations says up to 100,000 people have returned to the Syrian city of Raqqa after a devastating air campaign by a U.S.-led coalition to drive out Islamic State group fighters.Jan Egeland of the U.N. Syria envoy\'s office estimated Wednesday another 100,000 are waiting outside Raqqa to return. He recounted findings of a Sunday visit by a 25-member U.N. team to Raqqa, the first of its kind since the city was freed in October.Egeland said team members described devastation "even worse" than in Homs and Aleppo, cities that were recaptured by Russian-backed Syrian government forces.Local leaders say 70 percent of Raqqa\'s buildings are destroyed or damaged and the city is riddled with unexploded bombs, grenades, and explosive traps set by IS.___3:40 p.m.Syrian state-run media says a Syrian rebel group has released five prisoners as part of a deal with the government and its Russian backers over surrendering their town in eastern Ghouta.Syrian TV says the release of the five  four women and a man  is part of "efforts by the Syrian government to secure the release of all prisoners in Douma."The five had been abducted by the Army of Islam rebel group in Ghouta in 2013 along with many other civilians, it said.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed Wednesday\'s release. It says the rebel group, which has been accused of abducting human rights activists and others, has several thousand prisoners.Some rebels from the group have started exiting Douma as part of the agreement.___11:45 a.m.The Russian military says it expects a rebel evacuation from the suburbs of the Syrian capital to be completed in the coming days.The Russian Defense Ministry and Syrian rebels struck a deal on Sunday for the Army of Islam, the biggest opposition group in the Damascus suburbs of eastern Ghouta, to leave the area for the rebel-controlled north.Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy of the Russian General Staff told a conference on Wednesday that the rebels are still leaving the town of Douma, but he expects the evacuation to wrap up in the coming days.The Defense Ministry said earlier Wednesday that more than 3,000 rebels and their family members have evacuated Douma since Sunday.The evacuation comes after a blistering five-week government offensive in February and March that killed hundreds of people and caused catastrophic damage in the besieged suburbs.___10 a.m.The leaders of Russia, Iran and Turkey are meeting in the Turkish capital for talks on Syria\'s future.The leaders are expected to reaffirm their commitment to Syria\'s territorial integrity and the continuation of local cease-fires when they meet Wednesday.The three countries have been working to try and resolve the conflict, which is now in its seventh year. Russia and Iran have provided crucial support to President Bashar Assad\'s forces, while Turkey has backed the rebels seeking to overthrow him.They have sponsored a series talks in the Kazakh capital, Astana, and have set up "de-escalation zones" aimed at reducing the fighting.
WASHINGTON   Beijing\'s objections to U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs are "completely baseless" and there is no justification to impose $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts and other goods, the Trump administration said it told China and the World Trade Organization Wednesday.China\'s requests for consultations under WTO rules and its objection to tariffs were based on an erroneous conclusion that the steel and aluminum tariffs were "global safeguard" measures to protect industry against a surge of imports, the communication issued by the U.S. Trade Representative\'s (USTR) office said.But USTR said that the steel and aluminum tariffs were put in place on national security grounds. WTO rules include an exemption for measures related to national security.USTR said it would not engage in discussions with China about its safeguard objections to the tariffs.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Susan Thomas)
WASHINGTON  A little over a year ago, when news surfaced of a Trump administration memo that proposed mobilizing as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up unauthorized immigrants at the southern border, a White House spokesman quickly denounced the reports as irresponsible.That is 100 percent not true, Sean Spicer, the press secretary at the time, told reporters aboard Air Force One. There is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.At the Pentagon, where officials had greeted the news grimly, there were sighs of relief: Military leaders have long opposed sending National Guard troops to the border.There is a significant opportunity cost, said James G. Stavridis, a retired four-star admiral who commanded United States forces in Europe and Latin America and is now dean of The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, adding that troops sent to the border with Mexico  ostensibly an American ally  would miss important training opportunities for their real primary mission  combat.But the idea that Mr. Spicer called inconceivable a year ago is back in play.On Wednesday, White House officials said that President Trump planned to mobilize the National Guard to the southern border. The announcement came a day after Mr. Trump surprised some of his top advisers by saying that he wanted to send in the military to do what the immigration authorities, in his view, could not: secure the border from what he characterized as a growing threat of unauthorized immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Wednesday that her department and the Defense Department would work with governors to deploy the Guard to assist the Border Patrol. But beyond that, officials had few details about how many troops would go, when they would arrive or in what capacity they would serve.Ms. Nielsen said she hoped the deployment would begin immediately, but administration officials said the formal agreements with governors that would allow the troops to mobilize were still being negotiated.At the Pentagon, several officials privately expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries  the Islamic State, North Korea, Russia, Syria  to contend with. Massing American troops at another countrys border, several current and former Defense Department officials said, would send a message of hostility and raise the chances of provoking an all-out conflict.We are so lucky here in this country when you look at our borders, said Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, a retired veteran of the Iraq war. Weve got the Pacific on one side, the Atlantic on the other and allies to the north and the south. Mexico is not an adversary. Why would you present this offensive barrier to a friendly country?Frustrated that his promised border wall remains a long way from being built, Mr. Trump said he had been discussing deploying the National Guard to the border with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who sat next to him on Tuesday as the president complained about what he called Americas weak immigration laws.Despite the historically low number of apprehensions at the border last year, data released on Wednesday by Customs and Border Protection showed a steady uptick since the beginning of the year. Last month, 37,393 individuals were caught by the Border Patrol, up from 26,662 the month before and 25,978 in January.Defense Department officials say that Mr. Mattis backs the proposal if it mirrors deployments made under Mr. Trumps predecessors, when troops were sent in a support, but not enforcement, role. The active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border. But President Barack Obama sent 1,200 troops in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006 to act in support roles for border authority officials.But military officials worry that Mr. Trump may not be satisfied with the Bush- and Obama-level deployments. Even limited deployments, Pentagon officials said, have come with their share of trouble.In 1997, Esequiel Hernandez Jr., an 18-year-old American student, was killed by a group of  United States Marines on a drug surveillance mission in Redford, Tex., while he was herding goats. Mr. Hernandez was the first American civilian to be killed by active-duty military troops since the Kent State massacre in 1970, and the episode led the Clinton administration to suspend troop patrols near the border.That kind of encounter, or worse, could erupt if Mr. Trump sends a large number of National Guard troops to join the high number of other personnel already guarding the border, Defense Department officials said.Homeland security has more than 16,000 Border Patrol agents on the southwest border, along with 6,500 customs officers at the ports of entry. Customs and Border Protection has several drones flying along the border, as well as 12,000 sensors, nearly 700 miles of fencing and other technology including infrared cameras. Immigration and Customs Enforcement runs several task forces that involve personnel from other agencies, including the Defense Department, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Treasury Department.As Mr. Mattis unveiled the Pentagons National Defense Strategy and Mr. Trump his National Security Strategy in recent months, the two men took different routes. Mr. Mattis stuck to a framework that has accompanied past administrations foreign policy doctrines and talked about the importance of strengthening, not weakening, American alliances with other countries. Mr. Trump, in contrast, peppered his speech with references to building a wall along the border with Mexico.Even if Mr. Mattis tried to steer Mr. Trump toward the limited border deployment used by his predecessors, the president would want it to be visible, said Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagons top financial officer during Mr. Bushs first term. He would want to have troops literally patrolling the border. It wouldnt be enough to have drones.But if Mexico responded by putting troops on its side of the border, Mr. Zakheim said, the situation could deteriorate quickly.All it takes is one mistake, he said. Somebody fires. And then what?
WASHINGTON   The United States and China may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, a U.S. trade official said on Wednesday, but he declined to say whether any new high-level meetings were planned.The official also said retaliatory tariffs proposed by China on $50 billion worth of U.S. goods on Wednesday, hours after Washington readied tariffs on a similar amount of Chinese goods, were an attempt to "intimidate" the Trump administration to "back down" from its trade demands."As the president himself made clear, whenever he announced the 301 actions, there have been talks, there may continue to be talks," the official told reporters on a conference call. "We would like to see China change its actions and we\'d like to see them move in a more market oriented direction."(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by David Gregorio)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser said on Wednesday he expected China would "play ball" on trade and come to agreements that would avoid the need for the United States to implement steep tariffs on Chinese imports."I think we\'re going to come to agreements," White House National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow told Fox News Channel. "I personally, my view, I believe that the Chinese will back down and will play ball."(Reporting by Tim Ahmann; Editing by James Dalgleish)
MEXICO CITY   Mexico, Canada and the United States are exploring alternative proposals on rules of origin for autos, a key sticking point in the talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), a Mexican source said on Wednesday.U.S. President Donald Trump\'s negotiators have demanded that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA nations increase to 85 percent from 62.5 percent.The Mexican source added that U.S. negotiators begun showing "some flexibility" on the issue.(Reporting by Anthony Esposito; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
NEW YORK   U.S. President Donald Trump\'s recent tariffs and retaliation from other nations, in particular China, may reduce domestic economic growth by 0.1 to 0.2 percentage point over the next 12 months, Moody\'s Analytics\' chief economist Mark Zandi said on Wednesday."It will put a dent in that growth," Zandi told reporters on a conference call. "The impact on the economy will be small."Zandi cautioned if tension escalates, the drag on U.S. gross domestic product will grow.(Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: Hes been in office 14 months, but President Trump is increasingly falling back on the hard-edge isolationism that fueled his America First campaign.He also said he planned to deploy the National Guard to the border with Mexico, to confront what the White House calls the growing threat of illegal immigration and crime.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, didnt say how many troops would be sent, nor when. Mr. Trump has spoken before about using the military to police the border, only to have his aides walk back the remarks. Immigration rights campaigners said the announcement was a political ploy. Mr. Trump has been criticized by some conservative supporters for signing a trillion-dollar-plus spending measure that didnt fund the border wall he promised. The woman who shot and wounded three people at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., before killing herself on Tuesday has been identified by the police as Nasim Najafi Aghdam.Ms. Aghdam, who was in her late 30s, was active on YouTube, where she had posted videos including music parodies and workouts.She had criticized YouTube for measures that decreased the number of views of her videos, some of which contained what the sites staff said were inappropriate scenes. YouTube had removed all of her channels by Tuesday night. Heres  what else we know about the shooting. A mentally ill man on suicide watch hanged himself. Gang members were allowed to beat other prisoners. Inmates whose cries for medical attention were ignored resorted to setting fires in their cells.These are just some of the details that have emerged during a trial in Mississippi that has provided a rare glimpse into the world of privately operated prisons. The case comes as the number of inmates in private facilities is increasing and as the Trump administration hints that it will expand their use. For the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. today, we look back at the civil rights leader and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.All the issues that he raised toward the end of his life are as contemporary now as they were then, a historian who has written several books about Dr. King said.Heres the Times front page the day after Dr. King was shot, and his obituary. We also spoke to black pastors around the U.S. about their calls for action in a climate that has shifted drastically since the civil rights era. China struck back at the U.S. today with proposed tariffs on American goods including soybeans, cars and chemicals. The move came just hours after the Trump administration detailed $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese products.The news sent U.S. stocks  sharply down this morning. Heres a snapshot of global markets today. Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailers stock.We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms. How do you say Oops in Swedish? The New York Stock Exchange welcomed the Sweden-based company Spotify on its first day of trading by flying a Swiss flag out front.The streaming music service ended the day with a valuation of $26.5 billion. Morgan Stanley has fired a star financial adviser who had been accused by multiple former wives and girlfriends of physical abuse and stalking.The Times reported the accusations against the broker, Douglas Greenberg, last week.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Save your relationship  outsource chores. Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips. Recipe of the day: Try a dinner of Swedish (not Swiss) meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Though not the dominant force in technology that it was in the mid-20th century, IBM continues to employ hundreds of thousands worldwide.This investigative piece shows the ways many of those workers are made to feel unwelcome, or forced out, late in their careers.Once past 55, one former employee said, You have to prepare for losing your job and burning through every cent youve saved just to get to retirement.  [ProPublica/Mother Jones] Kevin McKenna, deputy business editor  The Road Not Taken, a poem widely seen as a celebration of unorthodox choices, has been called the most misread poem in America.This animated video by the magazine that first published the poem in 1915 helps us reconsider what Robert Frost meant about taking the one less traveled by.  [The Atlantic] Jennifer Jett, senior staff editor, Hong Kong Oaxaca on the GowanusOur critic tried out Claro, in Brooklyn, a restaurant that pays tribute to a rich branch of Mexican cuisine with house-ground masa and riveting moles. When its always sweater weatherFor nearly 20 years, Samuel Barsky has been knitting sweaters depicting familiar sights. More recently, he has posted photographs of himself in front of landmarks while wearing matching knitwear. Best of late-night TVSeveral of the comedy hosts discussed President Trumps tweets about Amazon and the Postal Service: This is when I appreciate Twitter: It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office, Seth Meyers said. Quotation of the dayThe one thing that would be dishonorable for us is to bring all this attention to the assassination of Dr. King and not have a resurrection of the efforts and the unfinished business dealing with systemic racism, systemic poverty. The Rev. Dr. William Barber II, a North Carolina pastor whose sermons and outreach efforts often address civil rights. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from the March 28 crossword puzzle:  Like ___, all tears: Hamlet. The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in Shakespeares Hamlet:The story of Niobes tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to earth and killed all of Niobes children. In anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to end her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would feel no more.Even as a rock, however, Niobes tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mothers eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said on Wednesday that U.S. trade actions against China are aimed at upholding the "laws and customs of free trade."Speaking to a group of reporters on the White House driveway, Kudlow was asked if the United States could lose a trade war."No. I don\'t see it that way. This is a negotiation, using all the tools," he said.(Reporting By Steve Holland; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump's administration does not at this time have another new, big trade initiative planned against China and is focused on implementing the moves that have already been announced, a White House official said on Wednesday.The official said the administration was aware of the market reaction to the trade row with Beijing, but said economic fundamentals and long-term trends were more compelling to policymakers at the White House.(Reporting by Jeff Mason, editing by G Crosse)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Wednesday:1. WHERE TRUMP WANTS TO SEND US TROOPSThe president says he favors using the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised border wall is built.2. \'EVERYBODY STARTED RUNNING\'A woman opens fire at YouTube headquarters in northern California, setting off a panic among employees and wounding at least four people before fatally shooting herself.3. HOW SPIES MAY BE HARVESTING INTELThe U.S. government acknowledges the existence in Washington of what appear to be rogue devices that foreign spies could be using to intercept cellphone calls.4. FIRST PUNISHMENT HANDED DOWN IN MUELLER PROBEA Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort is sentenced to 30 days in prison.5. WHAT\'S ROILING PARTS OF EUROPEFor decades after World War II, racist, extremist and anti-Semitic views were considered taboo in public life. But today they are openly expressed by mainstream politicians.6. AFTER BACKLASH, GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS MINDThe Interior Department backs down from a plan to impose steep fee increases at popular national parks.7. WHICH IPO IS ROUSING SUCCESSSpotify\'s opening act on Wall Street strikes a chord with investors betting on the unprofitable company\'s trend-setting music streaming service.8. DRUG-RESISTANT BACTERIA POSE GROWING THREAT"Nightmare bacteria" with unusual resistance to antibiotics of last resort were found more than 200 times in the U.S. last year.9. BILL COSBY\'S LEGAL TEAM GETS LIFTThe judge rules that the defense at the entertainer\'s sex assault retrial can call a witness who says Cosby\'s accuser talked about framing a celebrity.10. WHO\'S BRINGING NEW MOJO TO MASTERSThe power off the tee and sharpness with his short game make him look like the Tiger Woods of old. The smile suggests someone entirely different.

CHICAGO   U.S. agricultural machinery maker Deere & Co said on Wednesday it would monitor Beijing\'s new tariff proposals to evaluate their impact on the company and its customers.The statement came after shares of U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors fell after China retaliated against the Trump administration\'s tariff plans by proposing duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.The tit-for-tat retaliatory policies are feared to hit U.S. farm exports, exacerbating the troubles of farm equipment makers, which have been battling weak domestic demand for the past four years.Deere shares fell as much as 6.2 percent on Wednesday and were still down 3.8 percent at $147.24 in afternoon trading."We strongly encourage officials to work toward a timely resolution to limit uncertainty for farmers and avoid any meaningful disruption to agricultural trade," said Ken Golden, director of global public relations at Deere.(Reporting by Rajesh Kumar Singh; Editing by Matthew Lewis)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Friday:1. TRUMP GIVES SOME DETAILS ON BORDER DEPLOYMENTSHe says up to 4,000 National Guard troops would be sent to the border with Mexico, but hasn\'t said whether they will be armed or which states would send them.2. TRUMP GOES OFF SCRIPT IN WEST VIRGINIAHe was expected to talk about tax cuts, but instead revived disproven claims about voter fraud and linked immigration to an increase in violence and rapes.3. FACEBOOK\'S LATEST STUNNING ADMISSION ON PRIVACY BREACHESNearly all of the company\'s 2.2 billion users have probably had public data scraped by "malicious actors" who could use it to plant malware or scam people.4. WOMEN RUN FOR U.S. HOUSE SEATS IN RECORD NUMBERSA total of 309 women from both major parties have filed candidacy papers, and more are expected to do so.5. WHERE A FORMER PRESIDENT FACES ARRESTA judge in Brazil has issued an arrest warrant for the once wildly popular ex-President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva after his appeal of a corruption conviction failed.6. NYPD WILL STOP SURVEILLING GROUPS BASED ON RELIGION OR ETHNICITYThe settlement comes as a result of lawsuit that claimed it illegally spied on Muslims for years after Sept. 11 attacks.7. STUDENTS IN ISOLATED ARIZONA TRIBE STEP CLOSER TO EDUCATION REFORMA judge ruled that adversity and trauma faced by students at the impoverished Havasupai reservation can be learning disabilities that could require additional government services.8. WHY PUERTO RICO IS CLOSING 283 SCHOOLSThe territory has suffered a sharp drop in enrollment due to the island\'s long economic crisis and families who left after Hurricane Maria.9. WHAT YOU DON\'T NEED TO GROW VEGGIES IN ANTARCTICAScientists harvested their first crop grown without soil, daylight or pesticides using methods that could help humans grow food on the Moon or Mars.10.  MASTERS COULD BE FILLED WITH LANDMARK VICTORIESTiger Woods is eyeing his first victory at Augusta since 2005, Phil Mickelson is trying to become the oldest Masters champion, and Rory McIlroy looks to complete a career Grand Slam.
BEIJING   Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, have largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.The office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products.China hit back within hours with its own threatened duties on U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals.The U.S. proposed list of $50 billion (35.67 billion pounds) in tariffs is aimed at forcing Beijing to address what Washington says is deeply entrenched theft of U.S. intellectual property and forced technology transfer from U.S. companies to Chinese competitors through initiatives such as the "Made in China 2025" plan.But advanced information and communication technology (ICT) products, among China\'s top priorities, were conspicuously absent from Trump\'s tariffs list, giving both countries\' companies in the sector good reason to breathe sighs of relief."Just about every major ICT product was exempted," one U.S. industry source said of the U.S. list. "They did target Made in China 2025, but with a caveat. They weren\'t going to unduly harm the consumer."USTR said it developed the tariff targets using a computer algorithm designed to choose products that would inflict maximum pain on Chinese exporters but limit the damage to U.S. consumers.The list got an initial scrub to remove products identified as likely to cause disruptions to the U.S. economy and those that needed to be excluded for legal reasons, with remaining products ranked based on impact to consumers.Cellphones, laptops, PCs, servers, and telecoms equipment are all largely exempted under Trump\'s plan, which still must undergo a public comment period of about two months before being finalised.TECH EXPORTSThe Semiconductor Industry Association says U.S. companies have about half of global semiconductor market share, constituting the United States\' fourth ranked export behind aircraft, refined oil and automobiles.UBS Securities has said that Chinese electronics and tech exports account for 43 percent of total exports to the United States.But much of the value of that trade comes from U.S. semiconductors that are sent abroad for low value-added processing before finding their way back to U.S. consumers registered as U.S. imports.If the U.S. government had slapped duties in such imports, they would have dealt a blow to one of the United States\' industrial pillars.The Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF), a U.S. technology think tank whose board includes representatives from top companies such as Apple Inc, Amazon Inc, Cisco Systems, Google, and Intel Corp, said in a submission to the U.S. government during the tariff investigation that 10 percent duties levied on Chinese ICT imports would slow the growth of U.S. output by $163 billion over the next 10 years.Another tech industry insider told Reuters: "It\'s possible the reason is that the U.S. companies will be damaged by this and the government is taking that into account."Among tech products not exempted were magnetic hard drives and flat-panel television sets, and the U.S. duties were heavily focused on industrial manufactured goods, such as machines, robots, motors, valves, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals.The tariffs are designed to change negotiating dynamics between China and the United States over trade and give Trump leverage to get concessions out of Beijing.But Trump is also focused on his promise to voters to reinvigorate U.S. manufacturing jobs.Jacob Parker, vice president of China operations at the U.S.-China Business Council, warned that any efforts by Trump to get U.S. companies to move production back home through tariffs could backfire, much as when President Barack Obama put tariffs on Chinese tyres only to see tyre imports from Indonesia and Taiwan surge."You could certainly see a focus on re-shoring operations. That\'s not going to happen," Parker said."If we stop importing a product from China, we\'ll just import it from the next lowest cost producer, such as Korea or Vietnam or Malaysia, rather than make it in the U.S. and pay more for it."(Reporting by Michael Martina and Cate Cadell; Editing by Alex Richardson)
CHICAGO   China\'s proposal on Wednesday for tariffs on U.S. beef confirmed the worst-case scenario for the U.S. cattle industry, trade groups said on Wednesday, even as they remained hopeful the dispute could be resolved quickly.China listed U.S. goods from soybeans to beef that could potentially incur a 25 percent import tariff by the end of May if Washington carries out its threat to raise similar duties on $50 billion in Chinese goods.A trade war would be a blow to the U.S. beef industry, which has seen an increase in year-over-year supplies even as prices have been falling for market-ready cattle, partly due to seasonal factors.In June 2017, U.S. beef exports returned to China after a 13-year absence over mad cow disease worries. Some restrictions remain in place along with a 12 percent duty on beef imports from the United States, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation (USMEF).USMEF data showed U.S. beef exports to China after the market reopened in the second half of 2017 totaled 3,020 tonnes valued at $31 million.Over the past nine months Chinese interest in U.S. beef has steadily gained momentum, said USMEF CEO Dan Halstrom in a statement. Additional tariffs on U.S. beef will risk opportunities for further growth, he said."USMEF is hopeful that this trade dispute can be resolved without China introducing additional obstacles for U.S. beef," Halstrom said.Kent Bacus, director of international trade and market access for the National Cattlemen\'s Beef Association, also in a statement, said it was "unsettling" but not surprising to see U.S. beef targeted for retaliation."This is an inevitable outcome of any trade war. This is a battle between two governments, and the unfortunate casualties will be America\'s cattlemen and women and our consumers in China," said Bacus. The Trump administration has until the end of May to resolve the issue, Bacus added.(Reporting By Theopolis Waters; Editing by David Gregorio)

Good Wednesday. Heres what were watching: Another bank takes steps toward gun safety. The next steps in the tariffs tit-for-tat. Investigators are looking into the motive behind the shooting at YouTubes headquarters. What happens after Spotifys direct listing?  Alexis Ohanian of Reddit speaks to Corner Office about online platforms, fatherhood and Metallica.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Britains decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.In the weeks following Britains vote in 2016 for Brexit, fears grew that the post-war economic order was under serious threat. But European stock markets recovered, including Britains. Investors came to see that the European Union was not going to break up, and Britain was not going to erect tall walls around its economy. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to Brexit seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system. Investors took a deep breath and gained some perspective.Movements in the United States stock market suggests the same thing is happening in response to President Trumps trade policies. China on Tuesday evening announced the tariffs it plans in retaliation against those President Trump is threatening. Reacting to Chinas announcement, the S.&P. 500 index plunged early on Wednesday but recovered strongly to close up 1.2 percent.Investors may believe Chinas move will lead to drawn-out negotiations. Here, Brexit is again illustrative. As the back and forth between the European Union and Britain has gone on, investors have gained more clarity and confidence. If talks between the U.S. and China gain steam, the uncertainty now clouding relations between the two countries may gradually clear.But the standoff between the U.S. and China differs in important ways from the Brexit tensions. The U.S., for instance, is in a much stronger position than Britain. China exports far more to the U.S. than the U.S. does to China. Limiting access to the U.S. economy could hurt Chinas growth at a time when it is trying to overhaul important economic sectors. If investors believe that the U.S. can successfully exploit its advantages to make China more friendly to foreign businesses, they may even see the trade skirmish as positive for the global economy.But Brexit also flashes a warning to those expecting a big win for Mr. Trump. One of the reasons that the European Union has presented a united front is that it sees Brexit as a threat to its values and goals. Similarly, China may believe that Mr. Trumps trade attack puts some of its most deeply held aspirations under threat  and will fight back hard.- Peter EavisAfter Citigroup announced plans to limit firearms sales by business customers, the question was which lenders would be the next to make a move on guns. The latest: Amalgamated Bank, the union-owned bank known for its socially minded policies.The firm said on Wednesday that it would adopt guidelines for lenders laid out by Everytown for Gun Safety, an advocacy group backed by Mike Bloomberg.Among those recommendations: Require gun dealers to protect merchandise from burglary and theft and refuse sales to people who appear in distress or intoxicated Require retailers to stop selling high-capacity magazines and bump stocks Require gun makers to commit to developing innovations in firearms that will allow law enforcement to more easily solve gun crimesAmalgamated said that it would not only require all business customers to adhere to those guidelines but added that it wont invest any of its own money in gun manufacturers or distributors.Heres what Amalgamateds C.E.O. Keith Mestrich, said in a news release: Michael J. de la MercedFacebook on Wednesday said the personal information of up to 87 million people, most of them Americans, may have been improperly shared during the 2016 election with Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm connected to President Trump.The new figure sharply increased the companys previous estimate of how many users information was harvested by Cambridge Analytica. The number had been put at more than 50 million users.The sharing of the user data has unleashed a torrent of criticism at Facebook, the worlds largest social network. The companys stock is down sharply since The New York Times and The Observer of London reported on how Cambridge Analytica improperly acquired users data.The company released the revised estimate of affected users in an extended statement on Wednesday about its plans for handling personal data. The company said it will start alerting users on April 9 about whether their information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica.In related Facebook news Earlier on Wednesday, lawmakers in Washington had said Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, would testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11 about the companys handling of sensitive user data.Beijing moved quickly to escalate its fight with the U.S., responding to the White Houses latest move with $50 billion worth of tariffs on soybeans, cars, chemicals and more. U.S. market futures predictably dropped, as did other markets.Both sides could suffer. Chinese companies are scrambling to react, especially as the U.S. looks to be taking aim at technology (like that central to Made in China 2025). And the squeeze could extend to American companies in unexpected industries, like wine.The big question: Is a full-blown trade war coming? Nathaniel Taplin of Heard on the Street writes, If ongoing negotiations fail and these tariffs become a reality, the long-term impact will likely be far more damaging.And is dragging down the Dow Jones industrial average. The blue-chip index is off nearly 350 points, or 1.4 percent. That slide is worse than the declines of the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq Composite, which are both down less than 1 percent.Boeings 4 percent fall has shaved 87 points off the Dow Wednesday. Boeing is the highest priced stock in the price-weighted index, which means Boeing has an outsized impact on the indexs moves.Boeings shares have served as a proxy for investor concern about a possible trade war with China since the Trump administration announced tariffs on aluminum and steel.Over that period, the stock has fallen 12 percent.The streaming-music companys shares opened at $165.90, but they steadily decline throughout their first day of trading, closing at $149.01.The stock is down 4.1 percent to $142.91 in early trading Wednesday.Because Spotify eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing, there is no I.P.O. price off which to base the performance of its shares. But the companys current shares price remains well above the $132.50 its private shares changed hands at earlier this year.Spotify finished Tuesday valued at $26.5 billion. Does that count as a success? Shira Ovide of Gadfly argues no, since only a tiny fraction of Spotifys shares are available to trade.And will it lead to a wave of direct listings, leaving depressed, workless I.P.O. bankers in its wake? Maybe not, though the Big Board acknowledged signs of more informal interest in direct listings.Sony.Its subsidiary, Sony Music Entertainment, owned 5.7 percent of Spotify ahead of its listing. Sony said it sold 17.2 percent of that stake Tuesday. Sony expects to book a non-operating profit of $986 million this quarter from the increased valuation of the Spotify shares it continues holds and from the share sale.At Tuesdays close, Sonys 5.7 percent stake was worth $1.5 billion.Sony isnt only Asian tech company benefitting from Spotifys smooth debut. Tencent, the Chinese social media company, holds a 7.5 percent stake. That was worth about $2 billion as of Tuesdays close.The video site and its parent company, Alphabet, are still grappling with the shooting at YouTubes headquarters in the Bay Area yesterday. What we know: Police identified the shooter as Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and killed herself at the scene. Three people were hurt, one critically.What we dont know: the motive. Ms. Aghdam, who posted to YouTube and other social media, criticized the video sites policies on Facebook in February. But authorities havent highlighted any specific grievance, and said they had yet to find evidence that specific individuals were targeted.What may change: security in Silicon Valley. YouTube, like many other big tech companies, doesnt have visible metal detectors or armed guards. Robert Mueller reportedly told President Trumps lawyers that hes a subject of interest, but not yet an investigation target. A former Skadden lawyer who admitted deceiving Mr. Muellers investigators, Alex van der Zwaan, was sentenced to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000. The Treasury Department and the Office of Management and Budget are fighting over how to implement the tax overhaul, as businesses go to great lengths to lower their tax bills. Senator Elizabeth Warrens suggested method for measuring misconduct at financial institutions probably wouldnt lead to more prosecutions. (White Collar Watch) John Williams is the next president of the New York Fed, despite calls for diversity. (NYT) Articles about Scott Pruitt are now focusing on ethical improprieties, not regulatory rollbacks. (NYT)At issue in WPPs inquiry into its C.E.O., Martin Sorrell, are allegations of misuse of company assets and of personal misconduct, according to the WSJ. Mr. Sorrell has denied any wrongdoing.The investigation comes at a tough time: WPPs revenue is down, and competition from Google and Facebook is up. One of the FTs unnamed sources couldnt see how Mr. Sorrell would survive.In other misconduct news: Morgan Stanley fired Douglas Greenberg, a star financial adviser accused of physical abuse and stalking by multiple women, following an NYT investigation.Forbes profiled All Raise, a group of 36 women trying to double the percentage of women in V.C. partner roles and to increase funding to female founders to 25 percent from 15 percent. It has commitments of $2 million from supporters like Silicon Valley Bank and is in talks with Melinda Gatess investment firm.Diversity, they argue, will help investors spot future successes like Stitch Fix.Itll be a joust, over money and management. CBS has reportedly submitted a takeover bid for its corporate sibling, Viacom  but one below Viacoms market value of $12.5 billion, and without a No. 2 slot at the combined company for the targets C.E.O., Bob Bakish.That isnt going to sit well with either Mr. Bakish or his patron, Shari Redstone. Tara Lachapelle of Gadfly argues that ego shouldnt hold up a deal.The deals flyaround Procter & Gamble is reportedly talking to Pfizer about buying its consumer health business, but far from agreeing on a price. GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser both walked away. (CNBC) The Justice Department is relying on a skewed study of the Time Warner deal, lawyers for AT&T argued in court. (Bloomberg) Elliott Management has purchased a $1 billion stake in various affiliates of Hyundai Motors, another venture into Korean chaebols. (Elliott) The high-end coffee brand La Colombe, reportedly hired Moelis & Company to explore the sale of a stake that could value the company at $1 billion. (Bloomberg) The Chinese digital conglomerate Meituan has bought Mobike, a bike-sharing company, for $2.7 billion. (CNBC)The Japanese conglomerate has reportedly given up day-to-day control over the Fortress Investment Group to help its deal pass the powerful U.S. security watchdog known as Cfius, according to the FT. That could make the investment firm a less useful support for SoftBanks $100 billion Vision Fund.The takeaways: The efforts by SoftBanks Masa Son to court President Trump dont always translate into favorable treatment by the White House, and national security concerns will weigh heavily on foreign investment in the U.S. post-Broadcom.The president has pressed his claim that Amazon is costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money, (It isnt.)Vanity Fair reports that some specific anti-Amazon ideas have been kicked around, including rethinking Amazons contract with the U.S.P.S., canceling its cloud services contract with the Pentagon and encouraging state investigations. (Amazon does not have a contract with the Department of Defense for cloud computing services. The contract for those services has not been awarded to any company including Amazon.)But Bloomberg can find no active discussions about such actions, and Wall Street analysts say investors should ignore the noise, which puts Amazon in good company.More on Amazon and the cloud: Mr. Trump was scheduled to dine last night with Safra Catz of Oracle. Why is that important?The tech flyaround Teslas first-quarter production still fell short of an already lowered target, but shares in the embattled carmaker rose anyway. Investors might want to be wary of Elon Musks promises. Facebook removed over 270 accounts and pages tied to Russias Internet Research Agency, widely regarded as a troll factory. Mark Zuckerberg wont globalize Europes stricter privacy regulations. Tim Wu of Columbia Law School argues that Facebook needs replacing, not fixing. Indias government is eager to collect personal data, but bad at protecting it, an NYT Op-Ed contributor argues. (NYT) Apple has hired John Giannandrea from Google to run its machine learning and A.I. strategy. (NYT) Deutsche Bank formally named John Thain, Mayree Clark and Michele Trogni to its supervisory board. (Deutsche Bank) Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired Hari Moorthy, an engineer at JPMorgan Chase, to build tools to help big companies manage cash. (WSJ) Companies charitable spending is more self-serving than they would have us believe. (NYT) An Indian government crackdown on fake news lasted less than a day. (NYT) The Chinese conglomerate Anbang will receive $9.7 billion from an industry rescue fund. (WSJ) Longfin, a fintech company that went public under small-company rules in December, lost 85 percent of value in six trading days and is now under investigation by the S.E.C. (WSJ) After one of its worst quarters ever, David Einhorns hedge fund Greenlight Capital is sticking to its strategy. (CNBC)Note: While we congratulated Villanova yesterday, we did not congratulate Notre Dame for its win on Sunday, which we heartily do so now.Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
NEW YORK   It took China just 11 hours to retaliate against the United States for proposing tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese products, but Chinese officials are holding back on taking aim at their largest American import: government debt.In a tit-for-tat response to the Trump administration\'s plan for 25 percent duties on $50 billion of Chinese imports, China hit back with its own list of similar duties on key American imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals. But officials signaled no interest for now in bringing their vast holdings of U.S. Treasuries to the fight.China held around $1.17 trillion of Treasuries as of the end of January, making it the largest of America\'s foreign creditors and the No. 2 overall owner of U.S. government bonds after the Federal Reserve. Any move by China to chop its Treasury portfolio could inflict significant harm on U.S. finances and global investors, driving bond yields higher and making it more costly to finance the federal government.(Graphic: Top U.S. trade partners & foreign holders of Treasuries - http://reut.rs/2CUqQB0)Jeffrey Gundlach, the chief executive of DoubleLine Capital LP, said China can use its Treasury holdings as leverage, but only if they keep holding them."It is more effective as a threat. If they sell, they have no threat," said Gundlach, known as Wall Street\'s Bond King."It would only escalate the situation and eliminate their leverage."Prices on benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury notes slipped on Wednesday, giving back earlier gains on the trade news. Their yield edged up to about 2.81 percent Wednesday afternoon.China\'s Treasury holdings have dipped in recent months, declining by about $30 billion from $1.20 trillion last August, and they are down about 11 percent from their record high above $1.3 trillion in late 2013, according to U.S government data. In all, foreign governments own $4 trillion, or more than a quarter, of the $14.7 trillion in Treasury securities outstanding.Asked by a reporter on Wednesday if China would reduce its U.S. Treasury holdings in retaliation, Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao reiterated China\'s long-standing policy regarding its foreign exchange reserves, saying it is a responsible investor and that it will safeguard their value.China\'s foreign exchange reserves, the world\'s largest, stood at about $3.13 trillion at the end of February, with roughly a third of it held in Treasuries."If they wanted to pull the nuclear switch, if they committed to dumping Treasuries, it would have an immediate and temporary impact on money markets in the United States," said Jeff Klingelhofer, a portfolio manager who oversees more than $6 billion at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. "But I think it is a bigger hit to the sustainability of what they\'re trying to accomplish."Brad Setser, senior fellow for international economicsat the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said China can sell Treasuries and buy lower-yielding European or Japanese debt.But the effect would likely be to strengthen the yuan against the dollar, weakening the relative desirability of its exports, analysts said. The sale could also tank the value of the Treasuries China retains, with nothing to show for the aggression.More likely, if China wanted to turn up the heat it would let the yuan depreciate against the U.S. dollar, according to CFR\'s Setser, a move that could kneecap the Trump administration\'s goal of jump-starting U.S. manufacturing. The yuan weakened by about 0.25 percent on Wednesday but remains near its strongest in two and a half years.Even if the likelihood of a change in Chinese policy regarding its Treasuries portfolio remains low, investors are sensitive to the risk any big shift would pose to world financial markets, where Treasuries are a global benchmark asset.A January report that China might halt its purchases of Treasuries forced yields higher, but China disputed the news and said it was only diversifying its foreign exchange reserves to safeguard their value.(Reporting by Kate Duguid and Trevor Hunnicutt; Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Dan Burns and James Dalgleish)
Rebecca Dallet, a Milwaukee County Circuit judge favored by liberals, was elected on Tuesday to the Wisconsin Supreme Court, The Associated Press reported, reducing the hold of conservative justices over the states highest court.Judge Dallets defeat of Michael Screnock, a Sauk County Circuit judge who had the backing of conservatives, was immediately being held up as a sign of Democratic enthusiasm ahead of the November elections, in a state that narrowly chose President Trump in 2016.The election was officially nonpartisan, and it involved candidates who were little known in Wisconsin until a few weeks ago. It was held during an off season for voting, on a day when snow and freezing rain were predicted in parts of the state.Still, the realities of this race fell firmly along partisan lines, as have many Wisconsin Supreme Court races in recent years. And it came at a moment when seemingly every contest across the country is being examined through the lens of the approaching midterm elections. A series of recent races in states like Pennsylvania, Alabama and Virginia has shown Democratic strength.The Wisconsin Supreme Court contest was the first chance in 2018 to take the temperature of voters across the state  a matter of intense interest to analysts, in part because Wisconsins choice of President Trump in 2016 marked the first time in 32 years that a Republican had carried the state in a presidential race. Wisconsin state politics had been shifting to the right; in 2010, Scott Walker, a Republican, won the governors office, and both chambers of the State Legislature flipped to red as well.Then in January, though, a Democrat won a special election for a State Senate seat that had been held by a Republican for 17 years, setting off a flurry of predictions.Republicans warned that the outcome was a wake-up call for the party, with a ballot full of important races coming in the fall: for governor, for a United States Senate seat, for the whole lower house of the State Legislature and for half of the upper house. Democrats lauded the upset in January as a sign of hope that Wisconsin was back in contention.In recent weeks, Democrats have accused Mr. Walker of wanting to avoid any more ominous signs by putting off special elections for two other vacant legislative seats. Republicans, who said they simply wanted to avoid wasting money on needless special elections, backed down after courts insisted that they set dates for the special elections later this year.Political scientists and strategists across the state cautioned against inferring too much from the outcome of the judicial election on Tuesday. Historically, voter turnout for similar spring elections has been low  around 21 percent  and the results have not tended to be very predictive of the larger elections in the fall.That said, there is a symbolic importance that may be raised, said Charles Franklin, director of the Marquette Law School poll. If it shows that progressives, liberals, Democrats are continuing to be energized, then I think Democrats will seize on that  and Republicans will too.Mark Graul, a Republican political consultant in the state, said the outcome on Tuesday ought not to be viewed as some larger sign about the fall. The April electorate in Wisconsin is just very different than the electorate you have in November, he said. Theyre just very different animals, and not comparable.Spending on the special election race was significant  at least $2.6 million went to television and radio ads, according to the Brennan Center for Justice, which tracks spending on judicial elections  and fell starkly along partisan lines.A group led by Eric H. Holder Jr., President Barack Obamas former attorney general, backed Judge Dallets campaign, which also received endorsements from Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic former vice president, and Senator Cory A. Booker, Democrat of New Jersey.Judge Screnock, who was appointed to his judgeship by Mr. Walker, won support from the states Republican Party, the National Rifle Association and a prominent business group, Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce.Its not a mystery which side people are on, said Joe Zepecki, a Democratic strategist in the state.He noted that left-leaning candidates for the state Supreme Court had struggled to win open seats in recent years. For whatever reason, picking the lock on this is very, very hard, Mr. Zepecki said. Its really been tough for our side.The vacancy on the court was created by Justice Michael Gablemans decision not to seek a second term. A conservative bloc has dominated the court, 5 to 2, with Justice Gableman among the majority.The newly elected justice, who will bring the courts split to a 4-to-3 conservative majority, is to serve a 10-year term. Judge Dallets election also means that six of the courts seven justices will be women.Matters related to Wisconsins highest court have been intense and volatile over the last decade, and there was even a report in 2011 that a debate over a collective bargaining ruling had turned physical.Voters in Wisconsin also were asked on Tuesday to decide whether to eliminate the job of state treasurer  a proposal championed by Matt Adamczyk, the state treasurer. The Associated Press reported late Tuesday that voters had rejected the idea, choosing instead to keep the office.
BEIJING   Chinese importers expecting cargoes of U.S. commodities from beef to propane said they hope to sell the goods to South Korea or Japan after Beijing\'s decision to slap extra tariffs on a swathe of items from agricultural products to chemicals.Beijing on Wednesday hit back against the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals. The speed of China\'s move stunned financial markets.Traders of soybeans, of which China is the largest importer, said they were bracing for mass cancellations of purchases, even though the United States is the country\'s second-largest supplier.Prices of soybeans shipped from ports in the U.S. Pacific Northwest, the most direct route to Asia, dropped by $10 to $12 per tonne on Wednesday, U.S. soybean traders said.Buyers of propane used for making ethylene and propylene are looking to swap U.S. shipments for Middle Eastern barrels with buyers in South Korea and Japan."Even though we are committed to U.S. supplies, we could swap them for Middle East cargoes with Korean or Japanese buyers by paying them $10 per tonne extra freight cost," said a manager with an east China-based chemical plant that buys U.S. propane, and who gave only his surname, Zhong.China bought 3.56 million tonnes of U.S. propane last year worth some $2 billion, or 19 percent of its total imports.The 25-percent additional tariffs will likely hit U.S.-based exporters such as Enterprise Product Partners and Phillips 66, and give a boost to rivals in the Middle East like Qatar and Saudi Arabia."The market will be thrown into some initial chaos and the freight market will also be affected. Diversions and swaps mean the demand for tankers will be lower, as U.S. voyages are shorter to northeast Asia and also shorter from the Middle East to China," said a senior dealer with Jovo Energy.The tariffs on beef were not expected to have much impact on the Chinese market, which had only resumed imports from the U.S. last year after a 14-year hiatus.China bought just 2,200 tonnes of U.S. beef in 2017, worth $14.7 million, according to Chinese customs, less than 1 percent of total imports.But the move could increase supplies of coveted high-end items like short ribs to other Asian countries like Japan and South Korea, pressuring prices currently at record levels, said one expert who declined to be named.(Reporting by Meng Meng, Chen Aizhu and Dominique Patton; additional reporting by Karl Plume in Chicago; Editing by Alexandra Hudson and Diane Craft)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. REPORT: YOUTUBE SHOOTER TOLD FAMILY MEMBERS SHE \'HATED\' COMPANYInvestigators do not believe Nasim Aghdam, 39, specifically targeted the three victims she wounded with a handgun at the company\'s headquarters south of San Francisco.2. CHINA DELIVERS \'SAME STRENGTH\' RESPONSE IN TARIFF STANDOFFBeijing is urging the U.S. to come to the table to resolve a trade dispute as it issues a $50 billion list of U.S. goods subject to tariffs.3. TRUMP WANTS US MILITARY TO SECURE BORDER UNTIL WALL IS BUILTFederal law prohibits the use of active-duty service members for law enforcement inside the U.S., but there is precedent to send National Guard troops there in certain capacities.4. WHO WON WISCONSIN COURT RACELiberal judge Rebecca Dallet\'s runaway victory in a state Supreme Court race cheers Democrats eager for evidence their party is destined for big wins in midterm elections.5. FRANCE PUTS EUROPEAN-HIGH 78,000 SECURITY THREATS ON POLICE DATABASEA German parliamentarian raises questions about whether the system is being abused, with different European nations applying different criteria when flagging people for "discreet checks."6. WORLD MARKS 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF KING SLAYINGThe global commemoration culminates with events in Memphis and Atlanta, followed by a march and ending in speeches by Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and others.7. WHAT FORMER FRIEND OF WASHINGTON FAMILY TOLD AUTHORITIESAlexandra Argyropoulos tells the AP that she told Oregon child welfare officials in 2013 that Jennifer and Sarah Hart  who plunged off a California cliff with their children in an SUV  had been depriving the kids of food as punishment.8. RHODE ISLAND TO BUY FARMS TO HELP NEW FARMERSThe state is launching a program to buy farms and sell them to new farmers for dirt cheap, an unconventional approach to ensure that farming remains viable.9. WHERE HOLLYWOOD IS COMING UP SHORTA new study finds the film industry\'s move toward diversity has largely ignored people with disabilities.10. WHAT DJ\'S GOAL IS AT GOLF\'S FIRST MAJORDustin Johnson isn\'t looking back at the freak back injury that knocked him out of the Masters last year.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. It looks a lot like a trade war.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China announced its own tariffs on $50 billion worth of American goods.Chinas list focused on agricultural products that come from the Republican-dominated farm belt, where lawmakers might be expected to have some influence with President Trump. Above, harvesting soybeans in Illinois.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic, and markets rose after an erratic day.____2. The White House said that the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State  just a day after President Trump said its time to bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home.Mr. Trumps own national security team is in flux, and Pentagon officials argued strenuously against a pullout. They pointed to the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq after President Obama withdrew  a precedent they said laid the groundwork for the militant organization to flourish.____3. President Trump will sign a proclamation directing federal officials to work with governors to deploy National Guard troops to the southwest border.That decision started earlier this week with a Fox News report about a caravan of Central American migrants moving north through Mexico, above. On todays episode of The Daily, we look at how Mr. Trumps approach to immigration transformed over 72 hours.____4. Facebook said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm connected to President Trumps 2016 campaign. That figure is far higher than a previously reported estimate.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, above, will testify before Congress next week on its handling of sensitive user data.And at Google, thousands of employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes.____5. Anger that YouTube was blocking her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself with the same handgun.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, above, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content.____6. It has to be perfect. We sat in as students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., above, put together their yearbook  and grappled with how to tell the story of the mass shooting that took the lives of 17 people.And the Patriots star Julian Edelman may have thwarted a school shooting by reporting a threat, left by a 14-year-old, in a comment on one of Edelmans Instagram posts.____7. Thousands of people gathered in Memphis to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.In a Times Op-Ed, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, once an aide to Dr. King, reflects on his legacy:We owe it to Dr. King  and to our children and grandchildren  to commemorate the man in full: a radical, ecumenical, antiwar, pro-immigrant and scholarly champion of the poor who spent much more time marching and going to jail for liberation and justice than he ever spent dreaming about it.For complete coverage of the 50th anniversary of Dr. Kings assassination, including original essays and photos from our archive, click here.____8. Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate.Scientists who study the changes in plants and animals triggered by seasons have a term for this: phenological mismatch. And theyre still trying to understand exactly how it works and what the consequences might be.Here are five mismatches theyve discovered so far, including one that means the calves of caribou in western Greenland, above, are dying at higher rates.____9. Theres a new niche in the $100 billion tutoring industry: homework therapists.They mix the roles of traditional tutor and straight-up therapist, in person or online. Some New York City parents are doling out hundreds of dollars for the academic help and emotional support for their children.Meanwhile, thousands of teachers in multiple states are striking to protest cuts in pay and benefits and school funding. Inspired by circulating photos of crumbling textbooks in Oklahoma schools, our Reader Center is asking public school teachers about conditions in their classrooms.____10. Finally, whats on TV? Reboots.Trading Spaces returns Saturday on TLC after a decade-long hiatus, and Jersey Shore Family Vacation begins Thursday on MTV.These shows return with casts largely intact, and conceit and ideology trapped in amber, too, our critic writes. But both of them are also experiments to see whether the structures of a more nave time can hold up when filled with a more self-aware participant.Speaking of self-awareness, the late-night hosts took aim at President Trumps broadsides against Amazon. This is when I appreciate Twitter, Seth Meyers said. It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Farmers across Californias agriculture industry are worried over the escalating trade conflict between the United States and China, with steep new tariffs specifically targeting some of the states most lucrative exports.The Chinese finance ministry announced over the weekend that it would impose tariffs on more than 100 American products, including many of Californias staples like wine and pistachios, in retaliation against tariffs imposed on steel and aluminum by President Trump.We have heard a lot of concerns from our wine grape growers and our pistachio and almond growers. Those markets are definitely going to take the largest hit, Sara Neagu-Reed, of the California Farm Bureau Federation, said. Putting us in the middle of this issue is just not fair for our farmers.That could mean trouble for the states farmers in the Central Valley and elsewhere. China is Californias third most valuable destination for agriculture products, according to the California Farm Bureau Federation, just behind the European Union and Canada. The states exports to China totaled more than $2 billion in 2016. Three products alone, all facing tariffs, accounted for most of those exports: $530 million in pistachios, $518 million in almonds and $161 million in wine.The tariffs add another layer of uncertainty for growers in California, and in particular those in the wine industry, which already faces growing production costs. The full impact of the tariffs is not yet clear, but experts are warning of significant decreases in exports of those products. Fluctuating prices in steel could also affect the price of farm equipment.John Aguirre, the president of the California Association of Winegrape Growers, said that the trade war with China threatened to derail long-running efforts by winemakers to expand into the Chinese market. That could carry repercussions well into the future.We not only face the prospect of short term harm to wine grape prices, but really missing out on the longer term opportunity, he said. Once you lose market share, other countries have filled that void and its very difficult to reclaim lost ground.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) A woman opened fire at YouTubes headquarters in California, shooting three people before killing herself. [The New York Times] As Mr. Trump leads a war on California, who will be Gov. Jerry Browns successor? [The New York Times] Cabernet isnt the most obvious pawn in a trade war between the United States and China  but for California, its a highly personal one. [The New York Times] A federal judge on Tuesday threatened to prohibit cities in Orange County from enforcing anti-camping laws  which target homeless people  if the county cannot find a solution to its homeless stalemate. [The Los Angeles Times] Amid continued outrage over Stephon Clarks death, a bill introduced in the State Assembly would significantly restrict when officers can use deadly force. [The Associated Press] Speakers at a Sacramento City Council meeting Tuesday gave passionate testimony about the black communitys grief after Mr. Clarks shooting. [The Sacramento Bee] Governor Brown has ordered state agencies to track harassment and discrimination complaints. [The Associated Press] San Francisco has joined a lawsuit against the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about U.S. citizenship to the 2020 census. [The San Francisco Chronicle] Republicans are eager to seize the backlash against so-called sanctuary laws in conservative pockets of SoCal. [Politico] Travis Allen, the Republican candidate for governor, floated the idea of building state-run institutions to hold the homeless. [The Sacramento Bee] The frantic effort to locate a teenage boy after he fell into sewage pipes in Los Angeles spanned 6,400 feet of pipe. This young man rose like Jesus, said Bryant Jones, a city sanitation manager. [The Los Angeles Times] Los Angeless Lincoln Heights neighborhood is a prime target for investors, but it is squeezing out residents who have lived in the community for decades. [The Los Angeles Times] A spring storm is expected to hit California later this week, potentially showering the Bay Area and Sacramento. [The San Francisco Chronicle] For legal pot shops, paying taxes can be both time consuming and dangerous. [The Sacramento Bee] The push for universal health care in California has pitted pragmatists against idealists. [Politico] Colleges in California are dealing with a growing number of homeless students. [CalMatters]Hundreds of Angelenos gathered Saturday at the Kenneth Hahn Park in Los Angeles to commemorate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whose contributions to American life are being remembered today across the country on the 50th anniversary of his assassination.Community members marched to the highest point of park, where a tree grove has been dedicated in Dr. Kings honor. They played music, banged on drums and waved portraits of Dr. King as they walked in procession.The ribbon cutting ceremony officially opened the space. The event featured remarks by the Rev. James Lawson Jr., one of Dr. Kings peers during the civil rights movement, and other L.A. community leaders instrumental in finishing the project. This is our way of paying tribute to Americas most prominent drum major for peace, Mark Ridley-Thomas, a Los Angeles County supervisor, told CBS News.A stone obelisk bearing Dr. Kings likeness marks the spot. Inscribed on the statue are excerpts from Dr. Kings I Have A Dream address: I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Australias pokie problem, uproar in Big Tech and relaxed snow monkeys. Heres what you need to know: Anger that YouTube was blocking her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself with the same handgun.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad swaths of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced. Stocks plunged in early U.S. trading, but recovered._____ Big uproar in Big Tech.Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a Pentagon program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes.Amazon is the latest in a long line of companies that President Trump has denounced on Twitter, contributing to a drop in the online retailers stock. We checked the facts behind some of his criticisms.And Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, will testify before Congress next week on the companys handling of sensitive user data. (Facebook raised its estimate of how many peoples data was improperly used by a consulting firm tied to President Trump, to as many as 87 million.)_____ Australians lose more money gambling, per capita, than any other people in the world. Its not even close.The average Australian adult loses around $900 each year  about 50 percent more than second-placed Singaporeans, and more than double the rate of Americans.Electronic gambling machines known as pokies contribute to an extraordinary degree: a gargantuan 24 billion Australian dollars, or about $18.4 billion, each year.And war is brewing between venue operators and anti-gambling factions. Each is trying to woo state governments, which could regulate the machines but which rely on revenue from them._____ Japans famed snow monkeys are a photogenic wonder.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.) On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Production hell. Tesla and its chief executive, Elon Musk, are learning what the rest of the car industry already knows: Producing a quarter of a million cars a year is daunting. Grindr, the gay-dating app, has prompted an uproar for sharing users H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal information with outside companies. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Exchanges in Hong Kong and Shanghai are closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said that the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home quickly. [The New York Times] The presidents of Turkey, Russia and Iran met in Ankara to discuss Syrias future. The Iranian leader called for the U.S. to withdraw. [Al Monitor] The Australian Taxation Office, joined by federal police officers, raided the home of a tax office employee who had been acting as a whistle-blower for an investigative report by Four Corners and Fairfax on abuses by his agency. [ABC] I wont be challenging the sanctions. The former captain Steve Smith accepted the 12-month playing ban issued by Cricket Australia for his role in the national teams brazen ball-tampering scandal. [The Guardian] Brazils highest court is expected to decide within hours whether a former president, Luiz Incio Lula da Silva, should be jailed while he appeals his corruption conviction. Jailing him would end his front-runner bid to return to office. [The New York Times] Where is Googoosha? Uzbekistan adores its late dictator, Islam Karimov, but is trying hard to forget his daughter, once the countrys most famous person. [The New York Times] An American football player may have thwarted a school shooting. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. In memoriam: William Prochnau, 80, a journalist and author of Once Upon a Distant War, about the group of reporters whose early warnings that the U.S. wasnt winning in Vietnam went unheeded, but who felt the wrath of every power structure they confronted  the White House, the Pentagon, the South Vietnamese government, the old guard of the press itself, even their own bosses. In Hong Kong, ever tinier apartments are making laundromats the hot new place to hang out.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.The dance studio chain that bears his name now has 260 studios in 22 countries.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames their partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
JANESVILLE, Wis.  When dozens of high school students from across Wisconsin marched through his hometown, chanting his name and demanding new gun control laws, Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, was not around to hear them, having just wrapped up a trip to the Czech Republic.But Randy Bryce was.Mr. Bryce, for those who dont watch MSNBC, is better known by his Twitter handle, Iron Stache  a nod to his occupation (ironworker) and his thick horseshoe mustache. A Democrat, he has become a liberal media darling of sorts, as he seeks to do the unthinkable: unseat Mr. Ryan in Wisconsins First Congressional District this fall.But Mr. Bryce is not the only candidate hoping to dethrone a congressional king. Another Democrat, a schoolteacher named Cathy Myers, is also running for her partys nomination. She is irked that national Democrats and progressives  including Senator Bernie Sanders, the former presidential candidate  have thrown their weight behind Mr. Bryce.And on the right, Republicans are confronting an embarrassing spectacle: A white nationalist and anti-Semite, Paul Nehlen, who lost to Mr. Ryan by 68 points in the 2016 Republican primary, is running again, this time flaunting his bigotry to gain a national following. His Twitter account was suspended in February after he used it to make racist comments about Meghan Markle, the fiance of Prince Harry.Its a circus, sighed Mark Graul, a seasoned Republican strategist here. You cant make this stuff up.Mr. Ryan, meanwhile, has been coy about his intentions. After passing a landmark tax overhaul that fulfilled a career-long dream, he has not yet announced his candidacy for re-election, saying he will make a decision after consulting with his wife in the spring. That has prompted speculation that he will retire, which his aides have dismissed as nonsense.In another election year, Mr. Bryce and the rest might be little more than a nuisance for Mr. Ryan, who has nearly $10 million in his campaign chest and is one of the most powerful men in Washington. Mr. Nehlen, strategists in both parties agree, is clearly headed for another trouncing.But in an election cycle when Democrats have scored victories in places like Virginia, southwestern Pennsylvania and even deep-red Alabama, some analysts say it would be a mistake for the speaker to coast, especially against Mr. Bryce, who has captured the attention of Washington and Hollywood and had raised $4.75 million by the end of March, according to campaign officials.History shows it is not impossible to knock off a congressional leader. In 1994, when Republicans swept the House during the first midterm election of Bill Clintons presidency, they also swept the Democratic speaker, Thomas S. Foley, out of office.Randy Bryce is a more formidable candidate on the resource side and the notoriety side than any opponent Ryan has faced, said Charles Franklin, director of the Marquette Law School Poll, run out of Milwaukee. And if its a wave election, who knows?At 48, Mr. Ryan has represented this corner of southeastern Wisconsin for nearly two decades. People here still remember him as a fresh-faced young congressman with a compelling personal story. His father died when he was 16, and he saved his Social Security benefits to pay for college. He is viewed as a nice guy and a family man.But Janesville, a blue-collar community that was hit hard when the local General Motors plant shut down in 2009, has never been solid Ryan territory, and some in his hometown say that since he became speaker  and especially since President Trump took the White House  Mr. Ryan has lost his way. He was critical of Mr. Trump during the campaign. He largely holds his tongue now.Im very disappointed in him, Steve Johnson, 69, a former Janesville School District administrator, said while drinking coffee with a friend at Mocha Moment, a local cafe. Mr. Johnson, who says he votes Republican about half of the time, has known the speaker since Mr. Ryan was a student council representative, and has voted for him for years.He always had a good head on his shoulders, a good set of values, Mr. Johnson said. I supported him for all this time, but I wont now, especially since he wont stand up to Trump. Thats a big surprise to me.Others complain that Mr. Ryan no longer holds town-hall-style meetings (his aides say he hosts telephone call-ins where constituents can voice their concerns) and spends more time outside the district than in it.Hes just changed so much from the beginning of his career until now, said Chris Rice, 68, a Democrat who works in health care. I think hes lost his values.But Mr. Ryan retains strong support elsewhere in the district, particularly in rural areas and counties like Waukesha, Walworth and Racine. His Republican backers insist that the speaker will be just fine, especially in the wake of the passage of the landmark tax overhaul, which he has been promoting during carefully controlled visits to businesses here and around the country.Ever since Ive known Paul, tax reform was near and dear to his heart, said Kim Travis, who represents Mr. Ryans district on the executive committee of the Wisconsin Republican Party. So to get that passed is huge. I dont think any of his opponents stand a chance.The most recent Marquette Law School poll found that, statewide, 46 percent of voters approve of Mr. Ryan, while 39 percent disapprove and 15 percent say they have not heard enough about him. And his aides note that the local economy has bounced back. The latest state figures show unemployment in Rock County, which includes Janesville, is at 3.6 percent. It was 13.2 percent in 2009, the year the auto plant closed.Even so, some political observers are seeing cracks in the speakers armor. Stan Milam, a longtime Janesville journalist and former radio host, said that neither Mr. Bryce nor Ms. Myers has what it takes to beat Mr. Ryan this year. But he does see the speaker showing some signs of weakness.Every politician, if they have a lengthy political career, becomes more vulnerable than usual, Mr. Milam said, and I believe thats where Paul Ryan is.Even Democrats concede that capitalizing on that will be an uphill battle. For one thing, they are fighting among themselves. In Washington, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has endorsed Mr. Bryce. But many here see Ms. Myers, who now holds a seat on the Janesville School Board, picking up steam.Her backers view Mr. Bryce as a creation of Hollywood and the national news media, and insist she is the more substantive candidate. They vow a strong grass-roots campaign.No one has been able to answer this for me: Why is Randy Bryce a better candidate to beat Paul Ryan? Ms. Myers asked in an interview. Im talking about his qualifications, not his money.Mr. Bryce, 53, a longtime union activist who has waged three previous unsuccessful bids for local and state office, is pitching himself to voters as a man of the people, a kind of Joe Six-Pack who understands their everyday concerns. An Army veteran and a survivor of testicular cancer, he burst onto the political scene with a video campaign announcement that went viral.In it, he offered to trade places with Mr. Ryan, declaring, You can come work the iron, and Ill go to D.C.The video captured the attention of national Democrats, and some in Hollywood. The liberal comedian Chelsea Handler hosted a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Mr. Bryce, where she was pictured wearing a fake mustache.But he has some baggage, which Ms. Myers and Republicans will undoubtedly try to exploit. He was late repaying a loan to an ex-girlfriend, and for nearly two years he owed $1,257 in back child support, which he paid after launching his campaign.Im looking forward to that coming up; thats why Im running, he said in an interview. Ive busted my rear end for the past 20 years to keep my head above water. Thats proof that I understand what its like to struggle.On the day the students marched last week through Janesville, demanding that Mr. Ryan take strong action on gun control, Mr. Bryce was among hundreds of people who turned up at a rally that was rife with anti-Ryan sentiment. Dressed in jeans, work boots and a paint-splattered, beaten-up brown work jacket, he hung back in the crowd, listening quietly as they shouted Shame on Paul! Shame on Paul!When the speeches were over, he posed for selfies with the students and was mobbed by well-wishers. Among them was Teri Sickels, 59, a former assembly line worker who, like many here, was forced into retirement when the General Motors factory closed down.I love everything you stand for, she gushed.
HOUSTON  A cyberattack on a shared data network forced four of the nations natural-gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with their customers over the last week.No gas service was interrupted, the companies said, and the interruption of customer transactions was merely a precaution. It was unclear whether any customer data was stolen.The attack highlighted the potential vulnerability of the nations energy system, cyberexperts say. Beyond consumer and business data  energy companies possess much proprietary information about their holdings, trading strategies and exploration and production technologies  the increasing dependence of pipeline infrastructure on digital systems makes them a particularly ripe target. Control valves, pressure monitors and other equipment connected to wireless networks are vital to daily functions of everything from refineries to oil wells.With nearly 2.5 million miles of oil, gas and chemical pipelines crisscrossing the country, intrusions into control systems could do more than disrupt deliveries, said Andrew R. Lee, a cybersecurity expert at the law firm Jones Walker in New Orleans. The risks include explosions, spills, or fires, which easily will threaten human life, property and the environment, he said.Nothing close to that kind of disaster happened this time. But the pipeline industry leaders Oneok; Energy Transfer Partners; Boardwalk Pipeline Partners; and Eastern Shore Natural Gas, a Chesapeake Utilities subsidiary, all reported communications system interruptions.The attacks target appears to have been Latitude Technologies, a Texas-based provider of electronic data-sharing between pipeline companies and their gas producer and utility customers. The company handles the critical computer communications of gas storage facilities, as well as sales contracts and shipment scheduling.Chris Bronk, a cybersecurity expert at the University of Houston, said such attacks on the gas marketing communications hub is a way to gather intelligence on the entire gas industry.If I compromise their operations, I can see all the buyers and sellers, he said. If I can persistently be in their network I can issue fake transactions. In that way, Mr. Bronk added, hackers could potentially jumble gas shipments, and even cause electricity production outages.Latitude Technologies, a unit of Energy Services Group, declined to discuss the disruption in detail. In a statement, it said, We do not believe any customer data was compromised.The Department of Homeland Security was investigating the attack, and no suspect has been publicly identified. But the attack came shortly after the department and the F.B.I. issued a report alleging that Russia was taking aim at the electric grid and other critical infrastructure with cyber probes.The House Committee on Science, Space and Technology released a staff report this month that described Russian efforts to influence American energy markets and energy policy through inflammatory posts on social media. The motivation for such efforts appeared to be the increase in exports of liquefied natural gas from the United States, a challenge to Russian dominance in European markets.Cybercriminals, frequently suspected of working for foreign governments, have been increasingly active in the energy sector in recent years. Last fall, hackers penetrated safety systems of a petrochemical plant in Saudi Arabia, the latest in a spate of increasingly sophisticated attacks on the kingdoms energy infrastructure. An attack on Ukraines grid in 2015 led to extensive blackouts.American gas pipeline companies were targeted in 2012, although the damage was believed to have been limited. Employees of several pipeline companies have been targets of spear-phishing attacks  efforts to lure them to click on email attachments containing malicious code.The Trump administration has announced that it is establishing an office within the Department of Energy to shore up cybersecurity for critical infrastructure like nuclear plants, refineries and pipelines.

CARACAS, Venezuela   A powerful U.S. senator traveled to Venezuela on Wednesday as pressure mounted on President Nicolas Maduro to hand over a Utah man jailed in the turbulent South American country for nearly two years.Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois was to meet with members of the government and opposition, a spokesman for his office said. He didn\'t provide further details.The Senate\'s No. 2 Democrat is also expected to meet with Maduro to discuss the imprisonment of Joshua Holt, who is being held in a Caracas prison along with several top government opponents awaiting a trial on what the U.S. has called trumped-up weapons charges.The rare visit comes as the Trump administration weighs an embargo on Venezuela\'s oil shipments on top of sanctions it already has imposed on dozens of top officials, including Maduro himself, for what the U.S. considers Venezuela\'s slide into a dictatorship."The Venezuelan people continue to suffer immensely under the Maduro regime\'s repressive actions," Durbin recently tweeted, supporting sanctions while condemning Maduro\'s "criminal regime and its complete disregard for democracy."Durbin\'s visit follows weeks of backchannel talks over Holt between representatives of the two countries in both Caracas and Washington.Last week, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, also spoke to Maduro by phone to press for Holt\'s release, according to a Venezuelan official with knowledge of the conversation but who was not authorized to discuss it publicly. Hatch\'s office refused to comment on the Senator\'s efforts to secure Holt\'s release but said they are unrelated to Durbin\'s travel plans.Holt, 25, travelled to Venezuela in June 2016 to marry a fellow Mormon he met online practicing his Spanish. The couple was arrested during a police raid on the housing complex where she had lived.Venezuelan authorities alleged Holt was stockpiling "weapons of war."U.S. officials have repeatedly demanded Holt\'s release on humanitarian grounds, considering the charges against him and his wife, Thamara Caleno Candelo, to be politically motivated.Maduro is expected to win a second term as president in a May 20 election that the U.S. and Venezuela\'s largest opposition parties have rejected as being rigged in Maduro\'s favor, leaving the South American leader few if any allies in Washington from either political party.Durbin played a key role in Cuba\'s 2014 release of American Alan Gross, who was held in prison for five years on the communist island.The Associated Press first reported behind-the-scenes dialogue to win Holt\'s freedom. Caleb McCarry, a top Republican congressional staffer who has known Maduro for 15 years, travelled to Caracas in February to meet with the Venezuelan leader and First Lady Cilia Flores to press for Holt\'s release.That dialogue prompted a visit to Washington by a trusted ally of Maduro, Gov. Rafael Lacava of Carabobo state, to discuss Holt with lawmakers.___Associated Press writer Scott Smith reported this story in Caracas and AP writer Joshua Goodman reported from Bogota, Colombia
LONDON   Britain\'s FTSE 100 managed a small gain on Wednesday despite global trade worries denting appetite for risky assets, as investors piled into defensive sectors which make up a large part of the UK index.The blue-chip FTSE 100 closed 0.1 percent higher, while mid-caps fell 0.7 percent.The FTSE recovered from sharp losses at the open, when it slid along with other European indexes after China announced additional tariffs on $50 billion of U.S. goods.Worries over global trade have weighed on stocks over the past month, with the Trump administration set to unveil a list of Chinese advanced technology imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to punish Beijing over technology transfer policies."It\'s more (about) the second-order effects on global growth sentiment, and the fact that this is all arriving at a time where some of the leading indicators have been rolling over anyway," Ian Williams, economics & strategy research analyst at Peel Hunt, said.The FTSE 100 was the only European index to end in positive territory, a feat investors put down to its strong weighting in defensive sectors less vulnerable in a sell-off."Generally, at times like this historically the UK equity market has been reasonably defensive ... the nature of the sector weightings tend to be a bit less cyclically-exposed," Williams added.Pharmaceutical stocks Shire and GlaxoSmithKline were among the biggest gainers, while precious metals miner Fresnillo was up 1.1 percent, as gold is considered a safe-haven asset.Cigarette firms British American Tobacco and Imperial Brands, and consumer goods giants Diageo and Unilever, also gained as investors rushed into high dividend-paying stocks.Sectors which are more sensitive to the economic cycle, such as financials and materials, were the biggest weights.Miners Anglo American, BHP Billiton, Glencore and Rio Tinto fell 2.5 to 3.2 percent as metals prices sank. Investors worried that tariffs may disrupt metal imports to China, the biggest global buyer.Shares in WPP fell 2 percent after the advertising group said it was investigating an allegation of personal misconduct against its CEO, Martin Sorrell, who denied wrongdoing."Given (Sorrell\'s) high profile, the accusations are bound to attract a lot of attention and, given he is the face of WPP to many, there is likely to be a negative impact on sentiment today," Liberum analysts said."One thing this may do is intensify talk about Sir Martin\'s successor at WPP, which has been an issue lurking in the background," they added.While individual stock moves were relatively muted, shares in Morrisons were the top gainers, up 2.9 percent after favourable data from Kantar on the supermarket\'s performance.The data showed Morrison and peer Tesco continued to outperform rival "big four" supermarkets in the 12 weeks to March 25, with both enjoying sales growth of 2.4 percent. Shares in Tesco however declined 0.7 percent.Among small-caps, Topps Tiles shares tumbled 13.3 percent to a four-month low after the flooring retailer said sales had been hit by a weaker market and bad weather.(Reporting by Kit Rees; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is weighing further retaliation against Russia for meddling in the election and interfering in the affairs of the United States and its allies, the top U.S. intelligence official said Wednesday."This is under considerable consideration and more things will be done  and soon  above where we are right now," National Intelligence Director Dan Coats told reporters at a breakfast briefing. "I would just say stay tuned on that. I think we are becoming more and more aware of the potential for Russia to continue to engage in any number of ways relative to our elections and a lot of steps are being taken."Russia has been accused of meddling in the 2016 presidential election and of being behind the March 4 nerve agent attack on ex-Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, in the city of Salisbury, England.The poisoning plunged relations between the West and Russia to their lowest ebb since the Cold War. More than two dozen Western allies expelled more than 150 Russian diplomats in a show of solidarity with Britain. Russia responded by ordering the same number of their envoys out.Russia has denied being behind the nerve agent attack. In Moscow, Sergei Naryshkin, director of Russia\'s Foreign Intelligence Service, the top KGB successor agency, said the poisoning was a "grotesque provocation rudely staged by the British and U.S. intelligence agencies."Naryshkin said the poisoning was the latest example of the U.S.-led efforts to undermine Russia, adding that the Russia-West chill is comparable to the Cold War.Coats said the U.S. agrees with British Prime Minister Theresa May who said that Russia is the only nation state capable of using the nerve agent in such an attack."They (the Russians) either instituted it themselves or they lost control of it and somebody else did it. When you look at the history of it  the Russian malign activities and so forth  it\'s not hard to come to the conclusion that the Russians were out to send a signal to their other spies who have come out of the cold. Or (it was) just a continued power play by (Russian President Vladimir) Putin just prior to his election," Coats said.Putin was pushing hard to get as many votes as possible in his re-election bid so the attack might have been his way of "playing Mr. Strongman" and persuading voters into thinking his is the leader to bring Russia back into power after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the USSR in the early 1990s.He described Putin as "shrewd" and "calculating" and said when dealing with the former KGB officer, the U.S. needs to "go in with eyes wide open and with a high degree of skepticism."Coats was asked why the U.S. decided to retaliate against Russia by closing its consulate in Seattle, which was near a submarine base, Naval Base Kitsap, as well as Boeing Co. operations.The Russians didn\'t decide to open a consulate in Seattle because of "the climate or the nice living conditions," Coats said. "One could assume that they went there because there were (intelligence) collection opportunities."
WASHINGTON  Black students continue to be disciplined at school more often and more harshly than their white peers, often for similar infractions, according to a new report by Congresss nonpartisan watchdog agency, which counters claims fueling the Trump administrations efforts to re-examine discipline policies of the Obama administration.The report, issued by the Government Accountability Office on Wednesday, is the first national governmental analysis of discipline policies since the Obama administration issued guidance in 2014 that urged schools to examine the disproportionate rates at which black students were being punished.Critics of the Obama-era guidance have questioned whether students of color suffer from unfair treatment under school discipline policies. The G.A.O. found that not only have black students across the nation continued to bear the brunt of such policies, but the effects were also felt more widely than previously reported  including by black students in affluent schools.Additionally, the agency found that school suspensions began to fall the year before the Obama administration urged schools to move away from the overuse of such measures, undermining claims that the guidance forced schools to cut suspensions. While the Obama administrations aggressive civil rights investigations did reveal that black students were subjected to harsher treatment than their white peers for similar infractions, the G.A.O. found that it did not impose any new mandates on districts to reduce their suspension rates.The findings are likely to bolster arguments for preserving the 2014 guidance and undercut conservative claims that the guidance has resulted in federal overreach and a decline in school safety.On Wednesday, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos hosted groups of educators and advocates for and against the disciplinary guidance, the 12th set of round tables the department has held in the past year  and the first Ms. DeVos attended in person.Nina Leuzzi, a prekindergarten teacher at a Boston charter school, said she kept her word to her class of 20, predominantly minority 4-year-olds, in making her case to the secretary for why the guidance should stay. When the children asked her why she was traveling to Washington, she told them it was to keep them safe.Rescinding this would send the message that there is no longer a concern about discrimination in our schools, Ms. Leuzzi said.Nicole Stewart, a former vice principal in San Diego, told Ms. DeVos that pressures to reduce suspensions had made schools dangerous. She said administrators did not expel a student with a knife at her school because he had a disability. Weeks later, he slit a students throat, she said.It is no wonder that our kids dont think that rules and consequences apply to them, Ms. Stewart said. We are not modeling what consequences look like in the real world.Ms. DeVos is facing new pressures after Republicans linked the guidance to the February mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., and President Trump assigned her to lead a school safety commission that will consider whether to repeal the guidance.Ms. DeVos has declined to say publicly whether she believes that racial bias plays a role in the disproportionate rates at which black students are punished in school. But according to attendees at Wednesdays meeting, the secretary opened her remarks by acknowledging that the conversations were taking place on the 50th anniversary of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.s assassination, and that racial disparities in discipline were a problem in the country.Evan Stone, co-founder of Educators for Excellence, which represents nearly 30,000 educators across the country, said the acknowledgment gave him hope. Still, we have a real uphill battle ahead, said Mr. Stone, who attended the meeting with Ms. Leuzzi and five other teachers who are part of the group.Members of Congress urged Ms. DeVos not to make a decision on the guidance until the G.A.O. report was made public. The Education Department did not issue a response to the G.A.O. findings, as is customary, and did not respond to a request for comment on the report.The Obama administration guidance was issued based on data that showed that, in 2012, black students were being suspended at three times the rate of their white peers. According to the G.A.O. analysis, in the 2013-14 school year, black students accounted for 15.5 percent of all public school students, but represented about 39 percent of students suspended from school.The agency also found the disparities for black students started in preschool, and persisted regardless of the type of school they attended  disparities were particularly acute in charter schools  or the disciplinary action they received.And black students were the only race in which both boys and girls were disproportionately disciplined across six disciplinary actions examined, which included corporal punishment, in- and out-of-school suspensions, expulsions and school-related arrests.Moreover, the agency found that black students were suspended more often than their white peers in schools of all poverty levels. In the most affluent schools, 7.5 percent of black boys had been given out-of-school suspensions, while 1.8 percent of white boys had.The finding marks the first time that national discipline rates have been analyzed by poverty level, and challenges a common claim that poverty, more than race, may be driving disproportionate rates of disciplinary actions.Daniel J. Losen, director of the Center for Civil Rights Remedies at the University of California at Los Angeless Civil Rights Project, called the finding groundbreaking. He said it affirms other research that shows that even black boys raised in rich neighborhoods were likely to earn less than their white peers.This further shows that poverty is not explaining the disparities, Mr. Losen said. Theres a racial discrimination problem, and that can no longer be disputed.The G.A.O. analysis was requested by Representative Robert C. Scott, Democrat of Virginia, and Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York.The agency was charged with identifying patterns in disciplinary actions among public schools, the challenges that school districts faced with discipline reform, and how the Departments of Education and Justice have addressed the issue through enforcement measures. The investigation took place from November 2016 through March, and included data analysis and interviews with officials in the Education and Justice Departments, as well as district leaders in five states.The report was praised by Democratic lawmakers as evidence that the 2014 guidance had value. The guidance informed schools that wide racial disparities could signal discriminatory practices that could result in a federal investigation and loss of federal funding. It also suggested a number of strategies for managing nonviolent behavior without resorting to kicking students out of school.The G.A.O.s first-of-its-kind analysis confirms that racial bias contributes to pervasive discipline disparities, Mr. Scott and Mr. Nadler said in a joint statement. The G.A.O.s findings underscore the need to strengthen the guidance, not rescind it as some have recommended.But critics who want to see the Obama-era guidance rescinded said the reports scope was too narrow to draw broad conclusions.None of these findings change the basic story line, said Michael J. Petrilli, the president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a research organization. What weve learned is discipline reform is being applied unevenly. If you are concerned there are some specific districts and schools that are responding particularly poorly to this, I dont think this study gets at that question.Mr. Petrilli also said the report did not answer the question at the heart of the Obama-guidance criticism: whether racial bias accounted for all the disparities.The G.A.O. examination illustrated how racial bias was unfolding in some districts.For instance, at a school district in Kentucky where black students were 10 times as likely as white students to be disciplined, school officials acknowledged that 61 types of violations were undefined, which allowed staff to punish black students more harshly.In interviews, district officials also reported that they maintained broad discretion in how they disciplined students, and that more serious offenses, like those concerning weapons, violence and drugs, still resulted in removing students from school.And all of the school districts reported that while they embraced the opportunity to revise their approach to discipline, their biggest barrier was not student behavior. It was the lack of resources to tackle cases of trauma and mental health issues that increasingly plague the nations children.
Last May, the private equity firm Blackstone announced that it was creating a $40 billion fund that would invest in infrastructure projects in the United States. The funds largest backer was the government of Saudi Arabia, which agreed to kick in half the cash.Ten months later, the highly anticipated fund has yet to complete an initial round of fund-raising, much less start investing in infrastructure.Although the Saudis promised to contribute up to $20 billion, Blackstone is required to raise a dollar from other investors for every dollar the kingdoms Public Investment Fund puts in. So far, only two other investors have publicly committed to the fund, with their contributions totaling $575 million, according to data provider Preqin, which tracks such investments.In the short term, Blackstones goal now is to raise a total of $15 billion  much less than it trumpeted during President Trumps visit to Riyadh last spring  according to a document posted on the website of a Pennsylvania pension plan that has agreed to invest in the fund.Facing hesitant investors, Blackstone has twice missed its own deadlines for completing the first round of fund-raising, according to people briefed on the plans and a timetable included in the Pennsylvania pension plans documents.Among the factors that have complicated the funds launch: Saudi officials told Blackstone last year that they wanted to create an investment committee  including one or more Saudi representatives  that would oversee the fund, according to four people briefed on the talks who werent authorized to discuss them publicly.The idea was a non-starter for Blackstone officials, who have consistently avoided outside influence over their investment decisions, said three of the people briefed on the talks.Weve had a long and broad-based relationship with the Kingdom thats, frankly, never been stronger, said Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Blackstone. Theyve been exceptional partners. She declined to discuss the details of the firms fund-raising efforts, citing legal restrictions that apply during marketing periods.A spokesman for the kingdoms Public Investment Fund declined to comment.Blackstone  whose co-founder and chief executive, Stephen A. Schwarzman, is a prominent supporter of President Trump  rushed to unveil the infrastructure fund during the pomp-filled presidential visit to Saudi Arabia last May. Wall Street titans including Mr. Schwarzman attended opulent ceremonies to celebrate the two countries financial and political ties.The deal fit neatly into the White Houses efforts to coax foreign countries to invest in the United States. Blackstones president at the time, Hamilton E. James, predicted that the fund would spur infrastructure projects that would create well-paying American jobs and will lay the foundation for stronger long-term economic growth.In the joint Blackstone-Saudi news release, H.E. Yasir Al Rumayyan, the head of the Public Investment Fund, said that the $20 billion Saudi pledge reflects our positive views around the ambitious infrastructure initiatives being undertaken in the United States as announced by President Trump.The ventures $40 billion target drew skepticism from Blackstones rival firms. But the company said it could pull it off. Blackstone has the talent, scale and experience to be an effective private sector partner in filling the massive infrastructure funding gap, Mr. James, now executive vice chairman of the company, said in the announcement.In public, Blackstone is sticking with its goals of creating an immense fund and deepening its relationship with the Saudi regime, which has drawn criticism for its human rights record.Were very confident in the long term well reach the $40 billion capacity, Mr. James told a group of reporters in February. He added that Blackstone hoped to hit that target over the next decade or so.A week earlier, Mr. Schwarzman had heaped praise on Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia who chairs the kingdoms Public Investment Fund. When Prince Mohammed was in New York last week, Mr. Schwarzman hosted a lunch for the prince at his New York home.Blackstone began contacting big institutional investors such as pension funds last spring as it sought contributions to the fund. But some balked at putting money in until Blackstone had a team in place to run the infrastructure fund, according to a person briefed on the process. Blackstone had promoted Sean Klimczak, a partner who had brokered previous infrastructure investments, to run the infrastructure group around the time of the funds unveiling. Other hires took longer.By February, the news release announcing the $40 billion fund had disappeared from Blackstones website, although a version remained on the Public Investment Funds site. (The release reappeared on Blackstones site on Wednesday after The Times asked about it.)They announced it with such fanfare and certainty, and clearly things were dragging, said Colin C. Blaydon, director of the Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. I wondered what on earth was going on. If anybody ought to be able to pull something like this off, youd think Blackstone would be the one to do it.The only two investors to firmly commit to the infrastructure fund, according to Preqin, are the Pennsylvania Public School Employees Retirement System, which committed up to $500 million in January, and the Parochial Employees Retirement System of Louisiana, which committed $75 million but was still finalizing the details.For us, I think it was a good fit, said Troy Searles, chief investment officer of the Louisiana fund. He said he liked the idea of focusing on North American infrastructure and thought Blackstone would succeed.Last month, Mr. Schwarzman mentioned the fund-raising efforts at a New York investment conference with about 200 people in the room.Were raising other money, he said, according to a transcript of the event. He invited anyone in the audience who was interested to come forward after his speech. Dont be hesitant. Dont be embarrassed.

SEOUL, South Korea   Asian stock markets recouped the previous day\'s losses to trade higher on Thursday as earlier fears of trade conflicts between the world\'s two largest economies dissipated on signs of dialogue.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s Nikkei 225 surged 1.6 percent to 21,667.83 and South Korea\'s Kospi jumped 1.5 percent to 2,442.40. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 0.7 percent to 5,803.50. Stocks in Singapore surged and markets in other Southeast Asian countries were also higher. Markets in mainland China and Hong Kong were closed for holidays.TRADE TALK: The fears of trade conflicts that had escalated with China\'s tariff plans on some U.S. products in response to the similar moves by the United States turned into the hope of trade talks. President Donald Trump\'s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, suggested the U.S. tariffs won\'t be implemented if China lowers barriers to trade.ANALYST\'S TAKE: "With the expectation for talks to now take over, it does look like we have a long drawn out process ahead of us. The fact that markets have picked up so quickly also suggests that investors are becoming more desensitized to any threats that can be dismissed as negotiation tactics," said Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at IG in Singapore.WALL STREET: U.S. stock markets finished higher on Wednesday after a sharp plunge in the previous session. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 1 percent to 24,264.30. The S&P 500 index climbed 1.2 percent to 2,644.69. The Nasdaq composite rose 1.5 percent to 7,042.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 1.3 percent to 1,531.66.OIL: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 29 cents to $63.66 per barrel in New York. The contract dipped 14 cents to finish at $63.37 a barrel on Wednesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, gained 31 cents to $68.33 per barrel in London. It fell 10 cents to $68.02 a barrel on Wednesday.CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 106.98 yen from 106.78 yen. The euro was flat at $1.228.

NEW YORK   Even as trade tensions are mounting between the United States and China, the importance of Chinese moviegoers to Hollywood has never been more apparent.Global moviegoing reached a record high of $40.6 billion in 2017 despite a downturn in audiences at U.S. and Canada theaters, the Motion Picture Association of America said Wednesday in its annual report. That was despite the lowest attendance at domestic theaters in 22 years.Instead, the growth was largely propelled by China, which accounted for $7.9 billion in ticket sales in 2017. That fueled a 7 percent increase in the overseas box office. U.S. and Canada ticket sales by comparison totaled $11.1 billion, down 2 percent. If not for a 4 percent increase in the average ticket price to $8.97, the drop would have been worse.But after briefly stalling in 2016, the needle is going the other direction in China."The Chinese film market is going to be the largest film market in short order," said Charles H. Rivkin, the former assistant secretary of state who in January took over for Christopher Dodd as MPAA chairman. "They\'re building about 25 screens a day."The shift has in many ways already begun. For the first time, the Chinese movie market overtook North America in the first quarter of 2018. Several big-budget Hollywood productions, including Steven Spielberg\'s "Ready Player One," \'\'Pacific Rim: Uprising" and "Tomb Raider," debuted bigger in China than in the U.S. and Canada.The growing importance of Chinese movie theaters to Hollywood comes at a sensitive time for relations between the two countries. In response to moves by the Trump administration, China on Wednesday unveiled proposed tariffs on numerous American products, rocking the stock market and stoking fears of a larger trade war.Restrictions on film imports to China are already considerable for Hollywood; the country caps foreign films at 34 per year. The Office of the United States Trade Representatives is currently negotiating to lessen those terms. "We remain hopeful," said Rivkin of the negotiations.While pessimism often abounds about the future of the theatrical business in North America, due in part to digital upstarts like Netflix, Amazon and Apple, the MPAA sought to paint a more optimistic picture. John Fithian, president and chief executive of the National Association of Theatre Owners, attributed any year-to-year ups and downs to the quality of the releases.Among the statistics trotted out by the report: more than three-quarters of the U.S. and Canada population  263 million people  went to movie theaters at least once in 2017. The gender split of audiences was exactly 50-50.For the first time, the report expanded to include home entertainment revenue. And despite the cratering of the DVD market in recent years, global home entertainment grosses have increased the last two years, thanks to rising digital sales: $32.1 billion in 2017, up from $24.5 billion in 2016. Those totals, however, include subscription streaming services, which many consider a threat to theaters.Frequent moviegoers aged 18 to 24 also appeared to decrease after a bump last year. The MPAA earlier reported 7.2 million such moviegoers in 2016. In 2017, it was 5.2 million. The MPAA attributed the difference to a change in research methodology, shifting from phone surveys to online ones.Despite being among the most overlooked demographics in the movies themselves, Latinos made up 24 percent of frequent moviegoers in 2017, despite accounting for 18 percent of the population.But one of the brightest new markets for the MPAA is Saudi Arabia. On Wednesday, AMC said it would open the country\'s first movie theater."We think it could be a very big market," said Fithian. "Some have estimated that the market will hit $1 billion within a few years. If you see the pace of development that\'s being described, I think you\'ll see how that\'s possible.""It\'s literally as fast as we can build them and they will come," said Fithian.___
Settlement agreements between Bill OReilly and two of his accusers  made public for the first time on Wednesday  filled in previously unknown details about tactics employed by the former Fox News host to silence women who came forward with sexual harassment allegations against him.The documents show that two women who reached settlements, Andrea Mackris and Rebecca Gomez Diamond, were required to turn over all evidence, including audio recordings and diaries, to Mr. OReilly. In addition, Ms. Mackris was required to disclaim the materials as counterfeit and forgeries if they ever became public.The settlement with Ms. Mackris confirms a New York Times investigation that found a private investigator had been used to dig up information about her, with the agreement calling for the destruction of materials collected about her by Fox News private investigators, including Bo Dietl. The document also shows how her lawyers agreed to switch sides in the midst of the fight.Strict confidentiality was the goal of the settlements. If the women were found to breach the agreements, they would be forced to return all the money they had received, forfeit any future payments and pay Mr. OReillys legal fees.The settlement agreements were made public on Wednesday as part of the ongoing defamation lawsuit against Mr. OReilly and Fox News filed in December in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by Ms. Mackris, Ms. Diamond and Rachel Witlieb Bernstein, who reached harassment settlements involving Mr. OReilly.There are six publicly known settlements involving Mr. OReilly, five for sexual harassment and one for verbal abuse, that total about $45 million.The court documents show that the payout to Ms. Diamond, a former Fox Business Network host who reached a settlement with Mr. OReilly in 2011, was $3.25 million  an amount that had not previously been reported publicly.In a statement, Fredric S. Newman, a lawyer for Mr. OReilly, reiterated earlier statements that Mr. OReilly had settled the disputes to protect his children and said that the agreements were fully negotiated by these plaintiffs who were ably advised by experienced counsel.Confidentiality and arbitration were two critical terms for which Mr. OReilly bargained in good faith, Mr. Newman said. For the past 14 years, Mr. OReilly has always respected the agreed confidentiality of the settlement agreements, but now that the provision has been breached, Mr. OReilly will be taking all appropriate legal action to enforce the agreements.A spokesman for 21st Century Fox, the parent company of Fox News, declined to comment.In the defamation suit, the women asserted that comments by Mr. OReilly; Rupert Murdoch, the executive chairman of 21st Century Fox; and the company falsely depicted them as liars, political operatives and extortionists after an investigation by The Times that exposed how the network stood by Mr. OReilly as he faced a series of harassment allegations.Lawyers for Mr. OReilly and Fox News have argued for the dismissal of the lawsuit, stating they had not disparaged the women and that the claims by Ms. Mackris and Ms. Diamond should be moved to confidential arbitration proceedings because of stipulations in their settlement agreements.Last month, Mr. OReillys lawyers requested that he be able to file certain agreements that contain strict confidentiality provisions under seal, but Judge Deborah A. Batts, of the United States District Court, rejected that request, stating that there is a presumption of public access to court documents and that Mr. OReilly had failed to meet the burden of demonstrating privacy concerns.Lawyers for the women filed the settlement documents on Wednesday as part of a court filing.The agreement with Ms. Mackris, the former producer on Mr. OReillys program on Fox News who sued him in 2004, accusing him of sexual harassment, includes a previously unknown provision showing that her lawyers agreed to change sides to work for Mr. OReilly after the salacious dispute. It was settled for about $9 million, according to people familiar with the matter. The mediator for the dispute was the lawyer Marc E. Kasowitz, who went on to represent Mr. OReilly last year. (Mr. Kasowitz also has represented President Trump.)As part of the settlement, Ms. Mackriss former lawyers at the firm Benedict P. Morelli & Associates agreed to provide legal advice to Mr. OReilly on sexual harassment matters. They also agreed not to represent other parties with sexual harassment claims against Mr. OReilly or Fox News.Such arrangements are considered unethical in the legal community because they can create conflicts of interest between lawyers and their clients and sideline lawyers who have the expertise to bring claims against companies and individuals.In a statement, Mr. Morelli said: Every step we took was to negotiate the best possible deal for Ms. Mackris. We worked extremely hard to secure a significant financial settlement for her. The claim that I did not vigorously represent her, or that I represented OReilly during or after the settlement process, is absolutely false.The agreement between Mr. OReilly and Ms. Mackris nods to the potential for ethical concerns, requiring both of them to waive the conflicts of interest in Mr. OReillys retention of the Morelli firm. It states that, if the provision is found to violate the American Bar Association or New York professional codes, the rest of the agreement would remain valid and binding.
SHANGHAI   As trade tensions rise between the United States and China, a small but vocal online community is calling for a boycott of U.S. products, fanning fears that American brands could see a backlash similar to that faced by South Korea last year.China on Wednesday hit back at the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of duties on key U.S. imports with similar value including soybeans, planes, cars, whiskey and chemicals. [nL4N1RH18A]"Counterattack in trade war" was the third most-read topic on China\'s Weibo microblogging platform on Wednesday, viewed about 230 million times, while an editorial published the same day in the state-backed English-language tabloid Global Times warning the United States against an entering a trade war drew roughly 7,000 comments."The sons and daughters of China should unite and boycott U.S. products, modern war is conducted by the people," said one Weibo user with the handle "Deanliu1314".A commenter on the Global Times article said, "if they resist Chinese products, the United States won\'t be able to find an alternative. But if we boycott all U.S. products, China-made products can easily fill the gap".Products online commenters called for boycotting included Boeing  planes, Apple products, U.S. soybeans and even American graduate schools, with others saying that they could repeat what Chinese shoppers had done to South Korea."I resolutely support all trade measures China is taking against the United States," said another user who said he would boycott U.S. and South Korean products. "It starts with me."However, there was no evidence yet of an organised campaign to stoke anti-U.S. behaviour, or that consumers were yet shunning U.S. goods in any numbers.Trade and business exchanges between South Korea and China turned chilly last year after South Korea deployed the U.S.-made Terminal High Altitude Area Defence (THAAD) anti-missile system despite vehement objections from Beijing.The THAAD disagreement prompted an undeclared Chinese boycott of products ranging from South Korean cosmetics to cars, and was estimated to have knocked about 0.4 percentage points off South Korea\'s expected economic growth in 2017. [nL3N1OD250]The highest profile corporate casualty was South Korean conglomerate Lotte Group, which saw its plans for mega shopping complexes indefinitely suspended and nearly all of its Lotte Mart stores in China shut for much of the year over alleged fire safety issues. [nL4N1MR6B7]Ben Cavender, an analyst at Shanghai-based China Market Research Group, said U.S. businesses in China such as Starbucks were more firmly entrenched in the country, making them less likely to receive similar treatment."A lot of the brands are employing Chinese workers, essentially they\'re Chinese companies in their own right," he said.However, he warned that everyday consumption goods could nonetheless be hit."You can see consumers saying we\'re not going to buy a Ford, or a GM product, and we\'re going to buy a European product or a Chinese product instead," he said.Jim Boyce, a Beijing-based wine consultant who writes the blog Grapewallofchina, said while there were concerns that the duties would make U.S. wine less cost-competitive, the greater worry was over the image the trade war would generate for U.S. goods. [nL2N1RG14C]On Monday, China imposed extra tariffs on imports of American goods including wine, in response to U.S. duties on steel and aluminium imports."Are we going to see people in China worried about drinking American wine because of politics? That\'s the bigger problem," he said.Christopher Beros, trade director for China and the Pacific Rim at the California Wine Institute, which represented roughly 1,000 California wineries, said the issue was making him nervous."We do see collective thinking from time to time, and if someone gets stigmatised in a way, that\'s always a concern."(Reporting by Brenda Goh; Additional Reporting by SHANGHAI Newsroom; Editing by Tony Munroe and Alex Richardson)
NEW YORK   The Trump administration heralded the government\'s sale last month of U.S. drilling leases in the Gulf of Mexico as a bellwether.If that is the case, a Reuters analysis of the sale\'s results shows reason to worry about demand in future offshore auctions.The sale brought in $124.8 million, as just 1 percent of the 77 million acres (31.2 million hectares) offered found bidders. Reuters examined the acreage offered and leased, and nearly all the purchases show big drillers stuck closest to existing infrastructure, shunning the most far-flung areas.While U.S. crude oil production reached a record last year at more than 10 million barrels a day, most new development is in onshore shale regions. The U.S. Interior Department has said it wants to open all U.S. coasts for drilling, including the Atlantic and Pacific. But the Gulf result indicates limited interest even in already-developed areas, never mind unexplored coasts.The March auction included 9,088 deepwater blocks, each comprising roughly nine square miles. Only 105 of these blocks received bids and all but three of these were close to existing infrastructure and leases."It kind of looks like they\'re just shoring up their existing prospects right now," said John Filostrat, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the division of Interior that manages the auctions. Filostrat said the administration is still optimistic about future auctions and believes more auctions are needed to show the current trends.For a graphic on Gulf of Mexico auction, click http://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/rngs/USA-OFFSHORE-LEASES/010061C92W8/USA-OFFSHORE-LEASES.jpgHowever, money for exploration is increasingly flocking to other regions, particularly Latin America, where energy reforms have attracted billions of dollars in investment from companies historically known as Gulf heavyweights. A January auction by Mexico brought in more than four times the bids as the U.S. sale.Of the 105 new U.S. leases in water depths of more than 656 feet (200 meters), 85 were immediately contiguous with existing leased acreage or production platforms, and another 17 were within about two miles of existing leases or infrastructure, according to the Reuters analysis.Among the areas where companies submitted bids were Mississippi Canyon and Green Canyon, two of the most densely leased plays in the Gulf, about 100 miles (160 km) off the Louisiana coast. Royal Dutch Shell Plc was the high bidder on two Mississippi Canyon blocks.Overall, Shell picked up 16 Gulf blocks including 6 adjacent to its deepwater developments known as Kakias and Stones, and 10 clustered around other actively leased areas. It told Reuters that it wanted to "acquire blocks that could potentially support future development using our existing hubs."BP Plc\'s most notable bids were 19 blocks in DeSoto Canyon, contiguous to a known gas field, about 100 miles from the Louisiana coast. "BP is strategic with its bids, and we use the opportunity to expand and strengthen our plays," a company spokesman told Reuters.Only three blocks leased were more than a few miles from existing acreage. Those blocks were snapped up by Chevron, which declined comment.Bidding on parcels close to known assets increases the likelihood of finds that can be produced affordably, cutting infrastructure and supply costs."There\'s still interest, but it is in areas where there was already existing knowledge of the resource base, or existing development activity or existing production," said Michael Cohen, director of commodity research at Barclays."Spending a lot of money to prospect is probably not going to be looked upon with favor by investors," he said.HESITATION AMONG BIG BUYERSMajor oil companies remain lukewarm about pushing the boundaries of available frontiers, desiring longer leases and lower royalty rates.Deepwater offshore blocks currently require an 18.75 percent payment to the U.S. government, compared with 12.5 percent for shallower areas and onshore drilling. An Interior Department panel in February recommended lowering those rates."It is something to look for in the August sale, possibly," said BOEM\'s Filostrat.Companies have also expressed a desire for longer leases to more effectively drill in unexplored areas further from the coasts. Six deepwater regions more than 200 miles off the Louisiana coast received no bids at all. The water here is generally about two miles deep. The locale makes both drilling and transporting oil to shore especially costly.The high cost of building underwater pipelines is another deterrent. Deepwater projects like Chevron\'s Jack and St. Malo fields, more than 200 miles from the coast, required a pipeline connecting them to existing Gulf infrastructure closer to shore, approved in 2010, during a boom when U.S. crude traded at about $90 a barrel.Oil prices have rebounded from 2016\'s lows at less than $30 a barrel, but the industry is still "in a bit of a wait and see mode," said William Turner, a senior research analyst in Houston for Wood Mackenzie.(Reporting By Jessica Resnick-Ault, additional reporting from Ayenat Mersie; editing by David Gregorio)
According to most estimates, there are more than 40,000 Chinese restaurants in the United States, and it seems as if you can find some version of beef and broccoli at almost all of them: velvety wok-fried meat in brown sauce, served in a forest of green. The dish has been part of the Chinese-American restaurant-food canon since at least the 1950s, a few decades after broccoli first rode to popular heights on the backs of the southern Italian immigrants who championed it on our shores. The dish is a standard at high-end restaurants and scruffy takeout shops alike, wherever there is a market for the sweet-salty-crisp flavors that Americans claim as a birthright.But it would be a trial to find such a dish in China. Its diaspora food, said Jonathan Wu, who until it closed recently was the chef at the elegant dim-sum bar Nom Wah Tu on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, a genre unto itself. Wu, an American of Chinese descent, ate the dish a lot when he was growing up outside Hartford, a home-cooked variety in which his mom reversed the proportions to provide a lot more broccoli and rice than beef. The broccoli was his favorite part, he said, lightly tossed in a wok that never got very hot on her electric-coil stove, and mixed with a sauce she never thickened beyond its base of pungent oyster cut through with soy. She kept it simple, he said. Streamlined.That happens to be excellent advice for anyone who believes that home-cooked takeout-style beef and broccoli can trump the white-carton delivery variety. Inspired, I found myself cooking a version of Wus mothers recipe for beef and broccoli not three hours after talking to him. On his advice, I trimmed chuck steak and cut it against the grain into strips, then stirred them into a marinade of rice wine, soy sauce and cornstarch. It clung to the beef, a kind of lustrous cloak. I cut broccoli into florets and planked the stems, just as his mother did, and made a sauce out of three others: Wus oyster and soy, and a little chile-garlic for zip.The result was a heady miracle for a family that somehow always believes that the food coming on the bicycle, being handed through the Plexiglas shield, served from the steam table in the corner of the airport will be excellent, though it never really is. The two little Michelin inspectors who eat my food every night gave it two stars.I thought: Two stars is great. [Pause] I was looking for three.In search of improvement, I considered the lead of the antic, puckish chef Danny Bowien, of Mission Chinese in New York and San Francisco, who put a recipe for beef and broccoli into his 2015 cookbook. He built the dish on a foundation of braised beef cheeks and Chinese broccoli adorned in smoked oyster sauce. But the beef cheeks alone took the better part of a day. The smoked oyster sauce was like building a rocket. I looked at the other end of the spectrum as well, at chain-restaurant copycat recipes, considering the shiny slurries of cornstarch, soy and mirin that are meant to evoke the sugary sauce on the beef and broccolis served at PF Changs and Panda Express. I dont love the food at those restaurants. I hated the slurries.I called Dale Talde, chef at Talde in Brooklyn, where he cooks a kind of Asian-American food that he calls proudly inauthentic. His advice was immediate and emphatic: Put a pat of butter in the sauce right at the end of the cooking. No ones going to notice, but itll tone down the sodium and give you a gloss thats there, but not there like that weird gloss you get with cornstarch. I responded, Butter in your Chinese food? Talde said, Im telling you.He was right. And now beef and broccoli, with a pat of butter added at the end for plush and shine, is part of our family-dinner rotation, home-cooked in 45 minutes to serve with rice, as classic in its way as anything else on our family-dinner roster of meals: Grandma pizza, roasted chicken thighs, spaghetti and meatballs, steak tacos, lamb curry  a weekly menu, a global larder.Beef and broccoli could have happened to anyone, the restaurateur and television personality Eddie Huang told me. We were talking about the dishs place in the history of Chinese-American food, of Chinese food, of American food. The Greeks could have done it in diners with lamb and a dash of lemon, he said, or Romans with broccoli rabe and a bit more garlic, over checkered tablecloths. They didnt, though. No, Huang said. The opportunity to serve velvetized beef and conventional broccoli in Styrofoam containers adjacent to the lowest-income housing fell at the feet of the Chinese. He was only partly joking. On the subject of beef and broccoli, Huang is reflective. What makes it definitively Chinese-American, he said, is that its comforting to the young country that consumes it and humbling to the 5,000-year-old culture that created it.Recipe: Beef and Broccoli
NEW YORK   The Trump administration heralded the government\'s sale last month of U.S. drilling leases in the Gulf of Mexico as a bellwether.If that is the case, a Reuters analysis of the sale\'s results shows reason to worry about demand in future offshore auctions.The sale brought in $124.8 million (88.6 million), as just 1 percent of the 77 million acres (31.2 million hectares) offered found bidders. Reuters examined the acreage offered and leased, and nearly all the purchases show big drillers stuck closest to existing infrastructure, shunning the most far-flung areas.While U.S. crude oil production reached a record last year at more than 10 million barrels a day, most new development is in onshore shale regions. The U.S. Interior Department has said it wants to open all U.S. coasts for drilling, including the Atlantic and Pacific. But the Gulf result indicates limited interest even in already-developed areas, never mind unexplored coasts.The March auction included 9,088 deepwater blocks, each comprising roughly nine square miles. Only 105 of these blocks received bids and all but three of these were close to existing infrastructure and leases."It kind of looks like they\'re just shoring up their existing prospects right now," said John Filostrat, a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the division of Interior that manages the auctions. Filostrat said the administration is still optimistic about future auctions and believes more auctions are needed to show the current trends.However, money for exploration is increasingly flocking to other regions, particularly Latin America, where energy reforms have attracted billions of dollars in investment from companies historically known as Gulf heavyweights. A January auction by Mexico brought in more than four times the bids as the U.S. sale.Of the 105 new U.S. leases in water depths of more than 656 feet (200 meters), 85 were immediately contiguous with existing leased acreage or production platforms, and another 17 were within about two miles of existing leases or infrastructure, according to the Reuters analysis.Among the areas where companies submitted bids were Mississippi Canyon and Green Canyon, two of the most densely leased plays in the Gulf, about 100 miles (160 km) off the Louisiana coast. Royal Dutch Shell Plc was the high bidder on two Mississippi Canyon blocks. Overall, Shell picked up 16 Gulf blocks including 6 adjacent to its deepwater developments known as Kakias and Stones, and 10 clustered around other actively leased areas. It told Reuters that it wanted to "acquire blocks that could potentially support future development using our existing hubs."BP Plc\'s most notable bids were 19 blocks in DeSoto Canyon, contiguous to a known gas field, about 100 miles from the Louisiana coast. "BP is strategic with its bids, and we use the opportunity to expand and strengthen our plays," a company spokesman told Reuters.Only three blocks leased were more than a few miles from existing acreage. Those blocks were snapped up by Chevron, which declined comment.Bidding on parcels close to known assets increases the likelihood of finds that can be produced affordably, cutting infrastructure and supply costs."There\'s still interest, but it is in areas where there was already existing knowledge of the resource base, or existing development activity or existing production," said Michael Cohen, director of commodity research at Barclays."Spending a lot of money to prospect is probably not going to be looked upon with favour by investors," he said.GRAPHIC: Big Oil strengthens existing positions in Gulf auction - https://tmsnrt.rs/2pSsfU6HESITATION AMONG BIG BUYERSMajor oil companies remain lukewarm about pushing the boundaries of available frontiers, desiring longer leases and lower royalty rates.Deepwater offshore blocks currently require an 18.75 percent payment to the U.S. government, compared with 12.5 percent for shallower areas and onshore drilling. An Interior Department panel in February recommended lowering those rates."It is something to look for in the August sale, possibly," said BOEM\'s Filostrat.Companies have also expressed a desire for longer leases to more effectively drill in unexplored areas further from the coasts. Six deepwater regions more than 200 miles off the Louisiana coast received no bids at all. The water here is generally about two miles deep. The locale makes both drilling and transporting oil to shore especially costly.The high cost of building underwater pipelines is another deterrent. Deepwater projects like Chevron\'s Jack and St. Malo fields, more than 200 miles from the coast, required a pipeline connecting them to existing Gulf infrastructure closer to shore, approved in 2010, during a boom when U.S. crude traded at about $90 a barrel.Oil prices have rebounded from 2016\'s lows at less than $30 a barrel, but the industry is still "in a bit of a wait and see mode," said William Turner, a senior research analyst in Houston for Wood Mackenzie.(Reporting By Jessica Resnick-Ault, additional reporting from Ayenat Mersie; editing by David Gregorio)

CINCINNATI   A federal judge Wednesday gave preliminary approval to a $3.5 million settlement of a lawsuit against the IRS over alleged targeting of tea party groups and other conservative organizations.U.S. District Judge Michael Barrett set a July 10 hearing in Cincinnati on making the settlement final, and scheduled deadlines for claims and objections.The Justice Department had announced last year that the case had been settled, pending approval of terms.The lead plaintiff was the California-based Norcal Tea Party Patriots. The case swelled into a class-action suit by hundreds of groups. The court will decide how much each gets after legal costs.The 2013 lawsuit during the Barack Obama administration was over treatment of conservative groups who said they were singled out for extra IRS scrutiny on tax-exempt status applications."These are groups of law-abiding citizens who should have never had their First Amendment rights infringed upon by the IRS," Jenny Beth Martin, president of the Tea Party Patriots umbrella group, said Wednesday. "These are groups that want the government to be accountable."The Justice Department declined comment.Republican President Donald Trump\'s Justice Department also settled a second lawsuit with an apology from the IRS for the intensive scrutiny of the groups, which argued their constitutional rights were violated when they were singled out based on their political views.The case hounded Obama\'s Democratic administration, with some Republicans disappointed there wasn\'t stronger action taken in the scandal.The anti-establishment tea party movement preceded Trump\'s populist, America-first presidential campaign.Republicans were outraged in 2013 when the IRS admitted the targeting, in part by zeroing in on groups with words such as "tea party" or "patriot" in their names. Many had their applications delayed for months and years. Some were asked improper questions about their donors and even their religious practices, an inspector general\'s report found.The Obama Justice Department announced in 2015 that no one at the IRS would be prosecuted. It said investigators found mismanagement, but no evidence that the tax agency had targeted a political group based on its viewpoints or had obstructed justice.Some Republicans were disappointed when Trump\'s Justice Department wouldn\'t reopen the case against Lois Lerner, who had led the IRS office that processes applications for tax-exempt status.She and much of the agency\'s leadership resigned or retired over the scandal. The IRS has said it made changes to how tax-exempt status applications are handled.___
HONG KONG   Global shares fell sharply Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, in an escalation of trade tensions between the world\'s two biggest economies.KEEPING SCORE: After a flat open, European markets fell sharply once the China tariffs were announced. Germany\'s DAX fell 1.1 percent to 11,867 while France\'s CAC 40 was down 0.7 percent at 5,114. The FTSE 100 index of leading British shares was 0.4 percent lower at 7,003. Wall Street was poised for big losses at the open with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures 1.4 percent lower. The anticipated retreat at the open is set to wipe out Tuesday\'s gains.TARIFF TENSIONS: Beijing and Washington detailed plans to hike tariffs on a broad swath of imported goods from each other, in a series of rapid fire announcements over less than 24 hours. China issued a $50 billion list of more than 100 U.S. goods including soybeans and aircraft targeted for a possible 25 percent tariff hike. Beijing was responding to an announcement hours earlier by President Donald Trump\'s administration outlining proposed tariffs on 1,300 imported Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecoms gear, to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of U.S. technology. China\'s envoy to the WTO said Beijing would challenge the U.S. moves. The Chinese Commerce Ministry said the date the tariff hikes take effect depends on whether the U.S. actually moves to raise its duties.ANALYST TAKE: "The losses more than wipe out Tuesday\'s rebound and set us on course for another worrying session driven by fears that a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies is heating up with neither side showing any sign of backing down," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.ASIAN SCORECARD: Most Asian indexes had closed when China announced its response to the U.S. tariff plans. Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 crept 0.1 percent higher to end at 21,319.55 but South Korea\'s Kospi slid 1.4 percent to 2,408.06 as the won weakened from the 3  year high it touched against the dollar earlier this week. The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.2 percent to 3,131.11 while Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng slumped 2.2 percent to 29,518.69 with the decline accelerating in the final minutes of trading after Beijing announced specifics of its tariff hikes.CURRENCIES: The euro was flat at $1.2273 while the dollar fell 0.4 percent to 106.23 yen.ENERGY: Oil\'s rally fizzled. A barrel of U.S. crude fell 92 cents to $62.59 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 82 cents to $67.30 a barrel in London.
WASHINGTON   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm\'s misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday.    Zuckerberg will appear before a joint hearing of the U.S. Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees on April 10 and the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11, the panels said on Wednesday."This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online," the House panel\'s Republican chairman, Greg Walden, and top Democrat, Frank Pallone, said in a statement.Facebook has come under fire in recent weeks after it was disclosed that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump\'s presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of 50 million Facebook users.Facebook said in March it had suspended the accounts of Cambridge Analytica and its parent company and hired forensic auditors to probe whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data.The technology company also said at the time it would investigate all applications that had gotten access to large amounts of data before the firm changed its platform in 2014, would further restrict developers\' data access and roll out a tool to let users more easily revoke access by applications to their data.Zuckerberg said in March he would testify before Congress, but turned down an invitation by British lawmakers to explain to a parliamentary committee what had happened.The company has faced pressure to do more, both in terms of protecting user privacy and stopping "information warfare" on its platform.In February, 13 Russian nationals were indicted for using Facebook and other social media sites to interfere in the U.S. presidential election.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had removed hundreds of accounts and pages associated with the Russia-based Internet Research Agency that included fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.American spy agencies have warned that Russia would try to interfere in the 2018 congressional elections by using social media to spread propaganda.Shares in Facebook closed down 0.6 percent on Wednesday to $155.10. They have tumbled more than 16 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Peter Cooney)
BEIJING   The troubled Chinese insurer that owns New York City\'s Waldorf Hotel said Wednesday it is receiving a $9.6 billion bailout from a government-run fund.Regulators seized control of Anbang Insurance Group in February after a global asset-buying spree raised questions about its stability. Its founder, Wu Xiaohui, went on trial last week on charges he defrauded investors and misused company money.The case added to a string of scandals in China\'s insurance industry. The industry\'s former top regulator was charged in September with taking bribes and other insurers have been accused of reckless speculation in stocks and real estate.The injection of money from the China Insurance Security Fund will help Anbang "maintain stable operations," the privately owned insurer said on its website.The injection of 60.8 billion yuan ($9.6 billion) will increase Anbang\'s registered capital to 61.9 billion yuan ($9.8 billion), the company said. That would mean the government fund owns 98 percent of the company, wiping out most of the equity stake of Wu and other shareholders.Anbang said it would look for strategic investors. That suggested they might be expected to buy out the government\'s funds ownership.The Communist Party has made reducing financial risk a priority this year after a surge in debt prompted rating agencies last year to cut Beijing\'s credit rating for government borrowing.Anbang is being run by a committee of officials from China\'s insurance regulator, central bank and other agencies. They have said its obligations to policyholders and creditors are unaffected.Wu founded Anbang in 2004 and, while rarely appearing in public, gained a reputation for aggressive expansion in a stodgy industry dominated by state-owned insurers.The company grew to more than 30,000 employees with 35 million clients. It diversified into life insurance, banking, asset management, leasing and brokerage services.Wu is accused of fraudulently raising 65 billion yuan ($10 billion) from investors and abusing his post to benefit himself. State television showed him confessing in a Shanghai court last week but no verdict has been announced.Anbang discussed possibly investing in a Manhattan skyscraper owned by the family of U.S. President Donald Trump\'s son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner. Those talks ended last year with no deal.The negotiations with Kushner Cos. about 666 Fifth Ave. prompted members of the U.S. Congress to raise ethics concerns.
NEW YORK   China hit back quickly on Wednesday against the Trump administration\'s plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals.COMMENTS:JOHN STOLTZFUS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, OPPENHEIMER ASSET MANAGEMENT, NEW YORKAt this point, when you look at the broad nature of the decline, it shows elements of a tariff tantrum happening in the market. Theres not a trade war going on at this point. Both sides are firing shots across the bow. Theyre responding to each other with heavy-handed tactics. Its not so deep as to cause the reaction the market is taking right now. Its overreacting, we would think. For volatility players, its just what they loveFor intermediate and long-term investors, its a greater opportunity to build a shopping list for stocks to pick up that are cheaper now.We recently reduced materials to market perform. We reduced health care from overweight to market weight. We increased our weighting in financials exposed to the domestic economy. Aside from that, were emphasizing emerging over developed international markets. Weve overweight U.S. equities over international (equities). Were moderately exposed to fixed income. And weve raised cash at this time, to 5 percent from 2, 2-1/2 percent. We didnt just do that because of this. Weve already seen the market soften some. (Today) should not be taken separately from the downside of the market weve seen since March.BRAD MCMILLAN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL NETWORK, WALTHAM, MASSACHUSETTSI dont think the market has factored in the ultimate prospect of (a further escalation) happening. Right now, its showing a rational response, but if theres a trade war, the damage could be significantly worse. The chances of that happening are still not high. There are a lot of moving parts from a macro perspective. Valuations still have a lot of confidences built in. If you subtract the confidence in increasing growth and economic prospects, valuations will contract. Another 10 percent decline is not out of the question. It might even get worse.Were paying attention to the moving average. Weve seen it break below that, and weve seen it recover. Right now, (Chinas proposed tariffs) are more about negotiation and posturing than any policy actions that have been taken. Right now, were still in a wait-and-see mode. That said, the chances of a bad outcome are materially higher today than, say, yesterday.Over the past couple of years, youve seen growth outperform value. In difficult times, value is the place you move to, and were starting to see signs of thatIn international markets, the danger is widespread, but international stocks are less expensive than U.S. stocks, so international exposure is an area to look at. More defensive sectors  utilities, real estate investment trusts  are typical flight-to-safety areas.The question is, Why isnt the market falling further? It wouldnt be unreasonable to see worse than what were seeing. It shows that theres still some potential for this situation to be resolved, and then well see the market resume an upward trend. Economic growth is solid, corporate earnings are solid. Yes, weve seen the market take a real hit. Yes, it could get worse. But were not ready to panic just yet.China very explicitly made the proposed tariff response a political spear aimed at Trumps heartland. To the extent that it does get worse, it would disproportionately affect the red states. It could have a material impact (on the midterm elections).STEVEN ENGLANDER, HEARD OF RESEARCH AND STRATEGY, RAFIKI CAPITAL, NEW YORK:"If you look at equities right now, the market is seeing  very few scenarios where they go up as a consequence of these trade actions. That seems obvious. However, if you look at the FX market, the tariffs doesn\'t mean the U.S. wins or loses or if there is a right or a wrong."The market doesn\'t see many plausible stories in which equity markets go up because of this, but you can tell plausible stories for dollar moving up or down."I think the market sees that the shift in probabilities as being overwhelmingly skewed to the downside for stocks, but for FX you don\'t know. You cannot say for sure of dollar positive or negative."Now, is the equity market over-reacting? The S&P market cap is about $23 trillion. So 1.3 percent drop is about $300 billion, give or take. You put a tariff on 20 percent on $60 billion of goods, that amounts to about $12 billion."The market has discounted 25 years of tariffs. You can ask the question of whether the market has exaggerated the trade? But keep in mind the nature of the outcome of tariffs is rarely lasting that long or extending that far."There is a scenario that is dollar positive in that maybe the current account deficit is reduced or the Fed raises rates. Normally that would be seen as dollar positive. But there is a dollar negative aspect in that perhaps the tariffs apply to some necessary components of the U.S. economy, and slow it down. You can tell stories, but the stories that you can tell make a lot more sense about being worried about equities but less so as a basis for coming down solid on how the dollar behaves."JASON WARE, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, ALBION FINANCIAL GROUP, SALT LAKE CITY:"What drives the tape over the short run? It\'s sentiment. If trade tensions ease, one could argue that a bounce is in order. The 200 day moving average is a technical level that so many people watch, that it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you slice through it, you get more sell orders and the algorithms and machine trading kicks in."BRUCE MCCAIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT KEY PRIVATE BANK IN CLEVELAND, OHIOThe problem with this is its coming at a time when we are trying to put an end to a fairly normal correction (in stocks). So I think there is the potential that this drives it a little bit deeper as we do that, but our philosophy has been as long as there is not major economic deterioration, whatever you see in terms of a short-term emotional reaction in a market correction will tend to play itself out and then ultimately the longer-term trend will reassert itself...The market hasnt wanted to finish the correction. It has avoided sell-offs except on some really bad news. If anything this may give it a push over the edge so we can get the corrective forces to play out and then stabilize things and be prepared to really assess what the longer-term prospects look like."(The midterms are) clearly an overhang that we are going to have to face, but I think most investors assume there is going to be some loss for the Republicans as we go through the midterms and then we will see what ultimately happens.Going into this, Trump had a number of things that he wanted to achieve as part of his agenda, and one of them was trade issues. The interesting thing is virtually everybody agrees there are some things China has been doing that they shouldnt be doing. Whether or not he is taking the right approach to it or not we will see in the coming months, but if he actually can come out of this with some major concessions from China that deal with some of the intellectual property rights and some of the other things that have been problematic, it will ultimately I would think leave him in better shape for the midterms then it would be if he doesnt go through it now.JIM VOGEL, INTEREST RATE STRATEGIST, FTN FINANCIAL, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEEFixed income has been ahead of equities on this story since it broke in March and equities did their best to ignore it. People arent used to even asking the questions much less putting pencil to paper to try to develop even a preliminary answer. Were trading some of this stuff in four to eight hour increments and changing our minds collectively as to what it really is going to mean. In theory trade breakdowns dont impact the economy quickly, instead they are a damper on forward activity, but the stock markets acting like things are going to come to a screeching halt.Because tariffs are an underlying part of the new tension, the market will eventually shift far more attention to the potential for a floor under inflation even if the economy sputters because we are hurting certain select industries.MARC CHANDLER, CHIEF GLOBAL CURRENCY STRATEGIST, BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO, NEW YORKAll that has happened in the past 24 hours is that the details of sanctions - which goods - have been announced. The real escalation is if the U.S. retaliates again.The selloff in the U.S. stock market that began in late January into early February began before the trade war talk started. Some investors might want to come get back involved  the S&P 500 is below the 200-day moving average  but I think these trade issues keep them off-balance."I dont think were in a trade war. I think of a trade war as an escalation ladder, and these moves are still low rungs on the ladder. Rungs we have already explored with other countries including allies like Canada. Theres almost always constant tension  over lumber, dairy, pipelines, autos  and we take each other to the WTO. And there are tariffs. And no one thinks the U.S. and Canada are in a trade war.  The militaristic concepts were invoking  currency war, trade war, a new Cold War  are jumping rungs on the ladder.JACK ABLIN, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER AT CRESSET WEALTH IN CHICAGONow they are coming back targeting our largest exports. Futures seem to be eroding. Tariffs by themselves and an escalating trade war would certainly have deleterious effects on just about everything. Stripping it away, at least we are not in a frothy market situation, something where there is some vulnerability there. There are going to be a lot of companies not affected by tariffs, probably, and those earnings are going to be pretty good."One of the things is that analysts are actually raising their revenue and profit forecasts going into the (earnings) season, which is really kind of a reversal of what we have seen for years. If you take those numbers and project out for four quarters, I argue the market is about 7.5 percent undervalued relative to the next four quarter earnings if you just look at the cumulative growth."Obviously we need kind of a quiet period on these headlines and we need to focus on what is ultimately important and that is earnings. So I am hopeful over the next couple of weeks that earnings will be that shiny object that everyone can focus on.ADAM SARHAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF 50 PARK INVESTMENTS IN NEW YORK"The market is erring on the side of caution. The level of uncertainty has definitely surged. When you see China retaliate stronger than the U.S. that\'s a very strong signal that they mean business.""Everybody knew they were going to retaliate. The question was how strong of a retaliation. Today\'s move clearly shows that they mean business.""Today we\'re close to testing important levels of support. If the market takes out February\'s low, if all three indexes break below and close below that low that\'s going to significantly change the landscape. It\'ll show the intermediate term trend will have shifted to a bearish trend from a sideways trend.""Right now we\'re clearly in correction territory. For the correction to end we have to get some certainty on this trade situation. If it escalates we\'re going into a bear market. If it de-escalated the market\'s moving higher. The only thing that matters now is certainty.""You don\'t have to be fully invested. If this gets ugly and we get another 2008 style bear market everything goes down. If that happens, the safest place to be would be to be out of the market.""The market is very news dependent and a positive headline or a positive tweet could significantly change the dynamic. The market right now is desperate for clarity. Until we get that clarity we\'ll have sideways to down action."If the U.S. responds to China or if more countries are dragged in he said: "This could very quickly get out of hand and cause a global recession. For now a defensive stance is warranted."RICHARD BENSON, CO-HEAD OF PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS, MILLENNIUM GLOBAL INVESTMENT, LONDON:"The impact on (the) financial market has not been that significant. So this has not really affected our portfolio allocation. We\'ve done bits and pieces but there has been no massive shift. The net effect on U.S. GDP is just 0.3 percent of GDP, which is minimal. It could worsen, sure. If that materializes, then we could see a more pronounced sell-off in stocks. So we\'re waiting for the next moves from both the U.S. and China."MARKET REACTION:STOCKS: Stocks were sharply lower, with the S&P opening down 1.3 percent.   BONDS:  Benchmark 10-year note prices gained 5/32 in price to yield 2.726 percent, down from 2.783 percent on Tuesday.FOREX:  The dollar nudged lower, down 0.2 percent.(Americas Economics and Markets Desk; +1-646 223-6300)
SAO PAULO   China\'s move to slap tariffs on U.S. farm products sent Brazil soy premiums surging to historic highs on expectations of higher export demand on Wednesday, but traders and analysts warned that Latin America could not entirely replace U.S. production.China responded to U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plans to impose $50 billion in tariffs on its goods by announcing tariffs of equal value on U.S. imports, including a wide range of agricultural products.Goods produced in South America made the list, including soy, beef, tobacco, cotton and frozen orange juice.That raised the prospect that China would seek to shift large parts of its agricultural sourcing from the United States to the region. Alternate global suppliers of goods ranging from televisions to vaccines could be unexpected beneficiaries of Trump\'s policies.Already record high premiums for Brazilian soy over Chicago prices were driven up 37 percent in response, the biggest one-day increase since January 2017."I have never seen a premium this high in history, this in a way will more than compensate for the bloodbath in Chicago," said Aedson Pereira, an analyst at IEG-FNP, a subsidiary of Informa Economics.Chicago soybeans futures contracts for May delivery fell 2 percent, closing at around $10.15 per bushel, retracing some losses after a 5 percent plunge.But Latin America does not produce enough to compensate fully for U.S. output - and that may help push China and the United States to settle the dispute, according to Pereira and other analysts.Brazil already sells roughly 75 percent of its soybean exports to China and with increasing domestic demand is unlikely to be able to free up much more for export."Even if Brazil sells its entire export volume to China, the Asian country would be short of 30 million tonnes," said one Brazil-based analyst, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to speak to the media.South America\'s other top producer Argentina already sent almost 90 percent of its 7.3 million soybeans to China last year, while smaller Paraguay does not have diplomatic relations with China.The outlook for soybean prices was already robust after Argentina supplies took a hit from drought, while China\'s demand has continued to rise.Rodrigo Oliveira, chief strategist of Agro Financeira, a small trading and hedging firm based in the state of Tocantins, said his firm was looking to take advantage, buying up more Brazilian soybeans compared to last year."When China is going to buy from Brazilian trading (firms), they will have to pay us the Brazilian premium," said Oliveira. "This is going to be huge for Brazilian soybean prices."(Reporting by Ana Mano and Roberto Samora; Additional reporting  by Maximilian Heath and Nicolas Misculin in BUENOS AIRES, Daniela Desantis in ASUNCION, Karl Plume in CHICAGO and Jose Roberto Gomes in SAO PAULO; Writing by Jake Spring, Editing by Rosalba O\'Brien)
A group that is suing Harvard University is demanding that it publicly release admissions data on hundreds of thousands of applicants, saying the records show a pattern of discrimination against Asian-Americans going back decades.The group was able to view the documents through its lawsuit, which was filed in 2014 and challenges Harvards admissions policies. The plaintiffs said in a letter to the court last week that the documents were so compelling that there was no need for a trial, and that they would ask the judge to rule summarily in their favor based on the documents alone.The plaintiffs also say that the public  which provides more than half a billion dollars a year in federal funding to Harvard  has a right to see the evidence that the judge will consider in her decision.Harvard counters that the documents are tantamount to trade secrets, and that even in the unlikely event that the judge agrees to decide the case without a trial, she is likely to use only a fraction of the evidence in her decision. Only that portion, the university says, should be released.This is an important and closely watched civil rights case, William S. Consovoy, the lawyer for the group, Students for Fair Admissions, said in his letter to the court. The public has a right to know exactly what is going on at Harvard. Even if this were a commercial issue  as Harvard would like to portray it  the public would have a right to know if the product is defective or if a fraud is being perpetrated.At stake in the dispute is the secrecy of the university admissions process, especially at elite institutions like Harvard that are competing for a small pool of highly qualified students, and whether and how race and ethnicity play a role.Students for Fair Admissions includes more than a dozen Asian-American students who applied to Harvard and were rejected. They contend in their lawsuit that Harvard systematically and unconstitutionally discriminates against Asian-American applicants by penalizing their high achievement as a group, while giving preferences to other racial and ethnic minorities. They say that Harvards admission process amounts to an illegal quota system.A spokeswoman for Harvard, Rachael Dane, while declining to comment on the specifics of the litigation, said: Harvard College does not discriminate against applicants from any group in its admissions processes. We will continue to vigorously defend the right of Harvard, and other universities, to seek the educational benefits that come from a class that is diverse on multiple dimensions.Harvard gave the court the documents in question, which include six years of admissions data on hundreds of thousands of high school students, as part of the pretrial discovery process. About 40,000 students apply to Harvard each year.The judge in the case, Allison D. Burroughs of the Federal District Court in Boston, has scheduled a hearing on April 10 for both sides to present oral arguments on whether the documents should be made public.The two sides provided lengthy letters to Judge Burroughs, giving a preview of their arguments. The judge has set a trial date for next January, though Harvard in its letter said it was prepared to go to trial as soon as October.The contents of the documents have been only roughly sketched out in court papers. But Harvard said in its letter that the parties have exchanged more than 90,000 pages, including deeply personal and highly sensitive information about applicants to and students at Harvard and the inner workings of Harvards admissions process.Harvard understands that there is a public interest in this case and that the public has certain  though not unfettered  interests in access to judicial materials, the university said. Those interests, however, must be balanced against the need to protect individual privacy and confidential and proprietary information about the admissions process.The leader of Students for Fair Admissions and the architect of the case against Harvard is Edward Blum, a longtime crusader against affirmative action who has recruited plaintiffs, hired sympathetic lawyers and raised millions of dollars from conservative groups to challenge voting rights laws and affirmative action policies, often successfully.One of Mr. Blums landmark cases was a lawsuit by Abigail Fisher, a white applicant who said she was denied admission to the University of Texas at Austin because of her race. The United States Supreme Court ruled 4-3 in favor of the university in 2016, saying that it is constitutional to use race as one of many factors in admissions decisions.Critics have seen the lawsuit against Harvard, which seems intended to go to the Supreme Court, as an attempt to reignite that battle.The Trump administration has taken an interest in the issue, opening a parallel investigation based on a separate 2015 complaint to the Justice Department by a coalition of Asian-American organizations.In its letter to the judge, Harvard said that it had an obligation to protect the identities of applicants, who take it on faith that their applications will remain private. While names and other information that could directly identify applicants have been redacted from the documents, the university said that hometowns, awards and other elements could reveal applicants identities through simple internet searches.The documents also include deposition testimony concerning the procedures Harvard used to evaluate applications; internal correspondence among admissions officers about applicants qualities; and statements by admissions officers about why they liked some applicants better than others.That information is highly proprietary to Harvard and of great interest to college admissions consultants and others who seek any advantage they can muster in the highly competitive admissions process, Harvard said in its letter. Releasing it would put Harvard at a severe competitive disadvantage, the university said, and would prompt applicants to try to game the system.Students for Fair Admissions scoffed at the notion that the admissions procedure was akin to a trade secret. This case does not involve anything like national security, the formula for Coca-Cola or embarrassing details of private life,  the group said, citing case law.The group noted that Harvard officials have repeatedly said that there is no formula for being admitted, and that books and articles have been written about how the Harvard admissions process works.The plaintiffs cited a landmark affirmative action case, Gratz v. Bollinger, in which the Supreme Court ruled in 2003 that the University of Michigan was using an unconstitutional scoring system for undergraduate admissions. The system automatically awarded 20 out of 150 points toward admission to members of underrepresented minorities.There is no way the public could have understood the dispute, the group said, if the facts had been hidden.
The gender pay gaps detailed by British companies in recent months surprised almost no one  men are paid more than women, often by a wide margin, at the vast majority of businesses.But by making companies publicly air their salary information, Britain intends to force a reckoning. Officials in London hope the embarrassing revelations in the reports, which had to be submitted by Wednesday, will shame companies into doing more to close the divide.The push is one of a growing number of efforts among countries to promote the principle of equal pay. Australia recently mandated gender pay gap reporting for most companies. In Germany, a new law will require businesses with more than 500 employees to reveal their pay gaps. Nordic countries like Iceland have been even more aggressive, by making companies prove they are paying male and female staff equally.Proponents of the British effort argue that the increased transparency will lead to smaller gaps. Research by the accounting firm PwC predicts that if nothing is done, it could take nearly a century for the divide to close entirely across the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of rich countries that includes Britain.This is a game-changer, said Andrew Bazeley, a policy manager at the Fawcett Society, a British organization that campaigns for womens rights and equality. It will force businesses to think about the gender pay gap in ways they might not have before.Under the new reporting requirements, companies with 250 or more employees must publish salary differences between men and women every year. They are also required to provide details on gaps in average bonuses paid, and the proportion of men and women who received those bonuses.The submissions have made for uncomfortable reading for company executives. At Goldman Sachss sprawling moneymaking machine in Britain, women are paid an average of 56 percent less than men. Men outearn women by around 52 percent at easyJet, the countrys busiest discount airline. And at WPP, the British advertising giant, women take home, on average, around one-quarter less than their male counterparts.Still, at least in some cases, the requirement to publish the data has made an impact as big companies have scrambled to counter the fallout from embarrassing reports. EasyJet has said its male chief executive would take a 4.6 percent pay cut to match the salary of his female predecessor, and pledged to more than triple the proportion of its female pilots.In other cases, a change in the pay culture has been pushed from the outside. At Mills & Reeve, a British law firm whose audit determined it was paying women an average of 32 percent less than men, a major impetus has come from big clients that have started to request more female representation among the firms attorneys.Its increasingly something were asked for as part of tenders and pitches, to give details of our diversity, said Claire Clarke, a managing partner.Some efforts predate the new rules, but have come into focus because of the requirements. The British bank Barclays, for example, has sought to hire, and retain, more senior female executives by offering a new 12-week internship targeted at experienced women who are coming off a career break and introducing greater flexibility in existing jobs.Supporters of the British regulations acknowledge that transparency alone wont solve the problem. But without it, companies and regulators in countries seeking to enforce equal pay laws would have scant evidence that a gap existed  and face less pressure to address it. Jake Rosenfeld and Patrick Denice, sociologists at Washington University, found in a study that salary transparency raised wages, in part because even being cognizant of gender pay disparity helped change norms.Such is the case in Iceland. The country has gone further than any other, becoming the first to require employers to submit to external audits to prove they are paying women on a par with men. The thinking was that unless equal pay laws were applied more forcefully, the imbalance might never close.Icelands government has vowed to completely close the nations gender pay gap by 2022, after women walked out of their jobs en masse in protest on a chilly afternoon in October 2016.The Icelandic initiative sought to address chronic hurdles that block women around the world from higher-paying positions. No matter the country, men often hold a disproportionately large number of high-level positions, while women  especially mothers  tend to populate lower-paying fields and jobs with more work-time flexibility to take care of families. After Iceland began enforcing pay audits, some employers sought to hire more women for jobs traditionally held by men.The United States, by contrast, has taken a step backward on reporting. Last year, the Trump administration rolled back an Obama-era initiative that sought to create incentives to close pay gaps. The move would have required companies to report how much they paid workers based on gender and race, but the White House now says it would have posed a burden on employers.Britains rules, though tougher than efforts in the United States, fall short of the moves in Iceland.They cover only about a third of all companies. Employers wont face penalties even if they report discrepancies year after year. And businesses are not required to address some of the biggest causes of the pay divide, including the lack of women in high-paid senior roles.The gender pay gap in Britain is just over 18 percent, down from 27.5 percent in 1997, according to official data. But those figures are still likely to underestimate the real gap, critics say. An analysis of 1,000 British companies by DueDil, a company-information platform in London, showed that just 13 percent of women held top directorships, creating a significant gender gap in senior leadership and in average pay.Still, even without stricter enforcement, the government is betting that the mere publication of pay data will shame companies into taking action, and provide employees with ammunition to press for greater pay equality.To coincide with the deadline on Wednesday, British women started a #PayMeToo hashtag campaign on Twitter, encouraging employees to talk to one another about how much they are paid. The nascent effort, pushed by a group of female British lawmakers, seeks to encourage women to talk about their pay at work, and make clear what rights they have.If we are serious about tackling the gender pay gap, then we have to do more than publish data, Stella Creasy, a member of Parliament from the opposition Labour Party, said in an interview with The Guardian. We have to show were watching what happens next.
NEW YORK   Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.Those developments came as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly  but doesn\'t actually change what it collects and shares.In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook\'s responsibility is in the world. He said it isn\'t enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Facebook is facing its worst privacy scandal in years following allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated data mining firm, used ill-gotten data from millions of users through an app to try to influence elections.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed  an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports. Facebook is basing the estimate in part on the number of friends each user might have had. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it had data for only 30 million people.On Monday all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They\'ll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.Zuckerberg said fixing the company\'s problems will take years.Besides the privacy scandal, Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media\'s effect on people\'s mental well-being.These are "big issues" and a big shift for Facebook as it broadens its responsibility, Zuckerberg said. He added that he does think that by the end of this year the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of the issues. Zuckerberg has made fixing the company his personal challenge for 2018.As part of the steps it\'s taking to address scrutiny about outsiders\' access to user data, Facebook outlined several changes to further tighten its policies. For one, it is restricting access that apps can have to data about users\' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way. Facebook says it believes most of its 2.2 billion users had their public profile information scraped by businesses or various malicious actors through this technique at some point. Posts and other content set to be visible only to friends weren\'t collected.This comes on top of changes announced a few weeks ago. For example, Facebook has said it will remove developers\' access to people\'s data if the person has not used the app in three months.Earlier Wednesday, Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that seeks to clarify its data collection and use.Although Facebook says the policy changes aren\'t prompted by recent events or tighter privacy rules coming from the EU, it\'s an opportune time. Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee . The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.As Facebook evolved from a closed, Harvard-only network with no ads to a giant corporation with $40 billion in advertising revenue and huge subsidiaries like Instagram and WhatsApp, its privacy policy has also shifted  over and over.Almost always, critics say, the changes meant a move away from protecting user privacy toward pushing openness and more sharing. On the other hand, regulatory and user pressure has sometimes led Facebook to pull back on its data collection and use and to explain things in plainer language  in contrast to dense legalese from many other internet companies.The policy changes come a week after Facebook gave its privacy settings a makeover. The company tried to make it easier to navigate its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings, though the makeover didn\'t change what Facebook collects and shares either.Facebook\'s new privacy policy has a new section explaining that it collects people\'s contact information if they choose to "upload, sync or import" this to the service. This may include users\' address books on their phones, as well as their call logs and text histories. The new policy says Facebook may use this data to help "you and others find people you may know."Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting information about whom they texted or called and for how long, though not the actual contents of text messages. It seemed to have been done without explicit consent, though Facebook says it collected such data only from Android users who specifically allowed it to do so  for instance, by agreeing to permissions when installing Facebook.On Wednesday, Facebook said will delete all logs after a year and in the future, the only information this tool will collect from now on is the data that it needs to operate and "not broader data such as the time of calls."The new policy also makes it clear that WhatsApp and Instagram are part of Facebook and that the companies share information about users. WhatsApp will still have a separate policy as well, while Facebook and Instagram share one.___This story has been corrected to reflect that WhatsApp has its own privacy policy, while Facebook and Instagram share the same one.
(Reuters) - China on Wednesday hit back at U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports, proposing additional tariffs of 25 percent on 106 categories of U.S. goods, from soybeans to autos, chemicals and some kinds of aircraft.The trade tension brewing between the world\'s two largest economies hit global markets, with shares of industrial companies with exposure to Chinese markets, such as Boeing Co and Deere & Co, among the hardest hit.The following are some of the possible winners and losers among U.S. companies and sectors:AUTO COMPANIES:U.S. automaker General Motors Co urged the two countries to engage in constructive dialogue over trade. The company\'s stock fell as much as 3 percent before reversing course to close nearly 3 percent higher.GM rival Ford Motor Co also lost as much as 3 percent before rebounding to close 1.6 percent higher while electric carmaker Tesla Inc , which depends on China for 17 percent of its revenue, fell as much as 5.8 percent before retracing losses to end up over 7.2 percent. Shares of Fiat Chrysler fell as much as 3.4 percent before recovering to end up nearly 2 percent.Ford said it encouraged both governments to work together to resolve issues.BOEING & INDUSTRIALS:Aircraft maker Boeing Co closed down 1 percent, weighing the most on the Dow Jones Industrial Average as documents from China\'s Ministry of Commerce and the U.S. manufacturer showed the move would affect some older Boeing narrowbody models. It was not immediately clear how much the tariffs would impact its newer aircraft.Boeing said it was assessing the situation while analysts from JP Morgan said the proposals from China looked to have been calibrated carefully to avoid a major impact on the planemaker.Fellow Dow component 3M Co lost as much as 2.4 percent before rebounding to end 0.6 percent higher.Farming equipment maker Deere lost nearly $10 per share at its lowest. The company urged the two countries to work toward a resolution to "limit uncertainty for farmers and avoid meaningful disruptions to agricultural trade." The stock ended 2.9 percent lower at $148.57.TECH MAJORS:The S&P 500 technology sector, which has the biggest revenue exposure to China among the benchmark\'s 11 major sectors, dipped 0.5 percent before rebounding to end 1.3 percent higher.Chip stocks were among the worst-hit in the sector with Intel Corp and Nvidia Corp both falling before retracing losses to end narrowly higher. Broadcom Ltd ended the day nearly flat at $236.99. China\'s position as an assembly hub for electronic devices makes it the biggest consumer of semiconductors.Cisco Systems Inc closed slightly higher at $41.20, but said it was "analyzing the impact of these tariffs on Cisco and reviewing plans to minimize the impact on our business, our customers and our partners," company spokeswoman Robyn Blum told Reuters.WHISKEYBrown-Forman Corp, the maker of Jack Daniel\'s whiskey, slipped about 1 percent before recovering to close up 1.3 percent to $54.71 after whiskey was singled out as the only spirit on which China planned to impose more tariffs.The Distilled Spirits Council, a U.S. industry group, asked the United States and China to reach a resolution without subjecting American whiskey to more tariffs, which it said would harm Chinese consumers, its hospitality sector and U.S. whiskey exporters. The Council also said U.S. whiskey accounted for nearly 70 percent of the total U.S. spirits exported to China, by value, in 2017.COMMODITIES & CHEMICALSDowDuPont Inc said its agriculture unit could be affected by the escalating conflict, warning of price declines for soybeans, and a negative impact on U.S. farmers. Shares closed up about 0.6 percent at $63.69.Grain traders Archer Daniels Midland Co and Bunge Ltd, which trade U.S. soybeans in China, were both off as much as 1.5 percent. Archer Daniels recovered to add 1.8 percent to $43.90, and Bunge gained 2 percent to close at $75.64.The American Chemistry Council (ACC) - which counts Exxon, Chevron, Monsanto and others as its members - urged the United States and China to come to an understanding. "Engaging in a trade war with one of our country\'s most significant trading partners is not the answer," said ACC Chief Executive Officer Cal Dooley.Exxon closed 0.2 percent lower at $74.87, and Monsanto also fell 0.2 percent to $116.75. Chevron dipped 0.3 percent to $114.48.WINNERSU.S. meat processor Tyson Foods Inc, meat exporter Hormel Foods Corp rose on the prospect of a drop in prices of soybean - a key feedstock - following higher Chinese tariffs on U.S. exports. Tyson closed up 2.3 percent at $71.54, and Hormel ended the day at $35.87, a gain of 4.8 percent.(This version of the story deletes first half of Cisco statement from paragraph 13 after company said the outdated portion was provided to Reuters in error)(Reporting by Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr, Shounak Dasgupta and G Crosse)
Two warring factions of Democratic lawmakers have agreed to reunite and end seven years of infighting, a significant political realignment that ends an arrangement that had helped give Republicans a foothold of power in Albany.An alliance in the State Senate between Republicans and a renegade of group of Democrats known as the Independent Democratic Conference was formed during Gov. Andrew M. Cuomos first week in office. It had since amounted to one of the oddest political arrangements in the country  and one that had become increasingly untenable in the current political climate.Impassioned activists have called for Democrats to unite against President Trump and to hold up New York as a bastion of liberalism. They have launched primaries against most of the breakaway Democratic lawmakers. And now Mr. Cuomo himself is facing a primary challenge, from the actress Cynthia Nixon, who has made the bipartisan alliance in Albany a focus of her attacks on governors progressive credentials.The Democratic accord, which would dissolve the I.D.C., left the Republicans with a perilous one-vote majority hinging on one last recalcitrant Democrat. It came together Tuesday over coffee and cookies at a Manhattan steakhouse.For the good of the party, this has to stop, Mr. Cuomo said at the closed-door gathering, according to two people who were in the room.Around the table sat Mr. Cuomo; the leaders of New Yorks most powerful labor unions; Joseph Crowley, the top-ranked New York Democrat in the House of Representatives; and the two rival Democratic leaders of the State Senate  Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who leads the main group of Democrats, and Jeffrey D. Klein, who leads the breakaway group  among others.Mr. Cuomo asked Ms. Stewart-Cousins and Mr. Klein to reunite immediately, a faster timeline than had previously been discussed.Mr. Klein and Ms. Stewart-Cousins shook hands, and the room erupted in applause.Under the terms outlined by Mr. Cuomo, Ms. Stewart-Cousins would become the sole Democratic leader, and Mr. Klein would become her deputy.On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo announced the deal at a Manhattan news conference, flanked by the two longtime rival lawmakers.Today what unites us is more important than what divides us, he declared.Skepticism abounds, and many details, including the division of staffing and budget for a unified conference, remain unresolved. The longtime chief deputy under Ms. Stewart-Cousins, Senator Michael N. Gianaris of Queens, who has clashed with Mr. Klein, is expected to remain in the leadership. In the past, Mr. Klein and Mr. Gianaris have also run rival Democratic political operations.Still, the accord represents a watershed for fractious Democratic politics in the state and a political coup for Mr. Cuomo as he faces his most serious primary challenge. For years, Mr. Cuomo had said it was not in his power to arrange a shotgun marriage between Mr. Klein and Ms. Stewart-Cousins, but as a deal came together the governor was very much in the middle of it.In a brief phone interview, Ms. Nixon said Andrew Cuomo cant have it both ways  claiming he was powerless to corral the I.D.C. for years and then taking credit for it disbanding on Wednesday. She accused Mr. Cuomo of working from the old playbook of centrist politics.He is trying hard to evolve, she said, but I think its a little too late.Ms. Nixon noted the accord came less than a week after lawmakers struck a deal on a $168 billion budget, when the states priorities were set. Ms. Stewart-Cousins had been excluded from those discussions.I would have the leader of the Senate Democrats in the room negotiating, she said.Mr. Cuomos team touts his progressive record, which includes approving a minimum-wage increase, paid family leave and some of the tightest gun-control measures in the nation, despite a Republican State Senate.Mr. Cuomo has burnished those credentials since Ms. Nixon emerged on the scene, and on Wednesday he personally called Bill Lipton, the state director of the liberal Working Families Party, to describe the Senate unity agreement, according to three people familiar with the call.Mr. Cuomo is actively seeking the endorsement of the Working Families Party, which has its own ballot line in New York. He has also been calling other leaders across the state on the phone to sell the unity package as key to helping the Democrats win a Senate majority.Asked about Ms. Nixons role in the unity deal, Mr. Cuomo said, It had nothing to do with it.The Manhattan steakhouse meeting was about more than just the State Senate. Jefrey Pollock, a pollster for Mr. Cuomo, gave a presentation about messaging in upcoming races, and the governor emphasized the need for Democratic allies to work together in 2018.Other meeting attendees included Mr. Cuomos top aide, Melissa DeRosa; his campaign chairman, William J. Mulrow; and Christine Quinn, the vice chairwoman of the New York Democratic Party and the former New York City Council speaker.Mr. Klein did not arrive unprepared. The night before, at an Italian restaurant in New York City, Mr. Klein huddled with the members of the I.D.C. and discussed the possibility of rejoining the conference as deputy leader, according to three people familiar with the situation.And when Mr. Cuomo broached the idea on Tuesday at the steakhouse, Mr. Klein quickly accepted.Ms. Stewart-Cousins, in contrast, said she had to bring the proposal back to her caucus, people familiar with the meeting said. When Ms. Stewart-Cousins first arrived at the steakhouse, she was briefly taken aside by Ms. DeRosa and Alison Hirsh, the political director for Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, for what three people said was her only heads up on what Mr. Cuomo was about to propose.Later on Tuesday evening, at a fund-raiser for a Democratic Senate candidate in an upcoming special election, Mr. Cuomo said that we have achieved political clarity in watching Republican rule from Washington, D.C., for the last year.The clarity is this: Everything we are for, they are against. Its that simple, he said. The Democratic Party and the Republican Party are an antithesis, one of the other.The candidates challenging I.D.C. members in primaries said they would continue on, even if the Democratic Party leadership formally opposed them.Jessica Ramos, who is running against Senator Jose R. Peralta of Queens, said she didnt trust the deal. Not for a second. Weve seen this movie before, Ms. Ramos said.Four years ago, Mr. Kleins group promised to ally with the mainline Democrats but ended up not doing so.One state senator in the mainline Democratic group, who requested anonymity to speak candidly about the fragile agreement, noted that they would proceed cautiously because weve been sabotaged before.Lets accept it  but sleep with one eye open, the senator said.The arrangement with the G.O.P. had resulted in numerous perks for I.D.C. members, including larger staffs and offices, and lucrative committee chairmanships that came with extra cash.But on Wednesday, the New York State Comptrollers office said it would reject thousands of dollars in stipends promised to two I.D.C. members  Diane J. Savino of Staten Island and Mr. Peralta  after it was revealed that they were being paid as Senate committee chairpeople, despite not holding those titles. (Both are vice chairs, an unpaid position.)The rival Democratic factions had agreed last November to reunite this month, following two special elections that would bring the total number of Democrats in the 63-member chamber to 32  the bare minimum for a majority.But one of those senators, Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat, has continued to caucus with Republicans.Without Mr. Felder, who recently held up the state budget for concessions on how yeshivas are overseen by the state, the new Democratic coalition would still be one vote short of a majority. In an interview, Mr. Felder reiterated that he has no loyalty to either party, but rather is looking for the best deal for his district, which includes a large population of Orthodox Jews.I dont feel obligated to remain with the Republicans, or obligated to join the Democrats, he said. Im loyal to God, my wife and my constituents, and New Yorkers.He added that he still planned on caucusing with the G.O.P. and said that he had spoken with the Republican majority leader, John J. Flanagan of Long Island, and other Republicans since news of the reunification broke.Asked if he might join the Democrats after the special elections on April 24, he said he would consider it at any point.But, he said, I think its fair to say that I would have to feel a compelling reason to leave.
SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook Inc said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said in a conference call with reporters that Facebook had not seen "any meaningful impact" on usage or ad sales since the scandal, although he added, "it\'s not good" if people are unhappy with the company.Shares rose more than 3 percent after the bell.Zuckerberg told reporters that he accepted blame for the data leak, which has angered users, advertisers and lawmakers, while also saying he was still the right person to head the company he founded."When you\'re building something like Facebook that is unprecedented in the world, there are going to be things that you mess up," Zuckerberg said, adding that the important thing was to learn from mistakes.He said he was not aware of any discussions on the Facebook board about him stepping down, although directors would face a challenge if they wanted to oust him because Zuckerberg is the controlling shareholder.He said he had not fired anyone over the scandal and did not plan to. "I\'m not looking to throw anyone else under the bus for mistakes that we made here," he said.Facebook first acknowledged last month that personal information about millions of users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg will testify about the matter next Tuesday and Wednesday during two U.S. congressional hearings.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook\'s estimate of affected users. It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Zuckerberg, on the call with reporters, said Facebook should have done more to audit and oversee third-party app developers like the one that Cambridge Analytica hired in 2014."Knowing what I know today, clearly we should have done more," he said.Going forward, he said, Facebook was taking steps to restrict which personal data is available to third-party app developers, and he said it might take two more years to fix Facebook\'s problems. (https://bit.ly/2Ejpktb)"We\'re broadening our view of our responsibility," Zuckerberg said.Most of the up to 87 million people whose data was shared with Cambridge Analytica were in the United States, Facebook Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer wrote in a blog post. (Graphic: https://bit.ly/2q5r5pl)Shares in Facebook closed down 0.6 percent on Wednesday to $155.10. They have tumbled more than 16 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.The previous estimate of more than 50 million Facebook users affected by the data leak came from two newspapers, the New York Times and London\'s Observer, based on their investigations of Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg said Facebook came to the higher estimate by looking at the number of people who had downloaded a personality quiz app created by Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, or about 270,000 people, and then adding in the number of friends they had.Cambridge Analytica has said that it engaged Kogan "in good faith" to collect Facebook data in a manner similar to how other third-party app developers have harvested personal information.The scandal has kicked off investigations by Britain\'s Information Commissioner\'s Office, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and by some 37 U.S. state attorneys general.Nigeria\'s government will investigate allegations of improper involvement by Cambridge Analytica in that country\'s 2007 and 2015 elections, a presidency spokesman said on Monday.(Reporting by David Ingram in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru and Eric Auchard in London; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
WASHINGTON   A Republican congressman from Tennessee may have misspent more than $100,000 from his campaign committee and leadership political action committee on personal expenses over the past decade, according to an independent ethics office that asked the House Ethics Committee to review the matter.The conclusions from the Office of Congressional Ethics on Rep. John Duncan Jr. were released Wednesday by the House Ethics Committee.The office said about one-quarter of the questionable spending came in the form of travel, including a three-night trip to West Virginia\'s Greenbrier resort by Duncan, his family and campaign supporters who were personal friends. The Office of Congressional Ethics found that the 2014 trip, which cost $15,091, was primarily recreational.The office investigates complaints from the public, but only the House Ethics Committee has the power to punish a lawmaker for wrongdoing.Duncan, 70, has already announced that he will not seek re-election. He is in his 16th term representing a Knoxville-based congressional district that is considered a safe Republican seat. Duncan said the initial complaint filed against him was designed to deter him from seeking re-election."This was really all about politics and truthfully not about ethics at all," Duncan said.Lawyers representing Duncan disputed the OCE\'s findings and said the expenses in question were for "bona fide campaign or political purposes." Duncan\'s lawyers called on the Ethics Committee to dismiss the matter."He did not knowingly act in a way that was illegal, inappropriate or questionable in the context of commonly understood ethical behavior," Duncan\'s lawyers told the committee.The House Ethics Committee generally must release the OCE\'s recommendations within 90 days. That deadline was Wednesday, with the committee noting that the release of the OCE\'s report or its own continued review does not itself indicate any violations of House rules or federal law occurred.In addition to citing the Greenbrier trip, the OCE cited private club dues, wedding and baby showers, personal cellphones and family meals as questionable.Using campaign funds for personal expenses is prohibited under federal election law.The report noted that the campaign spent about $6,500 in travel expenses for three of Duncan\'s adult children, another relative and a campaign contributor during President Donald Trump\'s inauguration. Duncan told the OCE that he invited his family members to Washington to help him entertain the constituents he expected to attend.The ethics office concluded there was "substantial reason to believe" Duncan\'s campaign committee and leadership PAC paid expenses "not attributable to bona fide campaign or political purposes."In a statement, Duncan addressed many of the questioned expenses one by one. Regarding the Greenbrier trip, Duncan said he took five couples and some of his family who had done most of the work on his 2014 re-election campaign to the resort."I thought this would be a cheaper and nicer way to say thank you for all that each of them, including my family, had done in the campaign," Duncan said. "I would have been justified in writing each of them a check for several thousand for all they had done, but no law says campaign workers can only be paid in money."Duncan said he is convinced it was perfectly legal and ethical to cover their expense. Even so, he said, "I have reimbursed my campaign for every expense that appeared in the slightest way to be personal."Other expenses cited by the OCE included more than $27,000 for tickets to sporting events and concerts, including season tickets for the Washington Redskins games, and nearly $24,000 on membership dues and private events held at a Knoxville social club called Club LeConte.Duncan said he hosted groups at Club LeConte because he wanted to do something special for them. The groups included students from local schools and their chaperones, as well as local Republican groups. He said receptions hosted by his wife at the club were accurately labeled as showers, but they could have just as accurately been reported as women\'s political receptions.

CHICAGO   China aimed a direct strike at America\'s heartland on Wednesday, moving to slap an aggressive 25 percent retaliatory tariff against U.S. soybeans, farm country\'s most valuable export to China last year, worth $12 billion.Over the past decade, fast-rising demand from China has fueled a sharp rise in production of U.S. soybeans, which are set to overtake corn as the country\'s most widely planted crop for the first time in 35 years. U.S. government data shows China now purchases 62 percent of soy exports.China has also been a major purchaser of sorghum, but an anti-dumping investigation in Beijing has slammed the sorghum trade. China\'s February imports of U.S. sorghum plunged 24 percent from a year earlier, customs figures show.China\'s swift retaliation rattled U.S. farmers, their options shrunk by the wide variety of agriculture products that have been or could be targeted by China. Doug Keesling of Kansas struggled to imagine what crops he might plant instead of soy.Keesling said his most logical next option would typically be sorghum, but not with Chinese tariffs on top of the anti-dumping investigation, which was widely viewed as retaliation for Trumps move to put tariffs on U.S. imports of Chinese solar panels and washing machines."The bigger story for me is not what am I going to plant," he said. "It is how long can I sustain that as a farmer and continuing producing food, not just for China but for the United States."Soybeans were among 106 U.S. products that China said it would hit with 25 percent tariffs, less than 11 hours after U.S. President Donald Trump\'s administration targeted 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products.Soybean futures slid as much as 5 percent on Wednesday in response to China\'s move.This year, Keesling planned to plant soybeans on 15 percent more of his land because demand from China made it more profitable than other crops. Now he does not know what to plant."If they are all on the list," of crops targeted by China, he said. "Then you go into survival mode."Growing trade tensions make the United States "probably the least preferred supplier to China," said Gary Blumenthal, president and chief executive at Washington-based agricultural consulting firm World Perspectives Inc. There is a natural tension between the existing superpower and the rising power."The pivotal question is whether China is as dependent on U.S. soybean supplies as U.S. farmers have become on Chinese buyers. Analysts and executives at feedmakers said China would struggle to replace U.S. soybean supplies, potentially inflicting financial pain on its own companies.There simply arent enough soybeans in the world outside of the U.S. to meet Chinas needs, said Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics. As for reducing dependence on imports, there are a few options, but none is a magic bullet that could hurt U.S. farmers without generating costs at home.China has the world\'s largest livestock sector and is projected to buy 97 million tonnes of soy imports in the 2017/2018 marketing year, nearly two-thirds of the world\'s soybean exports.Chinese buyers are already paying premiums for soybeans from Brazil, which has expanded plantings and export infrastructure and grows a bean prized for high protein content. Brazil supplied half of Chinas imports last year while the United States shipped about a third of the total, or about 33 million tonnes.China typically buys mostly from Brazil through the spring and summer, so the impacts of tariffs or negotiations with Washington over soybeans will less clear until the U.S. soybean harvest comes in the fall. It is already unlikely that many American farmers can alter planting plans, as they have already purchased seeds and started preparing fields.U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue sought to soothe farmers\' fears.I talked to the President as recently as last night, Perdue said during a news conference in Ohio. And he said, \'Sonny, you can assure your farmers out there that we\'re not going to allow them to be the casualties if this trade dispute escalates.\'"The White House did not respond to requests for comment.GROWING DEPENDENCE ON CHINASurging soybean demand from China has transformed U.S. farming. In Kansas, traditionally known for growing hard red winter wheat, soybean acreage is up 28.8 percent from five years ago and 94.3 percent from 10 years ago. The expanding Chinese market has also convinced farmers to plant soybeans in less hospitable areas."In my part of the world, we were not supposed to grow soybeans," said South Dakota farmer Lewis Bainbridge. Then "China entered into the picture."China is also a major importer of U.S. pork, cotton and ethanol and buys smaller amounts of corn and wheat. On Monday, China sought to increase tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, including frozen pork, corn-based ethanol, wine and certain fruits and nuts in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and steel.Illinois soybean farmer Lucas Strom said Chinas tariffs confirmed his worst fears. Late last year, neighbors and friends had reassured him that Trump\'s talk and tweets on trade would not hurt them because he would be loyal to the U.S. farmers who supported his campaign.That sentiment is now changing fast, he said, with farmers talking about "fear" rather than mere "concern.""This is more real," he said. "This is personal, and its not just farmers that this will be affecting. Its agronomists. Its seed sellers. Its grain elevators - its everyone in our world.DAILY UNCERTAINTYSorghum and soy are the two agricultural commodities most dependent on Chinese buyers.Before China announced its anti-dumping probe, U.S. sorghum exports were on track to be the biggest since 2015, led by sales to China, where sorghum is used to feed hogs and make the alcoholic beverage baijiu. Exports to China in 2017 of 4.6 million tonnes, valued at $836 million, accounted for 80 percent of all foreign shipments, according to USDA data.Illinois farmer Eric Rund, who grows soybeans and corn, said he called his representatives in Congress for the first time ever last month as the trade war escalated."This whole thing has left everyone with uncertainty," he said. "You don\'t know what consequences are going to be from one week until the next."GRAPHIC: U.S. and Brazil soybean exports to China - https://tmsnrt.rs/2q1SqrI)(Additional reporting by Tom Polansek and P.J. Huffstutter in Chicago and Hallie Gu, Josephine Mason and Dominique Patton in Beijing; Writing by Brian Thevenot; Editing by David Gregorio)
