The Kremlin’s election meddling was part of an effort to influence and engage a web of Americans, not just one.
The White House said Tuesday night that President Trump plans to deploy the National Guard to confront what it called a growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America.
Most of the 1,200 migrants moving through Mexico toward the United States are from Honduras, a country plagued by violence and recent political turmoil.
President Trump, expressing his disdain for Nafta and Obama-era immigration policies, said he will send the military to guard the United States border with Mexico.
I was a Bush-era political analyst at Sinclair. Its propaganda was bad then, and it’s getting only worse.
The president calls the paper, which is owned by Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, “a lobbyist weapon,” among other things. “There isn’t anybody here who is paid by Amazon,” the editor, Martin Baron, said.
Scapegoats, lies and graft galore. Is this any way to set an example?
A governor’s election in California is a changing of the guard at a moment when the state is involved in a high-stakes battle with President Trump.
The former lawyer, Alex van der Zwaan, had admitted lying to investigators about his communications with a Trump campaign aide and a Ukrainian with ties to Russian intelligence.
Everyone in an area that loses numbers also loses clout and cash — that includes red states like Texas.
Three days of presidential tweets contained many false and misleading accusations. 
The Trump administration released a list of Chinese goods that it will subject to tariffs, including electronics, iron and steel plates, engines and optical scanners.
Companies are united around the idea of addressing China’s unfair trade practices, but details of the president’s plan have set off fierce opposition.
Debating for sport used to be tolerated online — but that was before you could argue with everybody, all the time.
“I mean, he might as well declare it National Bankrupt Casino Awareness Month,” Jimmy Kimmel said.
The remarks by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto ruler of the kingdom, reflect his view of Israel as an economic and strategic partner.
The Office of Management and Budget and the Treasury Department are at odds over the Treasury’s longtime independence in writing tax regulations.
President Trump and a company affiliated with him are seeking to force the pornographic film star into arbitration, rather than a public legal process.
Hillary Clinton’s stunning defeat in 2016 prompted a record number of women to run for office. A new legion of young women running campaigns has followed.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's meetings with the leaders of Baltic states (all times local):
President Donald Trump and leader Raul Castro will attend the Summit of the Americas next week in Peru.
President Donald Trump on Tuesday said the United States is subsidizing Amazon.com Inc and that the online retailer must pay more to ship its products through the nation's postal agency.
President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he planned to use U.S. military forces to protect the nation's southern border with Mexico until there is a border wall and "proper security."
U.S. President Donald Trump discussed the threat posed by Iran with the emir of Qatar on Tuesday and also stressed the importance of resolving the rift among Gulf nations, the White House said. 
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that he is meeting with Defence Secretary James Mattis to discuss a proposal for the military to secure the country's border with Mexico.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
President Donald Trump had separate phone conversations with two leaders of nations in the Persian Gulf region, discussing the ongoing disputes between Qatar and some of its Arab neighbors.
The Latest on Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt (all times local):
President Donald Trump will promote recent tax cuts during a round-table discussion in West Virginia this week.
President Donald Trump criticized the major television networks on Tuesday as "fakers."
President Donald Trump's personal lawyer asked a federal judge on Monday to force adult film star Stormy Daniels to use arbitration to settle a dispute over an agreement to keep quiet about a sexual encounter she says she had with Trump.
In a story April 3 about President Donald Trump announcing that he wants to use the military to secure the border, The Associated Press reported erroneously the length of the U.S.-Mexico border in Texas. It is roughly 1,250 miles (2,000 kilometers...
President Donald Trump's personal lawyer asked a federal judge on Monday to force adult film star Stormy Daniels to use arbitration to settle a dispute over an agreement to keep quiet about a sexual encounter she says she had with Trump.
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
The Trump administration says it is amenable to a White House meeting between President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, raising the prospect of the Russian president's first Washington visit in more than a decade even as relatio...
President Donald Trump expressed support on Tuesday for EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, as U.S. lawmakers including two fellow Republicans called for Pruitt's resignation after reports he paid far below market rates to live in a condo owned by a l...
President Donald Trump made the case to the leaders of the Baltic nations Tuesday that the U.S. was "very tough on Russia," pointing to U.S. support for increased defense spending by NATO countries as a check on Moscow's aggression.
U.S. President Donald Trump, standing alongside the leaders of three Baltic countries most concerned about the potential for aggression from Moscow, on Tuesday said he thought he could have a good relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin...
President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he will make a decision about pulling troops out of war-battered Syria very soon, expressing remorse about the U.S. role in violent conflicts going back to the country's invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq nearl...
President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we've almost completed that task."
The Trump administration is postponing until September a summit with Gulf Arab leaders that had been planned for this spring amid an ongoing dispute between Qatar and other U.S. allies in the region, according to five U.S. officials.
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable, as his advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilise areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.
He has undertaken so many actions that contributed to the weakening of Russia that you have to wonder.
As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy. 
In vowing Tuesday to use the military on the U.S.-Mexico border until his coveted wall is built, President Donald Trump heaped blame on his predecessor, congressional Democrats and Mexico for creating a dangerous and dysfunctional border.
In some of the Mexican towns playing host to a "caravan" of more than 1,200 Central American migrants heading to the U.S. border, the welcome mat has been rolled out despite President Donald Trump's call for Mexican authorities to stop them.
The Dutch son-in-law of one of Russia's richest men was sentenced on Tuesday to 30 days in prison and fined $20,000 for lying to Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigators about contacts with an official in President Donald Trump's 2016 campai...
Two top Democrats on a House committee are demanding public hearings to force top Trump administration officials to explain their costly plane travel.
U.S. President Donald Trump's strategy for dealing with illegal immigration coming through the border with Mexico includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said in a statement on Tuesday.
The White House's top infrastructure adviser is leaving the administration as President Donald Trump's plans to inject funding to repair the nation's roads and bridges will most likely have to wait until after the midterm elections.
A half century after the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., U.S. civil rights leaders say they are fearful President Donald Trump could reverse progress made on civil rights in the United States since King's death.
Following attacks by President Donald Trump on Amazon.com Inc, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce criticized attacks by government officials against American companies.     
Migrants forming a caravan in southern Mexico are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Monday, after the caravan drew the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.
Migrants forming a caravan in southern Mexico are subject to an administrative migratory procedure, the Mexican foreign ministry said on Monday, after the caravan drew the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.
The largest American business lobby group came to the defense of Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday after a multi-day Twitter attack by U.S. President Donald Trump that included unsubstantiated criticism of the world's biggest online retailer.
Consumers getting financial assistance under former President Barack Obama's health care law will pay lower premiums this year, even though the "list price" for their health insurance shot up.
A top Honduran official on Tuesday rejected President Donald Trump's threat to cut U.S. foreign aid unless a so-called caravan of more than 1,000 Central American migrants headed to the U.S. border with Mexico is stopped.
As Republicans run into a buzz saw of conservative criticism over a deficit-expanding new budget, GOP leaders and the White House are looking for ways to undo the damage by allowing President Donald Trump to rescind some of the spending he signed ...
President Donald Trump's strategy for the U.S.-Mexico border includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said on Tuesday, after Trump had earlier spoken publicly to reporters about "guarding our border with the military" to stop illega...
Microsoft Corp on Tuesday backed the Justice Department's request that the U.S. Supreme Court dismiss a case pitting the two against each other over whether prosecutors can force technology companies to hand over data stored overseas after Congres...
China's commerce ministry said on Wednesday it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs following the Section 301 probe and will take counter measures, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
Robert Mueller, the U.S. Justice Department's special counsel, is specifically authorized to investigate allegations that Paul Manafort, President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman, colluded with Russia to interfere with the 2016 presidentia...
Anticipating an unpredictable president's next moves, U.S. officials have started actively planning for the likelihood that Donald Trump will announce next month that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal.
California farmers, many of whom voted for President Donald Trump and his tough talk on trade, say China's increased tariffs on products like almonds, pistachios and wine are a competitive blow, but some are hopeful they will lead to a better deal...
Nearly a dozen U.S. states and Washington D.C. on Tuesday promised to defend federal automobile efficiency standards against a rollback proposed this week by Scott Pruitt, the embattled head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told North Korea's foreign minister on Tuesday that Beijing supports the North's planned summits with South Korea and the United States.
The U.S. State Department expressed concern on Tuesday at the Malaysian parliament's approval of a bill that would allow prison terms of up to six years for spreading "fake news" - an expression frequently used by U.S. President Donald Trump.
"Roseanne" wasn't just a hit on opening night. The revived ABC comedy had legs.
Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trum...
The caravan of Central American migrants that angered U.S. President Donald Trump was sidelined at a sports field in southern Mexico with no means of reaching the border even as Trump tweeted another threat to Mexico Tuesday.
About 11.8 million consumers nationwide enrolled in 2018 Obamacare exchange plans, a 3 percent drop from last year when 12.2 million consumers signed up, according to a final government tally released on Tuesday by the Centers for Medicare and Med...
The United Nations has blacklisted a North Korean ship for receiving oil in an October transfer that breached U.N. sanctions, as first revealed by Reuters.
The Latest on Ohio Gov. John Kasich's presentation at the President's Speaker Series at New England College (all times local):
Peru's new foreign minister said on Tuesday that Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro was still not welcome to attend a regional summit in Lima next week, upholding a decision by Peru's disgraced former president.
China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China's ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.
China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China's ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday ordered the withdrawal of rules punishing journalists held responsible for distributing "fake news", giving no reason for the change, less than 24 hours after the original announcement.
President Donald Trump offered a measured gesture of support for the embattled head of the Environmental Protection Agency on Tuesday, but those words of encouragement for Scott Pruitt also came with a White House warning about the ethical questio...
Shares in the United States were up slightly a day after the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell more than 10 percent from its recent peak.
The three major U.S. stock indexes ended higher after a choppy session on Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season while the S&amp;P 500 pushed above a key support level and Amazon.com shares jumped on bets that criticism from Presid...
The Trump administration has introduced production quotas for immigration judges in an effort to reduce enormous court backlogs, raising concern among judges and attorneys that decisions may be unfairly rushed.
Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.
China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora's Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in a deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute. 
King Salman reiterated Saudi Arabia's support for a Palestinian state after his son and heir apparent said Israelis were entitled to live peacefully on their own land - a rare statement by an Arab leader.
The United States, Mexico and Canada have made significant advances on reworking the NAFTA trade deal and ministers will meet in the coming days to determine the scope to agree on the basics of a deal, Mexico's economy minister said on Monday.
India on Tuesday withdrew rules to control "fake news" less than 24 hours after announcing them, following an outcry that the regulations could be used by the government to curb press freedom.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Ted Cruz kicked off his re-election bid this week. His opponent, Beto O’Rourke, has raised more money than any Democrat running for Senate in Texas ever has.
Villanova players flash their fingers in a "V'' symbol to celebrate big wins.
China appreciates North Korea's "important efforts" to ease tension on the Korean peninsula, senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told the North's foreign minister on Tuesday, hours after he called on all sides to stay focussed on talks.
Bernice King stared with purpose at the video of her father, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., concentrating on the tired look in his eyes as he spoke to reporters in the days before he was gunned down at a motel in Memphis, Tennessee.

The United States, Canada and Mexico could soon announce a deal in principle to update NAFTA that would likely tackle the key issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, three sources familiar with the m...
Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday China and the United States  should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease access for American businesses, as China scrambles to avert a trade war.
The Trump administration on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing's intellectual proper...
The Latest on a shooting at YouTube headquarters (all times local):
The Latest on the Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):
John Williams, currently head of the Federal Reserve's regional bank in San Francisco, has been selected to be the next president of the Fed's New York regional bank, considered the most influential position among the central bank's 12 regional ba...
A woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself was furious with the company because it had stopped paying her for videos she posted on the platform, her father said late Tuesday.
Rebecca Dallet, a liberal Milwaukee judge, easily defeated conservative Michael Screnock on Tuesday in the race for Wisconsin Supreme Court, fueling optimism among Democrats for more victories in the fall midterms.
The search for Nirav Modi captivates a country increasingly frustrated by corruption cases involving state banks that could cost taxpayers dearly.
Facebook is expanding its response to people using the platform improperly and on Tuesday said it had deleted hundreds of Russian accounts and pages associated with a "troll factory" indicted by U.S. prosecutors for fake activist and political pos...
The Russian president knows the advantages of authority.
John Williams, the genial president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and a top monetary economist, was promoted on Tuesday to head the New York Fed in a politically explosive decision that has been criticized for ignoring more diverse ...
The Croatian president thanks Argentina for taking in notorious pro-Nazi war criminals after World War II. In Bulgaria, a top politician calls the country's Roma minority "ferocious humanoids." And Hungary's prime minister declares the "color" of ...
The court has a chance to be more honest than it has been about discriminatory voting laws.
The Latest on the Trump administration's proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing's alleged theft of American technology. (all times local):
In an abrupt and startling reversal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu nixed his own deal Tuesday with the United Nations to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants in Israel and other Western nations, caving in to nationalist criti...
Scott Pruitt, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, turned his sights this week on a nearly half-century-old federal waiver that allows California to pursue its own, tough tailpipe emission standards, and allows other states t...
As the E.P.A. chief announced his most sweeping regulatory rollback to date, he found himself caught up in a swirl of allegations of impropriety.
Opponents say the question will deter immigrants from participating in the 2020 tally, thwarting the Constitution’s mandate to conduct an accurate count.
No specific actions addressing U.S. President Donald Trump's concerns about Amazon.com Inc are on the table at the White House at this time but that could change, a source familiar with proceedings at the White House said on Tuesday.
The Latest on Deadspin video illustrating Sinclair stations' messaging (all times local):
A group of U.S. states and cities sued the Trump administration to stop it from asking people filling out 2020 census forms whether they are citizens.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
The Environmental Protection Agency has exempted one of the nation's largest oil refining companies, Andeavor, from complying with U.S. biofuels regulations - a waiver historically reserved for tiny operations in danger of going belly up, two sour...
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Several other countries have linked their fuel economy standards to the United States, so a rollback by the E.P.A. could affect rules across the globe.
The drop in enrollment was smaller than many expected, given the Trump administration’s cutbacks in outreach and efforts to undermine the health law.
Tracy Morgan stars in the new comedy “The Last O.G.” And the comic-book show “Legion” returns to FX.
President Donald Trump's announcement that he wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border echoes the response of Texas leaders during a surge of Central American children crossing the Rio Grande four years ago.
Seventeen states, the District of Columbia and six cities sued the U.S. government Tuesday, saying the addition of a citizenship question to the census form is unconstitutional.
The Trump administration on Tuesday escalated its aggressive actions on trade by proposing 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing's policies that require foreign companies to hand over their technology.
The San Bruno Police Department confirmed that three people were taken to local hospitals with gunshot wounds. The shooter died from what the police believe was a self-inflicted gunshot.
The government of Aung San Suu Kyi is opening the economy and growth is rebounding in Myanmar, though the possibility of broader Western sanctions over the Rohingya refugee crisis is nevertheless giving some foreign investors pause, according to a...
But no despot can be perfectly enlightened.
The order was rescinded after an outcry among free-press advocates who said it could be used to blacklist journalists and silence criticism.
Asian stock markets were mixed in early trading Wednesday as investors pondered the latest volley of tariff measures and threats between the U.S. and China.
Do you think Live Nation has gotten too big and too powerful? Why or why not?
A Dutch attorney who lied to federal agents investigating former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sentenced Tuesday to 30 days in prison in the first punishment handed down in the special counsel's Russia investigation. He was also ordere...
Spotify is a loss-making company that might not report a profit until next decade, but that didn’t stop investors from valuing the company at $30 billion.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Readers respond to an Op-Ed article by the former V.A. secretary and discuss what his successor should do.
Books from throughout history to provide solace in troubling times.
His moniker was "DARKKING22," and authorities say he offered a cornucopia of illicit drugs through the click of a mouse.
A federal appeals court on Tuesday rejected the arguments of a Georgia death row inmate whose scheduled execution was temporarily halted last year by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Gov. Phil Murphy said Tuesday he wants $100 million in new spending to address New Jersey's opioid crisis while shutting down the prospect of any Chris Christie-style public service announcements to promote substance abuse treatment.
Saudi Arabia's crown prince said in a published interview that Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land, another public sign of an apparent thawing in ties between the two countries.
A special court in The Hague is set to examine violence against ethnic Albanians by their former liberators — if anyone dares to testify.
Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China are unlikely to hurt global economic growth, Brazilian central bank chief Ilan Goldfajn told Reuters on Tuesday, playing down recent turmoil in Latin American markets.
Ms. Lawn built her nearly 50-year career at the White House without the consistent support of a major media company.
Tuesday: A bill would bar children under 12 from playing football, the E.P.A. targets state air pollution rules, and a Los Angeles campaign lures New Yorkers.
Officials were investigating the motivation behind a woman’s attack at the suburban California headquarters.
Questions and answers on the thousands of teachers in multiple states who have walked off the job or are making plans to do so.
The appointment of the current San Francisco Fed chief brings policymaking experience to a role seen as one of the Fed’s most influential positions.
Fifty years after Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination, black pastors are issuing a call to action and using different methods to achieve common goals.
A trial in Mississippi provides a rare glimpse into a world where mistreatment of inmates is commonplace, at a time when the Trump administration wants to expand the use of private prisons.
Retaliatory tariffs are a blow to exporters increasingly catering to young, newly wealthy Chinese looking for bottles with cachet.
Tom Brady is losing one of his top receivers, and Jared Goff is getting a speedy new target.
A Palestinian man was killed by Israeli gunfire in Gaza on Tuesday, Palestinian medics said, raising the death toll from clashes along the border to 17, and Israel's defence minister warned further protests would be met with similar force.
