Readers react to the president’s latest salvos on immigration and business.
Far from learning on the job or modifying his views, Mr. Trump is falling back on the familiar mix of belligerence and isolationism that fueled his campaign.
“It’s time to act,” said Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, as she outlined the policy during a White House briefing.
Republicans see a chance to flip a congressional seat in northern Minnesota, where President Trump’s steel tariffs are being celebrated as a boost for the mining industry.
President Trump says Amazon costs the U.S.P.S. billions of dollars. But the available evidence is far less certain, and some of it suggests the opposite.
Tech firms, military contractors, carmakers, cellphone companies, financial firms, sports leagues and Wall Street giants are all in his Twitter cross hairs.
The president’s decision to keep the 2,000 troops on the ground for the immediate future came hours after he told a roomful of reporters that “it’s time” to bring American forces home.
Republican-leaning dads upset with the president might help avert a midterm blue tsunami.
Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, will appear before multiple congressional committees next week. It is part of the company’s efforts to be more open about its work.
The Central American migrants traveling through Mexico and singled out by President Trump as a threat are mostly women and children whose lives were in danger back home.
The United States and China took turns announcing larger import duties on the other, with each one escalating a dispute that could hurt the global economy.
It started with a report on Fox News, and ended with calls for troops at the border with Mexico. We look at how President Trump’s approach to immigration transformed over 72 hours.
The measures, targeting $50 billion worth of soybeans, cars and other goods, were the latest move in the countries’ escalating trade confrontation.
Wednesday began with share prices sliding, an apparent product of investors’ concerns about an escalating dispute between the world’s two biggest economies. By day’s end, markets had reversed course.
As markets seesawed and industries fretted, American officials held out the possibility that tariffs outlined this week might never go into effect.
“Denuclearization” is a strange term, unique to the Korean Peninsula. But it works for now.
The witness, George Nader, has a roster of international connections that helped him arrange several meetings that have drawn the attention of the special counsel.
“Roseanne” is proof that baby boomer culture is the only common culture we have left.
The ratings for the show’s second night are down from its surprising premiere, but still strong enough for ABC to call it a hit.
On the itinerary for the Ohio governor and 2016 presidential hopeful: a diner visit, a Q. and A. at a college and criticism of President Trump amid speculation about a 2020 run.
Mr. Trump is deliberately undermining faith in the American press corps. Other countries are taking note.
In the wake of scrutiny prompted by a viral video, the Sinclair Broadcast Group’s chairman, David Smith, said his stations were no different from network news outlets.
Kimmel responded to public criticisms that the president has leveled at Amazon over the past few days.
The coverage tends to play on the fears that hiding among mass groups of immigrants are criminals, vectors of disease and terrorists.
President Donald Trump will be attending another dinner held by a super PAC.
President Donald Trump is remembering the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. on the 50th anniversary of the civil rights leader's assassination.
U.S. President Donald Trump denied on Wednesday that the United States was in a trade war with China, hours after Beijing slapped tariffs on a list of U.S. imports in retaliation for similar duties levied by the White House one day earlier.
An Indiana Senate candidate who carries a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump to campaign rallies, dons a "Make America Great Again" hat in a TV ad and ridicules an opponent for being a "Never Trumper" called the eventual president "vulgar, if not pr...
The Internet Research Agency, the company charged with meddling in the 2016 election, was operating many additional accounts, mostly in Russian.
Ohio Republican Governor John Kasich said on Wednesday he was unlikely to challenge U.S. President Donald Trump, a fellow Republican, in the 2020 presidential election as an independent, CNN reported.
President Donald Trump will sign a proclamation on Wednesday ordering the deployment of the National Guard to help protect the border with Mexico, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said.
A former business associate of President Donald Trump who worked as an informant for U.S. government agencies met with representatives of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday, according to three people familiar with the meeting.
A mural depicting President Donald Trump holding a handgun and school children in pools of blood has been painted over after it appeared in an Alabama city.
U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller told President Donald Trump's attorneys last month he was continuing to investigate the president but did not consider him a criminal target in the Russia probe "at this point," the Washington Post reported on T...
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
Steve Bannon, President Donald Trump's former chief strategist and 2016 campaign CEO, had a fiery response on Wednesday to Wall Street's dim view of Trump's trade actions against China.
Before last month's special congressional election in Pennsylvania, U.S. President Donald Trump, who ridiculed his rivals in the 2016 election as &#8220;Liddle Marco,&#8221; &#8220;Lyin&#8217; Ted,&#8221; and &#8220;Crooked Hillary,&#8221; tried i...
President Donald Trump is pointing to a 50 percent job approval rating that may not fully comport with reality.
Asserting the situation had reached "a point of crisis," President Donald Trump on Wednesday signed a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration.
U.S. President Donald Trump is not attacking the business sector with his recent critiques of Amazon.com Inc but wants the online retailer to do more when it comes to taxes, his economic adviser said on Wednesday.
President Donald Trump agreed in a National Security Council meeting this week to keep U.S. troops in Syria a little longer to defeat Islamic State but wants them out relatively soon, a senior administration official said on Wednesday.
President Donald Trump wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his "big, beautiful wall" is erected.
White House officials sounded increasingly doubtful Thursday about the future of embattled Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, even as President Donald Trump appeared to throw him a public lifeline.
President Donald Trump persists in using a phony number to justify his market-shaking trade actions against China.
Special counsel Robert Mueller's team of prosecutors has informed President Donald Trump's attorneys that the president is not currently considered a criminal target in the Russia investigation, according to a person familiar with the conversation...
President Donald Trump is dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria as he pushes for a quick military withdrawal, Trump administration officials said Wednesday, abandoning plans to stay long-term to stabilize the country and prevent the Islami...
President Donald Trump, unable to get the U.S. Congress or Mexico to fully fund his border wall, will post National Guard troops along the Mexican frontier, officials said on Wednesday, in a move that was likely to escalate tensions with a key U.S...
Japanese government officials are bracing for Donald Trump to get tough in trade talks, and are particularly anxious that the U.S. president could target Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's weak-yen policies.
Russia long saw Donald Trump as the wild card in its strategy to improve relations with the United States. 
Japanese government officials are bracing for Donald Trump to get tough in trade talks, and are particularly anxious that the U.S. president could target Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's weak-yen policies.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):
France and the United States are committed to stamping out Islamic State, Emmanuel Macron's office said on Wednesday after the French president spoke with his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and Syria (all times local):
The U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday that a decision had been made on the future of American troops in war-torn Syria and the White House would make it public soon.
The Latest on embattled Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt and the ethical questions surrounding his travel and ties to Washington lobbyists (all times local):
The audience for the second week of ABC's "Roseanne" reboot was down, but not by much. The Nielsen company said that 15.2 million people watched the show on Tuesday night.
The third wife of former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has filed for divorce.
The United States plans additional responses to Russian activities that will include a number of steps to defend November congressional elections against meddling from Moscow, the top U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday.
Central American migrants stranded on a journey through Mexico because of U.S. President Donald Trump's pressure on the Mexican government say they will struggle on toward the United States, even as their "caravan" said it would disband in Mexico ...
The Latest on Wisconsin Supreme Court election (all times local):
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday he expects trade actions between the United States and China will likely lead to a negotiated deal, but that it was unclear whether such talks would happen by the end of May or later.     
Broadcom Inc said on Wednesday it had completed its move back to the United States from Singapore, weeks after President Donald Trump blocked its $117 billion offer to buy Qualcomm Inc on national security grounds.
The United States plans to sanction Russian oligarchs this week under a law targeting Moscow for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, in what could be the most aggressive move so far against Russi...
Eight unknown Democrats are fighting for a spot to challenge a high-profile Republican in Washington state's reliably red 8th District.
A week ago, there was just a single house where U.S. soldiers had hoisted an American flag on a hill not far from a tense front line in Syria.
Four Marines were killed when their helicopter crashed while they were practicing desert landings in Southern California, the Miramar air station in San Diego said Wednesday.
Turkey, Iran and Russia pledged on Wednesday to accelerate efforts to bring stability to Syria, underlining their joint commitment to the country a day after President Donald Trump raised the prospect of withdrawing U.S. troops.
In attempting to punish China for its trade practices, President Donald Trump may open the door for other countries to grab U.S. market share, including Mexico and Japan, which he has also targeted with sharp trade rhetoric.
Both Democrats and Republicans think the stalemate between President Donald Trump and Congress over immigration can help them in November's congressional elections. Each could be right.
China's decision to impose tariffs on imports of soybeans from the United States is 'regrettable' and 'won't solve the trade imbalance', the China director of the U.S. Soybean Export Council said on Wednesday.
President Donald Trump's nominee to be CIA director will fully explain what her role was &#8212; and what it wasn't &#8212; in the agency's use of harsh interrogation practices on terror suspects after 9/11, the top U.S. intelligence chief said We...
On Tuesday, the same day that U.S. President Donald Trump announced his intention to deploy military to help patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, Edwin Valdez and four other Central American migrants were walking through dense brush at a south Texas wil...
Beijing has announced a $50 billion list of U.S. goods for possible tariff hikes in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.
The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the C...
The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the C...
The United States and China, the world's two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other's goods.
The head of Israel's Mossad intelligence agency is "100 percent certain" that Iran remains committed to developing a nuclear bomb and believes the international community must change or scrap its nuclear deal with the Islamic Republic.
U.S. prosecutors on Wednesday asked a federal judge to sentence a Turkish banker convicted of helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions to about 20 years in prison, in a case that has strained diplomatic ties between the United States and Turkey.
Ten rights groups urged French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday to use a visit by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to press him to end a blockade of Yemeni ports and work for a diplomatic solution to the conflict there.
A top Syrian Kurdish politician suggested on Wednesday that the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the Iraqi government could mount joint operations against Islamic State in the area on the border of the two countries.
The German military on Wednesday put a short-range air defence unit with about 450 soldiers under Dutch command, further deepening ties between the two NATO allies.
European shares fell for a second day after China unveiled new tariffs against U.S. products, increasing concerns of an escalating trade standoff between the two countries.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The world's two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there's still time to pull back from the brink.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday that his military "won't stop" trying to oust Syrian Kurdish fighters from northern Syria, as he met with the leaders of Russia and Iran for talks on trying to resolve the conflict.
A woman who had voiced complaints online about YouTube opened fire with a handgun at the tech company's headquarters near San Francisco on Tuesday, wounding three people before shooting herself dead, authorities and media said.
Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China may dent production of German luxury SUVs made in the U.S. South and sent to China, with exports from electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and Ford Motor Co also vulnerable.
The dominating victory by a liberal candidate in Wisconsin's Supreme Court race emboldened Democrats deflated by years of defeats, pushing Republican Gov. Scott Walker to issue a series of warnings Wednesday about a possible "blue wave" in the red...
The Mexican government began handing out transit or humanitarian visas to people in a caravan of Central American migrants, and said the procession of 1,000 or so migrants that drew criticism from President Donald Trump had begun to disperse.
China on Wednesday vowed to impose measures of the "same strength" in response to a proposed U.S. tariff hike on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods in a spiraling technology dispute that has fueled fears it might set back the global economic recov...
The Latest on commemorations of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. (all times local):
The Latest on a deadly Marine helicopter crash in the California desert. (all times local):
China will struggle to replace U.S. soybean supplies after implementing an additional 25 percent tariff on American shipments, likely inflicting severe financial pain on domestic companies, analysts and executives at feedmakers said. 
Mexico, Canada and the United States have made good progress in their bid to modernize the NAFTA trade pact but still have work to do, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Wednesday.
Shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile on Wednesday after China proposed duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in retaliation to Trump administration tariff plans.
The Latest on U.S.-China trade tensions (all times local):
An escalating trade dispute between the world's two biggest economies heightened fears Wednesday of a global trade war, sent global stock markets tumbling but also left the door open to a negotiated settlement that might prevent any serious damage...
“The Making of a Dream,” by Laura Wides-Muñoz, recounts the long and unfinished battle for immigration reform through the stories of young activists.
The Latest on Facebook's privacy scandal (all times local):
Facebook isn't just a company. It's a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.
Fifty years after a shot rang out in Memphis, killing the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., freedom rang from the balcony of the Lorraine Motel as a bell tolled 39 times to mark a life cut short by racism.
Iowa is set to become the latest Republican-led state to target so-called sanctuary cities by withholding money from local governments that don't comply with federal immigration laws, even though the plan could lead to court challenges.
A federal judge tore into all of the legal arguments that a lawyer for President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort made on Wednesday in his long-shot civil case to convince her that Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigatio...
Asian shares bounced from two-month lows on Thursday as world equities recovered from a selloff triggered by escalating Sino-U.S. trade tensions, with investors hoping a full-blown trade war between the world's two biggest economies can be averted...
U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley on Wednesday blasted the Trump administration over its handling of trade issues, saying while the United States should act, China's retaliatory moves were disproportionately affecting America's agriculture sector. 
Ford Motor Co on Wednesday said it encouraged the U.S. and Chinese governments to "work together to resolve issues" after China retaliated against U.S. plans to impose tariffs with a list of similar duties.
Liberal judge Rebecca Dallet cruised to victory in race to serve on the Wisconsin Supreme Court for a 10-year term, the Associated Press reported late on Tuesday.
The White House said on Wednesday it hoped China would change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that would avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs.
Palestinian activists chanted "death is better than humiliation" as three-wheelers stacked with old tires drove into a tent camp in a barley field near Gaza's border. The tires are to be burned at a mass protest on Friday, in hopes clouds of black...
The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):
Beijing's objections to U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs are "completely baseless" and there is no justification to impose $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts and other goods, the Trump administration said it told China and the W...
Pentagon officials have expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries to contend with.
The United States and China may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, a U.S. trade official said on Wednesday, but he declined to say whether any new high-level meetings were planned.
President Donald Trump's top economic adviser said on Wednesday he expected China would "play ball" on trade and come to agreements that would avoid the need for the United States to implement steep tariffs on Chinese imports.
Mexico, Canada and the United States are exploring alternative proposals on rules of origin for autos, a key sticking point in the talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), a Mexican source said on Wednesday.
U.S. President Donald Trump's recent tariffs and retaliation from other nations, in particular China, may reduce domestic economic growth by 0.1 to 0.2 percentage point over the next 12 months, Moody's Analytics' chief economist Mark Zandi said on...
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
U.S. President Donald Trump's top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said on Wednesday that U.S. trade actions against China are aimed at upholding the "laws and customs of free trade."
President Donald Trump's administration does not at this time have another new, big trade initiative planned against China and is focused on implementing the moves that have already been announced, a White House official said on Wednesday.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Wednesday:
Revelations that digital consultants to the Trump campaign misused the data of millions of Facebook users set off a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. This is how The Times covered it.
U.S. agricultural machinery maker Deere &amp; Co said on Wednesday it would monitor Beijing's new tariff proposals to evaluate their impact on the company and its customers.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Friday:
Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, have largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.
China's proposal on Wednesday for tariffs on U.S. beef confirmed the worst-case scenario for the U.S. cattle industry, trade groups said on Wednesday, even as they remained hopeful the dispute could be resolved quickly.
Tesla’s inability to meet production goals and the E.P.A.’s easing of mileage rules may delay electrification of vehicles, but it still will happen.
Britain’s decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.
It took China just 11 hours to retaliate against the United States for proposing tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese products, but Chinese officials are holding back on taking aim at their largest American import: government debt.
The election was a chance to hear from voters across Wisconsin, a state that voted for Donald Trump after picking Democrats for president for years.
Chinese importers expecting cargoes of U.S. commodities from beef to propane said they hope to sell the goods to South Korea or Japan after Beijing's decision to slap extra tariffs on a swathe of items from agricultural products to chemicals. 
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Wednesday: Winemakers worry over tariffs, a shooting at YouTube headquarters, and more protests in Sacramento.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, still projects power, but back home in Wisconsin, he is facing political challengers from both the right and the left.
An attack on a shared data network forced four natural-gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with customers.
They have a particular relevance for the Trump era.
A powerful U.S. senator traveled to Venezuela on Wednesday as pressure mounted on President Nicolas Maduro to hand over a Utah man jailed in the turbulent South American country for nearly two years.
Britain's FTSE 100 managed a small gain on Wednesday despite global trade worries denting appetite for risky assets, as investors piled into defensive sectors which make up a large part of the UK index. 
The Trump administration is weighing further retaliation against Russia for meddling in the election and interfering in the affairs of the United States and its allies, the top U.S. intelligence official said Wednesday.
The Government Accountability Office found that black students still bear the brunt of school discipline, undermining Trump administration efforts to re-examine Obama-era policies.
Last year, Blackstone announced a $40 billion infrastructure fund with a huge commitment from the Saudis. It hasn’t come together as planned.
Trade wars are bad, but stocks seem to be overshooting their likely cost. Why?
Asian stock markets recouped the previous day's losses to trade higher on Thursday as earlier fears of trade conflicts between the world's two largest economies dissipated on signs of dialogue.
In this week’s newsletter: tracking the ethics issues surrounding the chief of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Even as trade tensions are mounting between the United States and China, the importance of Chinese moviegoers to Hollywood has never been more apparent.
Settlement agreements — now made public after a judge’s ruling — provide new details on tactics used by the former Fox News host against women who accused him of sexual harassment.
As trade tensions rise between the United States and China, a small but vocal online community is calling for a boycott of U.S. products, fanning fears that American brands could see a backlash similar to that faced by South Korea last year.
The Trump administration heralded the government's sale last month of U.S. drilling leases in the Gulf of Mexico as a bellwether. 
A home improvement on a classic Chinese-American takeout dish.
The Trump administration heralded the government's sale last month of U.S. drilling leases in the Gulf of Mexico as a bellwether. 
A Chinese website said it would sell me 100 grams of carfentanil, the unbelievably deadly synthetic opioid.
A federal judge Wednesday gave preliminary approval to a $3.5 million settlement of a lawsuit against the IRS over alleged targeting of tea party groups and other conservative organizations.
Global shares fell sharply Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, in an escalation of trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies.
Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm's misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday...
The troubled Chinese insurer that owns New York City's Waldorf Hotel said Wednesday it is receiving a $9.6 billion bailout from a government-run fund.
China hit back quickly on Wednesday against the Trump administration's plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals. 
China's move to slap tariffs on U.S. farm products sent Brazil soy premiums surging to historic highs on expectations of higher export demand on Wednesday, but traders and analysts warned that Latin America could not entirely replace U.S. producti...
The plaintiffs are demanding that the university publicly release the documents, including admissions data on hundreds of thousands of students.
By forcing companies to publicly air salary discrepancies between men and women, Britain hopes to narrow the pay gap.
Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.
China on Wednesday hit back at U.S. President Donald Trump's plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports, proposing additional tariffs of 25 percent on 106 categories of U.S. goods, from soybeans to autos, chemicals and some kinds of ...
A handshake marked the end of a longstanding and controversial split by a breakaway group of Democrats that had given Republicans a foothold of power in Albany.
Facebook Inc said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more tha...
A Republican congressman from Tennessee may have misspent more than $100,000 from his campaign committee and leadership political action committee on personal expenses over the past decade, according to an independent ethics office that asked the ...
Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King were wary rivals in life. But after Dr. King’s murder, Kennedy’s moving speech quieted an angry crowd.
China aimed a direct strike at America's heartland on Wednesday, moving to slap an aggressive 25 percent retaliatory tariff against U.S. soybeans, farm country's most valuable export to China last year, worth $12 billion.
