WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump first tried to disarm Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago with smooth talk and hospitality. A year later, he\'s resorted to hardball and found that Xi is willing to throw it back.The growing acrimony over trade is deepening mistrust between the two governments and roiling global markets. But at least for now, it is unlikely to spill over into sensitive national security issues, former U.S. officials and China experts say.China has no interest in escalating the dispute over tariffs and wants to reach a trade compromise with the U.S., they say. The White House also says it hopes differences can be mended through negotiations. But when Trump on Thursday doubled down on his threat to tax Chinese imports, the path to resolution appeared to narrow. China vowed Friday to "counterattack with great strength" and said negotiations were impossible under current conditions.So far, both sides have outlined plans for $50 billion in tariffs on each other\'s exports. On Thursday, Trump said he had instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider imposing $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese goods, despite opposition from some of his supporters who could be hit hard by a trade war."The Chinese have to assume that Trump is willing to go through with this," said Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, "but at the same time, a lot of it just seems he\'s trying to get leverage to force the Chinese to give him a better deal" to dramatically reduce the U.S. trade deficit with China.The barrage of tough rhetoric belies a personal rapport forged between Trump and Xi when they met at his Florida resort last April 6-7, when Trump sought Xi\'s help on North Korea and on trade.China has cooperated to an unexpected degree on North Korea by agreeing to and applying international sanctions to punish its wayward ally for developing nuclear weapons. Trump has often praised Xi for that  rhetoric that is welcomed in China\'s authoritarian political system, where great importance is vested in leadership ties.But in recent months, Washington has adopted an increasingly adversarial stance toward Beijing, and not just on trade. That trend could be intensified as Trump replaces moderates in his administration with hawks such as incoming national security adviser John Bolton, who has advocated a tougher approach toward China."The relationship is spiraling downwards, and the risk of a miscalculation or accident is only increasing," wrote Elizabeth Economy, director for Asia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.In December, the Trump administration adopted a national security strategy that identified China, along with Russia, as a "revisionist power" intent on challenging American interests. The U.S. has ruffled Beijing\'s feathers by stepping up the tempo of naval operations in the South China Sea. And Trump signed legislation last month that calls for Cabinet-level official visits to Taiwan, a self-governing island that Beijing regards as part of Chinese territory.Doug Paal, who handled Asian affairs at the White House under the Republican administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, said China views this as a gambit by Trump to exact concessions on trade. Speaking earlier this week, Paal said it hasn\'t undermined China\'s belief that Trump, who has avoided criticizing China on human rights, is someone they can work with.But Daniel Russel, who was President Barack Obama\'s point man on Asia, said Trump\'s trade gambit was playing into the Chinese perception of the U.S. as a malevolent rival bent on containing China\'s rise as a world power."The Chinese know how to play this game and have had abundant time to prepare a counterstrike strategy. It includes grabbing the moral high ground and getting other countries to look at China as a victim, not the offender, and as the defender of the international trading system," he said. "It is a ridiculous turn of events."Under Obama, the U.S. exacted an agreement from China that reduced  but did not halt  cybertheft of U.S. commercial secrets. The U.S failed to narrow the trade deficit with China, which hit a record $337.2 billion last year."We chose not to blow up the relationship," said Russel, now at the New York-based Asia Society Policy Institute. "We chose not to put the global economy at risk through some sort of suicide-vest type of challenge."Compromise on the trade dispute remains possible. The U.S. tariffs won\'t take effect for about two months, and China says it is waiting to see what Washington does."What we are seeing so far, although it\'s ugly and it\'s confrontational, it\'s still posturing," said Yun Sun, China expert at the Stimson Center think tank. "We have not yet seen the ax falling."She said the differences go beyond the level of import taxes: It\'s also about ascendancy in the high-technology economy, where China seeks global leadership in electric cars, robotics and other fields."Trump has made clear he wants to strike deals, but the bar is so high that the Chinese don\'t know whether they can meet it," Yun said.
KUALA LUMPUR   Malaysia\'s Prime Minister Najib Razak announced on Friday the dissolution of parliament, paving the way for a general election in which he faces an unprecedented challenge from his former mentor turned opposition leader Mahathir Mohamad.Najib is under pressure to deliver a convincing victory for his undefeated Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition, as he grapples with financial scandals at a state-owned fund and a government palm oil agency, and with public anger over rising prices.Najib\'s coalition is still widely expected to win the election despite the scandals, but a significant loss of seats to the opposition could leave the prime minister open to a leadership challenge within his United Malay National Organisation (UMNO) party.Below is a summary of the electoral process and key facts about Malaysia:POLLING DATEThe Election Commission (EC) is expected to meet in the next few days to decide on the dates for the nomination of candidates and for polling across the country\'s 13 states.Polling must be held within 60 days of the dissolution of parliament, with a minimum of 11 days of campaigning.There are about 14 million registered voters. Polls are completed in one day with the result announced the following day.POLLING SYSTEMMalaysia adopted a Westminster parliamentary model after gaining independence from Britain in 1957. The government is elected through a first-past-the-post or simple majority system.The UMNO-led coalition has been undefeated since independence. The coalition contains parties representing the country\'s three main ethnic groups: majority Malays, most of whom are Muslim, ethnic Chinese and ethnic Indians.The opposition has accused the government of gerrymandering, rigging and propaganda through state-controlled media to secure a victory in every election. The government has denied those accusations.Critics have also said the Election Commission favors the ruling party. The commission has repeatedly denied that.CAMPAIGNINGCampaigning is usually restricted to about two weeks. It begins immediately after the process of nominating candidates is completed, and ends 24 hours before polling day.There are no publicly telecast debates between candidates. Campaigning is mostly through public gatherings, rallies and visits by candidates to towns and villages.NUMBERS GAMEThe general election is for all 222 seats of parliament\'s lower house, known as the Dewan Rakyat.Najib\'s ruling coalition won 133 seats to win the last general election, in 2013, despite losing the popular vote.The opposition coalition is hoping it can whittle down BN\'s seat count to gain at least 112 seats - which would give it the right to form a government.The 70 members of parliament\'s upper house, known as the Dewan Negara, are appointed, not elected.GEOPOLITICAL HOT SPOTMalaysia is a major exporter, its economy driven by oil and gas, palm oil and electronics.Part of the South China Sea lies between east and west Malaysia, a maritime region that falls within an area claimed by China, and delineated by a "nine-dash-line" on its maps.Malaysia - and several other countries in the region - have disputed China\'s claim over the South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion in trade passes annually.(Reporting by Joseph Sipalan; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SEOUL   South Korea said on Friday it has notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) that it seeks to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods worth $480 million, in response to U.S. measures against South Korean imports.U.S. President Donald Trump slapped a steep tariff on imported washing machines and solar panels in February to protect American manufacturers, prompting a fierce backlash from South Korea and China.South Korea's trade ministry said in a statement that it has informed the WTO Council for Trade in Goods that its plan to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods, which are equal in value to the South Korean washing machines and solar panels affected by U.S. tariffs.The trade ministry said it plans to produce details on which U.S. products will be subject to the suspension closer to when it takes effect. Under the WTO framework, a country's right of suspension on concessions of a trading partner cannot be exercised for up to three years from when the trading partner's safeguards take effect.U.S. President Trump has stepped up trade protectionist actions by raising tariffs to guard U.S. manufacturing. Amid escalating fears of a trade war, Trump said on Thursday he had ordered an additional $100 billion new tariffs on China.He has also taken issue with U.S. trade imbalances with South Korea. In March, the two countries agreed to revise an existing bilateral trade agreement in principle, with Seoul giving more market access to U.S. autos, while Korean steelmakers avoided hefty steel tariffs.(Reporting By Jane Chung and Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Sam Holmes)
SHANGHAI  At the heart of the intensifying trade dispute between the United States and China is a fundamental question: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries.China has embarked on an aggressive and expensive plan to retool its economy for the future as it moves to dominate in robotics, aerospace, artificial intelligence and more. President Trump has said Chinas approach relies on unfair and predatory practices, and on stolen American technology. And even as Chinese leaders say they want to avoid a trade war, they are staunchly defending their plans and showing little sign of backing down.Mr. Trumps threat to sharply escalate the administrations tariffs on Chinese imports  a threat he reiterated on Friday  shows that neither side has yet gone far enough to persuade the other to compromise. Bigger and broader tariffs may be necessary to get Chinas attention.The administration, if its serious, better be prepared for much more, said Derek Scissors, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.Chinas $300 billion plan for government assistance, Made in China 2025, calls for helping cutting-edge industries by providing low-interest loans from state-controlled banks, guaranteeing large market shares in China and offering extensive research subsidies. The goal is to help Chinese firms acquire Western competitors, develop advanced technology and construct immense factories with considerable economies of scale.It is an agenda that China would probably go to great lengths to protect. We will not start a war  however, if someone starts a war, we will definitely fight back, Gao Feng, the commerce ministry spokesman, said at a news conference in Beijing on Friday. No options will be ruled out.For the United States, victory in such a war would be difficult to verify, much less achieve.China could say it plans to ease back on government support. But that could be difficult to quantify because of the countrys opaque political system and the states control of information.China could back off from rules that favor local competitors and require American companies to share technology if they want access to the Chinese market. For example, foreign automakers face pressure to transfer electric-car technology to their local partners, and foreign technology companies are increasingly required to submit to security reviews. Foreign businesses have long complained that many of the rules they must follow are unwritten.Chinas government-financed campaign is already paying off in some ways. Drive into downtown Shanghai from Pudong International Airport and you pass a seemingly endless series of huge hangars and vast, glass-walled design centers, all part of the countrys effort to create a commercial aircraft manufacturing giant to rival Boeing or Airbus. Travel to factory districts in Shanghai and on the outskirts of many other Chinese cities and you see enormous, newly built factories ready to churn out electric cars, the batteries they use and other components.Proving that the Chinese government unfairly supports the effort could be difficult, however.The United States could press its argument with the World Trade Organization, which oversees global trading rules and prohibits big loans from government-controlled banks at artificially low interest rates. But the W.T.O. requires many contracts and government documents to prove cases, evidence that can be hard to get in a tightly controlled country like China.Even when the W.T.O. rules against China, persuading the country to comply can be challenging. One such ruling, involving Chinas restrictions on foreign electronic payment systems, was issued nearly six years ago. China is still mulling how it will comply  despite numerous complaints from the Obama administration and more recent nudges from the Trump administration.So the United States has turned to tariffs. That means it is using a 1980s tool to address an industrial policy issue that is already shaping the 21st century.Mr. Trumps top trade official, Robert Lighthizer, was a deputy United States trade representative under President Ronald Reagan. The tariffs that Mr. Lighthizer threatened against Japan in those days are among the same ones he is wielding now. But the two periods differ in two big ways.One is that Japan depended on the United States in the 80s for military protection from the Soviet Union. China, by contrast, is an increasingly assertive global rival, sending naval vessels to the Baltic Sea and building a naval base in East Africa.The second major difference between then and now is that the European Union deeply resented the tariffs of the 1980s, and Mr. Trumps use of them could make it difficult to persuade European officials to present a united front. In response to American tariffs, Beijing could simply shift business from American companies like Boeing and Ford to European rivals like Airbus and Daimler.Chinese officials dispute the American accusations about their unfair trade practices. They say Mr. Trumps tariffs violate W.T.O. rules, and they dispute claims that China forces American companies to hand over technology. As for Made in China 2025, Chinese officials say the plan is only guidance, not a government directive  and that foreign companies are free to participate, too.In Chinas current industrial policy, the Trump administration sees an extension of how the country has already come to dominate one major industry of the future: solar power.Mr. Trump himself is no fan of solar panels. He has spoken enthusiastically about coal, not renewable energy, throughout his campaign and his presidency. But the solar power industry is one of the biggest success stories so far in Chinas efforts involving advanced industries.The United States played a central role in developing solar panels and manufacturing them until a decade ago. Around then, the Chinese government decided to finance a lavish expansion of the sector. State-controlled banks lent tens of billions of dollars at low interest rates despite the high-profile bankruptcies of solar manufacturers.Chinese firms now produce three-quarters of the worlds solar panels. Most American and European companies have closed factories, and many have become insolvent. Chinas success in producing solar panels has given Beijing a blueprint for seizing the lead in a long list of other high-tech industries.Many foreign companies are caught between Chinas industrial ambitions and Washingtons efforts to stop them, including major aerospace companies and carmakers. The conflict may spread: Made in China 2025 could create major competitors to General Electric and Intel, and to companies outside the United States like Siemens and Samsung.Tariffs could hurt such companies if the United States and China follow through on their plans. They also risk losing their competitiveness if Beijing succeeds in subsidizing the creation of large Chinese rivals in their industries.Boeing, for example, could be hit by American tariffs on civilian aircraft parts it buys from Avic, a state-controlled Chinese military and aviation company  required purchases if the company, which is based in Chicago, wants to sell planes in China. China, in turn, is pushing a consortium that includes Avic to become a Boeing rival. Boeing, like other multinational companies, has refrained from endorsing or criticizing the tariffs.Although our members are unhappy with retaliatory tariffs being used, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, there is a belief that greater pressure has to be brought to bear on China.
SEOUL, South Korea   South Korea's rapidly worsening air pollution has forced the country's professional baseball league to postpone three games.The Korea Baseball Organization on Friday postponed the games in capital Seoul and the nearby cities of Suwon and Incheon after the government issued alerts over high fine dust levels in the metropolitan area.It's the first time the league postponed games because of air pollution since the country began pro baseball in 1982. A KBO official said the games will be rescheduled later in the season. She didn't want to be named, citing office rules.As of 5:30 p.m. Friday, the fine dust concentration level was measured at 377 micrograms per cubic meter near Seoul's Jamsil Stadium, where the Doosan Bears had been scheduled to host the NC Dinos before the game was postponed.South Korea issues an advisory when the fine dust level reaches 150 micrograms per cubic meter and a warning if the level exceeds 300 micrograms per cubic meter.South Korea in recent years has been experiencing an acute rise in air pollution that experts link to emission from the country's increasing number of cars and also to China's massive industrial activity.In a meeting with top Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi last week, South Korean President Moon Jae-in said China was partially responsible for South Korea's pollution problem and called for Beijing's cooperation in Seoul's efforts to improve air quality.
BEIJING   The Chinese government\'s top diplomat hopes that planned summits between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and the presidents of South Korea and the United States will "take the fuse" out of the situation on the Korean peninsula.After a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow, China\'s State Councillor Wang Yi said he hoped the summits would bring the issue of North Korea\'s nuclear program back into the realm of dialogue and negotiations."We all welcome and support the apparent improvement in the situation on the peninsula and appreciate the efforts of all parties," Wang, who is also China\'s foreign minister, said on Thursday, in comments posted on his ministry\'s website.He hoped the three leaders would take the opportunity to completely defuse the situation, he added.South Korean President Moon Jae-in and U.S. President Donald Trump have both agreed to meet Kim. Trump has traded barbs with the North Korean leader for much of his time in office as Pyongyang pursues development of nuclear weapons capable of hitting the United States.North Korea was "suffocating" under international sanctions,  Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said on Thursday, adding, "They need an out."Speaking at Duke University in North Carolina, Haley said, "When the president ends up speaking with Kim, the conversation has to be about denuclearizing. Not some of it, all of it. We don\'t want an irresponsible actor to have nuclear weapons."She added, "But we\'re going into this very cautiously, very much knowing that he\'s looked at the Iran deal, he\'s seen what he can get and he\'s seen how he can push through loopholes, and we\'re not going to let that happen again."Last month, China said it won a pledge from Kim, who was on a surprise visit to Beijing for talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping, to denuclearize the Korean peninsula.China and Russia are both permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, which has imposed sanctions on North Korea in a bid to force negotiations with Pyongyang.Tension on the peninsula has eased following a flurry of diplomatic activity in the lead-up to February\'s Winter Olympics held in South Korea.North and South Korea have agreed to hold their first summit in more than a decade on April 27, while Trump has said he would meet Kim by the end of May.Trump has threatened to withdraw the United States from an accord between Tehran and six world powers, signed in 2015 before he took office, unless France, Britain and Germany help to agree a follow-up pact by that date. Trump does not like the deal\'s limited duration, among other things.(Reporting by Tom Daly and Min Zhang; Additional reporting by Michelle Nichols at the United Nations; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
BEIJING/WASHINGTON   China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump\'s threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.Trump, in light of what he called China\'s "unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade actions, had upped the ante on Thursday by ordering U.S. officials to identify extra tariffs, escalating a tit-for-tat confrontation with potentially damaging consequences for the world\'s two biggest economies.China\'s Commerce Ministry spokesman, Gao Feng, calling the U.S. action "extremely mistaken" and unjustified, said the spat was a struggle between unilateralism and multilateralism and that no negotiations were likely in the current circumstances."The result of this behavior is to smash your own foot with a stone," Gao told a news briefing in Beijing. "If the United States announces an additional $100 billion list of tariffs, China has already fully prepared, and will not hesitate to immediately make a fierce counter strike."The dueling trade threats rattled Wall Street on Friday, ending a volatile week with major indexes closing down more than 2 percent on the day. The dollar also fell, while safe havens such as the Japanese Yen and gold futures rose.The week started with China imposing $3 billion of tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts, wine and pork, and rapidly escalated to threats that could seriously curtail hundreds of billions of dollars in trade between the world\'s two largest economies.While U.S. officials said they were prepared to talk the issues through with China, there was no clear path to negotiations. Both Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Trump economic advisor Larry Kudlow were on television to promote the idea of talks, with Mnuchin telling CNBC "we are in communication regularly".Gao\'s comments came shortly after Trump defended his proposed tariffs, saying the move might cause "a little pain" but the United States would be better off in the long run.Asked in an interview with New York radio station WABC about the effect on U.S. stock markets, Trump said the market has gone up (since he took office) "so we might lose a little bit of it.""So we may take a hit and you know what, ultimately we\'re going to be much stronger for it."Kudlow told Bloomberg Television Trump and America\'s top trade official Robert Lighthizer were "thinking about submitting a list of suggestions to the Chinese."On Wednesday, China unveiled a list of 106 U.S. goods including soybeans, whiskey, frozen beef and aircraft targeted for tariffs, just hours after the Trump administration proposed duties on some 1,300 Chinese industrial, technology, transport and medical products.Washington called for its initial $50 billion in extra duties after it said an investigation had determined Chinese government policies are designed to transfer U.S. intellectual property to Chinese companies and allow them to seize leadership in key high-technology industries of the future.China said it was not afraid of a trade war, even though it did not seek one, and accused the United States of provoking the conflict. Gao said comments from U.S. officials about ongoing talks about trade issues were incorrect."Under these conditions, the two sides cannot conduct any negotiations on this issue," Gao said, without elaborating.Kudlow, who has repeatedly sought to soothe markets with mention of possible talks, told Bloomberg Television there were always ongoing bilateral discussions on trade but that negotiations on tariffs had not begun.Seeking to tamp down alarm, he told reporters outside the White House, "so nothing\'s happened. Nothing\'s been executed ... There\'s no \'there\' there yet, but there will be."CHINA\'S ROLEWhile Beijing calls Washington the aggressor and says it is spurring global protectionism, China\'s trading partners have complained for years that it abuses World Trade Organization rules and propagates unfair policies that lock foreign firms out of some sectors. China has promised repeatedly to open up sectors such as financial services.President Xi Jinping is expected to unveil reform measures next week and his country\'s opening up while attending the Boao Forum, China\'s equivalent of Davos, in the southern island province of Hainan.So far, U.S. information technology products from mobile phones to personal computers have largely escaped the ire of Beijing, as well as telecoms equipment and aircraft larger than the equivalent of a Boeing 737.Among sectors most affected by a trade war could be technology, particularly chipmakers. The U.S. semiconductor industry relies on China for about a quarter of its revenue.It also remains to be seen if the dispute would trigger a nationalistic backlash. When ties between Beijing and Seoul chilled, Chinese tourism to South Korea plummeted and Chinese consumers shunned Made-in-South-Korea products.On Chinese social media on Friday, among the most searched phrases were "China hasn\'t grown up afraid" and "China will follow through to the end."The China Chamber of International Commerce said the Chinese business community would firmly support government efforts to counter "irrational and erroneous" U.S. words and actions, the official Xinhua news agency reported, and urged Washington not to go "further and further down the wrong path."DAMAGING CONSEQUENCESAnalysts at Oxford Economics, referring to the fact that  the tariffs are not yet in effect, said in a note to clients that, "Importantly, these threatened tariffs will be subject to negotiation, and therefore shouldn\'t be considered as final."However it added a full-blown trade war "would have a more pronounced effect. The U.S. and China would suffer significant slowdown in real GDP growth  a cumulative loss around 1.0 percentage point." It cut global economic growth to 2.5 percent in 2019 from 3.0 percent in its baseline scenario."This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start," said National Retail Federation President and CEO Matthew Shay."We are on a dangerous downward spiral and American families will be on the losing end," Shay added in a statement, urging Trump "to stop playing a game of chicken with the U.S. economy."(Reporting by Tom Daly, Michael Martina and Min Zhang in BEIJING and Steve Holland, David Lawder and Doina Chiacu in WASHINGTON; Additional writing by Ryan Woo, Alex Richardson, Lindsay Dunsmuir and David Chance; Editing by Frances Kerry and James Dalgleish)
AUGUSTA, Ga.   Li Haotong made his first bogey in his first Masters, and he was lucky it wasn\'t worse.He was caught in the trees left of the 10th fairway. It took him four shots just to reach the green, and he still had 7 feet to navigate. Li made the bogey putt, a big relief for the 22-year-old from China."Literally almost say, \'Amen\' down there," Li said with his infectious smile.Maybe it was a premonition.Li proceeded to make three straight birdies around Amen Corner on Thursday, starting with a 35-footer from off the green using the belly of his wedge en route to a 69. He doesn\'t have a deep understanding of the tradition at Augusta National, but he could tell this was special."Quite lucky today," Li said.It\'s part of his self-deprecating nature that made Li a favorite of Web.com Tour players when he first played a full circuit in America. But his peers know better, whether they watch him play or look at his results.He won four times on smaller circuits as a teenager, winning the Order of Merit on the PGA Tour China Series. He won his first European Tour event in 2016 at the Volvo Open in his native China. But his most recent big moments in golf really got everyone\'s attention.Li qualified for the Masters by closing with a 63 at Royal Birkdale in the British Open last summer. Earlier this year, he rallied to beat Rory McIlroy in a duel at the Dubai Desert Classic that allowed him to crack the top 50 in the world for the first time."Take a lot of confidence from Rory that week," Li said. "Actually, after that week, I\'ve been struggling a little bit on my putting. I\'ve been working a lot on that, and you can see today I make a lot of par putts. So I just have to keep going."It was a wild back nine for Li, who made only one par at No. 17. For close to an hour, however, his name was atop those white leaderboards around Augusta National with Tony Finau until Jordan Spieth took over in the final hour of a tough day.Li was three shots behind, with no complaints."I thought I\'m going to be nervous on the first tee," he said. "It was all right. So just quite happy to have such a great opening round."Li was only 17 when another Chinese player, 14-year-old Guan Tianling, played in the Masters as the Asia-Pacific Amateur champion and made the cut. It was a sign that China was slowly emerging in golf. Also in the field this week is Lin Yuxin, who won the Asia-Pacific Amateur last year. He opened with a 79.Li is leading the way.He entered the week at No. 42 in the world and played boldly in his first official trip around Augusta National. Li first played the course a week ago for practice, and it was everything he imagined from the images he saw on television."Everything is like amazing," Li said.He doesn\'t remember the first Masters he watched, only that he would stay up to watch in Shanghai when the tournament came on at midnight.Y.E. Yang of South Korea is the only Asian-born player to win a major, taking down Tiger Woods in 2009 at the PGA Championship at Hazeltine. With each major, more players from Asian countries are starting to become regulars in the field. For this Masters, four players are from Japan, two are from China, one from Thailand, one from South Korea and one from India.Typical of so many players his age, it was Woods who helped to inspire Li.Woods first played in China in the HSBC Champions in 2005, the year Woods won the Masters and British Open. Li\'s father had a friend who wanted his own son to start playing golf, so Li agreed to tag along for the first lesson."His son needed a friend, so my dad brought me to the golf course," Li said in an interview two years ago. "I loved my first time on the golf course. I thought, \'This is awesome.\' After that day, I started to play golf."He said that friend of his now is in the military. Li is in the Masters, and doing just fine.
WASHINGTON   Unwilling to yield, President Donald Trump and China\'s government escalated their trade clash Friday, with Beijing vowing to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods.Trump made his out-of-the-blue move when China threatened to retaliate for the first round of tariffs planned by the United States. But for someone who has long fashioned himself as a master negotiator, Trump left it unclear whether he was bluffing or willing to enter a protracted trade war pitting the world\'s two biggest economies against each other, with steep consequences for consumers, businesses and an already shaken stock market."They aren\'t going to bully him into backing down," said Stephen Moore, a former Trump campaign adviser who is now a visiting fellow at the Heritage Foundation. He said the Chinese "are going to have to make concessions  period."The White House sent mixed signals on Friday as financial markets slid from investor concern about a significant trade fight. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told CNBC he was "cautiously optimistic" that the U.S. and China could reach an agreement before any tariffs are implemented but added, "there is the potential of a trade war."White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters the U.S. was "not in a trade war," adding, "China is the problem. Blame China, not Trump."Trump\'s latest proposal intensified what was already shaping up to be the biggest trade battle for more than a half century. The U.S. bought more than $500 billion in goods from China last year and now is planning or considering penalties on some $150 billion of those imports. The U.S. sold about $130 billion in goods to China in 2017 and faces a potentially devastating hit to its market there if China responds in kind.Global financial markets have fallen sharply as the world\'s two biggest economies squared off  the Dow Jones industrial average sank 572 points Friday.Trump told advisers Thursday he was unhappy with China\'s decision to tax $50 billion in American products, including soybeans and small aircraft, in response to a U.S. move this week to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods.Rather than waiting weeks for the U.S. tariffs to be implemented, Trump backed a plan by Robert Lighthizer, his trade representative, and was encouraged by Peter Navarro, a top White House trade adviser, to seek the enhanced tariffs, upping the ante.White House chief of staff John Kelly and Mnuchin concurred with the move, as did Kudlow, who traveled with the president to West Virginia.China said negotiations were impossible under the circumstances but Trump officials said the president and his team remained in contact with President Xi Jinping and expressed hope to him of resolving the dispute through talks. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the two sides remained in "routine contact."In Beijing, a Commerce Ministry spokesman said China doesn\'t want a trade war  but isn\'t afraid to fight one."If the U.S. side announces the list of products for $100 billion in tariffs, the Chinese side has fully prepared and will without hesitation counterattack with great strength," spokesman Gao Feng said. He gave no indication what measures Beijing might take.Trump has also pushed for a crackdown on China\'s theft of U.S. intellectual property, and he criticized the World Trade Organization, an arbiter of trade disputes, in a tweet Friday for allegedly favoring China. Trump asserted the WTO gives the Asian superpower "tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S."U.S. officials have played down the threat of a broader trade dispute, saying a negotiated outcome is still possible. But economists warn that the tit-for-tat moves bear the hallmarks of a classic trade rift that could keep growing. Worry is intensifying among Republicans, who traditionally have favored liberalized trade."The administration needs to be thinking about the unintended consequences and what are those ripple effects, those domino effects, and what are the retaliatory actions that are likely to be taken," said South Dakota Sen. John Thune, the Senate\'s No. 3 Republican, in an interview with KDLT-TV in Sioux Falls.The standoff over the trade penalties began last month when the U.S. slapped tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. China countered by announcing tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. products. The next day, the United States proposed the $50 billion in duties on Chinese imports, and Beijing lashed back within hours with a threat of further tariffs of its own.Further escalation could be in the offing. The U.S. Treasury is working on plans to restrict Chinese technology investments in the United States. And there\'s talk that the U.S. could also put limits on visas for Chinese who want to visit or study in this country.Kudlow told reporters the U.S. may provide a list of suggestions to China "as to what we would like to have come out of this," and those issues were under discussion."Negotiations are better than tariffs," Kudlow said. "A solution in the next three months would be better than anything. I think that\'s eminently doable." He added: "But Trump is not just using tariffs as a negotiating card. He said that to me."For Trump, the dispute runs the risk of blunting the economic benefits of his tax overhaul, which is at the center of congressional Republicans\' case for voters to keep them in power in the 2018 mid-term elections. China\'s retaliation so far has targeted Midwest farmers, including growers of soybeans, corn and wheat. That could specifically harm core Trump supporters."With respect to the Trump administration, its political success will rise and fall with the economy," Kudlow said. "And the economy is doing rather well now and I expect it to do even better."___Associated Press writers Gillian Wong and Henry Hou in Beijing, and Jill Colvin, Paul Wiseman and Josh Boak in Washington contributed to this report.__
NEW YORK   Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. The latest drop came as the White House proposed tripling the amount of goods from China that will be subject to tariffs.The stock market changed direction again and again this week as investors tried to get a sense of whether the trade dispute between the world\'s two largest economies will escalate. On Friday technology companies, banks, industrial and health care stocks sank. The market didn\'t get any help from a March jobs report that was weaker than expected.With administration officials sounding conciliatory one day and hostile the next and the president quick to fire off yet another tweet, investors simply don\'t know what the U.S. wants to achieve in its talks with China, said Katie Nixon, chief investment officer for Northern Trust Wealth Management."The process itself seems to be quite chaotic," she said. "We\'re not quite sure what the long-term strategy is."The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 572.46 points, or 2.3 percent, to 23,932.76. It\'s down 10 percent from its record high in late January.The S&P 500, which many index funds track, lost 58.37 points, or 2.2 percent, to 2,604.47. The Nasdaq composite slid 161.44 points, or 2.3 percent, to 6,915.11. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks dipped 29.63 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,513.30.President Donald Trump\'s administration spent the past few days reassuring investors that it\'s not rushing into a trade war, and China\'s government has done the same. But late Thursday, Trump ordered the U.S. Trade Representative to consider tariffs on another $100 billion in Chinese imports. China said it would "counterattack with great strength" if that happens.Each nation proposed tariffs $50 billion in imports from the other at the start of this week. Stocks plunged on Monday, but they rallied over the next few days as officials from both countries said they were open to talks and that the tariffs might never go into effect.The Dow average, which contains numerous multinational companies including industrial powerhouses Boeing and Caterpillar, swung dramatically this week, with almost 1,300 points separating its lowest point Monday afternoon from its high late Thursday. It fell 0.7 percent for the week.On Friday Caterpillar, a construction equipment maker, slid $5.14, or 3.5 percent, to $142.99 and Boeing, an aerospace company, lost $10.28, or 3.1 percent, to $326.12. Among technology companies, Apple gave up $4.42, or 2.6 percent, to $168.378 and PayPal shed $3.09, or 4 percent, to $73.86.Jason Pride, chief investment officer for Glenmede\'s private client business, said Trump\'s latest order caught investors off guard."It shows a willingness to go to the mat on this and fight it out," he said. Still, Pride said all of the proposed tariffs add up to a pretty small fraction of trade between the U.S. and China, and overall, they wouldn\'t affect the nation\'s economy that much if they do go into effect.Nixon, of Northern Trust, said businesses also support the idea of making changes in America\'s trade relationship with China. Even though investors are optimistic about the state of the global economy and company profits continue to grow, Nixon said the administration is creating the thing investors hate the most: uncertainty.The government reported that U.S. employers added 103,000 jobs in March, a weaker pace than the last few months. The Labor Department also said fewer jobs were added in January and February that it initially estimated. The unemployment rate remained low and the job market looks fundamentally healthy, but it\'s possible some employers are struggling to find workers.Benchmark U.S. crude dropped $1.48, or 2.3 percent, to $62.06 a barrel in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost $1.22, or 1.8 percent, to $67.11 per barrel in London. Oil prices fell almost 5 percent this week as investors wondered if an increase in trade tensions will reduce demand for oil by slowing down the global economy.Bond prices rose, sending yields lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.77 percent from 2.83 percent. The lower yields mean banks can\'t make as much money from lending, and that sent bank stocks lower.In other energy trading, wholesale gasoline dipped 3 cents to $1.95 a gallon. Heating oil lost 2 cents to $1.96 a gallon. Natural gas rose 3 cents to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.Gold rose $7.60 to $1,336.10 an ounce. Silver edged up 1 cent to $16.36 an ounce. Copper fell 2 cents to $3.06 a pound.The dollar fell to 106.85 yen from 107.12 yen. The euro rose to $1.2285 from $1.2256.Germany\'s DAX was down 0.5 percent while France\'s CAC-40 fell 0.3 percent lower. The FTSE 100 in Britain lost 0.2 percent.Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index dipped 0.4 percent while South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.3 percent but Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng rose 1.1 percent after trading resumed following a holiday as investors caught up with the previous day\'s global gains.____AP Markets Writer Marley Jay can be reached at http://twitter.com/MarleyJayAP . His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/marley%20jay

Good Friday. Heres what were watching: Investors should get ready to feel a little pain. Is the inflation scare over? Hiring slowed in March. The U.S.-China trade fight is getting hotter. The Treasury Department sanctioned Russian mogul Oleg Deripaska.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.President Trump has supported combative trade policies for years, and in recent months, his administration has begun to pursue them. The actions have weighed on the stock prices of large international corporations, and if implemented, could hurt their bottom lines.But global companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trumps trade policies. Will that now change? With first-quarter earnings imminent, and tensions with China escalating, shareholders may want companies to make specific disclosures. The companies may be tempted to say little. After all, Mr. Trumps trade restrictions have merely been threatened, and may not occur if deals are struck. But in the past, companies have refreshed their outlooks in the face of circumstantial economic and geopolitical events, like the Gulf War. And investors will likely press firms to estimate the impact of a trade war and describe the measures they will take to protect their businesses.Boeing, Apple and General Motors are among the companies that will come under the spotlight. All do considerable sales in China. Apple and G.M. rely on manufacturing facilities in the country. Investors will have plenty of questions. How much might revenue and profits fall in a trade war? What would you do if your supply chains got interrupted? What sort of contingency measures are you readying? What would you do if you became the target of campaigns that aimed to stop Chinese consumers buying your products, like the one last year directed at South Korean products?Executives will no doubt have good arguments for why their businesses wont be hurt much. Chinas airlines will remain reliant on a steady supply of Boeings aircraft for a long time. The facilities in China that make G.M. and Apple products are big employers. And since the proposed tariffs most likely wont be in effect by the time first-quarter earnings are announced, companies will probably be able to get away with some generalities.Still, the prospect of a trade war raises questions about the adequacy of corporate disclosure. Those of G.M., contained in its latest annual report, seem quite detailed. They offer quite specific warnings about the risks of doing business in China, and the company even mentions the possibility of trade agreements falling apart. But financial reports from Boeing and Apple arguably have less on potential problems in China and trade disputes.Boeings annual report did mention tariffs and embargoes as threats. But the report, released in February, also sounded a bullish note on the global economy that now almost sounds like it was from a different era:Will such language remain in Boeings reports?- Peter EavisFor years, investors had a singular focus on the Federal Reserve and its plans to raise rates.Any indication that the Fed could move more aggressively than expected to tighten monetary policies and stocks would pull back.Now the Fed has company in sending jitters through the market: Trade.A one-two punch from the White House and the Fed pushed stocks on Wall Street down Friday. The S.&P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both finished off more than 2 percent.Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trumps threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China. Investors took little comfort in statements from the administrations top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants.Comments from Mr. Powell in the early Friday afternoon added to the unease. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell highlighted the strength of the United States economic recovery and gave little indication that the Fed planned to deviate from its gradual path of lifting interest rates.President Trump, in a radio interview that was taped on Thursday and aired on Friday, acknowledged his approach to China could cause a little pain to financial markets but that it would be worth it in the long run.On WABC Radios Bernie & Sid in the Morning show, Mr. Trump said:The president also took to Twitter to defend his approach to trade policy. Mr. Trump, in a tweet, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted.Some context here: The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trumps decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of Americas aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say.In response to a potential new set of U.S. tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese goods, Beijing said in a briefing on Friday that it would immediately fight back with a major response.More from what a representative for Chinas Ministry of Commerce said:The briefing  amid a Chinese holiday  signals the latest instance of saber-rattling between the U.S. and China on trade. But was Mr. Trumps announcement on Thursday just a bluff? Even his advisers arent sure.The Chinese official said that the two sides cant negotiate under the current conditions. And in an interview with Bloomberg on Friday, Larry Kudlow  who has been national economic adviser for just under a week  said he could not predict when talks would begin. He added:But China has reasons to think it could win a trade war. (Worth noting: U.S. tariffs wouldnt bite until after a two-month comment period.)More companies, like Cargill, are getting jumpy. Some fear the tensions could kill Qualcomms bid for NXP Semiconductor. Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chases international business, is worried, too: He said the hostilities could be the greatest danger to the world economy, but arent at a war level yet. The Economist says that the presidents comments do not suggest he is ready to sue for peace.Meanwhile, the White House hopes to announce a preliminary Nafta deal this month after revising some of its more aggressive demands.Reaction of the day, from Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska:Earlier this year, stocks sold off after the jobs report for January showed a 2.9 percent annual increase in wages, a relatively strong rise. Investors feared that a sustained increase in earnings could prompt consumers to buy more goods and services, pushing up prices in the process. Concerns receded after Februarys report showed a 2.6 percent jump in wages, and Marchs rise of 2.7 percent is not likely to stir up more worries.But as they gauge wage pressures, analysts also pay close attention to the forces that indirectly affect wages. One of those is, of course, the number of additional jobs the economy is creating. Marchs gain of 103,000 jobs was below economists forecasts and about half the monthly average this year. That weakness will no doubt reduce inflation fears still further.The March report contained data that could do even more to quell investors nerves over inflation. While the report revised Februarys gain higher to 326,000 jobs from 313,000, it sharply reduced the January figure to 176,000 from 239,000. The January revision prompted Jim Vogel, of FTN Financial, to write: Peter EavisThe United States added jobs for its 90th straight month in March, an unprecedented run of growth for the economy, but at a much slower pace than in March.The headline numbers  103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. Estimates of Februarys job growth were revised upward, but Januarys figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates.The takeaways Wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sectors rebound in the months ahead. Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster February report was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people.Theres a lot to quote from Anthony Scaramuccis meal with Edward Luce of the FT  held at the Hunt and Fish Club, the Midtown Manhattan restaurant that the onetime investor owns, naturally. So well have to limit ourselves to just a few selections: Michael de la MercedProminent among the Russian oligarchs and businesses sanctioned by the Treasury Department on Friday is Oleg Deripaska, the billionaire known for his jet-setting, his consistent presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos  and his ties to Vladimir Putin (and, before a falling out, Paul Manafort).Mr. Deripaska is associated with aluminum producers like EN+ Group, which went public in London late year, and Rusal, as well as the commercial vehicle maker GAZ Group and energy producer EuroSibEnergo. All those companies were also sanctioned for being controlled or owned directly or indirectly by Mr. Deripaska.Heres what the Treasury Department said about the move against the businessman: Michael de la MercedAndrews take: A favorite Wall Street parlor game is whether the JPMorgan Chase C.E.O. would run for president in 2020. Mr. Dimons latest annual letter increased that chatter, touching on immigration and political polarization. He praised some of President Trumps policies (on tougher trade negotiations, on taxes). But his stances on deregulation and on social issues likely mean that he would have to run as an independent  and history hasnt been kind to third-party candidates.Peter Eavis adds: The JPMorgan chief also homed in on regulations of bank liquidity, or access to cash and equivalents. He contended that liquidity requirements are higher now  which he favors  but are also more rigid and could impinge on lending. But the argument is flawed, in part because banks that have less liquidity arent in a position to lend.The investment behemoths plan to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. (And with $6.3 trillion under management, the firms actions carry enormous weight.) The products include: A new exchange-traded fund that focuses on favorable environmental, social and governance (E.S.G.) standards and excludes firearms-related companies. BlackRock will update other E.S.G. funds to exclude them, too. A bond-focused E.T.F. excluding gun-related companies. New strategies available through 401(k) plans that track five major indexes, including the S.&P. 500, but screen out firearms sellers and makers.Walmart, Kroger and Dicks Sporting Goods, all of whom have now set some limits on gun sales, will still count as gun-related.Critics corner: Rob Cox of Breakingviews writes, By getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws  who it hopes will be customers for decades to come  that it has something for them.Heres the DealBook tally of financial firms that have announced concrete moves addressing gun control: Citigroup, Amalgamated, BlackRock. (Have we missed one? Let us know.) President Trumps attacks on Amazon arise from his anger at Jeff Bezos, unnamed people close to the White House say. (WSJ) The president dispensed with a boring speech on tax to denounce immigration. (NYT) E.P.A. officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs after raising concerns about Scott Pruitt, unnamed sources said. Senior White House officials say the agency chiefs fate is uncertain given ethical questions about his housing (he reportedly fell behind on a lease from a lobbyist), staffing and travel expenses. Mick Mulvaney has complained that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau engages in wasteful spending  but gave his hires big raises. (NYT) Mr. Trump denied knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to Stormy Daniels. (WaPo) The administration and California officials are expected to try to settle a fight over car emissions standards. (NYT) At an NYT event, Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, said Mr. Trump was breaking democratic norms. (NYT)If users wanted to opt out of data-driven advertising, they would have to pay, Sheryl Sandberg told NBC in one of many interviews yesterday. (They cant, as yet.) Still, Ms. Sandberg told Bloomberg that some advertisers had cut spending and admitted that the network faced a challenge in reassuring them.The California public pension fund CALSTRS also wants more detail on how Facebook is protecting user data. (Its investment chief has deleted his account.)Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that Facebook would apply tough new E.U. data-protection rules worldwide.But some analysts say that the worst may be over for investors.Elsewhere in Facebook: The company has put on hold a request for hospitals to share anonymized patient data for a research project. It has been accredited by the Media Ratings Council for the first of three rounds of ad impression auditing. Civic groups in Myanmar said Mr. Zuckerberg had exaggerated what Facebook was doing to stop incitement of violence there. Teslas Model 3 impressed Jim Stewart. Will it win over enough other consumers to lift the carmakers fortunes? (NYT) Google promised to increase office security in the wake of the YouTube shooting, and changes may come to other Silicon Valley campuses. (NYT) Didi Chuxing is open for business  and taking on Uber  in Mexico. (Reuters) Delta said that a cyberattack on the company that ran its websites chat function may have compromised thousands of customers credit card data. (WSJ)Cryptocurrency corner: South Korean prosectors detained the heads of Coinnest and another exchange, on accusations of embezzling from customers. Coinbase is going into venture capital. The former C.E.O. of Mt. Gox, the first big failed Bitcoin exchange, is no longer a believer.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has met with a slew of companies during his U.S. tour, including Amazon and the augmented-reality start-up Magic Leap. But the movie business was a focus.Entertainment is the new oil for Saudi Arabia, the head of the kingdoms entertainment authority told the WSJ. (Diversifying away from the old oil is the crown princes stated mission.)AMC Entertainment has announced plans to open the kingdoms first movie theater in over 30 years. The crown prince is hoping for a Disney theme park, too. The Information has more, and says the Saudis are largely following a Chinese playbook. Nine West, the U.S. shoe seller, reportedly could file for bankruptcy protection as soon as today, with a plan to sell its main brand to Authentic Brands Group. (Reuters) Blackstone plans a $2.3 billion bid for the Spanish hotelier Hispania. (Reuters) The investment firm Kimmeridge Energy Management has built an 8.1 percent stake in Carrizo Oil & Gas and wants the driller to consider selling itself, or at least some assets. (WSJ) Domo, a Utah-based business software company, is reportedly preparing to file confidentially for an I.P.O. (Recode) Instacart has raised another $150 million from existing investors like Coatue Management. (Axios) Takeda Pharmaceutical might bid for Shire, its C.E.O., Christophe Weber, told some analysts at a meeting last week. I investors and the media werent invited. (Bloomberg) Steve Jurvetson appears to have founded a new venture capital firm, Future Ventures, after resigning from DFJ after reportedly lying about an unidentified matter. (Recode) Deutsche Banks co-head of investment banking and global head of markets, Garth Ritchie, is reportedly considering leaving. And Matt Zames, formerly JPMorgans chief operating officer, has reportedly been contacted about becoming the German lenders next C.E.O. Skadden named 14 new partners, including in its M.&A., litigation and antitrust practices. (Skadden) WageWorks, a provider of employee-benefits services, replaced its C.E.O., Joseph L. Jackson, C.F.O. and general counsel, and said it needed to restate financial results from the past two years. (WSJ) Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, has been dabbling in the film business and has a credit in Al Pacinos latest movie. (NYT) Target agreed to revise hiring guidelines at its stores, after complaints that it considered old or very minor criminal records in a way that disproportionately affected black and Hispanic applicants. (NYT) I.S.S. and Glass Lewis are recommending that G.E. address accounting issues by firing K.P.M.G., its auditor of 109 years. (WSJ) Solar panels are everywhere, but renewable energy still accounts for barely 12 percent of electricity consumed globally. (NYT) The fashion industry, which employs an overwhelmingly female staff and focuses on female consumers and audiences, reported one of Britains worst gender pay gaps. (NYT) Memories of a long-distant boom have left Japan with a peculiarly potent version of 1980s nostalgia. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHO\'S NOT TAKING MORE U.S. TARIFFS SITTING DOWNChina vows to fight the U.S. "at any cost" after President Trump proposed slapping an additional $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods in an escalating trade dispute.2. AGENTS FACING NEW CIRCUMSTANCES AT MEXICAN BORDERThe U.S. National Guard faces a vastly different environment than it did on its last two deployments to the border with Mexico, with far fewer illegal crossings and more Central Americans than Mexicans coming.3. ASIAN LEADER GIVEN LONG PRISON TERM FOR GRAFTFormer South Korean President Park Geun-hye was formally convicted and sentenced to 24 years in prison and fined 18 billion won ($16.8 million) in a corruption scandal.4. RALLIES TO CONTINUE IN BIBLICAL LANDIsrael and Hamas geared up for another showdown on the Gaza-Israel border, amid concerns about renewed bloodshed.5. CHIEF OF STAFF GETTING COLD SHOULDER FROM COMMANDER IN CHIEFEmboldened in his job, President Trump has rebelled against John Kelly\'s restrictions and mused about doing away with the chief of staff post entirely.6. DOWNPOUR EXPECTED TO CHALLENGE OROVILLE DAMNorthern California is bracing for a major spring storm expected to dump several inches of rain, a possible first test of the partially repaired spillway at the nation\'s tallest dam.7. EDUCATORS\' WALKOUT MAY CONTINUE FOR DAYSA teachers strike in Oklahoma stretches into a fifth day and pending proposals to increase revenue may not be enough to stop it from extending into next week.8. NEW UNEMPLOYMENT FIGURES ON THE HORIZONDid March provide another month of blowout hiring? Was pay growth healthy? Experts are looking for answers in the government\'s monthly jobs report.9. RAP STAR RELEASES FIRST ALBUMAnticipation around "Invasion of Privacy," Cardi B\'s debut, has been scorching hot.10. STRUGGLING BUT HOPEFUL IN AUGUSTATiger Woods plodded through an unspectacular opening round at the Masters, settling for a 1-over 73 that left him far off the lead but still feeling good about his chances.
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK   The six-month closure of the Philippine tourism island of Boracay for a revamp after the country\'s president branded it a "cesspool" reflects the growing pressures on beach resorts across Southeast Asia as visitor numbers surge.(Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2uThVRw)Tourism experts say the region\'s infrastructure is buckling under record visitor numbers, especially as more Chinese holiday abroad, and expect more drastic measures to come.Airports have become chaotic, hotels are being thrown up hastily with little regard for safety and sanitation, tropical beaches are strewn with garbage and coral reefs are dying.Thailand already has plans to shut its famous Maya Bay in the Phi Phi islands for four months this summer, while an environmental group is calling for urgent government action to tackle a "crisis" on the Indonesian tourist island of Bali."Many out-of-control destinations across Asia will need clean-ups," said Brian King, associate dean of the School of Hotel and Tourism Management at Hong Kong Polytechnic University. "These may come from government, or industry or from NGO-driven community action. The danger is that little happens until the crisis point is reached."He added: "Boracay is not the first and won\'t be the last closure."Airlines have already started to cut back flights to Boracay, which had 2 million visitors last year, with the largest foreign contingents coming from China and South Korea, ahead of its closure on April 26. [nL4N1RI1ZZ]The Philippines, which had record visitor numbers last year after three years of double-digit growth, estimates the Boracay closure could reduce full-year GDP by 0.1 percent. [nL4N1RI1ZZ]It is also planning to inspect the beach resort of Puerto Galera, on the island of Mindoro, and is already looking at the resorts of El Nido and Coron, in Palawan province, where an influx of tourism and rapid development has put infrastructure under strain.But rival tourist hotspots around the region are not all rubbing their hands at the prospect of the extra revenue from the redirected tourist traffic.Kanokkittika Kritwutikon, the head of the Tourism Authority of Thailand\'s Phuket office, said the island was at "stretching point", particularly its airport, which has undergone a number of upgrades in recent years to try to cope with overcapacity."Our policy is to try to spread tourism around" from Phuket to "secondary destinations that are less well-known," said Kanokkittika. "Apart from guests arriving by plane to Phuket we also have boats coming in, including cruises, so you can imagine how many tourists come through Phuket."The shutdown of Maya Bay in an attempt to salvage the area\'s coral reefs - which have been damaged by crowds of tourists and warmer temperatures - follows the closure of 10 popular Thai diving sites in 2016 after a National Parks survey found bleaching on up to 80 percent of some reefs.Pattaya, south of Bangkok, serves as another cautionary tale.An influx of western tourists from as far back as the 1960s, when American soldiers came on leave from the Vietnam war, and a construction boom in the 1990s transformed it from a picturesque fishing village to a town known for its seedy nightlife and high crime rate.Thailand\'s tourism ministry expects 37.55 million tourists this year, up from a record 35 million in 2017, of which 9.8 million were from China.SHUTDOWNS "TOO LATE"Benjamin Cassim, a tourism lecturer at Temasek Polytechnic School of Business in Singapore, said the closures of Boracay and Maya Beach could become "test cases" and will be closely monitored by other countries with popular beach resorts.A non-profit group in Indonesia has been calling on the government to tackle what it calls an "environmental crisis" in Bali, the country\'s most popular tourist island, which saw more than 5.5 million visitors last year.Indonesian authorities have long faced criticism for allowing unplanned developments that have swallowed up rice fields with golf courses and villas on Bali. Its beaches are regularly strewn with plastic washed up from the ocean during certain months of the year.Nonetheless, President Joko Widodo has been trying to promote creation of10"newBalis" in other parts of the scenic Indonesian archipelago."Environmental conditions in Bali are now increasingly degraded," said I Made Juli Untung Pratama of WALHI, the Indonesian Forum for Environment."The culprit is the construction of massive tourism accommodation, without a proper regard to Bali\'s environment. The massive development of tourism accommodation has caused the environmental crisis in Bali."Shutdowns such as the one on Boracay are not a new phenomenon. Back in 2004, Malaysian authorities shut all hotels on the island of Sipadan, known for having some of the best scuba diving in the world, to help protect its eco-system and subsequently restricted tourist numbers to the island.But some say these extreme actions often come too late, and a more sustainable solution is needed across the region."Proactive environmental protection is a far more effective approach than reactive environmental protection," said Matt Gebbie, an analyst from Horwath HTL Indonesia, a tourism consultancy."You can\'t revive coral reefs and eroded beaches and degraded forests in six months," Gebbie said. "Proactive protection is essential for the long term sustainability of resort destinations."(Reporting by John Geddie and Dewey Sim in SINGAPORE; Neil Jerome Morales and Martin Petty in MANILA; Amy Sawitta Lefevre in BANGKOK; and Cindy Silviana and Tabita Diela in JAKARTA; editing by Philip McClellan)
MILAN   European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.The pan-European STOXX 600 fell 0.5 percent by 07.58 GMT, erasing part of Thursday\'s 2.4 percent gain. It remained on track for a weekly advance of 0.9 percent. Germany\'s exporter-heavy index DAX fell 0.7 percent.Trump on Thursday directed U.S. trade officials to identify another $100 billion of tariffs on Chinese imports, escalating a confrontation between the world\'s two largest economies. However, investors remained doubtful that a full-blown trade war would break out."Markets will now watch both the rhetoric from Trump\'s cabinet members and China\'s response to assess whether risk of a trade war is materially higher," Credit Suisse said. "We continue to see a trade war as unlikely".Caution still dominated, boosting defensive stocks. French utility Suez led the sector higher, up 2.8 percent, further boosted by a bullish broker note.Elsewhere among top movers, Dufry rose 3.5 percent after the Swiss retailer proposed a higher-than-expected dividend and announced a share buyback.UK\'s Marks & Spencer fell 3.3 percent and Next lost 2.1 percent after Citi downgraded both stocks, among other retailers.Telecom Italia rose 2.2 percent after Italian state lender CDP said it would buy a stake of up to 5 percent in the telecoms company.Chip makers like Infineon fell after losses overnight by Samsung Electronics shares. The South Korean tech giant was hit by growing concern that a semiconductor boom is about to end.The trade-exposed auto sector was the leading sectoral loser, down 2 percent.Later in the day, the focus will turn to the U.S. jobs report for more clues on how fast monetary policy will normalise in the United States.That could affect the outlook for the dollar, whose weakness has pushed up the euro, clouding prospects for European earnings. According to the Thomson Reuters IBES data, first- quarter earnings growth for the STOXX is seen at 3.4 percent, compared with 18.5 percent for the S&P 500.(Reporting by Danilo Masoni, editing by Larry King)
MADRID   Spanish and Portuguese authorities announced Friday that they have taken down a criminal network that has been making large profits by smuggling glass eels to Asia.Authorities across the continent have been trying to tackle the smugglers, who take European glass eels to Asian countries, where they are raised into adults and their meat commands high prices for local delicacies.The trading of the European eel has been restricted since 2009 under the rules of the CITES convention for the international trade of endangered wildlife. The European Union has banned all exports outside the bloc and regulated internal sales, although an underground black market in eels has thrived in recent years.In the latest operation against the traffickers, four Chinese citizens, three Spaniards and three Moroccans were arrested in Spain in an operation coordinated by the European Union\'s police body, Europol.Spain\'s Civil Guard said 460 kilograms (1,014 pounds) of glass eels were seized in southern Spain. Their market value, once the eels have grown into adults, was estimated at over 400 million euros ($490 million). One kilogram of baby eels can yield 1.3 tons of adult eels, investigators say.More than 100 tons of juvenile eels evade wildlife traffic controls every year in Europe, according to Andrew Kerr, chairman of the Sustainable Eel Group."That\'s nearly one fourth of the total European eel natural stock," Kerr said Friday. "It\'s the biggest wildlife crime action in Europe, and it\'s hidden from everyone."Friday\'s disclosure showed how the ring exported the baby eels bought in Spain through Portugal and Morocco and how the eels were concealed in suitcases or in cargo containers and sent to Hong Kong, mainland China, South Korea and other Asian countries.Police also seized 364 suitcases possibly used to smuggle the eels, Civil Guard Coronel Jesus Galvez told reporters Friday in Madrid.Because eels can\'t be bred in captivity, the wriggling glass eels or elvers are usually fished and raised to maturity in aquaculture companies in Asia, where pollution, climate change and poaching has diminished stocks of the Japonica Anguilla species.Since the glass eel fishing season began at the end of the fall, Portugal has arrested 28 people and has seized 1 ton of glass eels in 18 raids.Hugo Alexandre Matos, director of the Portuguese authority of food security, ASAE, said several investigations remained opened.Meanwhile, Spain has arrested or identified as suspects 89 people since November, snatching more than 2.3 tons of baby eels. The seized eels have been reintroduced to the wild, Galvez said.The operations come as environmental crimes are on the rise globally and in Europe, said Europol\'s chief for organized crime, Jari Liukku, who compared the benefits from illicit wildlife trading to those of drug, arms or human trafficking."Punishments are low and the conviction rate for environmental crimes is still low," he said.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: The U.S. is considering tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese products, President Trump said on Thursday, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.It was the latest volley in a back and forth between the worlds two largest economies. Heres how we got to this point. Beijing  is trying to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the American political system. Our correspondent there explains why China is confident it would win a trade war.Washington imposed sanctions on some of Russias richest men and top officials today, punishing President Vladimir Putins inner circle for Russian aggressions.The move is intended to penalize some industrialists who are seen in the West as enriching themselves from Mr. Putins increasingly authoritarian administration. They grow out of an oddly disjointed policy: While President Trump continues to call for good relations with Mr. Putin, Congress and much of the rest of the administration are pushing through increasingly punitive efforts that are sinking relations with Moscow to lows not seen in years. At least five officials at the Environmental Protection Agency were sidelined in the past year after raising concerns about spending and management by the agencys administrator, Scott Pruitt.Among Mr. Pruitts requests, some of which were declined: a $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership, a bulletproof security desk, a 20-person protective detail and the use of lights and sirens to speed his motorcades trips through Washington (including to a trendy French restaurant).The E.P.A. challenged the assertion that the officials reassignments and their objections were related. We dispute the veracity of the accusations, an agency spokesman said. Senior White House officials say Mr. Pruitts fate is uncertain as he confronts a growing series of ethical questions. In his first public comments about the matter, President Trump said on Thursday that he didnt know about a $130,000 payment to a pornographic film actress who claims to have had a sexual relationship with him.Asked why Michael Cohen, his personal lawyer, had made the payment, Mr. Trump said, Youll have to ask Michael Cohen.Mr. Trumps remarks came after an appearance in West Virginia in which he literally tossed out his boring speech to renew his criticism of U.S. immigration law and to assert that millions voted illegally in the 2016 election. Some of his claims dont add up. It was a presidential corruption scandal that exposed entrenched ties between South Koreas government and huge conglomerates like Samsung.Park Geun-hye, the countrys former president, was sentenced today to 24 years in prison. She and a longtime friend were accused of collecting or demanding large bribes from three big businesses. Almost all of South Koreas presidents have seen their reputations tarnished by corruption scandals involving them, their relatives or their aides. The shooting at YouTube headquarters this week highlighted security risks in the workplace. Many companies are similarly exposed, as an open-door policy pervades corporate America. The U.S. added 103,000 jobs in March, down from Februarys pace but strong enough to extend a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained 4.1 percent. Your briefing writer remembers the 1980s fondly. So does Japan, where mild new prosperity has rekindled nostalgia for the last time the countrys economy truly boomed. U.S. stocks were up on Thursday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Can coffee rev up your workout? Heres how to uninstall Facebook Messenger. Recipe of the day: This weekend, make one-pot meatballs and sauce.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:As police shootings continue to draw headlines, the noted conservative writer and lawyer David French weighs in. He draws on his 2007 deployment in Iraq to ask: Shouldnt police at home exhibit at least as much discipline as soldiers at war?While noting that many police shootings are lawful and justifiable, he writes, many others would be surprising to see in a war zone, much less in the streets of Americas cities.  [National Review] Lynda Richardson, senior staff editor, TravelThe Ides of March may have passed, but this history of Julius Caesar is still a fascinating and relevant read.Plus it contains good advice like two very good friends could make up for a lot of enemies.  [The New York Review of Books] Julie Bloom, deputy national editor The week in good news is backWere happy to report that our column rounding up some of the weeks uplifting and inspiring stories has returned. Quiz time!Did you keep up with this weeks news? Test yourself. Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critic says after watching the horror film A Quiet Place that youll leave elated or Ill eat my words.We also review Chappaquiddick, a retelling of the 1969 car crash involving Ted Kennedy, and break down nine film festivals in New York City this month.Here are 11 TV shows well be talking about, and 11 new books we recommend.The calendar might say April, but winter hasnt fully released its grip on New York. We went in search of spring, starting with the annual Orchid Show in the Bronx.If youre in the city, we also recommend 10 plays, 15 pop, rock and jazz concerts, 22 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids. Save the datePrince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry in less than six weeks. We have answers to everything you ever wanted to know  and some things you didnt. Best of late-night TVFacebook is under investigation in Australia, where, Jimmy Fallon noted, Facebooks stock actually goes down the toilet in a counterclockwise direction. Quotation of the dayI cant imagine a patrol cop doing this who walked those streets or drove those streets. Jeffrey Fagan, a professor and criminologist at Columbia Law School, on the fatal shooting of a mentally ill Brooklyn man by plainclothes anti-crime officers who answered a call of a man brandishing what was thought to be a gun. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Adm. Robert Peary claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald had credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it is his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
Just before Jenny Sanford, the former first lady of South Carolina, became engaged to Andy McKay in December, she was crammed in a car with her four sons, ages 19 to 25, and a trunk full of Christmas presents. When she noticed her phone ringing with a call from Louisville, Ky., she picked up via car speaker.It was Mr. McKay, and he wanted to see how her post-holiday drive was going. She and the boys were returning home to Mount Pleasant, S.C., after visiting her mother in Hobe Sound, Fla. After they each said I love you and hung up, the ribbing began.My son Landon started teasing me mercilessly, and then all of them were like, When are you guys getting married?, Ms. Sanford said. I turned bright red. It was like I was a little girl. They were all cracking up.No one, not even Ms. Sanford, thought a proposal was imminent.The one that came just days later cinched a romance that righted wrongs flagrant enough to captivate a nation. Mark Sanford, the former governor of South Carolina and blazing political star, had been missing for days in 2009 and subsequently admitted to having an affair with an Argentine woman. (Aides had claimed he was hiking the Appalachian Trail.)But since her 2010 divorce, Ms. Sanford, 55, says she has never been happier. Mr. McKay, an investment banker from Georgia who has been living in Louisville since 1996, accounts for a sizable chunk of that happiness.From the moment I met him, everything was easy, Ms. Sanford said. He was a godsend in some respects.That doesnt mean he didnt have to be pushed into dating her.Mr. McKay was contentedly single a couple of years ago when a Louisville neighbor he was friendly with  Kathy Sullivan, who is Ms. Sanfords younger sister  approached him with a proposition that felt more like a directive.She was like, Id really like you to meet my sister, said Mr. McKay, 61, a divorced father of four grown children who also has four grandchildren. All the women in Jennys family are strong. But Kathy is a force of nature.The distance between Charleston, S.C., and Louisville is about 600 miles, and there are few direct flights. Logistically it was difficult, said Mr. McKay who, like everyone who follows the news, knew Ms. Sanfords story.He agreed to meet her, but like most guys, he said, he dawdled and never got around to doing anything about it.But Ms. Sullivan kept after him, he said. When she found out I go down to Hilton Head every year at the end of September on a golf trip with a bunch of guys, she asked me if Id see Jenny while I was there, Mr. McKay said.In September 2016, he abandoned his golf buddies on a Saturday and drove north. I said, Guys, Im leaving. Ive got a better option than you two hours away in Charleston, near Sullivans Island, where Ms. Sanford lived at the time. Mr. McKay and Ms. Sanford met for the first time at Leons, a local restaurant. We had a nice dinner and thats how the whole thing started, he said.Well, not exactly, according to Ms. Sullivan, an artist who now lives in Vienna, Va. In her version of events, she had been plotting to set the wheels in motion for years, from the first time she met Mr. McKay.With Andy, its what you see is what you get, she said. His honesty and straightforwardness seemed well suited to her sister. But Ms. Sanfords social calendar didnt allow for a long-distance setup, at least not at first. Jenny had been dating and I wasnt crazy about the people she was dating, Ms. Sullivan said. I knew it was going to take a special kind of person to make her happy.We all know the story of Jenny and Mark, she continued, adding that she is still close with her former brother-in-law. I wanted her to experience what it was like to have someone love you unconditionally. I dont think she had ever experienced that.She was sure Mr. McKay, who had been divorced since 2013, could deliver. Hes mellow, hes very intelligent, hes a family man, and hes trustworthy, she said. As for the 600 miles separating them, she convinced Mr. McKay that traversing the distance would be good for him. I was seriously bullying him, she said. I told him, Who are you going to meet in Louisville? Youve already met everybody. Youre not going to find your person here.Like Ms. Sanford, Mr. McKay had been in and out of relationships since his divorce, at least one of them serious. And like Mr. McKay, Ms. Sanford wasnt actively looking to be fixed up. Dating, for her, was an afterthought. I was working at home doing consulting, and it was manageable and my kids were all doing great after a lot of years of adjustment and healing, she said. I was in a good, easy, relaxed place.But that first date with Mr. McKay kicked up sparks. She wanted to see him again. Mr. McKay, who left with a kiss and vague murmurings about keeping in touch, didnt pick up that signal.I thought there was a connection, but I wasnt sure she felt the same, he said. He had been slightly intimidated on their date. She was described to me as a very smart, fast-talking girl, and she lived up to that. Its fair to say I was nervous.Ms. Sullivan prodded him to visit Ms. Sanford a second time in October. She used more coercion. Ms. Sullivan was getting married in November 2016 and had planned a small wedding in Charleston. I told him, the only way youre getting invited to my wedding is if you bring Jenny, she said.Ms. Sanford recalls a second date a month before her sisters wedding that turned into a weekend of beach walking and bike riding around Sullivans Island. It was the kind of thing where I thought, What am I missing? When am I going to find out the bad part? she said.If trust requires a confident relationship with the unknown, Ms. Sanford was getting there. Theres something about having such a public spectacle  its not fun, she said. You ask yourself, Can I love again? But the better question is, What happens if I get hurt again? At the end of the day, you have to be willing to take the risk.Mr. McKay proved risk worthy. Not only did he accompany her to her sisters November wedding, he steered Ms. Sanford through a new heartache the next year. In March 2017, her father, John Sullivan, died in Hobe Sound. By then, Mr. McKay was flying back and forth between Charleston and Louisville regularly, and Ms. Sanford was becoming familiar with Louisville. Days before Mr. Sullivans death, Mr. McKay was in South Carolina when Ms. Sanford got the news that Mr. Sullivan was gravely ill. They jumped in the car and headed south.I didnt even know how fast I was going, and Andy looks over and says, You know youre going 95, right? I liked that he was so calm about it, Ms. Sanford said.Both say a calm communication style set them on a course for love. After their first few dates in 2016, Ms. Sanford gave Mr. McKay a copy of Staying True, the 2010 book she wrote about her year in marital hell. She said if youre going to date me you should read this, Mr. McKay said. But he didnt need to. It only takes five minutes with her to know how strong she is, he said. Shes not very big, but she can hold her own with anybody. What I didnt know  what I was finding out  is how deep her goodness runs.On Dec. 29, a few days after Ms. Sanfords sons heckled her on their holiday drive home, Mr. McKay was in Mt. Pleasant and her boys were visiting their father, now a South Carolina congressman. They had a weekend and a waterfront condo to themselves. We were having a conversation at her kitchen counter, and I basically said, I want to marry you, Mr. McKay said. I didnt have a ring, I didnt get down on one knee.Ms. Sanford didnt care.We hadnt even talked about marriage. But at this age and stage you dont spend time traveling back and forth to see somebody if you arent thinking long term, she said. After a stunned but instant acceptance, she said, I spent the next few days almost giddy.On March 31, on a friends private dock on Sullivans Island, Mr. McKay and Ms. Sanford were married before 90 friends and family by the Rev. Leo ODonovan, a Roman Catholic priest. Father ODonovan had been a lifelong best friend of Ms. Sanfords father, and also had officiated at Ms. Sullivans 2016 Charleston wedding.Ms. Sanford wore an ivory gown she bought for $190 at a Florida Nordstrom and a diamond engagement ring the couple picked out at Croghans Jewel Box, a Charleston shop. Mr. McKay wore a tan suit with a white boutonniere to match his brides bouquet of white roses and ranunculus. Ms. Sanfords sons, Marshall, Landon, Bolton and Blake, stood by her side wearing matching khaki pants and blue blazers. Mr. McKays four children and their spouses stood by him while wrangling his grandchildren, none of over age 3, into listening to Father ODonovans homily as sea gulls squawked in the background.Just before the wedding, Ms. Sullivan indulged herself in a little gloating. I told my husband when they first met that if I could get them to a second date, theyd end up married, she said. Instead of rolling her eyes at her little sisters I-told-you-so, Ms. Sanford embraced it.This is a real love and an active love, Ms. Sanford said. If she was a bully, Im glad.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didnt help matters  it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says theres a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russias richest oligarchs  and 17 top government officials. Its the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian trolls ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trumps chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitts success in achieving items on the presidents agenda  including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations  may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.He likes the work product, she said of Mr. Trump.____4. Were doing it for the kids.That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trumps plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women  many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills  to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Heres how the visas work.)We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted, said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.____6. Park Geun-hye, South Koreas impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the countrys government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last weeks, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israels blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says its changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genres orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing  mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well  against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.What I am doing, he once explained, is creating a language. A different American language.____10. Finally, as the hit show Fixer Upper ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didnt have high hopes for President Trumps trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, Wait, theres more than one America? What is this?On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, Invasion of Privacy.Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
It is H-1B visa season, and American companies seeking high-skilled foreign workers have been rushing to submit applications for visas since the government started accepting them on Monday. For the sixth consecutive year, the federal government was flooded with so many petitions that it announced Friday that it had already reached its annual cap of 85,000 of these visas in just five days.Hailed by proponents as vital to American innovation, the program has also been criticized for displacing United States workers with cheaper foreign labor.[Read how a planned change by the Trump administration puts the jobs of thousands on Indian women in jeopardy.]Critics also want to end special work permits issued to some spouses of workers on H-1B visas.It is a temporary visa that employers use to hire foreigners in specialty occupations for which there are not enough skilled American workers to fill available jobs. The workers must have at least a bachelors degree. It enables those employed to legally work in the United States for three years, with the possibility of extensions.Companies identify a worker they wish to hire and submit a petition on the candidates behalf. The typical petition is a collection of forms and documents describing the job and the unique qualifications of the person chosen to fill it.Many are software engineers, computer programmers and other workers in the technology sector. However, H-1B recipients work in a variety of jobs. They can be architects, scientists, models and tattoo artists. Some are math and science teachers in rural school districts that have trouble recruiting American instructors.Congress established that 65,000 H-1B visas are available each year for workers with bachelors degrees, and 20,000 more are earmarked for those with masters degrees or higher. Universities and research organizations are exempt from the cap.In the past several years, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services has received more petitions than there are visas. If the maximum number of applications is reached during the first five business days of April, the agency holds a lottery to randomly select which petitions it will process.Very often they do. Companies can choose to sponsor an H-1B worker for permanent residence. The green card applications are often approved, though they can take years to be issued.India is the country of origin for more than 80 percent of H-1B recipients, with China a distant second. Next in line during the 2016 fiscal year were the Philippines, South Korea and Canada.Supporters of the visa program say they fill a critical need for talent that is not available in the United States, especially when the economy is strong and the labor market is tight. Employers must attest that an H-1B worker will not adversely impact the wages and working conditions of American workers.Critics say that employers often hire H-1B workers for lower salaries than they would pay Americans to do the same job. They point to Americans who have been displaced when companies have outsourced areas like technology maintenance to a company that brings in H-1B workers.As usual with immigration policy, its complicated. More than 40,500 companies sponsored workers for H-1B visas in the 2017 fiscal year. Many employers specifically target a worker with hard-to-find expertise whom they wish to hire to do specialized work  obviously because they could not find someone in the United States to do the job. In many cases, H-1B workers have gone on to create start-ups and develop cutting-edge technology that keeps America competitive.But there are questions about whos benefiting, collectively. About 20 companies accounted for 32 percent of approved H-1B petitions, according to an analysis by the Migration Policy Institute. Many of the employers are global outsourcing companies from India that supply entry-level workers to retailers, insurance companies and banks. Not all. Among them are also American firms who appear to be using the program to create a pool of cheap labor.Big household-name American companies are just as culpable as the outsourcing companies of abusing the program, said Norman Matloff, a professor at the University of California, Davis, who studies the H-1B program.Almost everybody agrees that there has, though it is probably not as widespread as critics claim. Abuses rarely result in penalties for the companies, experts say. In one highly publicized case in 2015, some Disney employees said they were told to train their foreign replacements if they wanted severance payments. Workers filed suit, but the judge dismissed the case; new litigation is pending in state court. Workers at other companies, including Toys R Us and New York Life Insurance Company, also said they lost their jobs to imported workers.Last May, the former acting director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said the agency had started multiple investigations into possible misuse of the H-1B visa program and would turn the findings over for enforcement as warranted.Ultimately, though, it is up to Congress to change laws that govern the program, since in most cases, practices that workers may claim as abusive are not necessarily illegal as the law is written.At campaign rallies, Mr. Trump introduced laid-off Americans who had been asked to train their foreign successors, saying, We wont let this happen anymore.Once in office, he ordered a review of the H-1B and other visa programs. In April 2017, he signed a Buy American, Hire American executive order, which has served to justify several recent changes.For one thing, United States Citizen and Immigration Services, the federal agency that reviews the petitions, has tightened its oversight. Between January and August of last year, it issued 45 percent more challenges or requests for more evidence. That has delayed the issuance of visas, and some immigration lawyers report an increase in denials.The agency has also stepped up the number of surprise visits by fraud teams to sites where large numbers of H-1B workers are employed. And in a policy memo earlier this year, it expanded its review of H1-B workers who are employed at third-party work sites. Now, it is requiring more details about what work will be performed, why a foreigner is needed to do it, and what wages are being paid.The administration says it will end an Obama-era program that has allowed spouses of H-1B visa holders to work, as long as they had been approved and were waiting for a green card. Those work permits have been issued under a program known as H-4EAD.Federal authorities have also suggested they may change the selection process for H-1B visas to ensure that they are granted to the most skilled or highest-paid job candidates.Finally, Trump says he would like to scrap the lottery.More sweeping changes can occur only if Congress passes new laws or overhauls the immigration system. The Trump administrations call to end the lottery and raise wages for H-1B visa candidates as a means of recruiting qualified American workers has support among some Democrats and Republicans.
