SEOUL   South Korea\'s finance minister said on Thursday the trade tussle between the United States and China was being closely watched and that the country had prepared measures for various scenarios."There are unofficial talks going on between the two countries (the United States and China) regarding the trade issue and (South Korea) is closely watching how the situation is going to unfold," Kim Dong-yeon told reporters on Thursday.Kim also said there was no change to the ministry\'s stance that it would take smoothing measures to stabilize foreign exchange markets in cases of sharp volatility.South Korea, along with China, avoided the currency-manipulator label in twice-yearly U.S. Treasury report, but was kept on a currency "monitoring list".(Reporting by Shinhyung Lee, Dahee Kim; Editing by Michael Perry)
WASHINGTON  President Trump said Thursday that the United States would consider slapping tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods, escalating a potentially damaging trade dispute with Beijing.Mr. Trump said in a statement that he was responding to unfair retaliation by China, which published a list on Wednesday of $50 billion in American products that would be hit by tariffs, including soybeans and pork. That move was a direct reaction to the tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods that the White House detailed on Tuesday.Rather than remedy its misconduct, China has chosen to harm our farmers and manufacturers, Mr. Trump said, adding that he had instructed the United States trade representative to determine whether tariffs on an additional $100 billion in goods were warranted and, if so, to identify the products upon which to impose such tariffs.The announcement came one day after some of Mr. Trumps advisers tried to calm markets and tamp down fears of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies, saying that the tariff threats were the first step in a negotiation process. Mr. Trump said in his statement that the potential for new tariffs would not preclude discussions with the Chinese to protect the technology and intellectual property of American companies and American people, but any new tariffs are unlikely to make that already tough task easier.The move is a high-stakes gamble aimed at cowing China into backing down and forcing it to make the kinds of changes that the United States is seeking  namely reducing the coercive tactics American officials say Beijing uses to try to dominate leading-edge industries like artificial intelligence, robotics and autonomous vehicles. But the move could ultimately bring about the kind of retaliation from Beijing that has spooked stock markets.It also means that the United States would be somewhat more likely to place levies on Chinese products that American households routinely purchase, like furniture, clothing or shoes  an outcome the Trump administration said it sought to avoid with its initial round of tariffs.The presidents announcement was immediately criticized by manufacturers, retailers and politicians from states whose economies depend on agriculture.Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, said Mr. Trump was threatening to light American agriculture on fire.Hopefully the president is just blowing off steam again, but if hes even half-serious, this is nuts, Mr. Sasse said. Lets absolutely take on Chinese bad behavior, but with a plan that punishes them instead of us. This is the dumbest possible way to do this.A trade war could derail the current global economic expansion and cripple American businesses that depend on business with China. It could also further complicate geopolitical priorities given the Trump administration has enlisted the help of the Chinese in scheduling historic talks with North Korea next month.In a statement, Robert Lighthizer, the trade adviser who is carrying out an investigation into Chinese practices, described the presidents threat as an appropriate response, saying China should have responded to the initial tariffs levied by the United States by changing its behavior.On Friday, a spokesman for Chinas Ministry of Commerce accused the United States of starting the conflict and said that the Chinese position has been made very clear. We do not want to fight, but we are not afraid to fight a trade war.He added that if the United States followed through with its threats, The Chinese side will follow suit to the end and will not hesitate to pay any price and will definitely fight back. It must take a new comprehensive response and firmly defend the interests of the country and the people.Mr. Trumps effort to raise the stakes on Thursday seemed poised to send financial markets spinning, with futures on the Standard & Poors 500-index down and the yen climbing against the dollar. Markets were tame in Asia midday on Friday, which was a holiday in China.Companies potentially caught in the middle of a trade war called on the Trump administration to back down and try to work with the Chinese.The announcement that the administration may issue $100 billion in additional tariffs on Chinese products is irresponsible and destabilizing, said Dean C. Garfield, the chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, which represents companies such as Amazon, Apple and IBM. We call on both sides to halt unproductive and escalatory rhetoric, recognizing that these words and actions have global consequences.China experts have questioned whether Mr. Trumps aggressive negotiating style will leave Chinese leaders with enough political room to make concessions to the Americans. Bowing to the presidents demands could be seen internally as weakness, and the changes that the administration wants  reducing Chinas dominance in cutting-edge manufacturing and technology  is not something Beijing is likely to agree to.Wang Shouwen, Chinas vice minister of commerce, has repeatedly refused to discuss curbing the Made in China 2025 industrial plan. The Trump administration contends that the program violates international trade rules that prohibit countries from using subsidies to help exporters and discourage imports. Mr. Wang and other officials deny that the program is in violation, but have provided few details on how it might comply.Including this most recent action, the United States would be placing tariffs on a total of $153 billion of Chinese products. The $100 billion threat came on top of the tariffs on $3 billion in Chinese steel and aluminum that he imposed last month and the tariffs on a further $50 billion in Chinese goods that he has threatened to impose in recent days.The total is now so large that China would have trouble finding enough American goods to penalize if it sought to impose a proportional retaliation. China bought only $130.4 billion worth of American goods last year, while the United States bought $505.6 billion worth of Chinese goods.The National Retail Federation blasted the move as a dangerous game of chicken that would put the United States on the losing end of a trading relationship that has benefited American companies and consumers.This is what a trade war looks like, and what we have warned against from the start. We are on a dangerous downward spiral, and American families will be on the losing end, Matthew R. Shay, the president and chief executive of the retail group, said in a statement. We urge the administration to change course and stop playing a game of chicken with the nations economy.The Chinese have tools other than tariffs at their disposal, including limiting the operations of American banks and other service providers in China. The government could also urge the Chinese public not to buy American-brand cars like Chevrolets and Fords, even though those are built almost entirely from Chinese-made parts and assembled in factories in China.The biggest question would be whether China would start retaliating not commercially but through geopolitical actions. While Trump administration trade officials appear to have been operating with considerable autonomy from those responsible for issues like North Korea and Taiwan, policymaking is much more unified in China.That means China could try to raise the temperature in the dispute by installing more military equipment on the artificial islands that it has recently built across the South China Sea, almost to the shores of Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines.China could also step up pressure on Taiwan. Beijing leaders are already deeply upset about recent congressional approval of the Taiwan Travel Act, which urged Mr. Trump to send administration officials to the self-governing island. Beijing regards Taiwan as a breakaway province, and has threatened to use force to reunite it.Chinese experts have made clear that they perceive the ever-larger rounds of American tariffs as part of a broad American challenge that goes beyond dollars and cents. It is more than just a trade issue: It involves geopolitical reasons, Wu Xinbo, the chief of the Center for American Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, said in an interview this week. Trump has mentioned before, if China doesnt agree on economy and trade, the U.S. will reconsider China issues  that includes the South China Sea and Taiwan.President Xi Jinping of China is scheduled to give a major speech on Tuesday at the Boao Forum on the Chinese island of Hainan, which may give more clues to Chinas response. The speech has been billed by other Chinese officials as a moment when Mr. Xi would lay out a blueprint for Chinas economic overhaul and liberalization, a potential peace offering to the Trump administration, said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.President Trumps move may throw a small monkey wrench into Xis plans, Mr. Kennedy said. He may now need to couple such a proposal with the warning that China will continue to defend itself against foreign pressure.
MOSCOW   The foreign ministers of Russia and China jointly denounced what they described Thursday as the unilateralism of the United States, criticism that underlined their growing rapport on global issues.Speaking in Moscow after talks with his Russian counterpart, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi strongly criticized Washington\'s move to hike tariffs on Chinese products."If the U.S. thinks that it can get advantages through protectionism, its calculus is wrong," Wang warned.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, when asked about Russia\'s view of the U.S.-Chinese trade conflict, said the U.S. action reflects the Trump administration\'s unilateralist approach to international concerns.He cited as examples the U.S. push to renegotiate a nuclear deal with Iran and the terms of an international climate agreement."It has nothing to do with diplomacy. It\'s an attempt to enforce its own interests while completely ignoring the interests of others," Lavrov said.Russia\'s recently reinvigorated support for China reflects its disappointment with Washington after the Kremlin hoped for improved relations under President Donald Trump.Trump has approved higher duties on Chinese telecoms, aerospace and other technology goods, but left time to negotiate by announcing a comment period through May 11.Chinese regulators made a $50 billion list of items on which the country could increase tariffs to retaliate, including soybeans and small aircraft.Wang warned that Washington\'s move would hurt the global economy and international trade, denouncing it as "typical unilateralism and an undisguised attempt at hegemony.""The international community must jointly oppose such unilateralism and violation of rules," he said.Wang\'s trip to Russia follows a Moscow visit earlier this week by new Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe, who said it was a signal to the U.S. of increasingly close Russia-China military ties.As part of their burgeoning military cooperation, Moscow and Beijing have conducted joint drills, including exercises in the South China Sea and joint navy maneuvers in the Baltics.Moscow\'s hopes for warmed Russia-U.S. ties under Trump have withered amid the investigations of alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia and myriad other disputes, most recently the poisoning of an ex-Russian spy in Britain."We in Russia stand for direct dialogue to solve any outstanding issues," Lavrov said. "We never dodge negotiations. It\'s our American partners who do."He pointed to the last-minute cancellation of a meeting of Russian and American cybersecurity experts and Washington\'s refusal to hold a meeting on cultural issues."Unilateralism is always bad and particularly so when it becomes the main foreign policy tool," Lavrov said. "China and Russia have repeatedly shown their readiness to search for reasonable compromises based on taking interests of all interested parties into account."Moscow and Beijing have forged what they describe as a "strategic partnership," expressing their shared opposition to the "unipolar" world  the term they use to describe the United States\' perceived global domination.Russian President Vladimir Putin has developed warm personal ties with Chinese President Xi Jinping, and the two leaders regularly exchange visits. Putin is set to go to China in June for a meeting of the security grouping dominated by Moscow and Beijing.While greeting Wang on Thursday, Putin hailed the Chinese legislature\'s unanimous decision last month to reappoint Xi as president with no limit on the number of terms he can serve. Wang conveyed Xi\'s congratulations on Putin\'s re-election, also last month."I would like to express hope that after the Russian presidential election and important political events in the People\'s Republic of China, we will continue our course aimed at further strengthening bilateral ties," Putin said.
SINGAPORE   Two Singapore fighter jets escorted a civilian plane bound for Thailand safely back to the city-state on Thursday after a bomb threat by a passenger that police said was a hoax.Three passengers were assisting police with their investigations, they said, adding one of them, a 41-year-old man, had been arrested for making a false bomb threat.Scoot, the budget carrier of Singapore Airlines, said Flight TR634, an Airbus A320 carrying 173 passengers and six crew, would resume its journey to Hat Yai, in southern Thailand, in the evening.Singapore\'s defence minister said in a Facebook post that  two F-15SG fighter jets had escorted the plane from the South China Sea back to Changi airport."For our RSAF pilots who are on stand-by duties 24/7, every threat is considered real until proven otherwise," said Ng Eng Hen.(Reporting by John Geddie and Aradhana Aravindan; additional reporting by Dewey Sim; Editing by Nick Macfie)

FRANKFURT   German carmakers BMW and Daimler are under increasing pressure to diversify production of their sports utility vehicles (SUVs) outside of the United States as a result of Washington\'s growing trade tensions with China.Beijing\'s proposed 25 percent tax on U.S. car factory exports will hit nearly 270,000 vehicles, with German carmakers accounting for $7 billion of the $11 billion total."This is a tax on Southern Germany, not the U.S.," analysts at Evercore ISI said on Thursday. "A 25 percent additional auto tariff would represent a $1.73 billion negative tariff impact directed at Southern Germany by China."BMW, the largest vehicle exporter from the United States in terms of value, has its largest factory in Spartanburg, North Carolina and faces a $965 million impact from tariffs, with Daimler exposed to a $765 million hit, Evercore ISI said.The company makes its X3, X4, X5, X6 and X7 sports utility vehicles in Spartanburg, and the trade dispute will only add pressure to move production of volume sellers like the X5 to markets outside the United States, a senior BMW source said.But any switch from one factory to another costs millions of euros, takes months to implement, and is taken with a long-term view, BMW board member Peter Schwarzenbauer said last month."We have to make decisions, like about factories in Spartanburg or factories in Mexico, which are based on a horizon of 20 to 30 years. If we were to change our strategy whenever a tweet comes out, we would get crazy," he told Reuters.HARMFUL FOR ALLAround 18 percent of all BMWs sold in the world\'s largest car market were exported from Spartanburg last year, a total of 100,203 cars and the carmaker warned that a further escalation of the trade row "would be harmful for all stakeholders".China has threatened to double tariffs to 50 percent on imported automobiles and other U.S.-made goods to retaliate against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s proposed tariffs on products including vehicles and automotive parts."The BMW Group stands for free trade worldwide: Our company has a global production network and a global sales market," it added in a statement late on Wednesday.BMW this year quietly stopped exporting the X3 from the United States to China amid escalating trade tensions, moving the production footprint of the X3 to a plant in Rosslyn, South Africa and another in Shenyang, China."Thirty-five percent of those (vehicles) exported to China were the BMW X3, which is no longer exported from Spartanburg to China," BMW said.The move to ramp up production capacity in China also stems from tightening requirements by Chinese regulators to increase sourcing of components from local suppliers.Daimler, parent company of Mercedes-Benz, declined to provide specific export figures from the United States to China and said: "We dont speculate about ongoing negotiations. We are of course monitoring the situation closely."Other companies that will be affected include Tesla, which ships an estimated 15,000 cars a year to China from its California plant and Ford.Decisions on whether and where to shift vehicle production could be complicated by moves to significantly revamp or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement that allows tariff-free shipments of vehicles to the United States from Mexico and Canada.BMW shares were trading up 0.55 percent at 87.9 euros at 1047 GMT, while Daimler stock was up 1.47 percent at 69.12 euros. Both lagged Germany\'s blue-chip DAX index, which was 1.9 percent higher.(Editing by Alexander Smith)
TOKYO   North Korean leader Kim Jong Un told Chinese President Xi Jinping during talks in Beijing last week that he agreed to return to six-party talks on his nation's nuclear program and missile tests, the Nikkei newspaper said on Thursday.Months of chill between Beijing and Pyongyang appeared to suddenly vanish during Kim's secretive visit, with China saying that Kim had pledged his commitment to denuclearization.Quoting multiple sources connected to China and North Korea, the Nikkei said that, according to documents issued after Kim and Xi met, Kim told Xi that he agreed to resuming the six-party talks, which were last held in 2009.North Korea declared the on-again, off-again talks dead at the time, blaming U.S. aggression. The talks grouped the two Koreas, the United States, Russia, Japan and host China.The sources said it was also possible that Kim could convey his willingness to resume the talks to U.S. President Donald Trump at a summit set to take place in May, but that it was far from clear if that meant the talks would actually resume.Chinese officials were not immediately able to comment.China has traditionally been secretive North Korea's closest ally, though ties have been frayed by Kim's pursuit of nuclear weapons and missiles and Beijing's backing of tough U.N. sanctions in response.North Korea has said in previous talks that it could consider giving up its nuclear arsenal if the United States removed its troops from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of deterrence from South Korea and Japan.Some analysts have said Trump's willingness to meet Kim handed North Korea a diplomatic win, as the United States had insisted for years that any such summit be preceded by North Korean steps to denuclearize.(Reporting by Elaine Lies; Editing by Nick Macfie)
KUALA LUMPUR   China\'s move to impose tariffs on imported U.S. soybeans may boost palm oil\'s draw in the short term, traders and analysts say, as the spread between palm and soyoil is expected to widen as the latter becomes more costly in Beijing.Rising soyoil prices in China, which relies heavily on soybean imports, will make palm oil a cheaper, more attractive option."China\'s local soyoil price will go up. The spread will be favourable to palm," said a Kuala Lumpur based futures trader.Soybeans were among 106 U.S. products that China said on Wednesday it would hit with 25 percent tariffs, less than 11 hours after U.S. President Donald Trump\'s administration targeted 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese industrial technology, transport and medical products.Benchmark palm oil prices in Malaysia <1FCPOc3> slumped More than 2 percent at one stage following Beijing\'s announcement, tracking weaker U.S. soyoil prices. But palm oil ended firmer on Wednesday and stretched gains to a one-month high on Thursday. [POI/]China is the third-largest market for the tropical oil produced mainly in the Southeast Asian nations of Indonesia and Malaysia.The May soyoil contract on China\'s Dalian Commodity Exchange <DBYK8> rose as much as 1.3 percent on Wednesday before Chinese markets shut on Thursday for a public holiday.Its spread against benchmark palm oil futures <1FCPOc3> is currently at $278 per tonne, and at $254 versus refined, bleached and deodorized palm olein <POL-MYRBD-M1> prices.China, however, consumes more soyoil than palm oil, and imports more than 60 percent of soybeans traded worldwide to crush for meal to support its livestock industry. [SOY/CN]A potential disruption in China\'s soybean flows as it switches to South American supplies could help palm oil fill in any supply gap in soyoil, albeit briefly."The impact to palm is minimal because China needs soymeal, which is a primary soybean crushing product," said William Simadiputra, analyst at DBS Vickers Securities."Monthly palm imports will increase by 5 percent to close the gap, by conservative estimates. But I don\'t see a structural change in how China purchases palm oil moving forward."(Reporting by Emily Chow; Editing by Manolo Serapio Jr.)



TOKYO   U.S. stock futures slid and the yen rose against the dollar on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump proposed additional tariffs on China, aggravating trade tensions and smothering a revival in broader investor risk appetite.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan lost 0.25 percent. The index has spent the week swinging wildly in and out of negative territory amid the back-and-forth of the U.S.-China trade dispute.Australian stocks slipped 0.35 percent and South Korea\'s KOSPI lost 0.3 percent. Japan\'s Nikkei fell 0.15 percent.The S&P 500 E-mini futures were down 1.2 percent , pointing to a lower start for Wall Street later in the session.The Dow and the S&P 500 posted gains for a third day in a row on Thursday, the longest stretch of gains  in about a month, as investor fears of an escalating trade conflict between the United States and China abated, turning the focus to upcoming earnings.Trade tensions, however, returned to the fore after Trump said late on Thursday that he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs on China, fuelling the trade dispute between the world\'s two  economic superpowers.Trump said in a statement the extra tariffs were being considered "in light of China\'s unfair retaliation" against earlier U.S. trade measures."Trump\'s order to consider whether $100 billion of additional tariffs would be appropriate, and recent trade actions and rhetoric in recent weeks, is an example of how battles can turn to wars," said Dan Ivascyn, group chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co (PIMCO)."This is another reason investors should be reducing risk."The dollar, which had risen to a one-month high against the yen on Thursday on an earlier easing of trade fears, slipped against its Japanese peer after Trump\'s latest trade offensive.The greenback was down 0.3 percent at 107.080 yen , pulling back from 107.490, its highest since March 1. It was up 0.8 percent on the week.The dollar had risen to a one-month peak versus the yen, bolstered by Wall Street\'s bounce on Thursday when the United States appeared to signal a willingness to resolve the trade dispute.The yen, a perceived safe-haven currency, is often sought in times of market turmoil and political tensions.The dollar dipped 0.15 percent to 0.9621 Swiss franc, another safe-haven currency.The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2248 .The dollar index against a basket of six major currencies was down 0.1 percent at 90.359. The index has risen 0.4 percent this week.Treasury debt prices gained and yields declined as investors sought the safety of government bonds.The 10-year Treasury note yield fell 2 basis points to 2.811 percent, pulling back from Thursday\'s nine-day high of 2.838 percent.Crude oil prices fell as risk aversion gripped the broader markets.U.S. crude slipped 0.6 percent to $63.14 a barrel and Brent was down 0.55 percent at $67.94 a barrel. Oil had gained on Thursday, helped by higher equities and Saudi Arabia\'s unexpected hike in crude prices.Beyond the trade turmoil, financial markets are focused on Friday\'s U.S. non-farm payrolls report, which could determine the pace of future Federal Reserve interest rate rises and consequently the dollar outlook.The U.S. March employment report is expected to show non-farm payroll growth of 193,000 jobs versus 313,000 in the prior month, according to the latest Thomson Reuters poll of economists. The unemployment rate is expected to drop to 4.0 percent from 4.1 percent in February.(Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Additional reporting by the New York markets team; Editing by Eric Meijer)
SEOUL, South Korea   The rival Koreas held preparatory talks Thursday for a summit later this month between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in amid a global diplomatic push to resolve tensions over the North's nuclear program.The meeting of working-level officials at the border village of Panmunjom was to discuss security, protocol and media coverage issues for the planned April 27 summit. South Korea's presidential Blue House said the two sides agreed not to disclose the contents of the discussions until a final agreement is reached.The Koreas agreed on the date for the summit after a high-level meeting last week. South Korean officials have said the summit will focus on North Korea's nuclear disarmament, although the North hasn't confirmed this through its state-run media.A separate summit between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump is anticipated by the end of May.The two Koreas agreed Thursday to hold another preparatory meeting to work out the details of the April 27 summit, which is to take place in the South Korea-controlled side of the border village, Panmunjom. The Koreas will need to agree on how Kim will arrive at the venue, and there has been media speculation that he would cross the military demarcation line that bisects the Koreas by foot in a symbolic gesture. The Koreas also need to determine how many times he and Moon would meet that day and whether parts of the meetings would be broadcast on live television.The Koreas have held only two summits since the 1950-53 Korean War.Kim made a surprise visit to Beijing last month and met President Xi Jinping, which appeared to be aimed at improving both countries' positions ahead of Kim's planned summits with Moon and Trump.In setting up separate talks with Beijing, Seoul, Washington, and potentially Moscow and Tokyo, North Korea may be moving to disrupt any united front among its negotiating counterparts. By reintroducing China, which is North Korea's only major ally, as a major player, the North also gains leverage against South Korea and the United States, analysts say.The North's diplomatic outreach comes after an unusually provocative year in which it conducted its most powerful nuclear test to date and test-launched three intercontinental ballistic missiles designed to target the U.S. mainland. It's widely seen as an effort by the North, squeezed by heavy sanctions, to break out of isolation and improve its economy.South Korea says Kim has expressed a willingness to negotiate nuclear disarmament in his talks with Moon and Trump.Some analysts say getting the North to commit to denuclearization and agree to a robust verification regime could be a difficult process and take many years. North Korea has been repeatedly accused over the past two decades of using disarmament talks to ease outside pressure and win badly needed aid, while secretly pushing ahead with weapons development.
SOUTHERN JILIN PROVINCE, China   To the North Koreans gathered beneath a crucifix in an apartment in this northeastern Chinese border region, she is known as "mom." She feeds them, gives them a place to stay and, on occasion, money.In return, the 69-year-old Korean-Chinese woman asks them to study the Bible, pray and sing hymns. She also has a more ambitious, and potentially dangerous, goal: She wants the most trusted of her converts to return to North Korea and spread Christianity there.Along the North Korean border, dozens of such missionaries are engaged in work that puts them and their North Korean converts in danger. Most are South Koreans, but others, like the woman, are ethnic Koreans whose families have lived in China for generations. In recent years, 10 such front-line missionaries and pastors have died mysteriously, according to the Rev. Kim Kyou Ho, head of the Seoul-based Chosen People Network, a Christian group that runs a memorial hall in the South Korean capital for the victims. North Korea is suspected in all those deaths.Hundreds of other missionaries have been imprisoned or expelled by China, which bans foreigners from proselytizing.It is perilous work. Li Baiguang, a Chinese human rights lawyer whose work defending Christian pastors and farmers had prompted repeated death threats, died on Feb. 26, hours after being admitted to a Chinese military hospital for what his relatives described as a minor stomach ailment.The case has prompted calls for an independent investigation from Amnesty International and the Washington-based National Endowment for Democracy, which noted Li had been "detained and physically attacked many times" for his work and cited reports he had recently appeared to be in good health.The Korean-Chinese woman said she is monitored by both North Korean and Chinese authorities, yet, despite the risks, has carried out 20 years of missionary work with North Koreans, mostly women who are in China legally after being granted visas to visit relatives living there."I always pray and I\'m with God, so I\'m not worried," said the woman, who despite that assertion asked that her name not be published because of safety concerns for herself, her family and the North Koreans to whom she ministers.She lives so close to North Korea that it is common to see women doing laundry on the other side of the Yalu River or workers riding bicycles past rundown North Korean buildings just a stone\'s throw away.The border missionaries provide their North Korean visitors with room and board, and those escaping with places to hide. In return, they ask them to memorize the Lord\'s Prayer, the Apostles\' Creed and other prayers. Some of the most trusted converts return home to North Korea and covertly share what they\'ve learned, sometimes carrying Bibles.It\'s almost impossible to determine what happens when those North Koreans return home to evangelize. From the outside, there is no indication that Christianity has grown in any serious manner in the North in recent years, let alone that it\'s helping shake North Korean leader Kim Jong Un\'s power.The North accuses South Korea\'s spy agency of using missionaries to gather information about North Korea\'s secretive nuclear program and other sensitive topics, as well as to smuggle propaganda materials via leaflets, CDs and USB sticks, and to build underground churches to undermine Kim\'s leadership  allegations the Seoul government strongly denies.At least two South Korean pastors are detained in the North on such charges.Officially, North Korea says it guarantees freedom of religion to its 24 million people. But in reality, people involved in Bible distribution, secret prayer services and underground church networks are imprisoned or executed, according to activists and defectors. The North has five government-sanctioned churches in Pyongyang, but critics say they are showpiece facilities opened only for foreign visitors.Among the missionaries and pastors killed under mysterious circumstances in recent years is the Rev. Han Chung-ryeol, a Chinese pastor of Korean descent who headed a front-line church in the Chinese border town of Changbai before he was found dead of multiple stab wounds and a punctured skull in April 2016, raising suspicions that North Korea was involved.Chinese police recently told his family that surveillance video had captured images of three men and a woman suspected of being North Korean agents crossing the border before and after the 49-year-old pastor\'s slaying, Han\'s sister, Han Songshi, told The Associated Press.  She said Chinese authorities told the family the North didn\'t respond to Chinese requests to extradite the suspects.North Korea instead sent a letter to the state religious affairs bureau in Changbai saying it had arrested one of Han\'s church deacons, Zhang Wenshi, and sentenced him to 15 years hard labor, according to two people with direct knowledge of the case who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing retribution from North Korea and China.In a copy of the letter seen by the AP, North Korea accused Zhang of conspiring with Han in a plot to evangelize North Koreans, smuggle them out of the country and subvert the North\'s government. But the letter stopped short of acknowledging that North Korean agents killed Han.A spokeswoman for the Changbai police department would not confirm the family\'s account, saying only: "We have no obligation to release the details of the investigation to the media." A state-run North Korean website denied any involvement in Han\'s slaying, accusing South Korea\'s then-conservative government of being behind a scheme to foster anti-Pyongyang sentiment.Though Han was little known to international media before his death, he was an important figure in the risky, covert work to promote Christianity in the North, which views such efforts as a Western-led plot to topple its government. At the Chinese government-registered church in Changbai where he had worked since the early 1990s, he fed and sheltered thousands of North Koreans over the years  many of whom had fled their famine-stricken country in search of food and jobs  while also converting hundreds of them to Christianity.Eric Foley, the American co-founder of Voice of the Martyrs Korea, a Seoul-based Christian nonprofit group that provided funding, Bibles and other resources for Han\'s work, said he believed the Chinese authorities looked the other way about Han\'s proselytizing because they considered his charitable work to be a "social service" that helped allay potential problems like crime, unemployment and homelessness among the North Koreans in Changbai."That allowed him to do that work in a level of volume that was unparalleled up and down the border," Foley said. He insisted, however, that Han did not facilitate defections of North Koreans to South Korea, which is banned by China.However, seven other defectors and activists interviewed by the AP said Han did sometimes help North Korean defectors flee to South Korea, though he was reluctant to do so for fear of angering the Chinese authorities and imperiling the work of his church. Choi Sung-ryong, a Seoul-based activist, said he resettled 10 North Koreans in South Korea at the request of one of Han\'s deacons.When one of his converts volunteered to return to North Korea to share the "love of God" with her countrymen in 2011, the woman said Han smiled at her, asked her to memorize as many Bible phrases as possible and gave her 5,000 yuan ($800) to buy a house in the North that she could use as a gathering place for underground Christians."He told me that house would be a church or a place for God," said the North Korean woman, who has since defected to South Korea and spoke on condition of anonymity because of concerns for the safety of her relatives in the North.As a result of his risky work, North Korean defectors, including the woman, had long warned Han that the Pyongyang authorities had him on the country\'s most-wanted list. Han knew he was "at the top of a blacklist by the North\'s Ministry of State Security," the North Korean woman said.The Rev. John Kim, a defector who is now a pastor in Seoul, said he was questioned about Han as far back as 2003 when he slipped back into North Korea to try to spread the Gospel. Soldiers approached him as he was doing laundry at a river and "they asked me whether I knew a bastard named Han Chung-ryeol," said Kim. "So I asked them who he was, and they said they had to arrest him."As for the congregants Han left behind, their sentiments are reflected in the message on a banner they hung on the front gate of their red-brick church in Changbai: "Martyr and pastor, Han Chung-ryeol is our pride!"___Shih reported from Beijing.___
MANILA, Philippines   Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has approved the closure of the tourist destination of Boracay for up to six months after saying the waters off its famed white-sand beaches had become a "cesspool" due to overcrowding and development.Duterte approved the total shutdown of Boracay as a tourist destination starting April 26 in a Cabinet meeting Wednesday night after extensive discussions of its impact, including ways to help about 17,000 workers who may be displaced, tourism undersecretary Frederick Alegre said Thursday."This is not about profit, it\'s about the political will to deal with years of neglect of the environment," Alegre said. "We need to act swiftly to save the island and avert its further deterioration."Last February, Duterte said Boracay\'s water has turned into a "cesspool" with human waste being discharged into the sea.More than 2 million tourists visited Boracay last year to enjoy its powdery beaches, spectacular sunsets and festive nightlife, generating about 56 billion pesos ($1 billion) in revenue. But the influx of tourists, neglected infrastructure and growth of resort establishments and poor settlements have threatened to turn Boracay into a "dead island" in less than a decade, according to a government study.The island can only sustain 30,000 people but teems with 70,000 at any time, including 50,000 residents and daily arrivals of about 20,000 tourists, Alegre said.Hundreds of settlers have also illegally built homes and structures in forests and protected wetlands over the years, officials said.Only about 47 percent of the hundreds of establishments are connected to the island\'s main sewerage treatment plant, with many of the rest possibly maintaining crude septic tanks and others discharging their waste directly into the sea, Alegre said.Parts of the 1,000-hectare (2,471-acre) island in central Aklan province could re-open earlier than six months if sewage containment and treatment systems could be built earlier and beach resorts comply with environmental regulations, he said.Philippine Airlines said it would reduce flights en route to airports serving as a gateway to the small island, about 315 kilometers (196 miles) south of Manila.Deputy Executive Secretary Menardo Guevarra said emergency calamity funds would be used to help workers at tourist establishments affected by Boracay\'s temporary closure.About 17,000 are employed in Boracay\'s tourist establishments, and 10,000 to 12,000 others benefit from the bustling tourism business.A similar decision was made in Thailand where Maya Bay, on Phi Phi Leh island in the Andaman Sea, will be closed for four months starting in June.Many Thai marine parks close for part of the year but the release of the Leonardo DiCaprio movie, "The Beach," in 2000 made picturesque Maya Bay so popular it stayed open year-round. It averages 200 boats and 4,000 visitors daily, but recent surveys found the area\'s coral reefs and sea life damaged or gone.Other Thai destinations ruined by mass tourism, Koh Yoong in the Phi Phi island chain and Koh Tachai in the Similan Islands National Park, have been off-limits to tourists permanently since mid-2016.
BEIJING   China\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.Regulators picked products China can get elsewhere when they made a $50 billion list including soybeans and small aircraft for possible retaliation in a trade spat with Washington.That should help minimize China\'s losses if U.S. President Donald Trump goes ahead with a planned tariff hike and Beijing responds, said economist Lu Feng at Peking University\'s School of National Development."Compared with the U.S. list, which focuses on high-tech, China\'s list is more diversified," said Lu. "The impact to China\'s overall economy is under control."The two sides have not set a date for raising duties. Trump has approved higher duties on Chinese telecoms, aerospace and other technology goods but left time to negotiate by announcing a comment period through May 11. Beijing says its timing depends on what Trump does.Already, the threat of disruption has jolted the business world. Share prices of American exporters of aircraft, farm equipment and grain sagged Wednesday after Beijing announced its list of 106 products.Others picked for a possible 25 percent rise in Chinese import duty include beef, electric vehicles, industrial chemicals, orange juice and tobacco.Losers, including Chinese consumers who might face higher food prices, will likely outnumber winners."It definitely will affect my choices," said Wang Xiaoyu, a 20-year-old student in Beijing. "For daily necessities, mobile phones or electronics, I am more likely to choose domestic brands or choose products with the same price as U.S. products before the price hike."While importers that buy big volumes of American soybeans and other goods might struggle to fill the whole gap, those shortfalls could create business opportunities for rival suppliers."The obvious \'winners\' would be the other major suppliers of these products," said Adam Slater of Oxford Economics in an email.The biggest impact of higher Chinese duties would fall on American soybean farmers. China accounted for almost 60 percent of their exports and $12.4 billion in revenue for the year that ended on Aug. 31.Farmers in Brazil, Argentina or Australia might step up to supply Chinese buyers who use soybeans as animal feed and to produce cooking oil.A 25 percent price hike for American pork, whiskey and tobacco could make sources in Europe, Russia, Japan and elsewhere more attractive.It was unclear whether Beijing might try to make an exception for Chinese-owned U.S. exporters such as pork producer Smithfield Foods. WH Group, which bought Smithfield in 2013, opened a facility in the center Chinese city of Zhengzhou to produce its brands but uses meat imported from the United States.At the same time, American meat producers might save money if weaker Chinese demand depresses the price of soybeans they use to feed cows and pigs.Higher prices for American small aircraft and aviation technology also could give French and German competitors a chance to gain market share.U.S. aviation-related exports to China totaled $13.2 billion in 2016. That accounted for 58 percent of Chinese imports, giving potential rivals plenty of room to grow."We will continue in our own efforts to proactively engage both governments," said Boeing Co. in a statement. "A strong and vibrant aerospace industry is important to the economic prosperity and national security of both countries.Other potential winners include developing countries that might replace China as a supplier to American markets, according to William Jackson of Capital Economics.Mexico produces many of the goods targeted for U.S. tariffs on Chinese imports such as televisions and electrical circuits, he said in a report. South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand export semiconductors and other technology."To the extent that the tariffs do result in the U.S. importing from elsewhere, other emerging markets might stand to benefit," wrote Jackson.___AP Writer Sam McNeil and AP researcher Yu Bing contributed.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM PROPOSED TARIFF HIKEBeijing\'s threat to raise tariffs on U.S. exports could be a disaster for American soybean farmers but a boon to their Brazilian and Argentine competitors, European aerospace companies and Japanese whiskey distillers.2. STOCK MARKET SWINGS HAVE BEEN DIZZYINGTraders pin part of the blame on Washington, but they also see this rise of volatility as a return to normalcy following an unusually calm 2017.3. BORDER SITUATION REACHES \'A POINT OF CRISIS\'Trump signs a proclamation directing the deployment of the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border to fight illegal immigration and drug smuggling.4. WHAT POLICE ARE SAYING ABOUT YOUTUBE SHOOTERNasim Aghdam, who wounded three people at the company\'s headquarters south of San Francisco, was prolific at posting videos and authorities say she was angry about YouTube\'s policies.5. RUSSIA CALLS DIPLOMAT EXPULSIONS \'MOCKERY\' OF THE LAWForeign Minister Sergey Lavrov says the nerve agent poisoning of Sergei Skripal was "staged" to justify the expulsions from many countries "whose arms were twisted."6. WHERE EVANGELIZING CAN BE DEADLYMissionaries along the China-North Korean border are engaged in the dangerous work of spreading Christianity to the North, sometimes with fatal consequences, AP learns.7. WHAT IS DRIVING IMAMS AWAY IN YEMENA spate of deadly drive-by shootings targeting Muslim clerics sparks fear in Aden, prompting some imams to quit and abandon their mosques while others have reportedly fled the country.8. COMFORT ANIMALS IN COURT DO OPPOSITE FOR SOME DEFENDERS, JUDGESAs pets are increasingly used in courts to comfort and calm prosecution witnesses, some say they could bias juries.9. SURGEON GENERAL URGES AMERICANS TO CARRY OVERDOSE ANTIDOTEThe nation\'s chief doctor wants more Americans to start carrying the overdose antidote naloxone to help combat the nation\'s opioid crisis and save lives.10. MASTERS SET TO TEE OFFJordan Spieth and Rory McIlroy are among the favorites at Augusta National as golf\'s first major gets underway.
(Reuters) - Monsanto Co on Thursday reported weaker-than-expected earnings for a second straight quarter, saying its corn business dropped as U.S. farmers planted fewer acres this spring, while low crop prices continued to drag the sector.The world\'s biggest seed company, in the process of being acquired by Germany\'s Bayer AG, missed analysts\' quarterly profit estimates. Weakness in the corn business also was due to timing, as a cold spring in the United States delayed seed shipments, said Bernstein senior analyst Jonas Oxgaard."It hasn\'t been a normal spring, and because of that, I think we could see farmers trying to switch some of their corn acres to soybeans, because you plant soybeans a month later," Oxgaard said.Sales in the corn seeds and traits business dropped 6.2 percent to $2.72 billion during the second quarter ended Feb. 28. Soybean business sales rose 6 percent to $912 million, Monsanto said.The results come the day after China slapped an aggressive 25 percent retaliatory tariff against U.S. soybeans, farm countrys most valuable export to China last year.Monsanto said demand has remained strong for its Intacta brand soybean seeds in South America, Roundup Ready 2 Xtend soybeans in the United States. It also reported better pricing of glyphosate, the key ingredient in its weed killer Roundup.Monsanto said it was "optimistic" the Bayer deal would close, and added that the companies have seen "solid progress."Adoption of its latest commercialized biotech soybeans line continues to gain U.S. acreage, with farmers "on the way to planting nearly 50 million acres of dicamba-tolerant soy and cotton in 2018, nearly double last seasons acreage," said Monsanto President Brett Begemann.If that happens, it would mean Monsanto\'s dicamba-tolerant seed traits would be on 48 percent of the total soybean and cotton acreage U.S. farmers expect to plant this spring, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts.The company said it expects the number will increase to 60 million acres in 2019.DEAL ON TRACKIn March, Bayer won EU antitrust approval for its $62.5 billion bid to acquire Monsanto. Monsanto said it "continues to be confident" that U.S. and other needed regulatory approvals will be secured in the second quarter of this year.Net profit attributable to Monsanto rose to $1.46 billion, or $3.27 per share, from $1.37 billion, or $3.09 per share, a year earlier.On an adjusted basis, the St. Louis, Missouri-based company earned $3.22 per share, missing the average analyst estimate by 8 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.Net sales fell to $5.02 billion from $5.07 billion.Monsanto also said it is restarting U.S. farm trials of NemaStrike, a controversial chemical designed to be applied to crop seeds to protect corn, soybeans and cotton from worms that reduce yields. The company said protective measures can prevent farm workers from getting a skin rash that caused objections to the chemical.(Additional reporting by Ahmed Farhatha in Bangalore and Mark Weinraub in Chicago. Editing by David Gregorio and Bernard Orr)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The Islamic States paper trail, Beijings Bible ban and sexism at the sumo ring. Heres what you need to know: Five trips to Iraq. More than 15,000 documents. One collapsed caliphate.We published the results of a yearlong investigation, in which Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State that were abandoned by the militants.It shows that ISIS fighters, known for their brutality, were also effective administrators.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which followed our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covered the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here.The U.S. military, meanwhile, is spending about $1 million on makeshift detention camps for Islamic State prisoners in Syria, broadening its involvement in operations it had sought to avoid._____ China is not afraid of a trade war. That was a senior Chinese finance official who also said that the new China would never succumb to external pressure.Some of that is believable: Beijing has a strong grip on banks, the news media and politics. It also seems willing to take advantage of vulnerabilities in the U.S. political system. (China also has some unconventional weapons to make life harder for American companies.)Even so, our veteran correspondent writes that in the cold-eyed calculus of economics, China is more vulnerable to a trade war than officials admit. Heres blow-by-blow account of what has transpired so far.And in our news podcast, The Daily, pro-Trump farmers worry about the effect on U.S. agriculture._____ Beijings strong grip is also evident in the religious sphere.The government has banned online retailers from selling the Bible, a move in step with recent efforts to limit the influence of Christianity.The recent reorganization of Chinas governmental agencies put a hard-line faction in charge of the Communist Partys religious policy, and there are concerns that a broader crackdown may be looming._____ Its not quite twilight for fossil fuels.The world added more power from solar than any other energy source last year, and the price is dropping. But solar still accounts for a tiny fraction of total electricity  coal is still the king.The same country that leads the world in renewable-energy investment  in solar, wind, biomass and geothermal  also leads the coal consumption. Yes, China (by far)._____ Sumo wrestling, which does not allow women in the ring, is under scrutiny in Japan after a nurse doing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and others were shooed away from a mayor who collapsed while giving a speech.In a country that consistently ranks low among developed countries on gender equality in health, education, the economy and politics, the episode was seen as a metaphor for how Japan regards women  even if theyre trying to save a life. Plaintiffs in a lawsuit against Harvard are demanding that the university publicly release admissions data, saying that the records show a pattern of discrimination against Asian-Americans going back decades. Myanmar slammed Mark Zuckerberg. Civil society groups said the Facebook chief mischaracterized his companys effectiveness at quashing hate speech in the country. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. A judge has made the settlements public. Bumble and Tinder, two of the worlds most popular dating apps, are not compatible. U.S. stocks were up. The Shanghai stock exchange is closed today. Heres a snapshot of global markets. She slept in a car. She visited a gun range. This is how Nasim Najafi Aghdam spent her final day before she went to YouTubes headquarters, shot three people and killed herself. [The New York Times] India is finalizing the $6 billion purchase of a Russian missile defense system, a deal that would force the Trump administration to choose between punishing India for violating U.S. sanctions on Russia  or granting an exemption to preserve their relationship. [The New York Times] A South Korean university is seeking to end a boycott by some of the worlds top artificial intelligence experts, insisting that its partnership with an arms company would stop short of making autonomous lethal weapons. [BBC] The Bollywood star Salman Khan was sentenced to five years in prison and fined for killing rare antelopes. Mr. Khans lawyers said they would appeal, extending a 20-year legal battle. [The New York Times] Vietnam sentenced Nguyen Van Dai, a human rights lawyer, to 15 years, along with five other activists who were given prison terms between seven and 12 years. [Reuters] Spain is aghast after footage of what appeared to be a public spat between Queen Sofa of Spain and her daughter-in-law, Queen Letizia, spread on social media. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: This weekend, plan to make a batch of one-pot meatballs and sauce. Can coffee  rev up your workout? Distracted by  Facebook Messenger, or just worried about its intrusions into your phone? Heres how to uninstall. The question at the Masters: Will Tiger Woods be the golf champion of old? We have live scores, updates and analysis. Inseparable is Yunte Huangs history of the original Siamese twins, from their childhood in Asia to their servitude in America to their eventual life of Southern comfort. (They fathered at least 21 children.) And  the pairing of astronomers algorithms for star-hunting with drones equipped with infrared cameras offers a new way to aid conservation and fight poaching.Who was the first person to reach the North Pole? The answers more complex than you might expect.The American explorer Admiral Robert Peary, above, claimed that he and his party reached the top of the world on this day in 1909.They sent the news by cable when they reached the nearest wireless station, in September of the same year. The Times ran it on the front page: Peary Discovers the North Pole After Eight Trials in 23 Years.Mr. Peary would go down in the history books as the first man to set foot at the North Pole.The only problem? A week earlier, The New York Herald credited Pearys rival, Frederick Cook, with the feat. He claimed to have reached the pole almost a year before, on April 21, 1908.Peary had supporters including The Times and the National Geographic Society, and it was his name that has mostly appeared in textbooks. A re-examination of his records in 1988 cast doubt on his account.True or false, the mens rival claims have bound them together. As one researcher said: Peary and Cook are like Siamese twins. If you separate them, you lose some vital parts of each.Anna Schaverien contributed reporting._____Correction:  Thursdays briefing misstated Arthur Murrays birthday. It was April 4, 1895, not April 5._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
HONG KONG   Most Asian stock markets turned higher Friday as investors brushed off initial worries about the Trump administration\'s latest threats of yet more tariffs on Chinese imports, indicating concerns were easing about a brewing trade battle between the world\'s two biggest economies.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index edged 0.1 percent higher to 21,672.94 while South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 2,427.21. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 crept 0.1 percent higher to 5,783.40 and Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng jumped 1.1 percent to 29,852.93 after trading resumed following a holiday as investors caught up with the previous day\'s global gains. Singapore\'s share index rose while Indonesia\'s fell. Mainland Chinese markets remained closed for a holiday.TRADE TIFF: In an announcement that came after U.S. stock trading closed Thursday, President Donald Trump instructed the U.S. trade representative to consider slapping an extra $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods. The surprise move was a further escalation of the deepening trade dispute between the world\'s two biggest economies, which just days earlier announced plans for $50 billion in import duties on each other\'s goods. The tariff threats had roiled financial markets but they had rebounded by Thursday on investor hopes the U.S. and China indicated would find a diplomatic solution.MARKET INSIGHT: The latest Trump tariff announcement means the "trade war rhetoric is unlikely to leave the picture anytime soon," said Stephen Innes, head of Asian trading at OANDA. "With the seismic shifts in sentiment this week the last thing this market needs is more confusion."WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended higher. The S&P 500 index climbed 0.7 percent to 2,662.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1 percent to 24,505.22. The Nasdaq composite added 0.5 percent to 7,076.55.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude fell 34 cents to $63.20 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 17 cents to settle at $63.54 a barrel on Thursday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, lost 31 cents to $68.02 per barrel in London.CURRENCIES: The dollar slipped to 107.25 yen from 107.40 yen The euro rose to $1.2245 from $1.2241.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: During five trips to Iraq, Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State, gathering more than 15,000 pages of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Weve just published the results of our yearlong investigation. It shows that ISIS, known for its brutality, was also effective at wielding power through paperwork. Heres a closer look at some of the documents we collected, including tax collection forms, religious edicts and the will of a suicide bomber.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which follows our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covers the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here. Separately, President Trump wants to bring home the 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria. He dropped plans for an immediate withdrawal, but instructed military commanders to wrap up the mission within a few months. The latest dispute between the U.S. and China has been defined by reciprocity, with each side announcing matching tariffs.But if things continue to escalate, Beijing will have less room to maneuver and could resort to more unconventional measures, our senior economics correspondent writes.For now, the White House is trying to calm fears of a possible trade war. Administration officials hinted on Wednesday that tariffs outlined earlier in the week might never go into effect, but reiterated that China must stop what President Trump calls unfair trading practices. Heres how the showdown could affect U.S. manufacturers. Our correspondent in Mexico spoke with some of the Central American migrants cited by President Trump to justify sending troops to the southern border. (The caravans have also excited the conservative news media.)The group of more than 1,000 people, mostly women and children, is fleeing violence and poverty, but its members face an uncertain future. Who wants to leave their country, the comfort of their home, their families? one asked. White House officials confirmed plans on Wednesday to mobilize the National Guard to the border with Mexico, but gave few details about timing, the number of troops or their mission there. The countrys top court ruled today that former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva can be sent to prison while he appeals his conviction on corruption and money laundering charges.Mr. da Silva, 72, who was president from 2003 to 2011, was sentenced last year to almost 10 years in prison. His chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff, was removed from office in 2016. Mr. da Silva is the front-runner in the presidential election in October, and the courts decision raises questions about the legitimacy of the vote. Facebook said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm, far more than an earlier estimate of 50 million.The companys chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is scheduled to testify to Congress next week. Heres a guide to our coverage of the Cambridge Analytica story. Thousands of Google employees are urging their chief executive to end the companys involvement in a Pentagon program to improve the targeting of drone strikes. You cant be serious! That was the response of Sinclair Broadcast Groups chairman to criticism of a script about media bias that dozens of TV anchors at its stations were instructed to read out. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly and his lawyers worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. Now a judge has made the settlements public. U.S. stocks were up on Wednesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Flying somewhere? Take advantage of the changes at airports. How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry, with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Cambridge Analyticas parent company apparently helped Rodrigo Duterte win the Philippine presidential election, our former Europe Morning Briefing writer, Patrick Boehler, noted on Twitter. [South China Morning Post] As a onetime employee of Blockbuster Video, I was tickled to learn that a video store in Bend, Ore., is still operating under the name of the chain.Its the last one in the lower 48 states (there are six others in Alaska), and how they continue to do business is fascinating. [GeekWire] Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science Putting out a yearbook after a school shootingAfter the deadly attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High in February, the staff of the Aerie, the schools yearbook, had to decide how to honor the 17 people who died.This has to be remembered for the rest of our lives, one of the yearbooks editors told our reporter. Best sellers, via the Oval OfficePresidents past, present and future are represented on the latest hardcover nonfiction best-seller list.It includes a collection of Obama-era photographs, an inside account of the Trump White House, a book about the meaning of faith by former President Jimmy Carter, and an open letter to whoever becomes the first female president. Are you a teacher?We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think about the protests over pay and benefits, and what conditions are like at your school. Best of late-night TVMike Myers  in the form of his Austin Powers character Dr. Evil  told Jimmy Fallon that the wall between the U.S. and Mexico was actually his idea. Except, I wanted it to be a moat, filled with spiky blowfish. Quotation of the dayTariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating. Eswar Prasad, a professor of international trade at Cornell University, on the risk of a full-blown trade war between the U.S. and China. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. His mission, he said, was to use dance to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.As a tall, gangly boy from the Bronx, he discovered in high school that he had a flair for dancing and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night. He eventually turned the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming, and he had a weekly variety TV program, The Arthur Murray Party. That way, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, he  once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
MANILA   A decision by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to shut the holiday hotspot of Boracay, which he has called a "cesspool", prompted airlines to cut flights on Thursday, as hotels prepared for cancellations and businesses appeared resigned to a move the government said was non-negotiable.Duterte late Wednesday ordered the closure of Boracay for six months from April 26 in a bid to rescue from ruin a once idyllic island that drew 2 million tourists and generated over a billion dollars in revenue last year.Domestic airlines offered customers full refunds or flights elsewhere, but said they would still operate a limited number of flights to Boracay\'s gateways, Caticlan and Kalibo, to serve residents, which number about 50,000.Cebu Pacific, Philippine Airlines and AirAsia Philippines said they would scale down services to the two airports from April 26 to Oct. 25, and add more to other popular beach and dive destinations, including Cebu, Palawan and Bohol.Cebu Pacific, the dominant domestic carrier, said it cancelled 14 daily round-trip flights and anticipated a loss of $3 million to $5 million (2.1 million to 3.6 million) over the six months. The government this week estimated the closure could shave 0.1 percent off 2018 GDP.Discovery World Corp, which operates a lavish 88-room resort in Boracay, said the closure would have a significant impact on its financial health, citing the resort\'s large contribution to revenue. The company\'s shares dropped as much as 7.5 percent on Thursday.The government made it clear it was ready to take a temporary hit on tourism."We have to swallow the bitter pill if we wish to sustain and protect the island of Boracay," Frederick Alegre, assistant secretary for tourism, told a news conference. "It is a temporary setback but we will recover the glory days of Boracay."Located off the northern tip of the central island of Panay, Boracay\'s white sand, lively nightlife and abundant water sports are a constant draw for visitors. In recent years, growing numbers of Asian visitors, particularly from China, have been straining the resources of beach resorts in countries like Philippines and Thailand.CATALOGUE OF BREACHESSince February, Philippine officials have been scrambling to inspect the island and record a catalogue of construction and permit breaches after Duterte, in one of his trademark public outbursts, said Boracay\'s turquoise waters smelled "of shit" because sewage was ending up in the sea.He has vented fury at an explosion of unlicensed developments on the crowded 10-square-kilometre (4-sq-mile) island, including encroachments on forest and beach land. So far, the authorities have found 948 illegal structures, half of which they aim to destroy during the closure.The government has yet to provide specifics about the rehabilitation, but Epimaco Densing, assistant secretary of the interior, on Thursday said a soft opening could take place within 3-4 months, after drainage systems were fixed and illegal structures dismantled.Priorities, officials said, were overhauls to roads, sewage treatment and waste disposal facilities to handle about 90 to 115 tons of waste a day, of which only 30 tons is brought out off the island, according to the interior ministry.The local tourism industry has urged a delay to the planned closure and a gradual introduction, something the authorities say cannot work.Boracay Foundation Inc, the largest business group on the island, was meeting on Thursday to discuss its response to the closure.Jose Clemente, president of the Tourism Congress of the Philippines, said businesses needed time to adjust."We are a bit depressed right now," he said.  "I really feel for the people in Boracay," he added. "They really need to find ways to be employed, or at least keep their head above water for the next six months."The government said it will have a 2 billion peso ($38.4 million) "calamity fund" to try to help an estimated 30,000 people on Boracay whose livelihoods depend on tourism, directly and indirectly.The impact on hotels and resorts has yet to be fully assessed. Boracay, one of 7,300 islands in the archipelago nation, hosts 1,800 businesses, including global hotel chains like Shangri-La and Movenpick, and locally listed companies Megaworld Corp and Manila Water.Karl Chusuey, vice president for marketing at Henann Group, which operates one of Boracay\'s largest resorts, said it was receiving cancellations, which "were as expected". A representative of Shangri-La said it would issue a statement later, while a source at the Savoy Hotel said it was receiving a lot of re-bookings for when the island reopens.Discovery World said it had started to refund customer deposits, rebooking them to future dates or to its resort on the island of Palawan.Some large operators welcomed the closure, saying it would create a more sustainable tourism environment, and make it easier to complete ongoing construction work."It\'s good for us because it means a better Boracay after six months," said Monica Salomon, president of Global Estate, a subsidiary of Megaworld Corp, which is behind the 140-hectare Boracay Newcoast project.(Additional reporting by Jamie Freed in SINGAPORE; Writing by Martin Petty; Editing by Philip McClellan)
LEGRENA, Greece   Dressed all in black and preparing his diving gear with loud zips and clicks, George Sarelakos looks like he\'s part of a Greek naval operation ready to storm an island or take down smugglers.He\'s not  but he and four other volunteer divers do have a challenging mission: Clearing the plastic trash from the sea floor that\'s suffocating Greece\'s marine life.In a heavy rain, they struggle to clamber off the rocks along a stretch of coast south of Athens favored by day-trippers looking for a nice place to swim within driving distance of the Greek capital."Most beaches are clean because they\'re tidied up by municipalities. But the big problem is on the seabed. It\'s is like a garbage dump," Sarelakos said.In January, the European Union launched a major campaign to reduce plastic waste across its 28 member states.Greece starts the 12-year program with major disadvantages: An alarming rate of single-use plastic consumption, a waste management system largely neglected during a decade-long financial crisis and the longest coastline in the EU  nearly double the length of India\'s.Within an hour, Sarelakos and his rubber-suited companions bring up large clumps of garbage, mostly old tires, tied into bundles with rope. A curious dolphin inspects their work before darting off to a nearby fish farm."All this is death for sea life. It\'s a problem that most people are totally unaware of," Sarelakos says.In a 2015 study, researchers trawled five coastal areas in the eastern Mediterranean and found that 60 percent of the marine litter detected was in the Saronic Gulf bordering greater Athens. And 95 percent of that trash was plastic, much of it single-use items like supermarket carrier bags or water and soft drink bottles.The EU plans to make all plastic packaging on the market recyclable by 2030, and wants member states to crack down on single-use plastic, with consumers using no more than 40 lightweight plastic bags annually by 2025.A few countries have already zoomed past that target: Finns on average use just four plastic bags a year. But for Greeks  now accustomed to sipping coffee out of plastic cups using plastic straws and with kiosk beverage coolers within easy reach of every city dweller  it\'s become part of the lifestyle. They use 296 bags per year, according to the EU Commission.Local surveys suggest the number is even higher.Greek stores began charging for plastic bags on Jan. 1  a relatively small step for a country still heavily reliant on coal-fired power plants and which is regularly fined for its large number of unregulated garbage dumps.Only 16 percent of trash is recycled here, compared with the EU\'s average of 44 percent. Nearly everything else ends up buried in trash dumps.At Fyli, the country\'s largest landfill on the outskirts of Athens, bulldozers constantly reshape mountains of garbage in a quarried hillside, squeezing out a dark liquid called leachate to leave enormous stacks of brown-coated plastic. A steady flow of garbage trucks is coordinated by loudspeaker, and their entry is accompanied by packs of seagulls ready to swoop on the fresh new trash.The site\'s environmental officer, Ioanna Kapsimali, is another volunteer diver in the Athens marine cleanups. She says it\'s impossible to contain all the plastic at the landfill."Plastic is the most difficult material, given its chemical composition," she said, noting that it\'s so light it can be blown away by the wind and end up in the sea. "That happens with quite a large amount (of plastic). It causes problems because the plastic breaks up and is ingested by fish, birds and other animals."Pieces of trash, including bottle caps and cigarette lighters, end up in the stomachs of birds and marine creatures, who are also often tangled in plastic nets.A few lucky creatures end up at Maria Ganoti\'s animal clinic in Athens. The director of the Greek Wildlife Care Association recently treated an injured seagull."We\'ve had cases where animals have died and in the autopsy we find plastic items in the stomach, usually pieces of synthetic rope, which had been mistaken for a worm or a small snake," Ganoti said, speaking over the loud squawk of injured birds."If the animal swallows a large piece of plastic, it doesn\'t get broken down. It takes up space in the stomach and at some point . it will starve to death."According to pollution activists, Greeks are largely unaware of their country\'s plastic problem because bathing water quality remains high in most parts of the country and most of the pollution is not visible.But visit a Greek shoreline not used by swimmers and that picture can quickly change.Conservationists say the Kolovrechtis Marsh north of Athens is threatened by a trifecta of environmental assaults: plastics washing up on its shores, fertilizers used by surrounding farms, and waste from nearby factories that include a ferronickel plant. The trash ending up at the small, protected nature spot endangers the nearly 200 types of birds found there, including hawks, herons and green-headed wild ducks.On a three-hour trash collection with volunteers and municipal workers, plastics were cleared from a small strip of beachfront on the edge of the marsh  including 3,476 plastic bottles and 549 plastic bags.Spanish volunteer Fran Vargas joined the effort, digging into the sand with his hands to pull out buried plastic bags. Nearly everything he found was single-use plastic."We know that no matter how much garbage we collect, it will always be a fraction of what is going into the sea," he said. "So this is about making a point: That this is a big, big problem and that we need to stop  now."__
The conversation started over a fence dividing two backyards. On one side, an ecologist remarked that surveying animals is a pain. His neighbor, an astronomer, said he could see objects in space billions of light years away.And so began an unusual partnership to adapt tools originally developed to detect stars in the sky to monitor animals on the ground.The neighbors, Steven Longmore, the astronomer, and Serge Wich, the ecologist, both of Liverpool John Moores University in England, made their backyard banter a reality that may contribute to conservation and the fight against poaching.The scientists developed a system of drones and special cameras that can record rare and endangered species on the ground, day or night. Computer-vision and machine-learning techniques that help researchers study the universes oldest and most distant galaxies can now be used to find animals in video footage.Claire Burke, an astrophysicist at the university now leading the project, presented the teams latest findings at the European Week of Astronomy and Space Science on Tuesday.Keeping track of elusive animals, especially those that are endangered, isnt trivial. First, it takes time and money to conduct manual counts on the ground or to shoot photos from planes in the sky. With video, cheaper drones and software, identifying animals has become more efficient.But cameras made for daylight can miss animals or poachers moving through vegetation, and the devices dont work at night. Infrared cameras can help: Dr. Wich had been using them for decades to study orangutans.These cameras yield large amounts of footage that cant be analyzed fast enough. So what do animals and stars have in common? They both emit heat. And much like stars, every species has a recognizable thermal footprint.They look like really bright, shining objects in the infrared footage, said Dr. Burke. So the software used to find stars and galaxies in space can be used to seek out thermal footprints and the animals that produce them.To build up a reference library of different animals in various environments, the team is working with a safari park and zoo to film and photograph animals. With these thermal images  and theyll need thousands  theyll be able to better calibrate algorithms to identify target species in ecosystems around the world.The experts started with cows and humans in England. On a sunny, summer day in 2015, the team flew their drones over a farm to see if their machine-learning algorithms could locate the animals in infrared footage.For the most part, they could.But accuracy was compromised when drones flew too high, cows huddled together, or roads and rocks heated up in the sun. In a later test, the machines occasionally mistook hot rocks for students pretending to be poachers hiding in the bush.Last September, the scientists honed their tools in the first field test in South Africa. There, they found five Riverine rabbits in a relatively small area. These shy rodents are among the worlds most endangered mammals. Only a thousand have ever been spotted by people.The tests helped the scientists calculate an optimal height to fly the drones. The team also learned that animals change shape in real time (rocks dont) as drones fly over. And the researchers found that rain, humidity and other environmental, atmospheric and weather conditions can interfere with proper imaging.The scientists are refining their system to account for these issues. And in two years, Dr. Burke said, they plan to have a fully automatic prototype ready for testing. Within five years, she hopes to sell systems at cost  today, just around $15,000.In the meantime, these astro-ecologists are also working with search and rescue groups to help find people lost at sea or in fog. And starting in May, they will collaborate with conservation groups and other universities to look for orangutans and spider monkeys in the dense forests of Malaysia and Mexico, as well as for river dolphins in Brazils murky Amazon River.
WASHINGTON  After months of fraught negotiations and stalled talks, the Trump administration is aiming to announce a preliminary deal on the North American Free Trade Agreement this month, moving to resolve one trading conflict as a separate clash with China looms.A final agreement is far from guaranteed, but the White House is revising some of its more aggressive demands, particularly related to automobiles, which had been a source of tension with Canada and Mexico. A new proposal would require an automobile to contain components made by workers earning a specific wage level to qualify for Naftas preferential tariffs. The administration had previously demanded that vehicles contain a large percentage of auto parts produced in the United States.The new proposal is aimed at stopping United States automakers from shifting production to Mexico in search of cheap labor, according to people familiar with the plan.President Trump, who earlier this week called Nafta an embarrassment, said at an event in West Virginia on Thursday that a deal could be announced shortly. Were working very hard on Nafta with Mexico and Canada, he said. Well have something I think fairly soon.Mr. Trump said that his aides were pushing to have something concrete finished before next weeks Summit of the Americas in Peru but that a quick deal was not assured.They said, Oh, lets have Nafta before. I said, Dont rush it. Well take it nice and easy, get it done right or well terminate it, the president said.The talks, which appeared to be on the brink of collapse just a few months ago, kicked back into gear in recent weeks as political and practical realities prompted a newfound urgency among American negotiators. For a revised Nafta to be approved by the current Republican-controlled congress, the Trump administration would probably have to finalize it before the end of May to allow time for congressional review given the House and Senate calendar.Other trade tensions helped jump-start the discussions, including the administrations new steel and aluminum tariffs. The White House temporarily exempted Canada and Mexico from the tariffs through May 1, saying it would make those exemptions permanent if the three nations could agree to a revised Nafta. The administration must now make good on that promise and negotiate a deal that would allow key allies to continue importing metals into the United States. Canada is a top supplier of metal to the United States military.A quick resolution would also allow negotiators to bypass complications stemming from the upcoming Mexican elections on July 1, which appear likely to usher in a left-leaning president who has sharply criticized Mr. Trump over his broadsides against Mexico. And the White House could promote a revised Nafta as a political win ahead of the congressional midterm elections in November, while giving the presidents top trade advisers room to turn their attention to resolving a potential trade war with China, which has  fired back against American trade actions with punitive measures of its own.White House trade advisers are meeting with their Mexican and Canadian counterparts in Washington this week to try to hammer out areas of consensus on the most difficult issues of the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland of Canada and Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo of Mexico were expected to kick off trilateral talks on some of the pacts thorniest issues over dinner in Washington on Thursday night.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada struck an optimistic note on Thursday, saying the countries were having a very productive moment, a sharp change in tone from previous comments about a Nafta resolution.We are in a moment where we are moving forward in a significant way,, Mr. Trudeau said. Hopefully there will be some good news coming.He is expected to attend the two-day Summit of the Americas in Peru next week, alongside Mr. Trump and President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico.Yet hurdles remain, including how far the United States is willing to go in surrendering many of its negotiating goals, given Mr. Trumps frequent and vocal criticism of Nafta. Negotiating partners are still waiting to see whether the United States will compromise on the tough requests it has made over the past eight months of negotiations. Many of those demands, including those linked to American auto production, have angered business groups and lawmakers, who say such requirements would actually hurt companies and workers by shifting more manufacturing out of the United States.A quick resolution would necessitate concessions from the Trump administration, potentially resulting in a deal not significantly different from the one Mr. Trump has denounced as a travesty and embarrassment.Unless the United States is quite a bit more flexible, I dont see how its possible to have a quick agreement, even just an agreement in principle, said Antonio Ortiz-Mena, a senior vice president at the Albright Stonebridge Group and a former Mexican diplomat in the United States.Some concessions appear to be in the offing. The United States has now backed away from a proposal that would require half of the value of an automobile to be manufactured in the United States to qualify for Naftas preferential tariffs. Instead, it is proposing a system that would require a certain proportion of auto parts to be made by workers earning certain wages.That proposal is likely to be more palatable to Canada and could also encourage Mexico to ultimately pay higher wages. And it could help Mr. Trump court the votes of congressional Democrats, who complain that Mexicos low wages are the reason companies have relocated auto production from the United States.Still, the proposal is likely to face opposition from Mexican negotiators, given that their current wage scales are too low to qualify. And some auto executives also criticized the new proposal, saying it would be nearly as difficult for companies to comply with as earlier ideas, and could ultimately push manufacturing out of North America to cheaper areas.Other key areas of dispute also remain: Negotiators have so far concluded work on only six of the trade agreements roughly 30 chapters, and little progress has been made on contentious issues like mechanisms for settling trade disputes or rules for government purchases.Yet the renewed push to revise Nafta could usher in an agreement that until recently seemed at risk of collapse. Both supporters and critics of the Trump administration have pointed to the trade deal that the United States recently concluded with South Korea at the end of March as a possible precedent. Mr. Trump fiercely criticized that pact, but in the end his administration declared victory after renegotiating fairly modest changes.Labor unions, which have backed Mr. Trumps plan to dramatically remake trade policy, were disappointed with that deal, which did not include changes to labor standards, investment rules or content requirements for automotive manufacturing.You see what you get if your priority is speed over quality, said Celeste Drake, trade and globalization policy specialist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A quick deal thats not a good deal  is that what the administration wants to sell in these next few months? Or is it really looking to take the time it needs to get a good deal?Even an agreement in principle would not rule out the possibility of months or years of wrangling over an eventual deal. Patrick Leblond, senior fellow at the Center for International Governance Innovation, noted that Canada and Europe signed an agreement in principle for a trade pact in the fall of 2013, but that the final deal did not come into effect until September 2017, after almost being derailed.As trade negotiators repeatedly point out, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, Mr. Leblond said.
The art tour kept getting interrupted. Diego Boneta, the sleepy-eyed charmer from shows including Scream Queens and Pretty Little Liars, was padding through the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City, expounding on the sweeping murals by Diego Rivera and David Alfaro Siqueiros.Well, he was trying to. Every 100 feet or so, a female fan  some were in their teens, others in their 50s  would cut in, diffidently asking for a selfie with this former teen idol from Mexico City.Diego, me regalas una foto?Each time, the stubble-faced singer and actor, looking Los Angeles casual in a rust-colored Ermenegildo Zegna sweater, jeans and Tom Ford sneakers, would amiably toss his arm around their shoulders, strike a cover-boy smile and punctuate the encounter with a gentle hug, looking every bit the conquering hero in his hometown.After a decade in Hollywood, Mr. Boneta, a former telenovela star and Mexican pop singer, has ridden his hazel-eyed looks and star-spangled accent to a new status: an all-American heartthrob to watch.After his Hollywood film debut as a Michigan-bred headbanger in the 2012 hair-metal musical Rock of Ages, alongside Tom Cruise, Mr. Boneta, 27, has three movies in the pipeline for this year, including The Titan, a science fiction thriller starring Sam Worthington.And he just completed a nine-month shoot for his weightiest role yet, playing the title role in the highly anticipated big-budget mini-series Luis Miguel, the Series, from Telemundo and Netflix, which debuts on April 22.The 13-episode show, an authorized biography of the Mexican superstar Luis Miguel (Latin Americas latter-day equivalent to Frank Sinatra), is an unflinching tell-all that serves up a series of bombshells from the tangled past of the fiercely private singer known as El Sol de Mxico.So is Mr. Boneta a Hollywood star in Mexico, or a Mexican star in Hollywood? And how does it still even matter?I dont consider myself 50-50, Mr. Boneta said. Im 100 percent Mexican and 100 percent American.On this balmy spring afternoon when the city was a sea of purple jacaranda blossoms, Mr. Boneta was still trying to decompress after an exhausting shoot in which, among other things, he was tasked with performing Luis Miguels famous vocal pyrotechnics himself. (Hes belting high Cs in almost every single song, Mr. Boneta said. High Cs are what Pavarotti used to do.)To reacquaint himself with a city he moved away from at 16, Mr. Boneta decided to spend the day as a tourist, checking out the famous murals festooning the grand buildings of the Centro Histrico.I love, love, love, love history, and art, Mr. Boneta said, pausing at top of the main staircase of the Palacio Nacional, the seat of Mexicos federal executive branch, to ruminate on the Spanish conquest of the Aztecs in the 16th century, as depicted in the massive Diego Rivera mural The History of Mexico, which soared above him.When the Spaniards came to conquer Mexico, there were only 550 Spaniards, Mr. Boneta said. The Aztec city was the most populated city in the world back then, almost a million people. Five hundred fifty Spaniards did not conquer Mexico. It was because they allied with the other tribes that hated the Aztecs.Thats how they conquered Mexico, he said. Mexicans conquered Mexico.In his own way, Mr. Boneta is hoping to do the same with Luis Miguel.Hes mindful of how Mexico has been portrayed abroad. Right now in the papers, you just read the negative stuff about Mexico, Mr. Boneta said, of the countrys drug violence. It really upsets me, because thats not everything Mexico is.Thats actually one of my favorite things about the show, he said. Its the first big Latin show that doesnt have anything to do with narcos. Its a success story of the biggest Latin singer of all time.Taking a moment to reflect, Mr. Boneta said that it seemed vaguely cosmic to be talking about Luis Miguel at the palace. A short stroll away, Mr. Boneta said, he had first tasted fame at age 12, performing Mr. Miguels La Chica Del Bikini Azul in front of 140,000 people in the vast public square known as El Zcalo for a Mexican equivalent of Star Search.Maybe I wasnt the best singer, but I was a performer, said Mr. Boneta, who was soon rocking stadiums and opening for Hilary Duff. I loved performing for huge crowds. Its like people jumping out of a plane to get that adrenaline rush.After the visit to the presidential palace, Mr. Boneta climbed back into an armored Chevrolet Suburban flanked by two bodyguards (a typical mode of travel for notables and the business elite in Mexico, he said) and headed for lunch at El Cardenal, a venerable restaurant nearby that offers traditional dishes like escamoles (fried ant larvae).The actor smiled as he scooped a generous spoonful over guacamole to form a taco. Mexican caviar, he said. Very buttery.Dangling around his neck was an escapulario (a gold religious medallion) that belonged to a grandfather he never met, Otto Boneta, who was a songwriter and a psychiatrist. (Pope Francis blessed the medallion, Mr. Boneta said, when he performed alongside others during a papal visit to Mexico City in 2016.)The music gene, it seems, skipped generations. Mr. Bonetas parents, Lauro Gonzlez and Astrid Boneta, are engineers. (His younger siblings, Natalia and Santiago, are studying at Duke University.)Im the black sheep, he said.Indeed, Mr. Boneta left school in fifth grade, and starred in a string of youth-oriented telenovelas, including Alegrijes y Rebujos and Rebelde, a Glee-style drama about a group of anthem-belting private school students. During his tenure on that show, Mr. Boneta also cut his first album, Diego, which included the hit single Responde.(Looking to capitalize on his rising profile from Scream Queens, he released a bilingual EP in 2015 that included a Gene Vincent-style roots rocker single, The Hurt, sung in English.)There are no child labor laws here, he said. I was working Monday through Sunday, probably 17 to 18 hours a day sometimes. Christmas was a half-day off.When Mr. Boneta was 16, the family moved to Los Angeles, in part to be closer to Hollywood. While he found no shortage of work, he learned that there was not much of a pipeline for Mexican actors.As the #OscarsSoWhite movement showed, many obstacles remain. While Latinos comprise 18 percent of the population of the United States, Latino actors account for only about 3 percent of the speaking roles in American films, according to a 2017 study released by the Media, Diversity, & Social Change Initiative at USC Annenberg.But Latino actors, he said, also lack a support network. In Hollywood, I have a lot of Australian friends, and theyll have their Aussie friends sleep on their couch, he said. I was in a movie with Sam Worthington, and he was telling me stories about how he had helped the Hemsworth brothers, and before that, Russell Crowe helped him. Same thing with the Brits  the wider the door, the more we fit through. Its a different mentality.On the positive side, three Mexican directors have won four out of five of the most recent Academy Awards for Best Picture: Alfonso Cuarn in 2013, Guillermo del Toro this year, and Alejandro G. Irritu two years in a row.The Mexican directors are killing it right now, he said. Mexican actors should be, too.It is an open question whether Luis Miguel will enhance Mr. Bonetas Hollywood clout to the point that he brings along other Latino hopefuls in his wake.Although the show is in Spanish, that is hardly a deal killer in the streaming landscape of 2018, where foreign shows like Narcos (bilingual, with subtitles) and Dark, (German, available with dubbed English or subtitles) have become binge-watch favorites for Americans on Netflix  a point likely not lost on the very Hollywood producer of Luis Miguel, Mark Burnett (The Voice, Survivor).Mr. Miguel himself has global appeal in Spain, Italy and even China, Mr. Boneta said, in addition to the sizable market in the United States. And the story is familiar turf to fans of no-holds-barred music biopics like Walk the Line and Ray.On the one side, youve got the Wolf of Wall Street party scenes, Mr. Boneta said. The fame, sex and the excess, the drugs, mixed with a really dark family drama.If nothing else, the meaty role promises to vault Mr. Boneta far beyond the teen-idol trap.Looking ahead in his own career, Mr. Boneta said, he looks to Tom Cruise, who remains a mentor, as an inspiration.One of the best pieces of advice he gave me is, Set your goal and work backward, Mr. Boneta said. If you want to be a big action star, you have to learn how to ride motorcycles, fly planes and learn to do your own stunts.Come to think of it, Diego Boneta, action star has a nice ring to it. A short-term goal that I have, and I know this may sound cheesy, is being the first Latin Marvel superhero, whose character isnt necessarily Latin, he said.Black Panther, after all, already proved that a nonwhite superhero movie can attain blockbuster status.How about Pantera Negra? he said with a smile.
Paul Le Roux, one of the worlds least known but most prodigious criminals, emerged from the shadows this week and testified for the first time about the myriad illegal schemes he committed in his 20-year career on the wrong side of the law.In a spellbinding two-day turn as a prosecution witness, Mr. Le Roux confessed to an astonishing array of crimes. He said he had once sold missile technology to Iran, shipped guns from Indonesia, and trafficked methamphetamines out of North Korea. He calmly told a jury in New York that he had taken part in at least five murders. With a businesslike demeanor, he admitted not only to arming a 200-man militia in Somalia but also to hatching plans to use mercenaries to overthrow the government of the Seychelles.When a prosecutor asked what he had smuggled over the years, Mr. Le Roux responded without affect: Cash, chemicals, drugs and gold. He said that he had also smuggled weapons and when asked to whom, he answered: Rebels, warlords, criminals  essentially anyone who had money.A South African businessman with illicit interests that spanned four continents, Mr. Le Roux recounted all of this at the murder conspiracy trial of three soldiers-of-fortune  on his payroll who stand accused of killing a Filipino real-estate agent in 2012. The agent, Catherine Lee, was shot in the face while taking two of the defendants, Adam Samia and Carl D. Stillwell, on a tour of properties near Manila, prosecutors say, after which her body was dumped on a pile of garbage. Joseph Hunter, the third defendant at the trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan, was charged with overseeing the assassination.Silver-haired and hulking in his prison-issue shirt, Mr. Le Roux spoke about Ms. Lee in his first few moments on the stand, saying he had ordered her murder because he believed she had stolen from him. I had her killed, he said matter-of-factly, adding that Mr. Hunter handled the details and that Mr. Samia and a partner did the actual work.The chilling testimony was part of Mr. Le Rouxs cooperation with the government. In late 2012, he was arrested by the Drug Enforcement Administration after being lured to Liberia. Ever since, Mr. Le Roux, 45, has been assisting the authorities in rounding up the members of his sprawling organization in an effort to reduce a possible life sentence.In 2013, he helped the D.E.A. launch a sting operation in Thailand that led to Mr. Hunters first arrest and eventual sentence of 20 years in prison. In that case, the drug agency caught Mr. Hunter and three others agreeing to murder one of its agents and an informant. Because the charges included a plot to bring cocaine to New York, the case was handled by prosecutors in Manhattan. They are also handling Ms. Lees murder, claiming it evolved from the same investigation.The trial so far has focused on the car bombs, arsons and assassinations that Mr. Le Roux employed to protect his smuggling routes  violence that was previewed so unnervingly in opening arguments on Tuesday that a juror told the judge she feared for her safety and was excused the following day.The trial has also pulled back the veil on the covert world of mercenary work. Mr. Le Roux testified that he paid his guns-for-hire $5,000 to $10,000 a month, plus expenses. He said he paid an extra $25,000 for bonus work, which he described as acts of killing and any other acts of violence.The word mercenary, he explained, means a trained person with military experience and an aggressive posture who will beat, shoot, intimidate or kill anyone on instruction.On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Le Roux said that for two years his chief mercenary was a man named David Smith who in 2008 formed a company called Echelon Associates to recruit what amounted to a private Praetorian guard. Its members traveled the globe  from Mozambique to Papua New Guinea  often using false passports and code names like Daddy Mac and Rambo to scout locations for Mr. Le Roux, watch his assets and maim or murder on his behalf.Among those murdered was Mr. Smith, Mr. Le Roux admitted. He said he had his henchman killed in 2010 after finding out that Mr. Smith was cheating him. Mr. Le Roux subsequently named Mr. Hunter his security chief.A former Army sergeant with Special Forces training, Mr. Hunter, 52, had served in the military and with two private security firms in Iraq. During the sting in Thailand, he was caught on camera boasting of the vicious acts he committed for Mr. Le Roux: how he waterboarded one man, shot a second in the hand and pitched a third  another suspected thief  overboard at sea.On Thursday, Mr. Le Roux testified that after two men on his hit team  a gunman from New Zealand and a former member of the French Foreign Legion  quit their jobs, he instructed Mr. Hunter to replace them. Mr. Hunter, emails show, reached out to Mr. Samia, a onetime Army sniper, who lived near Mr. Stillwell, a firearms instructor, in the small town of Roxboro, N.C.Flight records indicate that Mr. Samia, 43, and Mr. Stillwell, 50, flew to Manila in January 2011, where, Mr. Le Roux recalled, he supplied the men with a rifle (for long shots), a pistol (for close-range shots) and an MP5 submachine gun from a weapons warehouse he maintained. He also gave them Ms. Lees address.One month later, Mr. Le Roux said, the two men followed the plan he had concocted: posing as real-estate buyers, they lured Ms. Lee in a Toyota van into the countryside near Las Pias. Mr. Stillwell later told the D.E.A. that he was driving the van as Mr. Samia fired the pistol into Ms. Lees face.In early March, Mr. Hunter drove both men to the airport and put them on a plane, Mr. Le Roux said. Three years later, the D.E.A. tracked them down in Roxboro  with arrest warrants.
BINGHAMTON, N.Y.   Tim Tebow sure knows how to rise to the occasion.Playing his first game in Double-A ball, New York Mets\' unique minor leaguer hit a three-run homer on the first pitch he saw. The ex-football star drew a huge ovation after connecting on a frigid Thursday night for the Binghamton Rumble Ponies, who beat Portland 6-0 in their Eastern League opener."It\'s pretty special and it feels really good," a smiling Tebow said afterward. "It\'s a great day and it was a fun day, but it\'s just one day. We\'ve got to be focused on the next day."Tebow has made that impression before. He also homered last April in his first at-bat with the Class A Columbia Fireflies of the South Atlantic League.This time, the former Heisman Trophy winner at Florida and NFL quarterback sent a liner far over the fence down the right-field line as the announced crowd of 5,247 at NYSEG Stadium stood and cheered the 30-year-old outfielder.The lefty-swinging Tebow capped a five-run first inning against righty Teddy Stankiewicz, a second-round draft pick by Boston in 2013. The Sea Dogs are a Red Sox affiliate.Tebow finished 1 for 4. He grounded into a force play in the third inning, grounded out to shortstop in the fifth, and struck out swinging in the seventh."I\'m trying to improve every single day, so to get off to a good start definitely gives you confidence," Tebow said. "But baseball\'s a game where it\'s never too high, it\'s never too low. It\'s just one at-bat, just one pitch. You\'ve got to stay focused."Tomorrow will be another day where I have to improve. I\'ve got to get back in the cage and work ... on all the things that I\'ve been working on to try to improve."The frigid temperatures sent many fans home after Tebow\'s third at-bat, apparently satisfied they got what they came to see.Jeff Kellam and wife Joan, regulars from nearby Owego, stayed put until the end."I was pretty cynical," he said. "There was a picture in the paper this morning of Tim Tebow and two other unidentified players. I thought, this is going to be kind of hard for the rest of the guys. The guy that got a two-run homer (Peter Alonso)  nobody\'s going to talk about that tomorrow. I just want to be fair to the other players that have worked their way here, maybe even harder than he has."Tebow\'s performance came far from the warmth of Florida where he became a household name on the gridiron. His Double-A debut came as snowflakes wafted through the evening air and temperatures hovered in the 30s.All of the field-level box seats at NYSEG Stadium were sold on the blustery night, and although plenty of seats were empty, Tebow\'s arrival lured Mets chief operating officer Jeff Wilpon north from New York City to take a closer look at the organization\'s most unusual prospect."He\'s another ballplayer. I understand all the excitement because it\'s Tim Tebow," Wilpon said. "We look forward to having him perform and move up the system, which he\'s doing. That\'s why he\'s here  moving up the chain."He did well last year in A ball. Now, he\'s got to prove himself here and probably have to go to Triple-A at some point. "He\'s a hard worker. He\'ll do whatever he has to do to succeed."Tebow, who was not on the Mets\' 40-man major league roster, was re-assigned to the Rumble Ponies after going 1 for 18 (.056) with 11 strikeouts in seven big league exhibition games. He was hampered by a left ankle sprain and had been used solely as a designated hitter or pinch hitter.Tebow started in left field against Portland and batted seventh. He was greeted with a nice round of applause at pregame introductions. The only glitch in his debut came when he ran into a chain-link fence chasing a fly ball in foul territory along the left field line in the third inning Thursday night, but he quickly shook it off.When Tebow batted in the fifth, he worked the count full and the crowd began to chant his last name before he grounded out."Any time you have support, our entire team is feeling really good," Tebow said. "It\'s something our team really fed off."Tebow split last season, his first in the minor leagues, between a pair of Class A teams  Columbia, and St. Lucie in the Florida State League. He hit a combined .226 with eight homers and 52 RBIs in 126 games.Early in spring training, Mets general manager Sandy Alderson said he thought Tebow had the talent to make it to the big leagues. Alderson said the experiment wouldn\'t last forever, but he remained optimistic because Tebow had made "meaningful progress."Joe Pochkar, a season ticket-holder from nearby Endwell, called Tebow\'s arrival a win-win for an area along New York\'s Southern Tier that\'s been among the slowest regions of the state to recover from the financial crash a decade ago."He works very hard at his craft, and his passion and work ethic rub off on other players," he said. "It\'s more than just the ability. So he hits a buck seventy-five, if he gets all the other players with his passion and attitude and desire, it\'s fantastic.""A lot of people rag on him for doing what he\'s doing. This guy\'s positive, he\'s a nice guy, good for the community," Pochkar said. "He\'s 30. He took a long time off. Double-A separates the men from the boys. We\'ll see."Binghamton\'s unusual nickname comes from an area that bills itself as the "Carousel Capital of the World." George F. Johnson of Endicott Johnson Shoe Co. fame donated several carousels to the area, and the ponies from a handful of carousels that still remain entertain kids today.___For more AP baseball coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball

