HANOI, Vietnam   Vietnam and China on Sunday called for restraint in resolving disputes in the South China Sea.Speaking to reporters at a joint press briefing with his Chinese counterpart, Vietnamese Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh said the two countries should manage the disputes and not expand them."We propose that the two sides in the coming time should seriously implement the mutual understandings of leaders (of two countries) ... well manage disputes, do not have activities that complicate and expand disputes, respect the legitimate rights and interests of each other in accordance with international laws," Minh said.For his part, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said "settling maritime disputes is very important for the healthy and stable development of bilateral relations."Wang said the two sides "should not carry out unilateral activities that would complicate the situation and should strengthen maritime cooperation to build a healthy environment in order to reach an ultimate agreement on resolving the sea dispute, which will effectively boost the bilateral practical cooperation."China\'s top diplomat said the two countries\' current relations are on "very positive trend," and he described the two neighboring countries as "good neighbors, good comrades, good friends and good partners."Wang\'s visit comes a week after Vietnam reportedly halted a major oil drilling project in the South China Sea for the second time in a year, following pressure from China.Vietnam and China, along with four others, claim all or parts of the South China Sea, which lies on one of the world\'s busiest sea lanes and potentially sits on rich natural resources.China\'s recent increased militarization of its seven artificial islands in the South China Sea has angered some countries in the region.
SHANGHAI   China\'s Tiangong-1 space station re-entered the earth\'s atmosphere and burnt up over the middle of the South Pacific on Monday, the Chinese space authority said.The "vast majority" of the craft burnt up on re-entry, at around 8:15 a.m. (0015 GMT), the authority said in a brief statement on its website, without saying exactly where the remnants might have landed.Earlier, it had said the craft was expected to re-enter the atmosphere off the Brazilian coast in the South Atlantic near the cities of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.The United States Air Force 18th Space Control Squadron, which tracks and detects all artificial objects in Earth\'s orbit, said it had also tracked the Tiangong-1 in its re-entry over the South Pacific.It said in a statement it had confirmed re-entry in coordination with counterparts in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea and Britain.The remnants of Tiangong-1 appeared to have landed about 100 km (62 miles) northwest of Tahiti, said Brad Tucker, an astrophysicist at Australian National University."Small bits definitely will have made it to the surface," he told Reuters, adding that while about 90 percent would have burnt up in the atmosphere and just 10 percent made it to the ground, that fraction still amounted to 700 kg (1,543 lb) to 800 kg (1,764 lb)."Most likely the debris is in the ocean, and even if people stumbled over it, it would just look like rubbish in the ocean and be spread over a huge area of thousands of square kilometres."Beijing said on Friday it was unlikely any large pieces would reach the ground.The 10.4-metre-long (34.1-foot) Tiangong-1, or "Heavenly Palace 1", was launched in 2011 to carry out docking and orbit experiments as part of China\'s ambitious space programme, which aims to place a permanent station in orbit by 2023.It was originally planned to be decommissioned in 2013 but its mission was repeatedly extended.China had said re-entry would happen in late 2017, but that process was delayed, leading some experts to suggest the space laboratory was out of control.Worldwide media hype about the re-entry reflected overseas "envy" of China\'s space industry, the Chinese tabloid Global Times said on Monday."It\'s normal for spacecraft to re-enter the atmosphere, yet Tiangong-1 received so much attention, partly because some Western countries are trying to hype and sling mud at China\'s fast-growing aerospace industry," it said.(Graphic - China\'s Tiangong-1 falls from space: https://tmsnrt.rs/2JbkC4i)(Reporting by David Stanway and Wang Jing; Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in BEIJING and Alison Bevege in SYDNEY; Editing by Paul Tait and Clarence Fernandez)
HANOI   Chinese Foreign MinisterWang Yisaid on Sunday China and Vietnam should settle their disputes in the South China Sea through talks and move to jointly exploit its waters."We have agreed that settling the maritime issues is extremely important for the healthy and sustainable development of bilateral relations," he told reporters after a meeting with Vietnamese Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Pham Binh Minh in Hanoi.China claims 90 percent of the potentially energy-rich maritime territory and has been building on and militarising  rocky outcrops and reefs in its waters.Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also lay claim to parts of it, through which about $5 trillion (3.6 trillion) of trade passes each year. Vietnam is the country most openly at odds with China over the issue."The two sides should better manage disputes through talks and refrain from taking unilateral actions that may further complicate and expand the disputes," Wang said."At the same time, (the two sides) should promote cooperation at the sea, including holding talks on joint exploitation."Wang and Minh said bilateral relations had seen positive development, with rising trade and investment as the two neighbours further opened up markets to each other. Bilateral trade exceeded $100 billion last year.Minh said Vietnam and China shared responsibility to maintain peace and stability in the region, reiterating Vietnam\'s stance that the maritime disputes must be resolved peacefully manner and according to international law.(Reporting by Khanh Vu and Minh Nguyen; Editing by Andrew Roche)
SEOUL   South Korean exports grew less than expected in March, adding to worries about the outlook for global demand amid growing fears of a U.S-China trade war and a resurgence in protectionism.Booming demand for South Korean memory chips and computers across China and Europe lifted March exports, while shipments to the United States fell amid rising U.S. protectionism, resulting in a smaller trade surplus with Washington.March exports grew 6.1 percent to $51.6 billion from a year earlier, below 7.5 percent seen in a Reuters survey but outperforming a revised 3.9 percent expansion in February, government data showed on Sunday.Imports increased 5 percent to $44.7 billion, less than the 6.2 percent growth economists had expected and compared with a revised 14.9 percent in February.That resulted in a trade surplus of $6.9 billion, up from $3.2 billion in the previous month.The soft February readings were likely skewed by the long Lunar New Year holiday which fell in the middle of the month this year but in late January last year.Exports grew 10.3 percent in January-March combined from a year earlier, slower than the 14.6 percent expansion seen during the same period in 2017."Exports growth is steady, it\'s likely to continue to post single-digit expansion. But there\'s dangers of a global trade war, a downside risk to Korea exports," said Park Sang-hyun, a Seoul-based economist at HI Investment & Securities.Shipments to the United States declined 1 percent in the first 20 days of March from a year earlier even as Korean memory chips sold well, as American demand for South Korean cars were sluggish.Exports to China and the European Union jumped 16.6 percent and 24.2 percent, respectively.South Korea\'s trade surplus with the United States stood at $1.05 billion as of March this year, down by about 41.5 percent from the same time last year amid ongoing efforts by Seoul to import more from the United States in the past year.Korea\'s trade ministry data shows that a drop in car exports combined with a steady increase in imports of U.S. beef, oranges and aircraft engines have resulted in a decline in the trade surplus with the United States.The Bank of Korea expects the trade-reliant economy to expand by 3 percent this year after 3.1 percent growth in 2017, the fastest expansion since it grew 3.3 percent in 2014.However, policymakers are wary of risks to exports as the Trump administration begins rolling out a series of punitive trade measures which would hit countries such as South Korea and its biggest trading partner, China.The United States and South Korea agreed last week to revise their six-year-old free trade agreement with a side deal to deter competitive currency devaluation by Seoul and give more access for U.S. automakers and drugmakers to the South Korean market.The deal also lifted the threat of a 25 percent U.S. tariff on imports of steel from South Korea in exchange for quotas that will effectively cut U.S. imports of Korean steel by about 30 percent. Without the agreement in place, the tariffs would take effect on May 1.But President Donald Trump said on Thursday he may hold up the trade agreement reached with South Korea until after a deal is finalised with North Korea on denuclearization, increasing uncertainties for the trade outlook.(Reporting by Cynthia Kim; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)
BERLIN   China\'s defunct Tiangong 1 space station hurtled toward Earth on Sunday and was expected to re-enter the atmosphere within hours.Most of the craft should burn up on re-entry, so scientists said falling debris poses only a slight risk to people on the ground.The European Space Agency forecast that the station, whose name translates as "Heavenly Palace," will re-enter sometime between Sunday night and early Monday GMT. The Chinese space agency said it should happen during the course of Monday Beijing time.The Aerospace Corp. predicted Tiangong 1\'s re-entry would take place within 2 hours of either side of 0018 GMT Monday (8:18 p.m. Sunday EDT.)Based on the space station\'s orbit, it will come back to Earth somewhere 43 degrees north and 43 degrees south, a range covering most of the United States, China, Africa, southern Europe, Australia and South America. Out of range are Russia, Canada and northern Europe.Only about 10 percent of the bus-sized, 8.5-ton spacecraft will likely survive being burned up on re-entry, mainly its heavier components such as its engines. The chances of any one person being hit by debris are considered less than one in a trillion.Launched in 2011, Tiangong 1 was China\'s first space station, serving as an experimental platform for bigger projects, such as the Tiangong 2 launched in September 2016 and a future permanent Chinese space station.The station played host to two crewed missions and served as a test platform for perfecting docking procedures and other operations. Its last crew departed in 2013 and contact with it was cut in 2016.Since then, it has orbited gradually closer and closer to Earth on its own while being monitored.Many Western space experts think China has lost control of the station. China\'s chief space laboratory designer, Zhu Zongpeng, has denied Tiangong was out of control, but hasn\'t provided specifics on what, if anything, China was doing to guide the craft\'s return to Earth.

BEIJING   U.S. policy toward China has been misdirected for decades and policymakers are now recalibrating ties, Senator Elizabeth Warren told reporters during a visit to Beijing amid heightened trade tensions between the world\'s two largest economies.Warren\'s visit comes as U.S. President Donald Trump prepares to implement more than $50 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods meant to punish China over U.S. allegations that Beijing systematically misappropriated American intellectual property.The Massachusetts Democrat and Trump foe, who has been touted as a potential 2020 presidential candidate despite rejecting such speculation, has said U.S. trade policy needs a rethink and that she is not afraid of tariffs.After years of mistakenly assuming economic engagement would lead to a more open China, the U.S. government was waking up to Chinese demands for U.S. companies to give up their know-how in exchange for access to its market, Warren said."The whole policy was misdirected. We told ourselves a happy-face story that never fit with the facts," Warren told reporters on Saturday, during a three-day visit to China that began on Friday."Now U.S. policymakers are starting to look more aggressively at pushing China to open up the markets without demanding a hostage price of access to U.S. technology," she said.Warren discussed trade issues and North Korea with senior Chinese officials, including Liu He, the vice premier for economic policy, Yang Jiechi, a top diplomat, and the Minister of Defence Wei Fenghe.She said she told officials she met that Americans cannot support a more integrated economic system with China if it "fails to respect basic human rights".China\'s ruling Communist Party has tightened controls on society since President Xi Jinping assumed power, from online censorship to a crackdown on activists and non-governmental organizations, though Chinese officials routinely deny accusations of rights abuses.Warren also made stops in Japan and South Korea, and she said that U.S. allies in Asia were having trouble understanding Trump\'s "chaotic" foreign policy.North Korea\'s Kim Jong Un and Trump had earlier exchanged insults and veiled threats of war over North Korea\'s tests of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, but the U.S. leader made the surprising announcement last month that he was prepared to meet Kim.Warren said success for that meeting would mean getting a commitment to discuss verifiable steps to reduce North Korea\'s nuclear threat, which would require careful negotiations from a State Department whose role has been vastly diminished under Trump, with several high-profile posts unoccupied.Trump\'s efforts to "take the legs out from underneath our diplomatic corps" are a "terrible mistake", she said.(Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)
SEOUL, South Korea  He clapped and he smiled, even posing for a group photo with a K-pop band.The appearance by North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, on Sunday at a concert by South Korean musicians in Pyongyang was all the more unusual because his authoritarian government has been struggling to stave off what it sees as an infiltration of the Souths pop culture among his isolated people.But Mr. Kim shook the hands of members of South Koreas most popular girl band, Red Velvet, which he and his wife, Ri Sol-ju, watched from a balcony.After watching Red Velvet perform, Mr. Kim reportedly pronounced the event a gift for Pyongyang citizens.The two-hour show at the East Pyongyang Grand Theater was part of a political dtente between the neighboring countries as relations have thawed.It was the first time a North Korean leader watched a South Korean musical performance in the Norths capital.The performances by the South Korean troupe that flew in on Saturday with great fanfare to Pyongyang were done in the name of international diplomacy.The show occurred just weeks before Mr. Kim is scheduled to meet with South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, at a border village on April 27, and ahead of a planned summit meeting with President Trump in May.They were the first South Korean singers to perform in North Korea in more than a decade. Their visit reciprocated a North Korean art troupes performances in South Korea during its Winter Olympics in February. Mr. Moon watched one of the North Korean performances.Mr. Kim and Ms. Ri, a former singer, were among hundreds of North Koreans who filled the 1,500-seat theater to watch the South Korean singers, including older crooners, gelled rockers and K-pop starlets.On Sunday evening, thunderous clapping erupted when Mr. Kim and his wife entered the concert hall and seated themselves in a second-floor balcony, according to pool reports from South Korean journalists and officials.Attention was focused on how Mr. Kim would react to the pop singers, particularly Red Velvet. The five-member girl group is typical of South Korean girl groups  known for their chirpy, bubble-gum harmonies and sexy choreography.Their tunes are so infectious that the South Korean military has broadcast them across the border in a psychological war against North Korean soldiers. The North used to threaten to direct its artillery at the loudspeakers, warning of an all-out war if the South didnt turn them off.How things have changed.South Korean officials said the North did not attempt to reject any of the South Korean song lineup or change the pop stars lyrics or risqu dance moves.(But apparently, even North Korea had a limit to how far it would go in accepting K-pop. South Korean officials said the North had rejected their suggestion that the global star Psy, the singer famous for his Gangnam Style hit, be included in the visit.)Please tell President Moon how good this kind of exchange is. I know there has been attention to whether I will come and see Red Velvet, Mr. Kim was quoted as telling South Korean officials. I thank you for bringing this gift to Pyongyang citizens.Kim Yerim, a Red Velvet member who is known as Yeri, was quoted as saying, The audience clapped loudly and even sang along.The South Korean culture minister, Do Jong-hwan, told reporters in Pyongyang after the show that Mr. Kim showed much interest during the show and asked questions about the songs and lyrics.Mr. Kims acceptance of Red Velvet and South Korean pop culture was striking because his government has stepped up a crackdown on DVDs and computer thumb drives containing South Korean pop songs, movies and TV dramas smuggled from China, calling for establishing mosquito nets to keep out decadent capitalist influence.Defectors from the North have said that those who were caught selling or watching South Korean K-pop music videos could be sent to prison camps.Mr. Kim, who studied in Switzerland as a teenager, has tried of late to present himself as more flexible, at least among the loyal elite citizens living in Pyongyang. North Koreas Moranbong Band, often said to be Mr. Kims favorite girl group, has performed in short skirts and high heels, featuring theme songs from Hollywood films.Though it was Mr. Kims first known K-pop experience, his father, Kim Jong-il, watched a South Korean female singer perform in a provincial town in North Korea in 2001.The younger Mr. Kims appearance was part of a breakthrough after a tense international standoff spurred by Mr. Kims nuclear ambitions and his missile tests, prompting the international community to slap ever more punishing economic sanctions on his isolated country.In the past week, Mr. Kim traveled by train to pay a stealth visit to President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing.Other gestures from the North to foster the dtente have included sending athletes, cheerleaders and an art troupe to the South during the Winter Games in February. Athletes from North and South Korea also marched under a unified peninsula flag at the opening ceremony.The South Korean singers now in the North will hold a joint concert with North Korean performers on Tuesday at an indoor stadium in Pyongyang.South Koreans will see a recorded version of the concert later this week, according to local news media. Its unclear if, or when, ordinary North Koreans will be allowed to see it.
BEIJING   U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren says chaos in the Trump administration is harming its ability to formulate coherent policy toward North Korea\'s nuclear program and other important issues in Asia.Vacancies in the foreign service are undermining Washington\'s ability to advance U.S interests, Warren told reporters in Beijing on Saturday.U.S. allies, while still supportive, are "searching for information" about U.S. intentions in Asia, the Massachusets Democrat said."This has been a chaotic foreign policy in the region, and that makes it hard to keep the allies that we need to accomplish our objectives closely stitched-in," Warren said.Warren also visited South Korea and Japan during her trip to Asia.She said President Donald Trump\'s agreement to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was "rash," in the absence of Pyongyang\'s commitment to take "any steps at all to indicate that they were serious about denuclearization."On China, Warren said the U.S. needs to acknowledge Beijing\'s growing power and influence and continue to emphasize the importance of human rights within the relationship."I understand that our relationship with China is complex," Warren said. "There are areas where we have mutual interests and where we will work together to try to accomplish our shared goals. But there are also areas where we are vigorous competitors and do not have shared interests."Warren said the idea that China would more smoothly integrate with the rest of the world based on its economic growth and open markets "has been proven wrong.""And the United States is now trying to recalibrate that relationship," she said.China\'s massive surveillance system, including its control over information on smartphones and the internet, has helped it to "close off" the country, she said."We told ourselves a happy-faced story that never fit with the facts, and now ... the United States cannot avoid facing a very different reality with China," Warren said.Warren\'s visit to Northeast Asia follows the abrupt firing of Rex Tillerson as U.S. secretary of state and the Trump administration\'s continued failure to fill many crucial positions.Tillerson lost the support of many of the State Department\'s 75,000 workers over his moves to cut the budget, leave key leadership positions vacant and downplay human rights and democracy promotion as diplomatic priorities.Warren said "consistent efforts to take the legs out of our diplomatic corps" by understaffing the service stands to undermine America\'s foreign policy efforts."That\'s someone whose information, whose thoughts, whose analysis doesn\'t get put into the mix," she said.Warren said that there could be no military solution to the dispute with North Korea and that she has been told that "it will take strong economic and diplomatic efforts" to reduce the threat posed by Pyongyang.Warren didn\'t disclose details of her discussions with Beijing officials, including key economic adviser Liu He, but said "the Chinese have not deviated from their talking points."
BEIJING   China raised import duties on a $3 billion list of U.S. pork, fruit and other products Monday in an escalating tariff dispute with President Donald Trump that companies worry might depress global commerce.The Finance Ministry said it was responding to a U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum that took effect March 23. But a bigger clash looms over Trump\'s approval of possible higher duties on nearly $50 billion of Chinese goods in a separate argument over technology policy.The tariff spat is one aspect of wide-ranging tensions between Washington and Beijing over China\'s multibillion-dollar trade surplus with the United States and its policies on technology, industry development and access to its state-dominated economy.Forecasters say the immediate impact should be limited, but investors worry the global recovery might be set back if it prompts other governments to raise import barriers. Those fears temporarily depressed financial markets, though stocks have recovered some of their losses.On Monday, stock market indexes in Tokyo and Shanghai were up 0.5 percent at midmorning.Beijing faces complaints by Washington, the European Union and other trading partners that it hampers market access despite its free-trading pledges and is flooding global markets with improperly low-priced steel and aluminum. But the EU, Japan and other governments criticized Trump\'s unilateral move as disruptive.The United States buys little Chinese steel and aluminum following earlier tariff hikes to offset what Washington says is improper subsidies. Still, economists expected Beijing to respond to avoid looking weak in a high-profile dispute.Effective Monday, Beijing raised tariffs on pork, aluminum scrap and some other products by 25 percent, the Finance Ministry said. A 15 percent tariff was imposed on apples, almonds and some other goods.The tariff hike has "has seriously damaged our interests," said a Finance Ministry statement."Our country advocates and supports the multilateral trading system," said the statement. China\'s tariff increase "is a proper measure adopted by our country using World Trade Organization rules to protect our interests."The White House didn\'t respond to a message from The Associated Press on Sunday seeking comment.China\'s government said earlier its imports of those goods last year totaled $3 billion.The latest Chinese move targets farm areas, many of which voted for Trump in the 2016 presidential election.U.S. farmers sent nearly $20 billion of goods to China in 2017. The American pork industry sent $1.1 billion in products, making China the No. 3 market for U.S. pork."American politicians better realize sooner rather than later that China would never submit if the U.S. launched a trade war," said the Global Times, a newspaper published by the ruling Communist Party.Washington granted EU, South Korea and some other exporters, but not ally Japan, exemptions to the steel and aluminum tariffs on March 22. European governments had threatened to retaliate by raising duties on American bourbon, peanut butter and other goods.Beijing has yet to say how it might respond to Trump\'s March 22 order approving possible tariff hikes in response to complaints China steals or pressures foreign companies to hand over technology.Trump ordered U.S. trade officials to bring a WTO case challenging Chinese technology licensing. It proposed 25 percent tariffs on Chinese products including aerospace, communications technology and machinery and said Washington will step up restrictions on Chinese investment in key U.S. technology sectors.Trump administration officials have identified as potential targets 1,300 product lines worth about $48 billion. That list will then be open to a 30-day comment period for businesses.Beijing reported a trade surplus of $275.8 billion with the United States last year, or two-thirds of its global total. Washington reports different figures that put the gap at a record $375.2 billion.___Chinese Ministry of Commerce announcement (in Chinese with link to list of affected products): http://gss.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/zhengcefabu/201804/t20180401_2857769.html


WASHINGTON  Even for Senator Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has emerged as one of his partys most fervent critics of President Trump, the warning he issued recently that firing the special counsel could lead to the presidents impeachment was extraordinary.From what I can see, thats the only remedy, Mr. Flake said.But it is anything but clear that the long-speculated dismissal of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, would have the tectonic consequences that Mr. Flake and other Republicans and Democrats have spoken of  or any consequences at all. In truth, the fallout on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers alone may decide what happens, would probably be far messier than the swift justice that Mr. Trumps critics imagine.For months now, Democratic leaders and their aides have gamed out crisis situations during planning meetings, talking through the implications for the potential firings of not just Mr. Mueller but also the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein. But as the minority, they have little recourse without Republican support. Whether they would get it could depend in large part on what Mr. Trump and Mr. Mueller ultimately have to say.And any real repercussions for Mr. Trump may have to wait for the midterm elections, when voters decide whether to hand one chamber of Congress  or both  to the presidents opposition.I hope that my colleagues would stand up and say, This is the Saturday Night Massacre all over again; we cant go there,  Mr. Flake said in an interview, referring to the night Richard M. Nixon fired top Justice Department officials and the special prosecutor investigating him. But I am more and more concerned all the time.For now, the chances of the presidents impeachment remain remote, even though Democrats may be outspoken on the subject. I will sleep with my cellphone next to my ear, and if the word comes down that Donald Trump is taking out Sessions, taking out Mueller, taking other actions to undermine the rule of law and obstruct justice, I will be on the first plane to Washington, said Representative Luis V. Gutirrez, Democrat of Illinois and a member of the House Judiciary Committee, where impeachment proceedings would begin.It would leave this committee no choice to go ahead with impeachment hearings, he added.But Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, the Judiciary Committees chairman, have given no indication of how they would proceed, and aides say privately that Republican leaders view the possibility of Mr. Muellers firing as too improbable to warrant hypothetical discussions.Short of that, there are other options. Congress could pass a law reinstating an independent investigator in the executive or legislative branch, though Mr. Trump would have to sign it. Lawmakers could demand that Mr. Muellers evidence be turned over to Congress. They could press to censure the president. Or they could make his fate a political issue and let the voters decide in November.Republicans and Democrats do agree on one thing: Should the special counsel be ousted, the business of Congress  hearings, nominations and legislation  would screech to a stop, replaced by a painful, consequential debate over the most serious constitutional challenge in a generation.The rule of law is very dear to many of us, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. I dont think you have to be too creative to understand how damaging that would be.Mr. Trump has made no secret of his contempt for Mr. Muellers investigation into potential ties between his campaign and Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, and into possible obstruction of justice by the president himself. He ordered the firing of Mr. Mueller over the summer  before backing down.But more recently the president has shifted to a more aggressive, direct attack on the special counsel and the legitimacy of his inquiry.Under current law, Mr. Trump cannot directly fire the special counsel. Even if he ordered the Justice Department official overseeing the case  right now, the deputy attorney general  to dismiss Mr. Mueller, he would have to cite good cause. But Mr. Trump has proved willing to fire or push out other top F.B.I. officials tied to the investigation, as well as his secretary of state and his national security adviser, and could choose to remove those who objected to the order.An unleashed president has members of both parties nervous.If Mr. Mueller were fired and the investigation disbanded, of primary importance would be preserving the evidence gathered by the special counsels investigation, aides in both parties say. Congress could leverage its control of the Justice Departments nominees and purse strings to ensure its safekeeping while other matters were sorted out. Relevant committees could then call for Mr. Mueller to testify, as they weighed a path forward legislatively.But Mr. Mueller would have to be willing to share his knowledge. If he were inclined to disclose details of his investigation to Congress, many of which are not protected by grand jury secrecy, it would be very difficult, if not impossible, for Mr. Trump to stop him, legal experts said.If Mueller or members of his team are subpoenaed by Congress, and theyre willing to tell their story, then I think theres a strong likelihood that the story gets told, said Ross H. Garber, an expert in impeachment law who has represented several politicians in high-profile investigations.The spectacle of a fired special counsel  and former F.B.I. director  publicly divulging the results of his investigation would raise parallels to the Watergate hearings and raise pressure on Republicans to break rank. On top of that, a potential subpoena fight over Mr. Muellers records would add a nasty sideshow that would sap Mr. Trumps political agenda.We have to expect that all the information that Mueller and his team have discovered will ultimately be made public one way or another, Mr. Garber said.Democrats say they also fear a less dramatic outcome: In lieu of demanding the firing of Mr. Mueller, the president could replace Mr. Sessions and Mr. Rosenstein as part of what has become regular turnover in a tumultuous administration. A new attorney general could then declare that further investigation was unnecessary and dismiss Mr. Mueller on his or her own. The end result would be the same, but it could give the White House the argument that the Justice Department made the decision independently of the president, making it harder to build support for Congress to act.Without support for impeachment, Democrats say the most realistic path toward Republican cooperation would be an effort to get Mr. Mueller, or another investigator, reinstated. Options under discussion include hiring Mr. Mueller as a special congressional investigator, passing a new independent counsel law that would restore him or another trusted law enforcement figure as an executive branch employee with explicit protections from Mr. Trump, or enacting legislation that would allow Mr. Mueller to appeal his firing to a panel of judges.None of those options are a sure thing.It would be a mess, said Senator Chris Coons, a moderate Democrat from Delaware who has all but pleaded with colleagues to support a measure he has drafted with Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, giving Mr. Mueller the right to appeal his dismissal.My concern is that they would want to do the least effective thing, which is send the president a resolution of reprimand or censure, urge him to reconsider and then just sort of go sideways for a week or two, Mr. Coons added.Even if Congress passed legislation reinstating a special counsel in some fashion, it is unclear whether such a law would have teeth, and many legal experts said the legislation could almost certainly prompt a legal challenge from the White House.The more likely outcome is that the executive branch would ignore Congress, said Mr. Garber, the lawyer. And hiring Mr. Mueller as a congressional investigator would not be the same as maintaining him as a special counsel, with the F.B.I. and a grand jury at his disposal.If he has no resources, and no ability to get resources, then it doesnt seem like he can do very much, Mr. Garber said.The voters, however, would eventually have a say. Democrats have signaled that they would take a much more aggressive posture if they take the majority. Liberals say they already feel that their political base favors removing the president.Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, who stands to inherit the chairmanship under Democratic control, has resisted telegraphing what steps he would take if his party were to retake the House. But he has made clear he would not stand by idly.Should a red line be crossed, and firing the special counsel or throttling his investigation are red lines, then there would be a total sea change in the political landscape of the country, he said at a recent news conference. And at that point, all options would be on the table.
