ABUJA   Nigeria\'s former president Goodluck Jonathan was "not aware" of any attempts by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to interfere in elections in 2007 and 2015, his spokesman said on Thursday.The UK-based political consultancy is facing allegations that it improperly accessed data from social media website Facebook to target voters prior to the U.S. presidential election and Britain\'s Brexit referendum in 2016.In Nigeria, a government committee is looking into claims that SCL Elections, a Cambridge Analytica affiliate, organized rallies to dissuade opposition supporters from voting against Jonathan\'s then-ruling People\'s Democratic Party (PDP) in 2007."Goodluck Jonathan was not aware of such attempts, if there were any," said the ex-leader\'s spokesman Ikechukwu Eze in a statement."The whistleblower who originated the allegation has been consistent in associating it to an unnamed businessman, who was neither linked to the party nor to the Jonathan campaign," Eze said.The government investigation announced on Monday will also look into whether Cambridge Analytica\'s work for the election campaigns of the PDP broke Nigerian law "or infringed on the rights of other parties and their candidates".PDP candidate Umaru Yar\'Adua won the 2007 presidential ballot. He died in office in 2010 and was succeeded by his deputy, Goodluck Jonathan.Unlike in Europe and the United States, where data-privacy laws provide a level of protection to consumers, many Africans have little or no recourse if a data breach occurs because often legal and regulatory safeguards do not exist.(Reporting by Camillus Eboh; Writing by Paul Carsten; Editing by Andrew Bolton)
 Good Thursday. Heres what were watching: Jamie Dimon chafes under liquidity rules. Mark Zuckerberg has disclosed more on how much Facebook user data may have been accessed. The White House is still talking tough on trade with China. Blackstones infrastructure fund isnt doing so well.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.On Wall Street, theres been a running parlor game about whether Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chases chief executive, would try to run for president in 2020. His annual letters, filled with commentary on U.S. policy, have only increased the chatter, and this years letter, released Thursday, is no different. It touches on everything from trade to immigration. While Mr. Dimon, who once called himself barely a Democrat, says he plans to stay at the bank for the next five years, the question among political prognosticators is whether Mr. Dimons policy views could ever find a home among voters in this politically polarized environment.Mr. Dimons sensible letter was seemingly supportive of some of President Trumps policies, while taking the opposing side on others. Mr. Dimon particularly applauded the corporate tax cut and deregulation efforts. On China trade, Mr. Dimon writes: It is not unreasonable for the United States to press ahead for more equivalency, and that one of the administrations best arguments is that negotiation alone has not worked. However, he said he would like to see more cooperation with U.S. allies on talks with China and added that the U.S. should revisit the Trans-Pacific Partnership.On immigration, he called for tougher border control, writing, American citizens have the right to complain that we have not successfully protected our borders since the last immigration reform in 1986. He also said, People immigrating to this country should be taught American history, our language and our principles. At the same time, he also advocated for a path to legal status and citizenship for Dreamers and improving merit-based immigration programs so that immigrants educated here can stay.Mr. Dimon made a point of saying that part of the problems facing the country is that too many people are talking past each other.When people argue as if there are binary solutions, the argument is almost always wrong, he wrote, advocating that people try to look at all sides of a situation. I tell my liberal friends to read columnists like Arthur Brooks and George Will. And I tell my conservative friends to read writers like Tom Friedman.If Mr. Dimon were to run, he would likely have to do so as an independent. It is hard to see how liberal Democrats would embrace much of his deregulatory positions. And yet many of his positions  and especially some of his social positions not enunciated in his letter  may not be far right enough to capture the interest of Republicans.Maybe the country needs someone in the middle, but history has not been kind to third-party candidates. Andrew Ross SorkinJamie Dimon, in his annual letter to JPMorgan Chases shareholders, had much to say about political issues like trade and immigration.But he also addressed a policy area much closer to home  bank regulation. Mr. Dimon often has expressed skepticism about aspects of the banking overhaul that took place in the wake of the financial crisis. But his remarks on regulation arguably carry more weight now. Congress is closer to modifying the post-crisis rules than at any point since Dodd-Frank was signed into law in 2010. An important regulatory requirement Mr. Dimon criticized, therefore, might become a focus for those wanting to roll back the rules.Mr. Dimon in this years letter zeroed in on regulations that require banks to have a certain amount of liquidity, the financial term for access to cash or low-risk assets that can be easily sold for cash.In 2008, some large financial firms were crippled when customers, depositors and creditors withdrew their money. The Federal Reserve and taxpayers had to step in to support the banks. To help prevent a repeat of this, post-crisis rules require that banks hold a certain amount of liquid assets to cover a theoretical level of outflows. Mr. Dimon is in favor of banks having more liquidity than before the crisis, but in the letter, released Thursday, he wrote:Notably, legislation currently in Congress would tweak liquidity rules. If it passes, bankers may press for more loosening. And, as they have before, bank lobbyists may deploy Mr. Dimons main argument here  that regulation can lead to less lending. But there are flaws in this line of attack, especially when it comes to liquidity rules.First, a bank that lacks liquidity is in no position to lend. When a banks creditors and customers fear it doesnt have enough cash in reserve, they will most likely withdraw their money. This not only deprives the bank of the money it needs to lend, it also sharply reduces its chance of survival. Or as Gregg Gelzinis of the left-leaning Center for American Progress puts it, You wont be able to take this action if you fail.Perhaps more importantly, Mr. Dimon leaves out some crucial context. Congress designed the whole post-crisis overhaul to ensure that banks have the funds on hand to lend during a downturn. Dodd-Franks architects saw that when banks stop lending, it makes a recession far worse. And that is one reason why banks now have much higher levels of capital. Regulators expect that they will use up some of that capital to keep lending through the economic tumult. This is why the Federal Reserve said after its last bank stress tests:Andrew Gray, a JPMorgan spokesman, followed up with more material on Mr. Dimons thinking on liquidity.He re-emphasized Mr. Dimons point about having to tie up funds that could be used to make loans. Mr. Gray noted that a bank facing outflows would be expected to keep refilling its pool of liquid assets to be in compliance with a liquidity regulation. This would leave fewer funds for lending and making markets, Mr. Gray asserted.He also addressed the argument that higher capital levels, not liquidity, will largely determine the extent to which banks will lend through a downturn. Mr. Gray asserted that liquidity rules play an important role in ensuring banks have the resources to participate in wider financial markets. Rules forcing the hoarding of liquidity may, thus, crimp that activity. Peter EavisMick Mulvaney, the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has complained that the regulator engages in wasteful spending. He even submitted a quarterly budget request recently of $0.That attitude apparently didnt apply to two of his recent hires.Mr. Mulvaney appointed two senior staff members who are paid salaries far above what they had been earning in their previous government jobs in Washington, according to agency documents obtained by The New York Times through a public records request. Kirsten Sutton was hired in January to be the agencys chief of staff. Mr. Mulvaney agreed to pay her $259,500 a year. Her salary is the highest allowed under the consumer bureaus pay scale and represents a raise of more than 50 percent working for one of the C.F.P.B.s fiercest critics, Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. It is also 22 percent more than her predecessor. Brian Johnson is another new deputy. In late December, Mr. Mulvaney signed paperwork that awarded Mr. Johnson a salary of $239,595. Mr. Johnson previously worked on the House Financial Services Committee. In his most recent job there, as policy director, he earned about $170,000 a year, according to LegiStorm. Of the 20 people at the bureau with the title of senior adviser, Mr. Johnson is the second-highest paid. (Another adviser, whose name wasnt disclosed in the public records reviewed by The Times, is paid $240,000.)ContextThe consumer bureau, as well as fellow financial regulators like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is allowed under federal law to pay employees significantly more than other government agencies can pay. The rationale is that the higher salaries are necessary to recruit skilled employees who otherwise might land jobs on Wall Street.As a result, the C.F.P.B. is stocked with employees who earn more than the average Washington bureaucrat. Of the agencys 1,600 employees, 219 make more than $200,000, according to the records reviewed by The Times. Stacy CowleyBlackRock, the worlds largest money manager, plans to offer a series of new products allowing individuals and institutions to invest in market indexes without putting money into manufacturers and retailers of firearms.They include: a new exchange-traded fund that will track the performance of the MSCI USA Small Cap Extended ESG Focus Index, composed of small stocks with favorable environmental, social and governance standards, while specifically excluding producers and large retailers of civilian firearms. a similar credit-focused ETF that eschews the debt of gunmakers and distributors. an option to take the guns out of institutional strategies tracking major market indexes, including the S&P 500, the Russell 2000 and three others.Critics cornerRob Cox of Breakigviews writes:What emerged from Facebook yesterday  in Mark Zuckerbergs conference call with reporters and in a company blog post  were revelations that users public data was more compromised than previously thought. Facebook said Cambridge Analytica harvested the data of 87 million users, not 50 million. A vulnerability in search and account recovery functions may have exposed most of Facebooks 2 billion users to unauthorized harvesting of their public profile information.Mr. Zuckerberg, ahead of his testimony to Congress, struck a conciliatory tone. But regulators in Australia, the U.S. and elsewhere are investigating whether the company broke privacy rules.Facebook also outlined steps to prevent misuse of its platform. Among the most significant: restriction of access to so-called A.P.I.s that let developers plug into its network. The Verges take: Effectively, Facebook has put a nail in the coffin of its app platform.The most immediate effect: Tinder users couldnt log in.A brighter note for Facebook: Its shares are up in premarket trading today, after Mr. Zuckerberg said that #DeleteFacebook didnt appear to be having much effect.The Facebook calendar April 9: Alerts should start popping up for users whose information may have been shared with Cambridge Analytica. April 10: Mr. Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify before the Senates Commerce and Judiciary committees. April 11: He will testify before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Elsewhere in tech and regulation: A closer look at Margrethe Vestager, the public face of Europes tech clampdown. And the privacy advocate Max Schrems says the fight over user data has just begun.President Trump and the White House insist that the U.S. isnt in a trade war with China. But it hasnt backed off from its tariff threats, and the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said the U.S. may feel a little bit of short-term pain.More from behind the scenes, by Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT:Calming the markets has mostly fallen to Larry Kudlow, the White Houses national economic adviser of less than a week.Peter Eaviss take: We can take lessons on the U.S.-China trade skirmish from Brexit. Looking back, the panicky early reaction to that seems to have sprung more from a fear of the unknown than any big threats to the global trading system.And Greg Ip of the WSJ, who says China started the trade fight, had an informative tweetstorm about each sides vulnerabilities:But Neil Irwin of the Upshot warns that China has other ways of retaliating.The United States trade deficit rose 1.6 percent to $57.6 billion, its highest level since October 2008. The deficit has now risen for six straight months, the longest such streak since 2000.The merchandise-trade gap with China narrowed to $34.7 billion in February from $35.5 billion. The Trump administration wants to cut $100 billion, or about 25 percent, from the annual deficit with China, Bloomberg points out. During President Trumps first year in office, the United States trade deficit with China rose to $375.2 billion in 2017, a record high.Last May, Blackstone announced with great fanfare that it planned a $40 billion fund with Saudi Arabia to invest in U.S. infrastructure: up to $20 billion from the Saudis, who would match commitments by other outside partners. But as of now, Blackstone has secured just $575 million in such commitments  and missed two fund-raising deadlines.Whats happened, per Kate Kelly and Andrew: The Saudis wanted the fund overseen by an investment committee, with a seat for them. Blackstone refused. Many potential investors balked at committing money until an investment team was in place, a process that took some time.In other infrastructure news: D.J. Gribbin, the Trump administrations infrastructure point person, is leaving the White House, which looks to have delayed its investment plan until after the midterms. The E.P.A. chief Scott Pruitt, the subject of some unhappy rumblings from the White House, has begun a media pushback against claims about his spending. (Politico) George Nader, the U.A.E.-connected businessman cooperating with Robert Muellers investigation, has links to Russia, too. (NYT) President Trump plans to deploy National Guard troops to help guard the U.S.s southwestern border. Hed previously said it would be our military. (NYT) John Kasich is eating at diners in New Hampshire, for some reason. (NYT) Amalgamated Bank became the latest restrict gun sales by its business customers, following guidelines published by the Mike Bloomberg-backed Everytown for Gun Safety. (Amalgamated)More than 3,100 Googlers have signed a petition protesting the tech colossuss A.I. work with the Defense Department.More from Scott Shane and Dai Wakabayashi of the NYT:The company line: Were actively engaged across the company in a comprehensive discussion of this important topic.In other defense tech news: Oracles Safra Catz reportedly argued to Mr. Trump over dinner Tuesday night that the Pentagons process for choosing a cloud services contractor was tilted toward Amazon. (Oracle is also bidding.)The tech flyaround On balance, the U.S. Postal Service probably does pretty well out of Amazon. Its real problem, Barry Ritholtz argues, is Congress. Spotify shares ended down yesterday at $144.22, but still up on private stock trades earlier this year. One big winner was Sony, which sold 17.2 percent of its stake. Meet Fin7 (or Carbanak or Cobalt Spider), the criminal group suspected of many prominent data thefts. And a cyberattack on a natural gas pipeline servicer raised questions about the U.S.s energy system. Apple is reportedly working on touchless gestures and a curved screen for iPhones. (Bloomberg)The woman suspected of shooting three people at YouTube headquarters before killing herself had become angry with the companys policies. Police did not say which ones, but she had posted about YouTube pulling ads from videos that it said did not meet its standards.The woman, Nasim Najafi Aghdam, was a social media video star in Iran and had called YouTube a dictatorship because she was making less money from her posts.Also of note: The attack highlighted the tension between Silicon Valley giants love of big, open campuses and their security needs.As the two corporate siblings jostle over a potential union  Viacom has reportedly rejected CBS's offer and is preparing a counter bid  who would run the combined company remains a sticking point. Rich Greenfield of BTIG offered a contrarian case against it being Mr. Moonves of CBS, one of the best-regarded media executives around.The future of a combined Viacom and CBS is going to be driven by an increasing focus on international and scaling up, he wrote  an agenda better suited to Viacoms C.E.O., Bob Bakish. Investor withdrawals at Bill Ackmans Pershing Square Capital Management are huge. (WSJ) Starboard Value plans to continue pressing its proxy fight at Newell Brands. Carl Icahn, who has settled on that one, is off trying to replace the board at SandRidge Energy. The judge overseeing the Justice Departments lawsuit to block AT&Ts takeover of Time Warner asked about settling it through arbitration. (WSJ) Broadcom is officially a U.S. company now. It still cant go after Qualcomm. (Broadcom) Some big drug makers are regretting their deals of 2015 and 2016. (FT) J.M. Smucker will pay $1.9 billion for Ainsworth Pet Nutrition, which makes Rachael Rays dog food brand, and will consider selling its U.S. baking brands like Pillsbury. (Reuters) SS&C of the U.S. is reportedly trying to top Temenoss 1.4 billion bid for the British trading software maker Fidessa. (FT) Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan, in his firms latest annual letter, where he also talks taxes, deficits and public policy. Michael Doppelt has rejoined Irving Place Capital as the investment firms head of fund-raising and limited partner relations. (Reuters) Britains requirement that companies with at least 250 staff disclose measures of gender pay gaps is forcing a reckoning at many companies. (NYT) David Smith, chairman of Sinclair Broadcast Group, says the media is getting his company all wrong. (NYT) Settlement agreements between Bill OReilly and two of his accusers were made public for the first time, offering details about his tactics against sexual harassment allegations. (NYT) Nikes top human resources executive told employees the company had failed to gain traction in hiring and promoting women and minorities. (WSJ) Why bond kings love Southern California. (Bloomberg) A guide to the long war between Bumble and Tinder. (NYT)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
VANCOUVER   The Canadian federal agency charged with protecting privacy rights of individuals said on Thursday that it, along with its counterpart in British Columbia, will jointly investigate Facebook Inc and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, over an ongoing data sharing scandal.The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada said the probes, which broaden two existing investigations, will look at whether the companies broke federal and provincial personal privacy rules.Canada\'s privacy commissioner launched an investigation of Facebook in March after the New York Times and London\'s Observer newspaper broke news of the use of Facebook data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Facebook Canada said on Wednesday that more than 600,000 Canadians had their data "improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.British Columbia\'s privacy commissioner was separately investigating AggregateIQ over whether the Victoria-based company had broken provincial personal privacy rules for its role in the Brexit campaign.The two agencies will now jointly investigate the companies, as they are subject to both federal and provincial personal privacy laws.(Reporting by Julie Gordon in Vancouver; Editing by Chris Reese and Richard Chang)
BERLIN   German Justice Minister Katarina Barley said she planned a further meeting with Facebook to discuss the impact of its algorithms on the social network\'s users, adding that recent disclosures of privacy violations were probably not isolated.Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, more than previous estimates."I plan a further discussion with Facebook to discuss the question of algorithms [which] govern how people are categorized according to their usage of data," Barley told reporters on Thursday.Data privacy is a sensitive subject in Germany, where memories of the two 20th-century police states on its territory have spurred the government to take a leading role in pushing for tighter regulation of data-driven Internet giants.A poll for ARD public television found that 61 percent of Germany\'s internet users were concerned that their data had been misused, though only 12 percent said they had cut back on Facebook usage. A further 2 percent had stopped altogether.The meeting with Barley will be the social network\'s second such summons from the German government since the New York Times and London\'s Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by Cambridge Analytica on March 16. Facebook shares have since lost 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value."We should have no illusions: the Cambridge Analytica cases won\'t be the only ones and Facebook is probably not the only Internet giant where similar doubtful cases occurred," Barley said on Thursday. "It\'s probably just the tip of the iceberg."Earlier, the British Information Commissioner\'s Office (ICO) said Facebook was co-operating with its examination into how 30 organizations have used personal data, but that it was too early to say whether the social media giant had done enough.The ICO said it was looking at how data was collected from a third party app on Facebook and shared with Cambridge Analytica, as well as a broader investigation into how social media platforms have been used in political campaigning.(Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Paul Carrel and Catherine Evans)
WASHINGTON   Facebook Inc Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week before congressional committees over a political consulting firm\'s misuse of customer data to interfere in the U.S. presidential election, U.S. lawmakers said on Wednesday.Zuckerberg will appear before a joint hearing of the U.S. Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees on April 10 and the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee on April 11, the panels said on Wednesday."This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online," the House panel\'s Republican chairman, Greg Walden, and top Democrat, Frank Pallone, said in a statement.Facebook has come under fire in recent weeks after it was disclosed that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked for Donald Trump\'s presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of 50 million Facebook users.Facebook said in March it had suspended the accounts of Cambridge Analytica and its parent company and hired forensic auditors to probe whether Cambridge Analytica still had the data.The technology company also said at the time it would investigate all applications that had gotten access to large amounts of data before the firm changed its platform in 2014, would further restrict developers\' data access and roll out a tool to let users more easily revoke access by applications to their data.Zuckerberg said in March he would testify before Congress, but turned down an invitation by British lawmakers to explain to a parliamentary committee what had happened.The company has faced pressure to do more, both in terms of protecting user privacy and stopping "information warfare" on its platform.In February, 13 Russian nationals were indicted for using Facebook and other social media sites to interfere in the U.S. presidential election.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had removed hundreds of accounts and pages associated with the Russia-based Internet Research Agency that included fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.American spy agencies have warned that Russia would try to interfere in the 2018 congressional elections by using social media to spread propaganda.Shares in Facebook closed down 0.6 percent on Wednesday to $155.10. They have tumbled more than 16 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.(Reporting by Makini Brice; Additional reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Peter Cooney)
SYDNEY   Australia's Privacy Commissioner said on Thursday she had opened a formal investigation into social media giant Facebook Inc after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorisation.The investigation will consider whether Facebook has breached Australia's privacy laws, Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said in a statement.Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry)

SYDNEY   Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country's privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, without their authorization.Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said Thursday that the Privacy Act requires all organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. Customers must also be adequately notified about the collection and handling of personal information.Each breach of the Privacy Act can involve a 420,000 Australian dollar fine ($323,000). The privacy commissioner can also seek a court injunction and require offenders to pledge, under threat of further court action, to prevent further breaches.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week. His appearance comes as authorities around the world investigate allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 87 million Facebook users to influence elections.Here\'s a look at the various investigations and requests for information.___IN THE UNITED STATES: CONGRESS: Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 in a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees and April 11 before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. This will be his first-ever testimony before Congress. Individual congressional members have also written Facebook seeking answers. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC\'s Bureau of Consumer Protection, says the agency\'s probe will include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC\'s probe may extend to Facebook\'s compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data. INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories have written a letter seeking details on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.___IN EUROPE: EUROPEAN UNION: The EU is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws. U.K. INFORMATION COMMISSION: Britain\'s information regulator has seized evidence from the London office of Cambridge Analytica. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham has said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way. U.K. PARLIAMENT: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, says his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He says Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee."___ELSEWHERE: AUSTRALIA: Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country\'s privacy law, which requires organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. INDIA: India\'s government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian users has been compromised.
SYDNEY   Australia on Thursday said it had begun an investigation to decide whether social media giant Facebook Inc breached its privacy laws, after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorization.Personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said on Wednesday, exceeding a media estimate of more than 50 million.In a statement, Australia\'s privacy commissioner, Angelene Falk, said her office would "confer with regulatory authorities internationally", given the global nature of the matter.A Facebook spokeswoman in Australia said the company would be "fully responsive" to the investigation and had recently updated some privacy settings.Facebook\'s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, told reporters during a conference call that he accepted blame for the data leak.Zuckerberg is due to testify about the matter next week during two U.S. congressional hearings, and the data breach has drawn criticism from lawmakers and regulators around the world.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook\'s estimate of affected users.It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Australia\'s investigation follows comments by New Zealand\'s privacy commissioner last week that Facebook had broken laws in that country, a charge the company called disappointing.Australia\'s competition regulator is already investigating whether Facebook and Alphabet Inc\'s Google had disrupted the news media to the detriment of publishers and consumers.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry and Clarence Fernandez)
LONDON   Facebook is co-operating with Britain\'s Information Commissioner\'s Office (ICO) as it examines how 30 organizations have used personal data, but the ICO said on Thursday it was too early to say whether the social media giant had done enough.On Wednesday, Facebook said the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, more than previous estimates.The ICO said it was looking at how data was collected from a third party app on Facebook and shared with Cambridge Analytica, as well as a broader investigation into how social media platforms have been used in political campaigning."Facebook has been co-operating with us and, while I am pleased with the changes they are making, it is too early to say whether they are sufficient under the law," the information commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, said in a statement."As part of my investigation into the use of personal data and analytics by political campaigns, parties, social media companies and other commercial actors, the ICO is investigating 30 organizations, including Facebook."Britain\'s digital and media minister Matt Hancock said he would meet Facebook next week to discuss the scandal. Facebook shares are down over 10 percent since it first disclosed the leak."I expect Facebook to explain why they put the data of over a million of our citizens at risk," Hancock said in a tweet."This is completely unacceptable, and they must demonstrate this won\'t happen again."(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison)
LONDON   The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):6:30 p.m.Britain\'s Information Commissioner says some 30 organizations  including Facebook  are being investigated to see how social media platforms were used in political campaigns.Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham\'s statement Thursday comes a day after Facebook announced that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought. In all, Facebook says as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed.Denham says her office is "conducting a broader investigation into how social media platforms were used in political campaigning." She says the investigation could result in enforcement action.She says "Facebook has been co-operating with us and, while I am pleased with the changes they are making, it is too early to say whether they are sufficient under the law."___9:30 p.m. (Sydney time)The European Union is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws when millions of people had their data accessed through a leak.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said on Thursday that the bloc\'s justice chief Vera Jourova would have "high-level contacts in the coming days" with Facebook officials and also reach out to data protection officials, including the British authority which is leading the European investigation.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed."You can be sure that we will continue to follow these investigations by the relevant authorities closely," Wigand said.___4:30 p.m. (Sydney time)Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country\'s privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, without their authorization.Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said Thursday that the Privacy Act requires all organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. Customers must also be adequately notified about the collection and handling of personal information.Each breach of the Privacy Act can involve a 420,000 Australian dollar fine ($323,000). The privacy commissioner can also seek a court injunction and require offenders to pledge, under threat of further court action, to prevent further breaches.
NEW YORK   Facebook\'s acknowledgement that most of its 2.2 billion members have probably had their personal data scraped by "malicious actors" is the latest example of the social network\'s failure to protect its users\' data.Not to mention its apparent inability to even identify the problem until the company was already embroiled in scandal.CEO Mark Zuckerberg told reporters Wednesday that Facebook is shutting down a feature that let people search for Facebook users by phone number or email address. Although that was useful for people who wanted to find others on Facebook, it turns out that unscrupulous types also figured out years ago that they could use it to identify individuals and collect data off their profiles.The scrapers were at it long enough, Zuckerberg said, that "at some point during the last several years, someone has probably accessed your public information in this way."The only way to be safe would have been for users to deliberately turn off that search feature several years ago. Facebook had it turned on by default."I think Facebook has not been clear enough with how to use its privacy settings," said Jamie Winterton, director of strategy for Arizona State University\'s Global Security Initiative. "That, to me, was the failure."The breach was a stunning admission for a company already reeling from allegations that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica inappropriately accessed data on as many as 87 million Facebook users to influence elections.Over the past few weeks, the scandal has mushroomed into investigations across continents, including a probe by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Zuckerberg himself will be questioned by Congress for the first time on Tuesday."The FTC looked the other way for years when consumer groups told them Facebook was violating its 2011 deal to better protect its users. But now the Cambridge Analytica scandal has awoken the FTC from its long digital privacy slumber," said Jeffrey Chester, executive director for the Washington-based privacy nonprofit Center for Digital Democracy.Neither Zuckerberg nor his company has identified those who carried out the data scraping. Outside experts believe they could have been identity thieves, scam artists or shady data brokers assembling marketing profiles.Zuckerberg said the company detected the problem in a data-privacy audit started after the Cambridge Analytica disclosures, but didn\'t say why the company hadn\'t noticed it  or fixed it  earlier.Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment Thursday on when it discovered the data scraping.In his call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg said the company had tried "rate limiting" the searches. This restricted how many searches someone can conduct at one time from a particular IP address, a numeric designation that identifies a device\'s location on the internet. But Zuckerberg said the scrapers circumvented that defense by cycling through multiple IP addresses.The scraped information was limited to what a user had already chosen to make public  which, depending on a person\'s privacy settings, could be a lot  as well as what Facebook requires people to share. That includes full name, profile picture and listings of school or workplace networks.But hackers and scam artists could then use that information  and combine it with other data in circulation  to pull hoaxes on people, plant malware on their computers or commit other mischief.Having access to such a massive amount of data could also pose national security risks, Winterton said.A foreign entity could conceivably use such information to influence elections or stir up discord  exactly what Russia is alleged to have done, using Facebook and other social media, in the 2016 presidential elections.Privacy advocates have long been critical of Facebook\'s penchant for pushing people to share more and more information, often through pro-sharing default options.While the company offers detailed privacy controls  users can turn off ad targeting, for example, or face recognition, and post updates that no one else sees  many people never change their settings, and often don\'t even know how to.The company has tried to simplify its settings multiple times over the years, most recently this week.Winterton said that for individual Facebook users, worrying about this data scraping won\'t do much good  after all, the data is already out there. But she said it might be a good time to "reflect on what we are sharing and how we are sharing it and whether we need to.""Just because someone asks us information, it doesn\'t mean we have to give it to them if we are not comfortable," she said.She added that while she no longer has a Facebook account, when she did she put her birth year as 1912 and her hometown as Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Neither is true.__AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story.
(Reuters) - Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.The company\'s shares have sunk 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value since March 16, when the New York Times and London\'s Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Some investors see the chaos as a chance to snap up shares in a service for which there is scarce alternative, despite rising public scrutiny and the prospect of a grilling from U.S. legislators when Zuckerberg testifies before Congress next week.Canada\'s province of British Columbia and Canada\'s federal government combined investigations on Thursday, saying they had launched a joint probe into Facebook and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, while Australian authorities said they were exploring whether the social media company had breached user privacy laws.The California State Teachers\' Retirement System, with nearly $1 billion in Facebook stock as of last year, on Thursday also said it would question the company about privacy protections.Despite the probes and celebrities including singer Cher, actor Will Ferrell and Tesla Chief Elon Musk deleting their accounts, Facebook\'s social app downloads improved on a monthly basis both in the United States and globally, according to Evercore ISI.Facebook expanded its share of social app downloads in March by 33.2 percent from 30.1 percent, Evercore data showed.Several Wall Street analysts said the stock\'s decline presented a good opportunity to buy into the social network\'s previously high-flying shares, although they cautioned that much will depend on Zuckerberg\'s testimony to Congress."We suspect that looking back a year from now, if not sooner, this episode will have been a uniquely compelling buying opportunity in the mega-cap internet space," Deutsche Bank analysts said.Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, told Bloomberg in an interview on Thursday that a few advertisers had paused spending in the wake of the incident, but that the company was having reassuring conversations about how it has built privacy into its system. (https://bloom.bg/2q89KMt)Companies including U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys, internet company Mozilla and German bank Commerzbank AG have suspended advertisement on the platform.Sandberg also said a tool that allowed a researcher to gain access to personal information of up to 87 million users, complied with a privacy agreement the company signed with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in 2011.Her comments followed reports that the FTC was investigating the company over a possible violation of that agreement, which demands it to get user consent before sharing their information."While it\'s clear that investor sentiment has been materially impacted by (the) Cambridge Analytica revelations, we believe FB is acting proactively and aggressively to tighten its privacy controls and increase the level of transparency into its practices," Wells Fargo analyst Ken Sena said.Zuckerberg, who will testify about the scandal next week in front of committees in the U.S. House and Senate, may face calls from legislators for more oversight.Sandberg, in a separate interview with PBS, said: "We\'re not just open to regulations, we\'re moving ahead of it," and had built a tool which would be live before the next U.S. election and which would show details of who paid for election ads and demographics of the audience.Facebook shares closed up 2.7 percent at $159.35.(Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee, Sonam Rai and Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Mohammad Zargham in Washington; editing by Peter Henderson, Bernard Orr and James Dalgleish)

(Reuters) - Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.The company\'s shares have sunk 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value since March 16, when the New York Times and London\'s Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Some investors see the chaos as a chance to snap up shares in a service for which there is scarce alternative, despite rising public scrutiny and the prospect of a grilling from U.S. legislators when Zuckerberg testifies before Congress next week.Canada\'s province of British Columbia and Canada\'s federal government combined investigations on Thursday, saying they had launched a joint probe into Facebook and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, while Australian authorities said they were exploring whether the social media company had breached user privacy laws.The California State Teachers\' Retirement System, with nearly $1 billion in Facebook stock as of last year, on Thursday also said it would question the company about privacy protections.Despite the probes and celebrities including singer Cher, actor Will Ferrell and Tesla Chief Elon Musk deleting their accounts, Facebook\'s social app downloads improved on a monthly basis both in the United States and globally, according to Evercore ISI.Facebook expanded its share of social app downloads in March by 33.2 percent from 30.1 percent, Evercore data showed.Several Wall Street analysts said the stock\'s decline presented a good opportunity to buy into the social network\'s previously high-flying shares, although they cautioned that much will depend on Zuckerberg\'s testimony to Congress."We suspect that looking back a year from now, if not sooner, this episode will have been a uniquely compelling buying opportunity in the mega-cap internet space," Deutsche Bank analysts said.Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, told Bloomberg in an interview on Thursday that a few advertisers had paused spending in the wake of the incident, but that the company was having reassuring conversations about how it has built privacy into its system. (https://bloom.bg/2q89KMt)Companies including U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys, internet company Mozilla and German bank Commerzbank AG have suspended advertisement on the platform.Sandberg also said a tool that allowed a researcher to gain access to personal information of up to 87 million users, complied with a privacy agreement the company signed with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in 2011.Her comments followed reports that the FTC was investigating the company over a possible violation of that agreement, which demands it to get user consent before sharing their information."While it\'s clear that investor sentiment has been materially impacted by (the) Cambridge Analytica revelations, we believe FB is acting proactively and aggressively to tighten its privacy controls and increase the level of transparency into its practices," Wells Fargo analyst Ken Sena said.Zuckerberg, who will testify about the scandal next week in front of committees in the U.S. House and Senate, may face calls from legislators for more oversight.Sandberg, in a separate interview with PBS, said: "We\'re not just open to regulations, we\'re moving ahead of it," and had built a tool which would be live before the next U.S. election and which would show details of who paid for election ads and demographics of the audience.Facebook shares closed up 2.7 percent at $159.35.(Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee, Sonam Rai and Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Mohammad Zargham in Washington; editing by Peter Henderson, Bernard Orr and James Dalgleish)
WASHINGTON   Facebook isn\'t just a company. It\'s a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It\'s tricky and it\'s going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we\'re going to keep the wild, wild West  I don\'t think it\'s sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook\'s reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia\'s use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital\'s pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it\'s questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress\' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that\'s not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama\'s final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook\'s vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team\'s newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions\' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he\'s open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he\'d get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he\'s encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November\'s elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook\'s biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission\'s charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who\'s written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government\'s antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook\'s largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg\'s net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook\'s market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: During five trips to Iraq, Times journalists scoured former offices of the Islamic State, gathering more than 15,000 pages of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Weve just published the results of our yearlong investigation. It shows that ISIS, known for its brutality, was also effective at wielding power through paperwork. Heres a closer look at some of the documents we collected, including tax collection forms, religious edicts and the will of a suicide bomber.We also have a new audio series, Caliphate, which follows our reporter Rukmini Callimachi as she covers the Islamic State and the fall of Mosul, Iraq. Listen to a preview here. Separately, President Trump wants to bring home the 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria. He dropped plans for an immediate withdrawal, but instructed military commanders to wrap up the mission within a few months. The latest dispute between the U.S. and China has been defined by reciprocity, with each side announcing matching tariffs.But if things continue to escalate, Beijing will have less room to maneuver and could resort to more unconventional measures, our senior economics correspondent writes.For now, the White House is trying to calm fears of a possible trade war. Administration officials hinted on Wednesday that tariffs outlined earlier in the week might never go into effect, but reiterated that China must stop what President Trump calls unfair trading practices. Heres how the showdown could affect U.S. manufacturers. Our correspondent in Mexico spoke with some of the Central American migrants cited by President Trump to justify sending troops to the southern border. (The caravans have also excited the conservative news media.)The group of more than 1,000 people, mostly women and children, is fleeing violence and poverty, but its members face an uncertain future. Who wants to leave their country, the comfort of their home, their families? one asked. White House officials confirmed plans on Wednesday to mobilize the National Guard to the border with Mexico, but gave few details about timing, the number of troops or their mission there. The countrys top court ruled today that former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva can be sent to prison while he appeals his conviction on corruption and money laundering charges.Mr. da Silva, 72, who was president from 2003 to 2011, was sentenced last year to almost 10 years in prison. His chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff, was removed from office in 2016. Mr. da Silva is the front-runner in the presidential election in October, and the courts decision raises questions about the legitimacy of the vote. Facebook said that the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with a political consulting firm, far more than an earlier estimate of 50 million.The companys chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is scheduled to testify to Congress next week. Heres a guide to our coverage of the Cambridge Analytica story. Thousands of Google employees are urging their chief executive to end the companys involvement in a Pentagon program to improve the targeting of drone strikes. You cant be serious! That was the response of Sinclair Broadcast Groups chairman to criticism of a script about media bias that dozens of TV anchors at its stations were instructed to read out. The former Fox News host Bill OReilly and his lawyers worked hard to silence the women who accused him of sexual harassment. Now a judge has made the settlements public. U.S. stocks were up on Wednesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Flying somewhere? Take advantage of the changes at airports. How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry, with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: Cambridge Analyticas parent company apparently helped Rodrigo Duterte win the Philippine presidential election, our former Europe Morning Briefing writer, Patrick Boehler, noted on Twitter. [South China Morning Post] As a onetime employee of Blockbuster Video, I was tickled to learn that a video store in Bend, Ore., is still operating under the name of the chain.Its the last one in the lower 48 states (there are six others in Alaska), and how they continue to do business is fascinating. [GeekWire] Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science Putting out a yearbook after a school shootingAfter the deadly attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High in February, the staff of the Aerie, the schools yearbook, had to decide how to honor the 17 people who died.This has to be remembered for the rest of our lives, one of the yearbooks editors told our reporter. Best sellers, via the Oval OfficePresidents past, present and future are represented on the latest hardcover nonfiction best-seller list.It includes a collection of Obama-era photographs, an inside account of the Trump White House, a book about the meaning of faith by former President Jimmy Carter, and an open letter to whoever becomes the first female president. Are you a teacher?We want to hear from you. Tell us what you think about the protests over pay and benefits, and what conditions are like at your school. Best of late-night TVMike Myers  in the form of his Austin Powers character Dr. Evil  told Jimmy Fallon that the wall between the U.S. and Mexico was actually his idea. Except, I wanted it to be a moat, filled with spiky blowfish. Quotation of the dayTariffs are seen as a direct slap in the face, and it will be very difficult for the Chinese government to sit back and take those blows without retaliating. Eswar Prasad, a professor of international trade at Cornell University, on the risk of a full-blown trade war between the U.S. and China. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. His mission, he said, was to use dance to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.As a tall, gangly boy from the Bronx, he discovered in high school that he had a flair for dancing and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night. He eventually turned the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming, and he had a weekly variety TV program, The Arthur Murray Party. That way, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, he  once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Following the paper trail of ISIS, railing against Emmanuel Macron and relaxing with monkeys. Heres the latest: The ISIS files.On five trips to battle-scarred Iraq, New York Times journalists scoured old Islamic State offices in 11 cities and towns, gathering thousands of documents abandoned by the militants as their caliphate crumbled.Following a paper trail that led through booby-trapped streets near the front lines of battle, they found suicide bomber forms, birth certificates, tax records, school books teaching English words like gun and martyr, and papers from the Ministry of War Spoils. (Heres a closer look at the documents.)The records reveal how the terrorist group combined brutality and paperwork to wield power over territory that at one point was the size of Britain, with a population estimated at 12 million people.Above, papers littered a room in the bombed-out remnants of the Directorate of Agriculture in Mosul, Iraq, last September._____ Nearly 10 months after the deadly fire in Grenfell Tower, above, in London, many of the survivors left homeless are still living in limbo.While local officials have spent about $280 million on new housing, almost 100 displaced families remain in hotels and other temporary accommodations.The delays are adding to public fury over the disaster, which killed at least 71 people, and traumatized residents have accused the authorities of ignoring their needs._____ Millions of frustrated travelers.A rail strike in France is testing the limits of public anger as union workers face off against President Emmanuel Macron and his efforts to overhaul Europes second-largest economy  starting with cuts to their cherished job benefits.But whether French commuters, including those above in Paris on Tuesday, blame the union or Mr. Macron is the big question._____ Last month, we visited a charity food bank in the German city of Essen that had decided to turn away migrants, a move that set off a national debate about refugees and poverty.But now, non-Germans will be welcome once again, after the pantry agreed to give priority to older people and families with young children, regardless of nationality._____ A rapidly escalating trade confrontation.Hours after the White House outlined $50 billion in tariffs on largely high-tech Chinese products, China struck back.Its own proposed tariffs target $50 billion worth of soybeans, above, cars and other American goods. We look at the broad sectors of the U.S. economy under threat.Administration officials say they see no reason to panic  but markets appear unconvinced._____ Anger that YouTube was censoring her videos may have motivated the woman who shot three people on Tuesday at the companys headquarters in San Bruno, Calif., and then killed herself.Nasim Najafi Aghdam, above, who was in her late 30s and living in California, was a social media star in Iran. Known there as Green Nasim, she posted music parodies and workouts, promoted vegan cooking and opposed animal cruelty. (We gathered some of her clips in this video, which our Tehran bureau chief narrates.)Some of her videos were apparently demonetized  deliberately starved of ads  by YouTube, which has been under pressure over offensive content._____ Japans famed snow monkeys have long been the picture of hot-springs bliss.Now, theyre also scientific subjects in a study of how stress hormones affect social structure.The long soaks bring their stress levels down. And higher-ranking females spent more time in the pools.(Our video of the basking macaques is seriously fun.)_____ On Spotifys first day of trading, Sony cashed in, selling 17 percent of its stake in the streaming platform for more than $250 million. Thousands of Google employees signed a letter protesting the companys role in a U.S. military program that uses artificial intelligence to interpret videos and could be used in drone strikes. Facebook said the data of up to 87 million users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, the consulting firm connected  to President Trump and the Brexit campaign, far higher than previously cited estimates. (Heres how we covered the revelations that spurred an uproar on both sides of the Atlantic.) Name and shame: Britain is hoping to narrow the pay gap by forcing companies to publicly air salary discrepancies between men and women. The governments role model? Other Western countries, like Germany, Iceland and Australia. And our Corner Office columnist speaks with Alexis Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit. (Among the topics: Metallica and his new marriage to Serena Williams.) U.S. stocks had a rough day, but closed higher. Heres a snapshot of global markets. The White House said the U.S. would remain in Syria to continue the fight against the Islamic State, a day after President Trump said he wanted to immediately bring the 2,000 U.S. troops there home. [The New York Times] The Victoria and Albert Museum in London offered to return to Ethiopia treasures taken by British troops 150 years ago, but only as a loan. [The New York Times] In The Hague, a jihadist fighter from Mali was brought before the International Criminal Court to face charges of rape, torture and sexual slavery. [The New York Times] Austrias new right-wing government has proposed a ban on head scarves in schools for girls under 10 years old. [BBC] Skripal poisoning: Emboldened by a series of blunders by the British government, Russia will convene a special meeting of the U.N. Security Council in an attempt to undermine allegations that Moscow was behind the nerve agent attack against a former Russian spy. [The Guardian]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Do face masks really keep you healthy? How to respond when a colleague is harassing women. Recipe of the day: Take a break from the usual stir fry with braised eggplant, pork and mushrooms. The British comedian and transgender activist Eddie Izzard has acted in Hollywood movies, run 43 marathons in 51 days (for charity) and campaigned against Brexit. Now for his next challenge: Hes joined the governing body of Britains Labour Party, just as its struggling to tackle an internal crisis over anti-Semitism. Natural confusion: Global warming is causing spring to arrive early and autumn to come late in many places, and not all plants and animals are adapting at the same rate. Scottish dinosaurs? Aye, say paleontologists who discovered dozens of giant-size footprints on the Isle of Skye. But dont get too excited; the prints were left about 170 million years ago.We begin today with a shimmy, or maybe the turkey trot. Perhaps the bunny hug is more your style.Arthur Murray, an immigrant bakers son who brought ballroom dancing into peoples living rooms, was born this week in 1895. With dance, Mr. Murrays mission was, he said, to bring ease for universal heartache, loneliness and desolation.A tall, gangly kid from the Bronx, Mr. Murray discovered he had a flair for ballroom dancing in high school and threw himself into the ballroom dance craze of the early 20th century.He worked in an architecture firm by day and taught lessons by night, eventually turning the lessons into a lucrative mail order magazine business and dance studio franchises around the world.Mr. Murrays unique method was influenced by his time in design  clearly drawn diagrams of footprints instructed students how and where to move their feet.He also took advantage of regular radio programming and had a weekly variety TV program with The Arthur Murray Party. Now, anyone could dance with Mr. Murray, anywhere.For Mr. Murray, who died in 1991, a bad dancer never blames his partner.To find fault with your partners dancing, Mr. Murray once said, is the best way of advertising the fact that you are just learning to dance.Remy Tumin contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
LONDON  Nicole Grobert is German, but she has spent almost all of her career in Britain, developing tiny nanomaterials and figuring out how to use them in everything from artificial bones to super-efficient batteries. Young scientists have an unusual degree of autonomy here, she has found, and European Union funds enabled her to build her own research group at the University of Oxford.These days, though, Dr. Grobert says her future at Oxford looks cloudier than it used to. Since Britain voted to quit the union, she has been getting calls from universities on the Continent, and farther abroad, gauging her interest in a new job. For now, she is staying put, but if grants grow scarce or immigration rules create new hassles, she is ready to move.I came with a suitcase, Dr. Grobert said. I can grab that suitcase and go.For decades, the European Union has provided a collaborative, cross-border framework in which British universities have grown and thrived. European grants fund research like Dr. Groberts and nurture the international back-and-forth crucial to scholarly work in disciplines from archaeology to economics.Free movement within the bloc has meant faculty from other European nations can live and work in Britain visa-free, and students from elsewhere in the union pay the same tuition as Britons.Now, university administrators are watching anxiously as negotiations between London and Brussels lurch along, with little clarity about how drastically ties may change after the divorce, known as Brexit, which is expected next March. Last month, negotiators announced a 21-month transition period, which may postpone the biggest shifts, but like everything about Brexit, it remains subject to change.This is the single biggest challenge to our universities, in the same way it is the single biggest challenge to our nation, since the Second World War, said Alastair Buchan, Oxfords head of Brexit strategy.Being in Europe has absolutely transformed the serious U.K. universities, he said. The threat Brexit brings, in this existential way, is that we wont be able to access the talent, the scholars from neighboring countries.Dr. Buchan worries, too, that with financial support coming from one government, rather than a large bloc with well-established grant-making structures, future funding decisions may be driven by political imperatives rather than academic excellence.European grants provide about 12 percent of British universities research income, although for some institutions it is as high as 60 percent, according to an analysis commissioned by four major academic bodies. Nationally, 17 percent of academics are citizens of European nations other than Britain. Within the elite Russell Group of Britains top 24 research institutions, the proportion is close to a quarter.At University College London, where 50 million pounds, or about $70 million, in annual European grants make up 12 percent of the research budget, a Brexit mitigation group has met dozens of times since Britain voted in June 2016 to leave the European Union, said Michael Arthur, the president and provost.Anxiety among European faculty members has eased a bit since Prime Minister Theresa Mays government said in December that citizens from other European Union countries already in Britain would be able to register to stay. But the caveat that no one provision is final until the entire Brexit deal is done means nothing is for sure.University College London has sought to reassure its employees, but the uncertainty hangs over people, Dr. Arthur said. More than 90 percent of Europeans on staff have been contacted by overseas universities asking if theyd consider a move, he said.Recruiting new researchers is proving even harder than holding on to existing ones. In one fellowship program for young researchers, about 30 of the 100 applications the university usually gets come from continental Europe. This year, there were none.Thats before Brexit is finalized, so imagine what it might be like after, he said.Downstairs from Dr. Arthurs office, a group of European undergraduates in the corner of a noisy cafe said theyd felt less welcome in Britain since the referendum. European Union students already enrolled here, and those arriving this autumn, will be able to finish their degrees without immigration constraints or tuition changes, and the transition arrangements may extend that further, but the rules for those coming later are unclear.Konrad Gradalski, who studies politics and East European affairs, said when he was finishing secondary school in Poland, Britain was a popular destination among his peers.People had dreams like U.C.L., Oxford, Cambridge, Mr. Gradalski said, referring to Britains elite universities. Most of my friends no longer want to come here. Theyre scared of the racism, because of reports of anti-immigrant feeling among Britons. And, more pragmatically, its about finance, with worries fees will double or more to the level non-European Union citizens now pay, and Europeans will lose eligibility for loans.There are plenty of other options. Institutions in Canada and Australia, as well as continental European universities offering studies in English, are competing with big British and American names in the lucrative international higher education market.Now, we realize there are other things than Cambridge and Oxford and Harvard, said Alix Dumoulin, a Parisian studying philosophy, politics and economics at University College London.At universities in the United States, international students enrollment has dipped, which administrators attribute in part to President Trumps anti-immigrant rhetoric and restrictive policies.Brexit could have a similar effect, putting off not just Europeans, but applicants from places like India, China and Malaysia, for whom the general sense that Britain has become a less welcoming and hospitable place for foreigners is quite palpable, said James Wilsdon, a professor of research policy at the University of Sheffield.So far, numbers are holding up. After the Brexit vote, undergraduate applications from European Union students dropped for the first time since 2012, but they have since ticked up again. Applications from outside the union also rose, a reminder that the pool of potential students is growing as middle classes expand in many developing nations.Saying it did not want to pre-empt negotiations, the Department of Education declined to comment on Brexits effects on universities, but said European Union students make an important contribution and we want that to continue.Sam Gyimah, the governments minister for universities and science, has said Britain will continue welcoming international researchers, and hopes to remain part of the European Unions main research program. But we are not going to participate at any price, he said in February at a parliamentary meeting on Brexit and science.That underlines the reality that universities concerns are just one piece of a much larger, fiendishly complex Brexit puzzle. So their priorities, even those government shares, could be derailed by the bigger politics, said Sarah Main, executive director of the Campaign for Science and Engineering, an advocacy group.The stakes are high. With deep ties to research-driven industries like tech, aerospace and pharmaceuticals, universities are an important economic engine. Their prestige, said Dr. Main, is also central to Britains international reputation. I think its part of the U.K.s character.At University College London, Ms. Dumoulin said that while Brexit might make it harder to stay in London after graduation, she will have lots of other choices. As a French citizen, she will still be able to live and work anywhere in Europe, unlike her British classmates, who are likely to lose that right.I feel like Im really lucky, she said. Because its not France whos exiting the E.U.
