As markets seesawed and industries fretted, American officials held out the possibility that tariffs outlined this week might never go into effect.
U.S. President Donald Trump denied on Wednesday that the United States was in a trade war with China, hours after Beijing slapped tariffs on a list of U.S. imports in retaliation for similar duties levied by the White House one day earlier.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Wednesday: Winemakers worry over tariffs, a shooting at YouTube headquarters, and more protests in Sacramento.
It took China just 11 hours to retaliate against the United States for proposing tariffs on some 1,300 Chinese products, but Chinese officials are holding back on taking aim at their largest American import: government debt.
China will struggle to replace U.S. soybean supplies after implementing an additional 25 percent tariff on American shipments, likely inflicting severe financial pain on domestic companies, analysts and executives at feedmakers said. 
Asian shares bounced from two-month lows on Thursday as world equities recovered from a selloff triggered by escalating Sino-U.S. trade tensions, with investors hoping a full-blown trade war between the world's two biggest economies can be averted...
Asian stock markets recouped the previous day's losses to trade higher on Thursday as earlier fears of trade conflicts between the world's two largest economies dissipated on signs of dialogue.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China may dent production of German luxury SUVs made in the U.S. South and sent to China, with exports from electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and Ford Motor Co also vulnerable.
His lauded book “Once Upon a Distant War” profiled a group of young, skeptical Vietnam War reporters. Other projects inspired movies.
Trade wars are bad, but stocks seem to be overshooting their likely cost. Why?
Britain’s decision to leave the European Union provides pointers for investors as President Trump ratchets up trade tensions with China.
Wednesday began with share prices sliding, an apparent product of investors’ concerns about an escalating dispute between the world’s two biggest economies. By day’s end, markets had reversed course.
The United States and China took turns announcing larger import duties on the other, with each one escalating a dispute that could hurt the global economy.
U.S. President Donald Trump's top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, said on Wednesday that U.S. trade actions against China are aimed at upholding the "laws and customs of free trade."
The measures, targeting $50 billion worth of soybeans, cars and other goods, were the latest move in the countries’ escalating trade confrontation.
Cargill Inc [CARG.UL] said on Wednesday that it was "deeply concerned" by the escalating U.S.-China trade conflict, after Beijing announced new tariffs on imports of U.S. soybeans and other goods.
The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the C...
The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but the C...
President Donald Trump persists in using a phony number to justify his market-shaking trade actions against China.
Is all fair in love and apps? Many highly paid lawyers suggest that nothing is ever fair. We’ll explain the drama.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday he expects trade actions between the United States and China will likely lead to a negotiated deal, but that it was unclear whether such talks would happen by the end of May or later.     
The Latest on U.S.-China trade tensions (all times local):
The United States and China should avoid a trade war, China's Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai said on Wednesday, stressing that Beijing's preference was to resolve the dispute  through negotiations.
An escalating trade dispute between the world's two biggest economies heightened fears Wednesday of a global trade war, sent global stock markets tumbling but also left the door open to a negotiated settlement that might prevent any serious damage...
As trade tensions rise between the United States and China, a small but vocal online community is calling for a boycott of U.S. products, fanning fears that American brands could see a backlash similar to that faced by South Korea last year.
Japanese government officials are bracing for Donald Trump to get tough in trade talks, and are particularly anxious that the U.S. president could target Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's weak-yen policies.
The United States and China, the world's two largest economies, have roiled financial markets and fueled fears of a protracted trade war by threatening tariffs this week on each other's goods.
Japanese government officials are bracing for Donald Trump to get tough in trade talks, and are particularly anxious that the U.S. president could target Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's weak-yen policies.
Shares in U.S. exporters of everything from planes to tractors were volatile on Wednesday after China proposed duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals in retaliation to Trump administration tariff plans.
China on Wednesday hit back at U.S. President Donald Trump's plan to impose tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports, proposing additional tariffs of 25 percent on 106 categories of U.S. goods, from soybeans to autos, chemicals and some kinds of ...
Global shares fell sharply Wednesday after China announced a list of U.S. products that might be subject to a 25 percent tariff, in an escalation of trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies.
Beijing has announced a $50 billion list of U.S. goods for possible tariff hikes in a spiraling technology dispute with Washington.
President Donald Trump's administration does not at this time have another new, big trade initiative planned against China and is focused on implementing the moves that have already been announced, a White House official said on Wednesday.
It is crucial for the United States and the European Union to engage in dialogue to avoid a trade conflict, a spokeswoman for the German Economy Ministry said on Wednesday.
The United States and China may pursue negotiations to resolve deepening differences over trade, a U.S. trade official said on Wednesday, but he declined to say whether any new high-level meetings were planned.
An Islamist militant suspected of war crimes in Mali appeared before the International Criminal Court on Wednesday but did not address the allegations against him, instead complaining about the conditions of his detention.
China's Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday that the United States has repeatedly missed the best opportunities for resolution on trade.
Large areas of Kosovo, Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina remain plagued by mines and other live bombs two decades after the Balkan wars of the 1990s.
The White House said on Wednesday it hoped China would change its "unfair trade practices" in a way that would avoid the need for the Trump administration to move forward with announced import tariffs.
U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley on Wednesday blasted the Trump administration over its handling of trade issues, saying while the United States should act, China's retaliatory moves were disproportionately affecting America's agriculture sector. 
The United States' trade investigation into Chinese firms has no factual basis and the environment for intellectual property protection has continuously improved, a leading Chinese trade group for machinery and electronic products said on Wednesda...
President Donald Trump's top economic adviser said on Wednesday he expected China would "play ball" on trade and come to agreements that would avoid the need for the United States to implement steep tariffs on Chinese imports.
The ratcheting up of trade tensions between the United States and China is "worrisome", the head of the OECD said on Wednesday after the two countries traded blows over $50 billion of import tariffs.
Actor Robert Downey Jr. is joining the directors of "Avengers: Infinity War" in calling for fans to maintain secrecy.
Steve Bannon, President Donald Trump's former chief strategist and 2016 campaign CEO, had a fiery response on Wednesday to Wall Street's dim view of Trump's trade actions against China.
Federal authorities on Wednesday began legal proceedings to strip U.S. citizenship from two Bosnians, including one living in Oregon, for war crimes including executing civilians during that country's civil war in the 1990s.
“Denuclearization” is a strange term, unique to the Korean Peninsula. But it works for now.
Russia's foreign intelligence agency chief Sergei Naryshkin said on Wednesday that Washington's actions toward Russia mean its possible to start speaking of a return to the Cold War era.
Prosecutors at the International Criminal Court say he committed crimes against humanity by abusing, whipping and torturing residents who violated strict religious laws.
Top Russian defense and security officials on Wednesday launched diatribes at the West, accusing it of fomenting a new Cold War in a bid to retain waning influence in global affairs.
Britain's FTSE 100 managed a small gain on Wednesday despite global trade worries denting appetite for risky assets, as investors piled into defensive sectors which make up a large part of the UK index. 
Republicans see a chance to flip a congressional seat in northern Minnesota, where President Trump’s steel tariffs are being celebrated as a boost for the mining industry.
Thousands of employees have signed a letter calling on their C.E.O. to pull out of a project that could be used to improve drone strike targeting.
Ford Motor Co on Wednesday said it encouraged the U.S. and Chinese governments to "work together to resolve issues" after China retaliated against U.S. plans to impose tariffs with a list of similar duties.
The dictator Efraín Ríos Montt led a scorched-earth campaign in which hundreds of villages were erased.
Mr. Trump is deliberately undermining faith in the American press corps. Other countries are taking note.
China's move to slap tariffs on U.S. farm products sent Brazil soy premiums surging to historic highs on expectations of higher export demand on Wednesday, but traders and analysts warned that Latin America could not entirely replace U.S. producti...
U.S. President Donald Trump's recent tariffs and retaliation from other nations, in particular China, may reduce domestic economic growth by 0.1 to 0.2 percentage point over the next 12 months, Moody's Analytics' chief economist Mark Zandi said on...
China has never given in to external pressure, Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao said on Wednesday, shortly after Beijing unveiled a list of U.S. goods it will target in response to planned U.S. tariffs. 
The following statements&#160;were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS. 
China hit back on Wednesday at the U.S. government's plan to slap tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports, and adding to fears that the world's two largest economies are heading toward...
China's proposal on Wednesday for tariffs on U.S. beef confirmed the worst-case scenario for the U.S. cattle industry, trade groups said on Wednesday, even as they remained hopeful the dispute could be resolved quickly.
The world's two biggest economies stand at the edge of the most perilous trade conflict since World War II. Yet there's still time to pull back from the brink.
Wall Street's three major indexes staged a comeback to close around 1 percent higher on Wednesday as investors turned their focus to earnings and away from a trade conflict between the United States and China that wreaked havoc in earlier trading.
The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):
China hit back quickly on Wednesday against the Trump administration's plans to impose tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods, retaliating with a list of similar duties on key U.S. imports including soybeans, planes, cars, beef and chemicals. 
European shares fell for a second day after China unveiled new tariffs against U.S. products, increasing concerns of an escalating trade standoff between the two countries.

Oil prices rose on Thursday, holding onto a late-session rally the previous day, buoyed by the U.S. government data showing a surprise drawdown in crude stockpiles.
Even as trade tensions are mounting between the United States and China, the importance of Chinese moviegoers to Hollywood has never been more apparent.
Far from learning on the job or modifying his views, Mr. Trump is falling back on the familiar mix of belligerence and isolationism that fueled his campaign.
The missile strike came as Saudi-backed forces have been trying to expel the Houthis from their last urban coastal redoubts in Yemen.
China aimed a direct strike at America's heartland on Wednesday, moving to slap an aggressive 25 percent retaliatory tariff against U.S. soybeans, farm country's most valuable export to China last year, worth $12 billion.
Lennar Corp on Wednesday signalled confidence in housing demand ahead of the crucial spring selling season by raising the number of homes it expects to sell in fiscal 2018, sending the No.2 U.S. homebuilder's shares as much as 9.6 percent.
Opposition candidate and former military junta leader Julius Maada Bio was sworn in as Sierra Leone's new president late on Wednesday, just hours after the elections commission announced his victory in a tight run-off poll.
China's ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai, arrived at the U.S. State Department on Wednesday for talks with Acting Secretary of State John Sullivan amid a deepening U.S.-China trade dispute.
Lynne Ramsay’s grim and grisly excursion into psychological extremity is based on Jonathan Ames’s novella.
China's commerce ministry said it has initiated a World Trade Organization dispute procedure against the U.S. 301 tariffs investigation on Wednesday, amid an escalating trade dispute between the world's two largest economies. 
Beijing's objections to U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs are "completely baseless" and there is no justification to impose $3 billion in retaliatory tariffs on U.S. fruits, nuts and other goods, the Trump administration said it told China and the W...
As equity markets show increasing fragility, investors are looking for any sign that selling pressure will wane. Some of those markers could be found in the charts favored by technical analysts - although they suggest investors still face consider...
China on Wednesday announced plans to place a 25 percent tariff on certain U.S. aircraft, in a move expected to affect some older Boeing Co narrowbody models, according to documents from China's Ministry of Commerce and the U.S. manufacturer.
A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea's Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant's governance.
A trade group representing U.S. auto parts makers said on Wednesday it supported stronger bilateral engagement between the United States and China and that tariffs were not the solution for intellectual property theft.
Mexico, Canada and the United States are exploring alternative proposals on rules of origin for autos, a key sticking point in the talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), a Mexican source said on Wednesday.
General Motors Co on Wednesday urged the United States and China to engage in constructive dialogue over trade, after the two countries announced tariffs on $50 billion of each others' imports.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
In attempting to punish China for its trade practices, President Donald Trump may open the door for other countries to grab U.S. market share, including Mexico and Japan, which he has also targeted with sharp trade rhetoric.
DowDuPont Inc said on Wednesday that its agriculture unit could be affected by the escalating U.S.-China trade conflict, after Beijing announced new tariffs on imports of U.S. soybeans and other goods.
U.S. President Donald Trump is not attacking the business sector with his recent critiques of Amazon.com Inc but wants the online retailer to do more when it comes to taxes, his economic adviser said on Wednesday.
Sony Corp said on Wednesday it expected to book a non-operating profit of about 105 billion yen ($986 million) in the April-June quarter from appraisal gains and a subsidiary's sale of part of its stake in just-listed Spotify Technology.
China on Wednesday vowed to impose measures of the "same strength" in response to a proposed U.S. tariff hike on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods in a spiraling technology dispute that has fueled fears it might set back the global economic recov...
Information technology products, from cellphones to personal computers, have largely escaped the latest salvo of U.S.-China trade measures despite accounting for a significant portion of bilateral trade.
Peugeot-maker PSA has unveiled plans to raise output at its British Vauxhall van plant, in a pre-Brexit show of confidence that will raise pressure on sister brand Opel's German workforce to offer concessions in labor talks.
Britain's departure from the European Union next year is a concern but not a sufficient one to block Peugeot's investment in its van plant in England, chief executive Carlos Tavares said on Wednesday after announcing an expansion there.
Irish cider maker C&amp;C bought the wholesale arm of troubled British drinks firm Conviviality for a nominal fee on Wednesday, safeguarding most of the jobs threatened by the parent company's expected collapse.
A former U.S. Navy pilot from Massachusetts who received the Medal of Honor for his heroics during the Korean War has been buried at Arlington National Cemetery.
A Chinese scientist in Kansas was sentenced on Wednesday to more than 10 years in a federal prison for conspiring to steal samples of a variety of genetically engineered rice seeds from a U.S. research facility, the U.S. Justice Department said.
The United States called on Houthis on Wednesday to stop escalating the conflict in Yemen and demonstrate a commitment to dialogue, a day after an attack on a Saudi oil tanker by the Iran-allied group.
Mexico, Canada and the United States have made good progress in their bid to modernize the NAFTA trade pact but still have work to do, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Wednesday.
U.S. agricultural machinery maker Deere &amp; Co said on Wednesday it would monitor Beijing's new tariff proposals to evaluate their impact on the company and its customers.
Broadcom Inc said on Wednesday it had completed its move back to the United States from Singapore, weeks after President Donald Trump blocked its $117 billion offer to buy Qualcomm Inc on national security grounds.
Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Wednesday:
U.S. services firms expanded at a slower clip in March compared to the prior month, but growth levels still appear to be solid.
Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who rose to national prominence in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and his third wife, Judith, are divorcing, the New York Post quoted him on Wednesday as saying. 
Russia long saw Donald Trump as the wild card in its strategy to improve relations with the United States. 
The White House is calling on Yemen's Houthi rebels to "cease further escalation," after a Saudi-led coalition battling the rebels said they attacked a Saudi oil tanker.
This word has appeared in one article on nytimes.com in the past year.
Polish groups campaigning for a bill on returning real estate seized, stolen or sold under duress decades ago have invited American politicians to see firsthand the restitution irregularities the groups say occur without proper regulation.
China's decision to impose tariffs on imports of soybeans from the United States is 'regrettable' and 'won't solve the trade imbalance', the China director of the U.S. Soybean Export Council said on Wednesday.
U.S. companies hired 241,000 new workers in March, a private survey found, a solid total that suggests the already-low unemployment rate may be headed lower in the coming months.
Boeing said on Wednesday it has won a binding order from Jet Airways for 75 of its 737 MAX narrowbody jets, as the Indian carrier expands to meet domestic passenger demand that has shown no sign of abating despite years of growth.
French commuters were angry and frustrated when rail workers began a wave of strikes over government reforms this week, but a handful of apps are thriving on the disruption.
German used-car dealing platform Auto1 Group, recently backed by Japan's SoftBank, increased sales by 47 percent last year as it expanded into eight new European markets, bringing the total to 30 countries.
Peugeot-maker PSA will decide in 2020 whether to keep its British Vauxhall car plant open with new investment as it improves efficiency and awaits the outcome of Brexit talks, the French automaker's boss said on Wednesday.
The Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen said on Wednesday that Saudi Arabia's air defense had intercepted a missile that the armed Houthi movement said it fired at storage tanks belonging to Saudi Aramco oil company.
Massachusetts can move forward with a lawsuit accusing credit reporting firm Equifax Inc of failing to safeguard its databases or provide prompt notice of a breach that exposed the personal data of 147 million people, a state court judge has ruled...
Federal prosecutors asked a judge Wednesday to imprison a Turkish banker for over 15 years for helping Iran evade economic sanctions, saying he was a key player in undermining efforts to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions.
On Tuesday, the same day that U.S. President Donald Trump announced his intention to deploy military to help patrol the U.S.-Mexico border, Edwin Valdez and four other Central American migrants were walking through dense brush at a south Texas wil...
Ryanair cabin crew held a third one-day strike in Portugal over worker rights on Wednesday, prompting 11 flight cancellations and a government promise to investigate alleged violations.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
A small group of Iraqis including a soldier who fought in the civil war have turned to model making to deal with their memories of conflict and maintain touch with the military phase of their lives.
The U.S. intelligence chief said on Wednesday that a decision had been made on the future of American troops in war-torn Syria and the White House would make it public soon.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and Syria (all times local):
Spain hopes to sign off on a bilateral agreement with Britain over Gibraltar before October so as not to hinder a Brexit transition deal, Spanish Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis told Reuters on Wednesday.
Kevin Connauton believes he's playing the best hockey of his career.
The buzzy debut of Spotify Technology SA on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday drew retail investors across generations, not just the Millennials who make up the largest proportion of the music streaming service's customer base, retail brokera...
A man accused of helping to plan the Sept. 11 attacks wants to be able to publicly distribute art he makes in his cell at the Guantanamo Bay detention center.
On the streaming service’s first day of trading, the major music label sells 17 percent of its stake in the company for more than $250 million.
The Trump administration is weighing further retaliation against Russia for meddling in the election and interfering in the affairs of the United States and its allies, the top U.S. intelligence official said Wednesday.
Stanton struck out five times in the Yankees’ home opener, but his teammates’ strong performances helped overshadow his woeful outing.
The plaintiffs are demanding that the university publicly release the documents, including admissions data on hundreds of thousands of students.
A new generation of designers envisions a future where the African nation is known for its stylish fashion, not only its genocidal past. 
Russia began testing missiles with live munitions in the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, alarming Latvia, a member of NATO, which says the drills have forced it partly to shut down Baltic commercial airspace.
Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, will appear before multiple congressional committees next week. It is part of the company’s efforts to be more open about its work.
More than 50 Hollywood executives have thrown their support behind Netflix, which is facing a campaign by a Palestinian-led movement to drop Israeli television series "Fauda" from its streaming platform.
Iraq may carry out special forces operations against Islamic State militants in neighbouring Syria to stop them infiltrating back into Iraq, an expert close to the Baghdad government said on Wednesday.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Wednesday:
Sierra Leone's election commission declared main opposition candidate Julius Maada Bio as the West African nation's new president Wednesday, giving the opposition party its first presidency in 10 years.
Islamic State militants have restated their loyalty to the group's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, in what is believed to be their first public pledge of allegiance to him since his "caliphate" in Syria and Iraq collapsed last year.
The Syrian rebel group Jaish al-Islam released five prisoners on Wednesday as part of a deal over the eastern Ghouta town of Douma, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and state media said. 
The top executives of bailed-out Italian bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena told investors in London on Wednesday the bank is making progress with its turnaround plan, two fund managers who attended the meetings said.
Millions of French commuters suffered a second day of travel chaos on Wednesday as striking rail workers locked horns with President Emmanuel Macron's government in a dispute over reforming the state-owned SNCF railways.
Revelations that digital consultants to the Trump campaign misused the data of millions of Facebook users set off a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. This is how The Times covered it.
Facebook Inc said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more tha...
Philadelphia wants to open the playoffs at home. Toronto wants home-court advantage all the way to the NBA Finals.
Now that Charlie Blackmon has agreed to a lucrative new deal, he can afford to trade in that Jeep Cherokee he's had forever.
Bargain prices on 2- and 3-year-old vehicles fueled record sales of used cars, trucks and SUVs last year, a trend that is expected to continue because people can save thousands of dollars over buying new.
An opening ceremony rich in symbolic tributes to Australia's indigenous people was about to get under way at the Commonwealth Games.
In his first start of the season, Harvey allowed only one hit and one walk, and struck out five over five scoreless innings.
A hair stylist opened John’s Sharpening Service & Supplies in Dyker Heights in 1972. Here, tweezers are taken just as seriously as paring knives.
On the itinerary for the Ohio governor and 2016 presidential hopeful: a diner visit, a Q. and A. at a college and criticism of President Trump amid speculation about a 2020 run.
Fifty years after a shot rang out in Memphis, killing the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., freedom rang from the balcony of the Lorraine Motel as a bell tolled 39 times to mark a life cut short by racism.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Wednesday that his military "won't stop" trying to oust Syrian Kurdish fighters from northern Syria, as he met with the leaders of Russia and Iran for talks on trying to resolve the conflict.
Israel on Wednesday released from detention a small group of African migrants who had been awaiting deportation after the collapse of an international deal to send them to Rwanda.
Any move to negotiate with Israel would be an "unforgivable mistake", Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said on Wednesday, after Saudi Arabia's crown prince said Israelis were entitled to live peacefully on their own land.
Meituan Dianping, China's largest provider of on-demand online services, is buying bike-sharing firm Mobike for $2.7 billion, in a deal that will intensify the rivalry of their common backer Tencent Holdings with Alibaba Group. 
The new president, Julius Maada Bio, won a runoff after a campaign in which he promised to provide free education and rejuvenate the country’s economy.
Morocco was considering "all options" if the United Nations does not address its accusations that the Polisario independence movement is threatening a 1991 ceasefire in the Western Sahara conflict, the foreign minister said on Wednesday.
A former Algerian prime minister says a leadership vacuum and uncertainty over whether the North African nation's ailing president will seek a fifth term has created a political impasse a year before the next election.
A top Syrian Kurdish politician suggested on Wednesday that the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the Iraqi government could mount joint operations against Islamic State in the area on the border of the two countries.
Russia's World Cup chief says international security cooperation for the tournament won't be disrupted by the tense relations with other countries following the poisoning of a former spy.
The United States plans to sanction Russian oligarchs this week under a law targeting Moscow for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday, in what could be the most aggressive move so far against Russi...
Facebook isn't just a company. It's a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.
Over 50 top Artificial Intelligence researchers on Wednesday announced a boycott of KAIST, South Korea's top university, after it opened what they called an AI weapons lab with one of South Korea's largest companies.
Tesla’s inability to meet production goals and the E.P.A.’s easing of mileage rules may delay electrification of vehicles, but it still will happen.
U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley warned Wednesday that the U.N.'s failure to hold Syria accountable for its use of chemical weapons because of Russia's opposition has made the world "a far more dangerous place."
French rail unions have launched three months of strike action in a showdown with Emmanuel Macron, but their capacity to sustain it will depend as much on the durability of their and their workers' finances as on amassing political capital.
The president’s decision to keep the 2,000 troops on the ground for the immediate future came hours after he told a roomful of reporters that “it’s time” to bring American forces home.
Sri Lanka's prime minister comfortably overcame a no-faith vote on Wednesday, strengthening his hand within the unity government formed by parties traditionally opposed to each other.
An attack on a Saudi tanker by Yemen's Houthis will not hit oil supplies, Saudi Arabia's energy minister said on Wednesday, after the Iran-allied group said it had targeted a warship in response to an air strike that killed civilians.
Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday he hoped a planned meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog would help to defuse a major diplomatic row triggered by the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England.
A powerful U.S. senator traveled to Venezuela on Wednesday as pressure mounted on President Nicolas Maduro to hand over a Utah man jailed in the turbulent South American country for nearly two years.
The Central American migrants traveling through Mexico and singled out by President Trump as a threat are mostly women and children whose lives were in danger back home.
It’s time to stop using technology and the internet as though you were shopping at a supermarket.
Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.
Yunte Huang’s history of Chang and Eng Bunker follows the brothers from their childhood in Siam to their servitude in America to their eventual support of the Confederacy during the Civil War.
A New-York Historical Society show and a new book look at the juxtaposition of the lives of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy.
President Donald Trump is dramatically scaling back U.S. goals in Syria as he pushes for a quick military withdrawal, Trump administration officials said Wednesday, abandoning plans to stay long-term to stabilize the country and prevent the Islami...
Video drives a quarter of the revenue for five Condé Nast brands. In their new test kitchen, they’re cooking up plans to double that.
The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, still projects power, but back home in Wisconsin, he is facing political challengers from both the right and the left.
Dimez slipped on his draft hat, shook hands with NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, and began life as the No. 1 pick in the draft.
Russia's call for a joint inquiry to be held into the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England failed on Wednesday when it was outvoted 15-6 at a meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog.
The latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter (all times local):
The Latest on commemorations of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. (all times local):
Before last month's special congressional election in Pennsylvania, U.S. President Donald Trump, who ridiculed his rivals in the 2016 election as &#8220;Liddle Marco,&#8221; &#8220;Lyin&#8217; Ted,&#8221; and &#8220;Crooked Hillary,&#8221; tried i...
Iran's influence is looming large as Iraqis prepare to head to the polls for parliamentary elections in May, with many in the country worried that Tehran may be looking to strengthen its political grip on Baghdad through the ballot box.
A leading Israel human rights group urged Israeli forces in a rare step Wednesday to disobey open-fire orders unless Gaza protesters pose an imminent threat to soldiers' lives.
The average Australian adult loses around $900 to gambling each year — more than double the rate of Americans — and electronic gaming machines are getting the blame.
Who needs Netflix to chill? There’s an even wider variety of movies available a walk or subway ride away. Here are one month’s offerings.
Liverpool beats Manchester City in the Champions League behind three first-half goals, but the game got an early kickoff at the corner of Arkles and Anfield Road.
In an improvised speech 50 years ago, Kennedy broke the news of King’s death to a largely black crowd. Two months later, he too was killed.
Palestinian activists chanted "death is better than humiliation" as three-wheelers stacked with old tires drove into a tent camp in a barley field near Gaza's border. The tires are to be burned at a mass protest on Friday, in hopes clouds of black...
The international chemical weapons watchdog on Wednesday rejected Russia's call for a joint investigation with Britain of the nerve-agent poisonings of an ex-spy and his daughter in England.
Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King were wary rivals in life. But after Dr. King’s murder, Kennedy’s moving speech quieted an angry crowd.
Republican-leaning dads upset with the president might help avert a midterm blue tsunami.
The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):
Nancy Shipley was working in a news office in Nashville, Tennessee, when the call came 50 years ago. Gene Herrick was in Chicago routing photos to newspapers when his phone rang. Jack Thornell got the call in New Orleans; Kathryn Johnson heard the...
Today in History
A historian who added the sciences to the historian’s toolkit in investigating the impact of European culture on the world, starting with Columbus.
“Roseanne” is proof that baby boomer culture is the only common culture we have left.
Halofom Sultan went from being jailed in his native Eritrea for opposing the oppressive government to detention in Israel, where he is seeking asylum after fleeing for his life.
Pentagon officials have expressed concern about being seen as picking a fight with an ally at a time when the military has plenty of adversaries to contend with.
He’s gotten great reviews as the comic center of Tom Stoppard’s “Travesties.” So why is he worried about his lines, his future and the little finger on his left hand?
The singer and pun master Weird Al Yankovic collaborates with constructor Eric Berlin on a really cheesy puzzle.
Until Tuesday at Augusta National, Woods and Mickelson, golf’s great rivals for more than two decades, had never played a practice round before a major together.
On Montana’s Flathead Indian Reservation, basketball is about much more than winning.
