Companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s trade policies. With first-quarter earnings imminent, will that now change?
President Trump launched into a new defense of his pugnacious trade policies on Friday, pointing to the falling price of aluminum to deny harm to consumers.
A trade war triggered by U.S. tariffs would cause a global recession - and the mere fear of one is already hurting the economy, European Central Bank board member Benoit Coeure said on Friday.
Currency market moves as a result of the trade dispute between the United States and China have more or less run their course and only a flare-up in the conflict will change the outlook significantly, a Reuters poll of strategists suggests.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Currency market moves as a result of the trade dispute between the United States and China have more or less run their course and only a flare-up in the conflict will change the outlook significantly, a Reuters poll of strategists suggests.
Readers react to President Trump’s threat to impose tariffs.
Three books recount the struggles of individuals against modern totalitarianism.
Investors appear to be struggling to anticipate the outcome of a tit-for-tat tariff exchange between the world’s two largest economies. Remarks by the Fed chairman indicated that the investors aren’t alone.
In “Never Remember,” Masha Gessen and Misha Friedman insist on the horrors of a Stalinist system that Russians today would rather deny or even praise.
Victory could be difficult to verify, much less achieve, as the U.S. protests Beijing’s effort to retool Chinese industries for the 21st century.
China's Ministry of Commerce said it would take new comprehensive measures to safeguard the country's interests if the United States sticks to its protectionist behavior, after  President Donald Trump threatened an extra $100 billion in tariffs on...
Unwilling to yield, President Donald Trump and China's government escalated their trade clash Friday, with Beijing vowing to "counterattack with great strength" if Trump follows through on threats to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in...
Crude oil and global equity markets tumbled on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump upped the ante in a trade dispute with China, reviving investor jitters about the impact a tariff war could have on the world economy.
Oil prices fell about 2 percent on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump threatened new tariffs on China, reigniting fears of a trade war between the world's two largest economies that could hurt global growth.
Euro zone government bond yields dipped as a trade dispute between the U.S. and China flared up again.
In “No Turning Back,” Rania Abouzeid describes the people who suffer and endure in the Syrian civil war.
Higher prices. Slower growth. Farmers losing access to their biggest foreign market.
George Soros's $26 billion hedge fund is planning to trade cryptocurrencies, Bloomberg reported on Friday, months after the billionaire investor called the virtual currency a bubble.
"Don't overreact," President Donald Trump's chief economic adviser told investors on Wednesday, when U.S. stocks were deep in the red over worries about the administration's plan for $50 billion of import duties aimed at China. 
U.S. lawmakers and the farm industry were skeptical of the Trump administration&#8217;s promise to shield farmers from the rapidly escalating trade dispute between the United States and China,  concerned about the lack of details in protecting the...
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and the incoming chief of the New York Fed on Friday stuck closely to a unified script on the economic outlook, in separate appearances sketching a picture of gradual interest-rate hikes ahead. 
U.S. stocks dropped about 2 percent on Friday, with the Dow falling more than 570 points, as U.S. President Donald Trump's latest tariff threat on Chinese imports fueled increasing concern over a U.S. trade war with China.
He wants U.S. troops out. Great. Where’s his plan?
From criticism of Scott Pruitt to an escalating trade conflict, let us catch you up on five of the biggest stories you may have missed.
Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are confident of their economic growth outlook despite rising global trade tensions, Singapore Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat said on Friday.
The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):
Washington and Beijing are slapping each other with tit-for-tat tariff threats, with U.S. President Donald Trump proposing another escalation of the dispute late on Thursday.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is looking to find ways to shield farmers from the growing trade conflict between the United States and China, a department official said Thursday evening, without providing details of options under review...
Iowa ethanol and biodiesel producers warned President Donald Trump on Friday that imposing restrictions on biofuels production "would be viewed as a declaration of war on rural America."
Jerome H. Powell said a potential trade war would have no immediate effect on the Federal Reserve’s strategy of gradually increasing interest rates.
Thousands of Palestinians on Friday took part in a mass protest along Gaza's volatile border with Israel, the second large-scale demonstration in what is expected to be a steady turnout over the coming weeks.
More than six decades after the troops died for their country, the repatriation of the remains of thousands of U.S. military personnel missing in action and presumed dead from the Korean War may finally get a boost now that President Donald Trump ...
A growing percentage of medical devices and drugs used in American operating rooms are made in China, and many of them are on the White House’s list.
Britain's financial watchdog said on Friday that firms offering services linked to cryptocurrency derivatives must meet all relevant rules in the regulator's handbook or could face sanctions.
The brevity of his appearance did not detract from the powerful image of Mr. Zuma, a commanding figure just a few months ago, as a defendant.
White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said on Friday it was possible that an escalating trade dispute with China could be resolved within three months, but he said President Donald Trump's threat to impose tariffs was not a bluff.
South Korea said on Friday it has notified the World Trade Organization (WTO) that it seeks to suspend tariff concessions on imported U.S. goods worth $480 million, in response to U.S. measures against South Korean imports.
Chinese state media on Friday slammed Donald Trump's threat of more trade action against China as "ridiculous" after the U.S President called for an additional $100 billion (&#163;71.3 billion) of tariffs, escalating an already high-stakes trade d...
The Latest on a U.S. trade dispute with China (all times local):
European shares fell on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China, although the losses were limited by gains among defensive stocks like utilities.
When Liu He, Chinese President Xi Jinping's top economic adviser, came to Washington in late February, he was expected to make arrangements for restarting trade talks that President Donald Trump had put on ice.
President Donald Trump first tried to disarm Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago with smooth talk and hospitality. A year later, he's resorted to hardball and found that Xi is willing to throw it back.
China warned on Friday it was fully prepared to respond with a "fierce counter strike" of fresh trade measures if the United States follows through on President Donald Trump's threat to slap tariffs on an additional $100 billion of Chinese goods.
The latest salvo in a trade row between the U.S. and China weighed on Britain's FTSE 100 on Friday, though the damage was limited as mining and bank stocks fell while utilities made gains.
Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. The latest drop came as the White House proposed tripling ...
Stocks ended the week the way they began it: tumbling as investors worry that tariffs and harsh words between the U.S. and China will touch off a trade war that derails the global economy. That came with the U.S. considering duties on an additiona...
Following are five big themes likely to dominate the thinking of investors and traders in the coming week, and the Reuters stories related to them.
The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a speech on the economic outlook that did not address the economic risks of rising trade tensions.

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell on Friday painted a mostly sunny view of the U.S. economy and said the Fed remains committed to raising its key interest rate gradually unless events change. He said it was too soon to determine how a trade f...
Japan's longest run of economic expansion since the 1980s asset bubble may be entering a turning point, with data out on Friday  suggesting consumption will fail to drive growth if trade frictions undermine exports.
Japan's longest run of economic expansion since the 1980s asset bubble may be entering a turning point, with data out on Friday  suggesting consumption will fail to drive growth if trade frictions undermine exports.
Swiss engineering group ABB hopes the U.S. government will make some concessions on its plan to slap tariffs on steel imports from China, its chief executive told Reuters on Friday.
The basic story of a strong labor market remains intact, but a disappointing report is a sign that the U.S. is not in some extraordinary boom.
Payroll expansion was far short of February’s torrid pace and weaker than economists expected, but still yielded the 90th straight month of job gains.
U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to bac...
U.S. President Donald Trump blasted the World Trade Organization on Thursday, saying the international trade body was "unfair" to the United States while giving China "tremendous perks and advantages," but he offered no evidence or examples to bac...
An agreement between Canada, the United States and Mexico on a revamped North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is within reach, a senior official with Mexico's economy ministry said on Friday.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Japan's top government spokesman said on Friday it is important for the United States and China to build a relationship that leads to global economic growth.
China said on Friday it is fully prepared to respond after U.S. President Donald Trump instructed trade officials to consider imposing tariffs on another $100 billion worth of Chinese goods.
The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as the boost from mild temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labor market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further this...
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Fascism poses a more serious threat now than at any time since the end of World War II.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on Friday that U.S. officials including himself are in regular communication with China as a tariff dispute escalates between the two countries.
Russia's government will discuss measures to protect Russian companies from U.S. trade tariffs on steel and aluminum in the coming days, Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said on Friday.
In a corner of the departures area at Rostov airport in southern Russia, a group of about 130 men, many of them carrying overstuffed military-style rucksacks, lined up at four check-in desks beneath screens that showed no flight number or destinat...
In a corner of the departures area at Rostov airport in southern Russia, a group of about 130 men, many of them carrying overstuffed military-style rucksacks, lined up at four check-in desks beneath screens that showed no flight number or destinat...
Russian state companies included on a new list of U.S. sanctions will receive additional government support, Russian Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov was cited by the Interfax news agency as saying on Friday.
It is too early to say how the prospect of tariffs could impact the U.S. economic outlook, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said on Friday.
Mike Pompeo is President Trump’s pick to be the next secretary of state, and John R. Bolton is the choice for national security adviser. Civil rights groups are concerned.
Gary Bailey is certain China is trying to rattle Donald Trump voters with its threat to slap tariffs on soybeans and other agriculture staples grown in rural America. The wheat farmer in eastern Washington, a state that exports $4 billion a year i...
The United States, Mexico and Canada still have to resolve major issues around NAFTA, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Friday, casting doubt that the quick deal sought by Washington would materialize.
Edmond Offermann's dream turned to reality after 20 years on Friday when the landmark Sarajevo cable car, destroyed early in Bosnia's 1990s war, resumed services up Mount Trebevic above the capital.
Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily on Friday:
A sports technology company sued the internet arm of Major League Baseball on Thursday, alleging that executives of the service reneged on a three-year, multimillion-dollar deal and misappropriated its pitch-tracking system.
A civil rights group and some consumer groups said on Friday they would file a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) alleging that Facebook Inc's use of facial recognition techniques threaten users' privacy.
German industrial output fell by the most in more than two years in February and the sector is losing momentum, the Economy Ministry said, as factories in Europe's largest economy throttle back in the face of the rising threat of protectionism.
Japanese anime film director and writer Isao Takahata, co-founder of Japan's Studio Ghibli, has died, the studio said on Friday. He was 82.
South Carolina debated seceding from the Union more than 150 years ago ahead of the Civil War. Now, the topic has come up again, amid a national debate over firearms and gun rights.
France said on Friday it would provide Lebanon 550 million euros (480.7 million pounds) to support economic reforms in a country struggling from the impact of the war in neighbouring Syria.
Mr. Akaka, a 36-year veteran of Capitol Hill, fought for the belated recognition of Asian-American servicemen in World War II.
The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in March as a boost from milder temperatures faded, but a pickup in wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market, which should allow the Federal Reserve to further raise interest rates thi...
The president raised the issue of rape against immigrants and further confused facts on tax overhaul, the trade deficit with China and voter fraud.
Two retailers have expanded their boycott of Nestle products, according to media reports, raising pressure on the Swiss group in a pricing stand-off with several European supermarkets.
Jacqueline Winspear was mired in London gridlock when her beloved fictional detective, Maisie Dobbs, popped into her head.
Former Senator Daniel Akaka, the first native Hawaiian in the U.S. Senate, who strove for recognition of Filipino veterans  who fought with the United States during World War Two, died on Friday at age 93.
Two comedic actors take on much darker roles in “6 Balloons.” And watch a new series depicting the Trojan War.
Franck Bauer, a French radio broadcaster who transmitted coded messages to underground networks in France during the Nazi occupation, has died at 99.
International donors pledged $11 billion in loans and grants Friday to help debt-ridden Lebanon at a conference in Paris that also sought to ensure the money is well spent in a country hit hard by the Syrian war next door.
The Syrian rebel group Jaish al-Islam does not want to close the door on negotiations with Russia to reach a peaceful settlement to the conflict over the town of Douma near Damascus, its political official Mohammad Alloush said on Friday.
South Korea on Friday urged General Motors Co's local subsidiary and labor union to reach a wage deal swiftly, saying the government will be able to discuss support for the money-losing unit on condition of an agreement.
New York City has pledged to listen to suggestions by Muslim groups when it drafts new policies for investigating political activity, part of a settlement over police surveillance conducted after the 2001 World Trade Center attack.
Tom Baldwin, a longtime journalist whose career included a stint as a Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, has died. He was 71.
Former South African president Jacob Zuma goes on trial on Friday for alleged corruption and fraud in a large government arms deal in the late 1990s, charges denied by the 75-year-old who was ousted by his party in February.
Former South African president Jacob Zuma goes on trial on Friday for alleged corruption and fraud in a large government arms deal in the late 1990s, charges denied by the 75-year-old who was ousted by his party in February.
Today in History
Other than military spending, President Trump got virtually nothing from the appropriations bill. Not even for his new border wall.
Apple Inc said on Friday it opposes any repeal by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of the Clean Power Plan, which is a priority of the agency's Administrator Scott Pruitt and would reverse an Obama-era program to curb greenhouse gases.  
Online retail giant Amazon is ignoring Donald Trump's barrage of taunts and threats, focusing instead on expanding its reach into a swath of industries that the president's broadsides haven't come close to hitting.
The Trump administration is considering ways to require imported automobiles to meet stricter environmental standards in order to protect U.S. carmakers, according to two sources familiar with the administration's thinking.
With a 2-1 win over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Thursday, the Devils extended their winning streak to four games and clinched a postseason berth.
The Syrian government launched a fierce air and ground assault on the last rebel-held town in eastern Ghouta on Friday, killing at least 32 people in a bid to seal President Bashar al-Assad's biggest victory since 2016, a war monitor said.
SoftBank Group Corp is exploring a sale of Brightstar Corp, a U.S. cellphone distributor that could be valued at more than $1 billion (714.08 million pounds), people familiar with the matter said, as the Japanese technology conglomerate seeks to s...
Georgia may increase its gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecast for this year, currently at 4.5 percent, as rising  exports and inflows of foreign investment help support the economy, the country's finance minister told Reuters.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
The oldest usher in the major leagues is calling it a career after 81 years on the job.
Kosovo authorities said on Friday they had indicted 11 people, including a minister and lawmaker from the ruling party, for allegedly handing out state jobs to people based on their political affiliation.
U.S. law enforcement agencies have seized the sex marketplace website Backpage.com as part of an enforcement action by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, according to a posting on the Backpage website on Friday.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before Congress next week, while an EU official plans to speak with Facebook's No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, over the company's data practices.
Facebook's No. 2 executive says the company should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago.
Malaysia's Prime Minister Najib Razak announced on Friday the dissolution of parliament, paving the way for a general election in which he faces an unprecedented challenge from his former mentor turned opposition leader Mahathir Mohamad.
Sterling forecasts are at their highest since Britons voted to leave the European Union, a Reuters poll found, partly as a result of optimism driven by progress in divorce talks and expectations of another interest rate rise next month.
Jared Harris says watching his work can be like looking through a yearbook.
Spanish and Portuguese authorities announced Friday that they have taken down a criminal network that has been making large profits by smuggling glass eels to Asia.
After the Fox News personality went after Kimmel for poking fun at Melania Trump’s accent, the late night host offered his own definition of disrespect.
Pakistan's prime minister arrived in Afghanistan on Friday for a day-long visit many see as an effort to ease strained relations between the two neighbors and revive a push for peace talks with the Taliban.
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leftist leading the race to win Mexico's presidency in July, will root out corruption at Pemex and also aims to slim down the state-owned oil and gas company, his pick for finance minister said on Thursday.
Singapore's central bank is expected to tighten monetary policy in April for the first time in six years, with economic growth seen solid enough to shift away from a stance associated with periods of acute weakness.
With Hayao Miyazaki, Mr. Takahata founded Japan’s premier anime studio, Ghibili, and directed sophisticated films like “Grave of the Fireflies.”
Gaza is a coastal strip of land that lay on ancient trading and maritime routes along the Mediterranean shore. Held by the Ottoman Empire until 1917, it passed from British to Egyptian to Israeli military rule over the last century and is now a fe...
This photo gallery highlights some of the top news images made by Associated Press photographers in Latin America and the Caribbean published in the past week.
The Florida Panthers are still alive for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. They're going to need some help, though.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to face Congress on Tuesday, and No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg is on a media blitz as the company tries to contain swirling concerns about how it protects the data of its 2.2 billion members.
Jennifer Clement’s “Gun Love” is the author’s second novel examining Americans’ fascination with firearms.
When cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck Inc explained how hackers made off with $530 million in digital money, it said part of the problem was beyond its control: Japan's lack of software engineers.
Nashville Predators players stood around the locker room after beating the Washington Capitals 4-3, huddled around cellphones watching and rooting for more franchise history.
Malaysia's Prime Minister Najib Razak announced the dissolution of parliament on Friday, paving the way for a general election showdown with his old mentor and the country's most seasoned campaigner, Mahathir Mohamad.
As five years of hockey frustration ended for the New Jersey Devils, players embraced, raised their sticks to salute their long-suffering fans and just imagined what the future held.
The president found friendly airwaves on WABC-AM’s “Bernie & Sid in the Morning,” where he said he would shun the gala for the second straight year.
U.S. President Donald Trump will review a list of potential changes to the nation's renewable fuel laws at a meeting with members of his cabinet on Monday, two sources said, as biofuels groups warned against any action that would weaken ethanol de...
Sierra Leone's new president in an interview with The Associated Press is pledging to avoid the "ethnic cleansing" of clearing out government posts for his supporters.
A New York judge on Thursday awarded title of two Nazi-looted drawings by noted Austrian painter Egon Schiele to a Holocaust victim's heirs in what art experts viewed as a key test case of a U.S. law designed to ease the recovery of such stolen wo...
Former Russian spy Sergei Skripal is no longer in a critical condition and his health is improving rapidly, more than a month after he was poisoned with a nerve agent in England, the hospital treating him said on Friday.
Though the protest and casualties were smaller than those last week, they made a point: portraying Gaza as a prison with Israel as the jailer.
A Mississippi Democrat who was President Bill Clinton's first agriculture secretary officially announced his candidacy for U.S. Senate on Friday, saying he'll run in a special election to finish the term started by longtime Republican Thad Cochran...
Germany and France will launch a programme this month to develop  a successor to their ageing marine surveillance aircraft, amid growing concern about increases in Russian submarine patrols.
The heirs of Fritz Grunbaum, an Austrian entertainer and art collector, had sued for the return of the works, citing a new law that eases restrictions on claims.
When President Donald Trump made a congratulatory phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, White House chief of staff John Kelly wasn't on the line.
Some of Russia's richest and most influential people were hit with sanctions Friday by U.S. President Donald Trump's administration.
Actor and model Hopper Penn has been released from jail after he and actress Uma Von Wittkamp were arrested on drug charges earlier this week in Nebraska.
Assault weapons and large-capacity magazines are not protected by the Second Amendment, a federal judge said in a ruling Friday upholding Massachusetts' ban on the weapons.
That great war horse of the Chinese-restaurant menu, beef and broccoli, awaits.
Court Street Office Supplies sold notebooks, carbons, legal documents — and fountain pens — to lawyers, judges and anyone near the Brooklyn courts. Then came the smartphone.
The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington's most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "mal...
The United States imposed major sanctions on Friday against 24 Russians, striking at allies of President Vladimir Putin in one of Washington's most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other "mal...
Yulia Skripal on Thursday made her first public comments since being poisoned in Britain last month with her father, a Russian former double-agent, saying she was getting stronger by the day but shedding no new light on the incident.
In the same courtroom where an ex-military dictator was once sentenced to death, Park Geun-hye's corruption conviction on Friday extended the tradition of South Korean presidencies ending badly. Nearly every former president, or their family membe...
It’s a perk of being the Worst Member of the Trump Administration.
Israeli troops shot dead seven Palestinian protesters and wounded at least 200 along the Israel-Gaza border on Friday, Gaza medical officials said, raising the death toll to 27 in the week-long disturbances.
The former Russian spy who was left fighting for his life after exposure to a rare nerve agent is no longer in critical condition, a British health official said Friday, a month after the mysterious poisoning in a quiet English city triggered a di...
President Donald Trump has spoken: He wants U.S. troops and civilians out of Syria by the fall. But don't call it a "timeline."
The six-month closure of the Philippine tourism island of Boracay for a revamp after the country's president branded it a "cesspool" reflects the growing pressures on beach resorts across Southeast Asia as visitor numbers surge.
A South Korean court jailed former President Park Geun-hye for 24 years on Friday over a scandal that exposed webs of corruption between political leaders and the country's conglomerates.
In Hungary and Poland, the liberal West used to be the promised land. Not anymore.
Thousands of Palestinians protested along Gaza's sealed border with Israel on Friday, engulfing the volatile area in black smoke from burning tires to try to block the view of Israeli snipers and cheering a Hamas strongman who pledged that the bor...
The Latest on the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy and his daughter in Britain (all times local):
Friday: California vs. Trump, the Stephon Clark shooting, the Good Witch house is for sale, and a Brown birthday.
“It’s like a civil war in Malaysia right now,” one opposition figure said as Prime Minister Najib Razak muzzles the press and dissent ahead of the vote.
The heir to Saudi Arabia’s throne has been on an extraordinary tour of the United States, seeking investment and trying to change perceptions of the opaque, conservative kingdom.
Instead of building a house or skyscraper, Forensic Architecture builds cases against human rights violators, scouring for evidence through social media.
Homes that get passed from generation to generation are increasingly rare, as children grow up, move away and can no longer afford the properties.
All of the weddings right here on one handy page for you. 
What time is the royal wedding? Can you attend? How much will it cost? What name will be on Meghan Markle's driver's license? And dozens of your other really important royal wedding questions answered.
